41998951|A study of leafhoppers collected in citrus-growing areas of Kerman province as vectors of Spiroplasma citri, the causal agent of citrus stubborn disease, was carried out by transmission tests to liquid medium and/or to healthy periwinkle plants. From seven field-collected leafhopper species only Orosius albidnctus and Circulifer haematoceps delivered S. citri into LD10 broth medium by feeding through parafilm membrane and C. haematoceps was the sole leafhopper species capable of transmitting S. citri to healthy periwinkle plants. C. haematoceps, O. albicinctus and Austroagallia sinuata collected from sesame fields in citrus-growing areas, were raised on garden stock and sesame plants in the greenhouse. For S. citri acquisition, each progeny leafhopper colony was caged on S. citri infected periwinkles. After the acquisition access period leafhoppers were transferred to healthy periwinkle plants. Detection of spiroplasmas in leafhoppers was done by PCR performed separately on insect bodies and heads. Spiroplasmas were detected in the bodies of all three leafhopper species but in the head of C. haematoceps only. Symptoms typical of S. citri infection were observed only on periwinkle plants fed on by C. haematoceps. Results indicate that among the leafhoppers species collected in Kerman province, only C. haematoceps was capable of transmitting S. citri, and the other two species while capable of acquiring S. citri, were unable to transmit it to healthy plants.
24579135|Reports of decline and blight of hornbeam (Carpinus betulus L.) in Italy and surrounding countries have recently increased. Two fungi were constantly isolated from cortical cankers and identified as Anthostoma decipiens (Cytospora decipiens) and Endothiella sp. A. decipiens was also found on dead branches of species other than hornbeam. The pathogenicity of A. decipiens and Endothiella sp. was assayed on plant species taxonomically or ecologically related to hornbeam: Acer campestre, Alnus glutinosa, Betula pendula, Castanea sativa, Corylus avellana, Fagus sylvatica, Ostrya carpinifolia, Populus nigra and Quercus robur. The fungi were inoculated in bark wounds and cankers appeared after 30 days on the most susceptible species. Anthostoma decipiens infected all species except for Acer campestre and Populus nigra, whereas Endothiella sp. showed a narrower host range, infecting three out of nine species, i.e. Corylus avellana, Ostrya carpinifolia and Alnus glutinosa. These latter species were also susceptible to Anthostoma decipiens. The inoculated pathogens were re-isolated from the species on which cankers developed. Anthostoma decipiens and Endothiella sp. were pathogenic to a broad host range, therefore tree species that share the same ecosystem with Carpinus betulus may be at risk of infection, both in forests and in urban and sub-urban green areas.
41998981|An account is given of the current knowledge of viruses that infect globe artichoke (Cynara scolymus L.) and cardoon (Cynara cardunculus L.) and the diseases they cause. Most of the 23 viruses found in these crops were recorded from Europe and the Mediterranean Basin, where they constitute serious threats to the artichoke industry. They are: 10 viruses with isometric particles ca 30 nm in diameter that belong to six genera [Nepovirus (Artichoke Italian htent virus, Artichoke yellow ringspot virus. Artichoke Aegean ringspot virus, and Tomato black ring virus), Cheravirus (Artichoke vein banding virus), Fabavirus (Broad bean wilt virus), Ilarvirus (Tobacco streak virus), Cucumovirus (Cucumber mosaic virus), Tombusvirus (Artichoke mottled crinkle virus), and Anulavirus, a newly proposed genus in the family Bromoviridae (Pelargonium zonate spot virus)]; two viruses with rod-shaped rigid particles that belong to the genera Tobamovirus (Tobacco mosaic virus) and Tobravirus (Tobacco rattle virus); nine viruses with filamentous particles that belong to four genera [Potyvirus (Artichoke latent virus, Bean yellow mosaic virus, and Turnip mosaic virus), Carlavirus (Artichoke latent virus M, Artichoke latent virus S, an unnamed virus distantly related serologically to Poplar mosaic virus), Potexvirus (Artichoke curly dwarf virus, Artichoke degeneration virus, and Potato virus X), and Crinivirus (Tomato infectious chlorosis virus)]; two viruses with enveloped particles that belong to the family Rhabdoviridae (Cynara virus) or the genus Tospovirus (Tomato spotted wilt virus), respectively. The main properties of these viruses are illustrated and the techniques used for their detection and identification are reviewed. Micropropagation techniques for obtaining virus-free artichoke plants are also outlined.
41999008|Thirty Iranian native Bacillus sp. strains collected from the rhizosphere of various hosts in different regions of the country were studied. 16S rRNA identification and phylogenetic analysis was carried out and secondary metabolites of volatile components, protease activity, biofilm formation and antagonistic activity against Fusarium culmorum in greenhouse were investigated for a thorough characterization of the strains. Correlation between biofilm formation and biocontrol capabilities under greenhouse conditions was also studied. PCR amplification and partial sequencing of 16S rRNA showed that all Iranian strains had more than 98% similarity with Bacillus sp. strain sequences from GeneBank. Phenotypical characterization allowed their classification as Bacillus subtilis. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the strains clustered into two different phylogenic groups. Results of laboratory and greenhouse experiments showed that volatile and protease production as well as biofilm formation by some strains had a significantly positive correlation with their antagonistic ability. Finally, based on the results from laboratory and greenhouse experiments, the most powerful antagonist strains with high biofilm production were selected for future field experiments.
41998496|Cytokinins are implicated in a wide variety of developmental and physiological processes in plants including host-pathogen interactions. The effect of cytokinin benzyl amino purine (BAP) on Phytophthora colocasiae mycelium growth was investigated in vitro and in planta. BAP inhibited the growth of P. colocasiae under in vitro conditions and a corresponding decrease in endo -1,3 glucanase (EBG) activity was observed in a dose-dependent manner. The BAP mediated inhibitory effect of P. colocasiae mycelium growth was overcome by supplying the media with an external source of EBG. Results also showed that BAP has inhibitory effect on disease development in taro leading to a reduction in disease severity which correlated with increasing BAP concentrations. It is concluded that the use of BAP could be an important strategy in the control of taro leaf blight.
24331961|Three plasmids of wheat blue dwarf (WBD) phytoplasma, named pWBD1, pWBD2 and pWBD3, were cloned and confirmed by southern blot. They were 3449 bp, 3601 bp and 3844 bp in length, respectively, and encoded fifteen proteins in all, which included five secreted proteins and five membrane proteins, as well as the replication-associated protein (Rep), copy number control protein (Cop) and single-stranded DNA-binding protein (SSB). Phylogenetic analysis based on the sequences of Rep proteins from 16 phytoplasma type II extrachromosomal DNA molecules (EC-DNAs) and geminiviruses indicated that pWBD1 and pWBD2 were most closely related to pPaWBNy-1 from paulownia witches' broom phytoplasma Nanyang strain, while pWBD3 was most closely related to pPaWBNy-2. Real time PCR analysis revealed that the copy numbers of WBD phytoplasma plasmids had tissue specificity in infected periwinkle and changed in the course of infection. The copy numbers of plasmids were higher in the tissues below the graft union, especially in the roots. pWBD1 copy number changed little during infection, whilst pWBD2 and pWBD3 copy number peaked three months after symptom appearance.
41998428|Different patterns of chlorotic to yellowish mottling and deformation were observed in leaves of field-grown fig trees in Mexico and South Africa. Potted rooted cuttings from both sources grown under glasshouse conditions displayed chlorotic blotching, vein clearing and banding of the leaves. Electron microscope observations of thin-sectioned tissues from symptomatic leaves showed that parenchyma cells of both Mexican and South African samples contained the double-membrane bodies (DMBs) typically associated with fig mosaic disease (FMD). Also, accumulations of filamentous semi-rigid and of very flexuous virus-like particles were observed in parenchyma or phloem cells, respectively. RT-PCR assays of total nucleic acids extracted from leaf tissues of both sources using primers designed to amplify the HSP70 gene of the putative closteroviruses Fig leaf mottle-associated virus 1 (FLMaV-1) and Fig leaf mottle-associated virus 2 (FLMaV-2) gave a positive response only for FLMaV-1. DMBs have been observed previously in the symptomatic Mexican fig source. However, our results are the first records of FMD and associated DMBs in South Africa and of both FLMaV-1 and an unidentified filamentous semi-rigid virus in Mexico and South Africa.
41998221|During the last three years a survey was made to evaluate the presence and distribution of citrus viroids in the Campania region (Southern Italy). A total of 112 citrus trees of different species and cultivars were inspected visually and sampled. One hundred and four out of the 112 samples graft-inoculated into Arizona 861-S1 "Etrog" citron gave typical viroid symptoms. Viroid infection was confirmed by sequential polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (sPAGE) analysis and molecular hybridization of imprinted membranes. Hop stunt viroid (HSVd), Citrus viroid III (CVd-III) and Citrus exocortis viroid (CEVd) were the most widely detected, accounting respectively for 87, 85 and 68% of the tested sources. Citrus viroid IV (CVd-IV) and Citrus bent leaf viroid (CBLVd), never reported in Italy before, were found in 24 and 13% of the sources. Most of the trees (82%) were infected with more than a viroid. The most frequent viroid combinations were CEVd + HSVd + CVd-III (43%), HSVd + CVd-III (17%) and CEVd + CBLVd + HSVd + CVd-III + CVd-IV (13%).
41998831|A rapid and sensitive molecular diagnostic assay for Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. chrysanthemi, an economically important pathogen of ornamentals, has been developed and tested on three hosts (Gerbera jamesonii, Osteospermum sp., and Argyranthemum frutescens). A specific primer set (B6003/SNR3) was designed on the basis of a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the FOW1 gene of F. oxysporum f. sp. chrysanthemi. This primer set was highly specific and able to distinguish this fungus from other formae speciales of F. oxysporum. A 304 bp sequence was amplified from DNA of three isolates of F. oxysporum f. sp. chrysanthemi, whilst no amplification was obtained from DNA of 16 other Fusarium species and formae speciales of F. oxysporum. In conventional PCR with primer pair B6003/SNR3, the detection limit of F. oxysporum f. sp. chrysanthemi was 100 pg of genomic, whilst in a semi-nested PCR, using primer pair B6003/B6004 in the first round, and B6003/SNR3 in the second round, the detection limit was as low as 10 fg of genomic DNA. Semi-nested PCR successfully detected F. oxysporum f. sp. chrysanthemi in three artificially infected symptomless host plants sampled three days after pathogen inoculation.
41998819|The impact of citrus stubborn disease (CSD), caused by Spiroplasma citri, on commercially cultivated citrus is not fully understood or quantified. Our objective was to measure these impacts on citrus production and assess bacterial distribution in trees having different symptom severities. S. citri-positive and adjacent healthy navel orange trees in a commercial grove in central California were evaluated. Measurements included canopy height and width, trunk diameter, fruit number and weight, and number of prematurely dropped fruit. Thirty fruit per tree were evaluated for color, size and sunburn. Juice was extracted, weighed, and total soluble solids and titratable acidity measured. Bacterial distribution in trees exhibiting mild or severe symptoms was assessed by q-PCR and spiroplasma culture. Fruit from S. citri-positive trees were smaller, and more often mis-shapen, than those from healthy trees. Significant fruit number reduction occurred only in severely symptomatic trees, in which S. citri was broadly distributed within the tree canopy. All other variables were statistically indistinguishable regardless of symptom severity or pathogen presence. The reduction in fruit weight, size and number in severely symptomatic trees validate the concern that CSD is a significant constraint to production and marketability in California.
41998047|A substrate-based gel assay was used to determine RNase and DNase activities in the incompatible interaction between pepper leaves (cv. 'Early Calwonder 10R') and the avirulent race 2 of Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria from 0 to 24 hours after inoculation, and for comparison in leaves inoculated with the virulent race 1 of the same bacterium (compatible interaction). Two major bands of RNase activity, with apparent molecular mass of 18 and 27 kDa were detected in pepper leaf extracts. Both activities were markedly inhibited by Mg and Zn; activity of the 18 kDa RNase was stimulated by Ca. Activity banding at 25 kDa activity, degrading both RNA and DNA as substrate (nuclease activity) and inhibited by EDTA and Zn, was detected in bacterial cell extracts and in culture fluids of both races 1 and 2 of X. campestris pv. vesicatoria. No significant changes in plant nucleolytic activity were detected in hypersensitively reacting leaves, whereas an increase in the bacterial 25 kDa activity band was observed in both compatible and incompatible interactions.
41999034|The species composition of a total of 400 single-ascospore Leptosphaeria isolates from winter oilseed rape collected in 2006-2009 in Lithuania was studied by cultural characteristics and molecular techniques. In general, 70.3% of the tested isolates belonged to Leptosphaeria maculans and 29.7% were attributed to L. biglobosa due to differences in cultural characteristics and following species-specific PCR analysis. Both techniques consistently identified the presence of L. maculans only in the 2006 and 2007 collections, whereas both species were detected in 2008 and 2009, with prevalence of L. biglobosa in 2008 (89% of tested isolates), and of L. maculans in 2009 (57% of tested isolates). The equal distribution according to mating types and the high degree of genetic variation among L. maculans isolates as detected by AFLP markers, suggests sexual reproduction. Whereas phoma leaf spot incidence on winter oilseed rape was 28-48% 90 days after sowing in 2004-2006, increasing to 43-62% 30 days later, phoma canker infection rates at the stem base were 72, 48 and 58% at harvest in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. The presence and prevalence of L. maculans in Lithuania supports the assumption of eastward spreading of this fungus in Europe and suggests that there is a high risk of severe phoma stem canker epidemics in this country.
41998419|Corn reddening (CR), observed for the first time in Serbia in 1957, has occurred sporadically there ever since, especially in the Banat area. However, in 2002 and 2003 severe outbreaks took place in late July-early August. Initial symptoms of CR consist in the apperance of a red-violet color on the leaves, leaf sheaths, husks and the bare portion of the internodes. Discolourations typically appear at the milk maturity stage, being strongest on top leaves, around the mid-rib and along the edges of the leaf blade, from base to tip. The ears are underdeveloped and kernels are shrivelled. Soon after symptom development, affected plants wilt, the foliage dessicates rapidly, most of the red pigmentation disappears, and affected plants eventually die. Controversy on the biotic or abiotic nature of CR seems to have been settled by the recent discovery of a possible phytoplasma aetiology. Whatever the cause, an interesting source of apparent resistance to CR was identified in a local maize population which may be used in breeding programmes.
41998858|Three amplicons corresponding to the variable genome regions of Apple chlorotic leaf spot virus (ACLSV), Apple stem grooving virus (ASGV) and Apple stem pitting virus (ASPV) were sequenced from different apple cultivars and geographic areas in Europe and Asia. Multiple alignments of nucleotide sequence of these isolates with those from databases showed a very high divergence. Genetic variability at the nucleotide level among ACSLV and ASPV isolates was very high, ranging from 83.5 to 85.0% and 80.1 to 81.9%, respectively, confirming previous observations. ASGV isolates were more homogenous, with no clear separation between ASGV and Citrus tatter leaf virus and between geographic origin and genetic diversity of the virus isolates characterized in this study.
24331977|The presence and distribution of Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV) on different vegetable, ornamental, tobacco plants and weeds was investigated in the open field and greenhouses in different locations of Montenegro. DAS ELISA was used to identify the virus in 2072 samples collected from 2007 to 2009. TSWV was detected in two samples collected in 2007, none of the samples collected in 2008 and 50 samples collected in 2009. The sensitivity and specificity of four different previously described primer sets for TSWV detection were assessed by RT-PCR. The N gene sequences were compared with those of 20 new isolates from Montenegro, Serbia, Italy and Brazil and 27 others retrieved from the NCBI database. Nucleotide sequences comparison revealed high level of similarity (9799,9%) between Montenegrin and TSWV isolates from other European countries. Phylogenetic analysis of the N gene revealed seven distinct subgroups, showing that the investigated isolates clustered with those from the same geographic region, with the exception of one Montenegrin (Is-103) and one Italian isolate (Gb-21).
41997911|Grape vineyard culture practices including nitrogen fertilization, removal of leaves, and thinning of clusters, as well as fungicide treatments were evaluated for their effect on the development of Botrytis bunch rot. High nitrogen fertilization predisposed grapevines to infection by Botrytis cinrea and increased disease severity. Latent infection of cups and berries as well as visible infection of clusters increased as the rate of ammonium nitrate amendment increased. Conversely, removal of leaves around clusters, when practiced two or three times during the season, and thinning of berries significantly reduced Botrytis bunch rot development and resulted in less latent and visibly infected clusters and berries. These green pruning practices also attenuated the beneficial effects of nitrogen fertilization on disease development. In vitro experiments revealed that among the tested fungicides, Vinchlozoline, Chlorothalonil, and Dichlofluanide were effective in completely inhibiting the germination of conidia. Iprodione and Procymedone were apparently confronted to the problem of fungal resistance. Folpel, Copper and Chlorothalonil were not able to control mycelial growth as effectively as conidial germination. Field experiments showed that all tested fungicides significantly reduced disease compared to the untreated control, but Methyl-thiophanate, Dichlofluanide and Vinchlozoline provided the best control and gave a more than 60% reduction in infected clusters and approximately 40% increase in yield as compared to the control. Incidence of Botrytis infection was significantly influenced by the period of fungicide application during bloom. The best results are obtained with the fungicide applied early during bloom. Based on these results, a strategy combining cultural management techniques and reasonable use of fungicides is recommended to control Botrytis bunch rot. Pratiche colturali quali la fertilizzazione azotata, lo sfoltimento fogliare ed il diradamento dei grappoli, come pure i trattamenti fungicidi sono stati valutati per i loro effetti sullo sviluppo del marciume del grappolo causato da botrite. Alte fertilizzazioni azotate hanno predisposto la vite alPinfezione da Botrytis cinrea ed hanno aumentato la gravita della malattia. Le infezioni latenti nei peduncoli e negli acini come pure le infezioni visibili dei grappoli son aumntate con l'aumentare della quantit di nitrato di ammonio. Al contrario, l'asportazione di foglie attorno ai grappoli, quando praticata due o tre volte durante la stagione, ed il diradamento degli acini hanno ridotto significativamente lo sviluppo della botrite diminuendo il numero dei grappoli e degli acini con infezione latente e visibile. Queste pratiche di potatura verde hanno anche attenuato gli effetti della fertilizzazione azotata sullo sviluppo della malattia. Gli esperimenti in vitro hanno most rat o che tra i fungicidi saggiati, Vinclozolin, Chlorothalonil e Dichlofluanid avevano efficacia nelPinibire completamente la germinazione dei conidi. Iprodione e Procymidone erano apparentemente affetti dal problema della resistenza acquisita. Folpet, Rame e Chlorothalonil non erano in grado di controllare la crescita miceliare tanto efficacemente quanto la germinazione dei conidi. Gli esperimenti in campo hanno mostrato che tutti i fungicidi saggiati hanno significativamente ridotto la malattia in confronto al controllo non trattato, ma Thiophanatemethyl, Dichlofluanid e Vinclozolin hanno fornito il miglior controllo con una riduzione maggiore del 60% di grappoli infetti ed approssimativamente un incremento produttivo del 40% rispetto al controllo. L'incidenza delle infezioni di Botrytis erano significativamente influenzate dal momento di applicazione del fungicida durante la fioritura. I risultati migliori sono stati ottenuti con il fungicida applicato appena all'inizio della fioritura. Sulla base di questi risultati,  raccomandata una strategia di difesa che combini tecniche di gestione colturale ed un ragionevole uso di fungicidi per il controllo del marciume del grappolo causato da botrite.
41998543|An unusual disease, named elephantiasis for its typical symptoms, has been seen in orchards of kiwifruit cv. Hayward in Emilia-Romagna (northern Italy) since 2001. Phialophora-like isolates were obtained from the necrotic wood and were studied in vitro for phenotype and tissue colonization ability. We used primers amplifying the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the ribosomal DNA (rDNA) for molecular identification. Phaeoacremonium strains were further identified with -tubulin-specific primers. Strains of Cadophora, Lecythophora and Phaeoaaemonium were classified and characterized. The isolates differed in their ability to colonise tissue. P. aleophilum and C. melinii showed the highest colonization index. To our knowledge, this is the first report of Cadophora melinii isolated from kiwifruit plants.
41998091|Plants expressing viral sequences may show homology-dependent virus resistance (HDR), which is characterized by specific degradation of transgenic RNA and viral RNAs homologous to the transgene. This resistance mechanism is a form of post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS), which can be suppressed by virus-encoded proteins. We analysed the effect of Potato virus Y, Cucumber mosaic virus and Potato virus X infections on HDR to Cymbidium ringspot virus (CymRSV) shown by Nicotiana benthamiana transgenic line 92KA1 expressing the full-length replicase gene of CymRSV. We observed breaking of resistance in transgenic plants doubly infected with PTGS suppressor viruses and CymRSV. The need of considering the effect of PTGS suppressor viruses on resistance or PTGS-dependent phenotype in transgenic crops is discussed.
41998671|Bacterial wilt is a disease that causes serious bean crop losses in Brazil, and its causal agent, the bacterium Curtobacterium flaccumfaciens pv. flaccumfaciens (Cff), is seed transmitted. Recommendations for managing the disease in the field include the use of pathogen-free seed, crop rotation, and resistant cultivars of dry bean. Transmission of Cff from plant to seed was evaluated in three assays with six different dry bean cultivars (IAC Carioca, IAC Carioca Aru, IAC Carioca Akyt, IAC Carioca Pyat, IAC Carioca Tybat, and Prola). Plants of these cultivars were inoculated with a Cff isolate by stem puncture and the disease symptoms were evaluated using a scale. To assess bacterial transmission to seeds, three assays were made analysing in each 500 seeds of the cultivars IAC Carioca, IAC Carioca Aru, IAC Carioca Akyt, IAC Carioca Pyat, and IAC Carioca Tybat respectively, whereas for the cv. Prola 46, 155, and 87 seeds were analysed in the first, second, and third assay, respectively. These seeds were macerated individually in distilled and sterilized water, and soaked for 24 h at 5C. The resulting suspension was streaked on Petri dishes containing semi-selective medium for Cff, and incubated at 28C for 96 to 120 h. Typical colonies for Cff were purified on 7% NSA+NaCl medium, after which Gram staining, KOH, and pathogenicity tests were conducted. Isolates from the first and second assays were characterized by Microlog2, and those of the third assay with PCR. Results showed that on cvs IAC Carioca Aru, IAC Carioca Akyt, IAC Carioca Pyat, and IAC Carioca Tybat low levels of disease developed, indicating resistance to bacterial wilt, whereas cvs Prola and IAC Carioca were highly susceptible in all the assays. With respect to transmission of Cff from plants to seeds, cvs IAC Carioca Akyt, IAC Carioca Pyat, and IAC Carioca Tybat showed no transmission, whereas IAC Carioca Aru showed a 5.5-14.8% level of transmission. Cvs IAC Carioca and Prola showed the highest levels of transmission, namely 10.4-70% and 32.61-74.2%, respectively.
41998379|Ten monoascosporic strains of Botryotinia fuckeliana were used in mycelium growth tests to evaluate baseline sensitivity to Fenhexamid, a fungicide recently introduced in the control of grey mould. Their response to the fungicide was EC = 0.1-0.3 g ml and MIC = 0.3-3 g ml. Eight laboratory mutants resistant to the fungicide were obtained from UV-irradiated or unirradiated conidia plated on Fenhexamid-amended medium (3 g ml). Mutation ratios were 1.710 of survivor conidia for UVinduced mutations and 0.610 for spontaneous mutations. Two levels of resistance to Fenhexamid were distinguished in mycelium growth tests: low (1<EC>10 g ml) and high resistance (EC>100 g ml). In conidial germination tests, Fenhexamid proved to be a powerful inhibitor of germ tube elongation (EC ~1 g ml) even for mutants displaying high resistance in mycelium tests. Resistant mutants were crossed with Fenhexamid-sensitive reference strains to derive meiotic progeny and to assess the mode of inheritance of resistant phenotypes. Segregation of resistant/sensitive phenotypes in ascospore offspring indicated that resistant phenotypes were due to mutations in single major genes inherited in Mendelian fashion and unlinked with the Mbc1 and Daf1 genes, responsible for resistance to benzimidazole and dicarboximide fungicides, respectively.
24332021|Marssonina brunnea is the causal agent of Marssonina leaf spot of poplar. We successfully transformed M. brunnea using Agrobacterium tumefaciens. A highly-efficient promoter was a key factor in the construction of this transformation system construction. The beta-tubulin gene is stable and highly expressed at almost all stages of the life history of M. brunnea. A beta-tubulin gene promoter was obtained based on a genomic sequence using an adapter ligation-mediated PCR. This was then inserted into the pMDC83 plasmid vector for high expression of the inserted gene. A genomic DNA PCR assay and fluorescence observation of transformants authenticated successful transformation and fluorescence intensity indicated the efficacy of the cloned promoter. All M. brunnea transformants were mitotically stable. This study provides essential information for the study of the functions of virulence genes and their roles in pathogen-host interactions.
41998032|In mixed infections of Grapevine virus A (GVA) and Grapevine virus B (GVB) in non-transgenic Nicotiana plants, one-sided phenotypic mixing (GVA coat protein encapsidating GVB RNA) was detected by immunocapture-RT-PCR, with a frequency ranging from 33 to 75%. Immuno-electron microscopy confirmed the presence of both capsid proteins in the same virus particles. Heteroencapsidation took also place in R1 seedlings of transgenic Nicotiana lines expressing GVA or GVB coat proteins, when the plants were challengeinoculated with the heterologous virus. Finally, whole virus particles were produced when an infectious but CP-defective GVB RNA transcript was inoculated biolistically as a DNA plasmid into Nicotiana plants transgenically expressing GVB CP.
24331966|In Brazil, the ornamental flowers and plants market moves in the wholesale and retail more than two billion US dollars annually, and chrysanthemum stands out as one of the most valuable commercial species. The stunting disease induced by Chrysanthemum stunt viroid (CSVd) has become a serious problem in chrysanthemum production systems worldwide. CSVd incites also colour breaking and retards flowering, but in many situations it does not induce visible symptoms, facilitating its spread in the field and passing international borders unnoticed. In Brazil there are few studies on this pathogen, with a single report of its possible occurrence in chrysanthemum in the State of So Paulo. In this work we aimed at surveying, identifying and characterizyng viroids in chrysanthemum crops in the State of So Paulo; challenging chrysanthemum varieties with a Brazilian CSVd isolate; and establishing diagnostic strategies to strengthen quarantine and indexing programs. Our survey showed that CSVd is widely disseminated in chrysanthemum crops in the State of So Paulo. All evaluated chrysanthemum varieties were susceptible of infection, although infection was sometimes symptomless. The complete genome sequencing of seven CSVd isolates showed high nucleotide identity when compared with other isolates from databases. Specific oligonucleotides were designed for conventional RT-PCR and RT-qPCR CSVd analysis. Results show that CSVd can be identified with a sensitivity about 100,000 times higher than PAGE. Dot-blot proved also to be highly sensitive and, consequently, most useful for large scale diagnosis. This is the first biological and molecular identification and characterization of CSVd isolates in Brazil.
24331958|Citrus black spot (CBS) is an emerging citrus disease in Florida. The causal agent is Guignardia citricarpa, but non-pathogenic Guignardia mangiferae is often isolated from the same lesions. A hypothesis on CBS emergence in Florida was formulated: a change in environment, such as increased copper applications could have favored growth and infection by G. citricarpa, causing it to outcompete G. mangiferae, facilitating the emergence of CBS. Moreover, differential temperature optima could favor one of the two species. Four agar media were compared for isolation of both species from citrus tissues. The obtained isolates were subjected to sequence comparison in the ITS region with that of Guignardia species worldwide, to pathogenicity tests, growth tests at different temperatures and competition assays at different copper concentrations. There were no significant differences between the media for isolation of both Guignardia species. Comparison of the ITS region of the isolates to those in international databases confirmed the identity of both species, and revealed higher diversity among the G. mangiferae than G. citricarpa isolates. The G. citricarpa isolates had similar temperature response curves (optima at 26C), whereas the G. mangiferae isolates were more diverse in their response to temperatures (optima at 25-30C). Growth of G. citricarpa was increasingly suppressed at higher copper concentrations, while a slight increase or no change in growth rate was observed for G. mangiferae. Therefore, our initial hypothesis was rejected. The differential response to copper and temperature by G. citricarpa and G. mangiferae will serve as a basis for modeling and predicting the spread of CBS in Florida.
41998798|Arabis mosaic virus (ArMV) and Grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV), two closely related members of the genus Nepovirus, family Secoviridae, are responsible for fanleaf degeneration disease of grapevines. ArMV and GFLV are specifically transmitted by the ectoparasitic soilborne nematodes Xiphinema diversicaudatum and X. index, respectively. Previous work has shown that the coat protein determines the transmission specificity of GFLV. No information is available on the determinants of the specific transmission of ArMV by X. diversicaudatum. We addressed this issue by testing the transmissibility of three chimeric viruses comprising GFLV RNA-1 and GFLV/ArMV chimeric RNA-2 molecules coding for a coat protein from ArMV. The three recombinant viruses and wild type ArMV, unlike GFLV, were transmitted by X. diversicaudatum but not by X. index. In addition, RT-PCR assays indicated that ArMV and the three chimeric viruses seemed to be retained by X. diversicaudatum but not by X. index following nematode feeding on infected plants. Conversely, GFLV was retained by X. index but not by X. diversicaudatum. These results are consistent with the notion that the coat protein carries the determinants for the specific transmission of Ar-MV by X diversicaudatum and that transmission specificity of both ArMV and GFLV is associated with specific virus retention by nematode vectors.
41998046|A total of 83 spore-forming bacteria belonging to the genus Bacillus was isolated from Tunisian salty soils. These isolates as well as five additional strains of Bacillus thuringiensis, previously selected for their efficiency against insects, were tested in vitro and in vivo against Fusarium roseum var. sambucinum, the causal agent of dry rot of potato tubers. Results of the in vitro dual culture screening revealed that more than 50% of Bacillus spp. isolated from salty soils inhibited the growth of the pathogen in vitro. By contrast, all five B. thuringiensis strains failed to inhibit the growth of the pathogen in vitro. On wounded potato tubers, the most effective isolates obtained from salty soils were X7, X9, XI6, 132 and G7, with a percentage of dry rot reduction ranging from 66 to 89%. These effective Bacillus isolates were identified as belonging to one of the species B. cereus (X9, X16 and G7), B. lentimorbus (X7) or B. licheniformis (132). Although ineffective in vitro, B. thuringiensis strains inhibited dry rot development in vivo, with percentage inhibition scores ranging from 41 to 52%. While Bacillus isolates selected from salty soils best inhibited dry rot development when applied as young cultures (24 h), B. thuringiensis strains generally performed better as older cultures (48-72 h). The cell-filtrates of Bacillus spp. were unable to inhibit the growth of Fusarium. By contrast, volatiles liberated by the antagonists seem to contribute to the inhibition of the pathogen. The two isolates X16 of B. cereus and 132 of B. licheniformis as well as all 3 tested strains of B. thuringiensis (IT, 10T and 55T) were able to degrade colloidal chitin. Our experiments with the chromogenic chito-oligosaccharides indicated also that B. cereus (XI6) and B. thuringiensis (55T) are able to produce N-acetyl--D-glucosaminidases, chitobiosidases and endochitinases. The isolate XI6 of B. cereus consistently showed a chitinase activity 2 to 3 fold higher than that of strain 55T of B. thuringiensis. The hydrolysis of chromogenic chito-oligosaccharide analogs correlated well with the release of reducing sugars from chitin or the formation of clearing zones on chitin agar. The diversity and complexity of chitinases produced by our selected strains may contribute significantly to their antagonistic activity towards F. roseum var. sambucinum.
41998764|In northern Europe (Scandinavia, Finland and northwestern Russia) and Asia (Siberia and the Russian Far East) the most common Fusarium species responsible for Fusarium head blight (FHB) are the F. avenaceum/arthrosporioides/tricinctum, F. graminearum/culmorum/cerealis and F. poae/sporotrichioides/langsethiae species groups based on morphology. The most important mycotoxins produced by them are trichothecenes, zearalenone, moniformin and enniatins, including beauvericin. According to the molecular data the main lineages of F. avenaceum and F. arthrosporioides are types I (most F. avenaceum isolates) and II (some F. avenaceum isolates together with most F. arthrosporioides isolates). Lineage 7 of F. graminearum (= F. graminearum sensu stricto) dominates in northern Europe and Asia and has been replacing the closely related F. culmorum in northern Europe. F. asiaticum is the most common species of the F. graminearum/culmorum/cerealis species group in most parts of China and southern Japan, but it has not yet been found in Russia. The 3ADON chemotype of F. graminearum is prevalent in Scandinavia, Finland and north-western Russia, while the 15ADON chemotype of F. graminearum is more common in the more southern areas in Europe and China. Both the 3ADON and 15ADON chemotypes of F. graminearum are common in the Russian Far East together with the 3ADON chemotype of F. ussurianum and the 15ADON chemotype of F. vorosii. F. langsethiae can be divided into two lineages (subtypes) based on IGS sequences. The European F. langsethiae has only been found in Europe, while the Asian F. langsethiae in Siberia and the Russian Far East seems actually to be a lineage of F. sporotrichioides based on molecular data. Due to global warming and other human activities, we predict changes in the compositions of these species and mycotoxins produced by them.
24722473|RT-real time PCR was used for the detection of 13 viruses in 768 samples of Vitis vinifera cv. Sangiovese collected from nine Tuscanian districts (Italy). Analysis of virus distribution was carried out on 482 samples infected with viruses responsible for infectious degeneration or associated with leafroll, fleck and rugose wood diseases that are included in the European (2005/43/EC) and Italian (DM 07/07/2006 and DM 24/06/2008) directives. Viruses associated with rugose wood disease were the most common (90%), Grapevine rupestris stem pitting-associated virus, which is not regulated, was found in more than 80% of infected samples, and Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 3 was the most frequent among EU-regulated viruses followed by Grapevine fleck virus. Grapevine virus A, a virus regulated in Italy, was found in more than 30% of infected vines whereas the presence of other non-regulated viruses such as Grapevine virus D (4%), Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 4 (GLRaV-4), GLRaV-4 strains 5 and 9 was low (1%). These findings indicate the need of implementing the European regulation for the production of high quality planting material.
41999005|The biological and molecular characteristics of 8 strains of biovars 2A of Ralstonia solanacearum from the Iranian province of Isfahan and of 7 isolates of biovar 2T from the province of Khuzestan were investigated morphologically, physiologically, biochemically, and using pathogenicity tests, BOX-PCR, ERIC-PCR and RFLP. Biovar 2A strains showed irregular, creamy-white and highly fluid colonies with pink center on TZC medium, slow spreading necrosis in hypersensivite reaction (HR) after 48 h, produced melanin in tyrosin test, were less pectolytic and did not utilize ribose and tryptophan. By contrast, biovar 2T strains had small size, less fluid, round and deep red colonies with a thin white margin, did not produce melanin, had a higher pectolytic activity, rapid HR on tobacco leaves after 24 h and utilized ribose and tryptophan. Comparative analysis of the BOX-PCR and ERIC-PCR fingerprint of the 15 strains at the 45% similarity level, revealed two main clusters, comprising all biovar 2A strains (cluster 1) or all biovar 2T strains (cluster 2). RFLP profiles of both biovers did not show any polymorphism. Typically, biovar 2A isolates were more pathogenic and bacterial density was higher in the xylem of all hosts tested. There was no significant difference in biovar 2A and 2T survival in loamy-clay soil, which was up to 186 days under controlled conditions.
41999035|Quorum sensing (QS) is a regulatory mechanism that connects gene expression to cell density in bacteria. The expression of numerous genes including those involved in the production of virulence determinants in Pectobacterium atrosepticum are regulated in this way. The signal molecules involved in QS in P. atroseptium belong to the group of N-acyl homoserine lactones (AHLs). Recently, several soil bacteria were found to degrade AHLs, thereby interfering with the QS system. In this research, twelve strains of AHL-degrading rhizobacteria were isolated from potato rhizosphere. According to ribotyping analysis, these isolates fell into four groups belonging to the genera Bacillus, Arthrobacter, Pseudomonas and Chryseobacterium. All these isolates were capable to degrade both synthetic and natural AHLs produced by P. atrosepticum strain SMI. In this report, Chryseobacterium sp. was isolated as an AHL-degrading bacterium for the first time and shown that it could interfere with QS-dependent bacterial infection of P. atrosepticum SM1. Chryseobacterium sp. and several other tested isolates effectively inhibited maceration of potato tuber tissue by P. atrosepticum. The attenuation of the pathogenicity might be due to the quenching of QS-regulated production of extracellular enzymes by P. atroseptium SM1. Chryseobacterium sp. isolated in this study might be a useful agent in the biocontrol of bacterial plant diseases.
41998676|The effects of nutrient status, temperature and pH on mycelial growth, sclerotial production and germination of Rhizoctonia solani [anastomosis groups (AGs) 2-1 and 3] from potato were studied on a range of artificial media including potato dextrose (PDA), malt yeast extract (MYA), water (WA) and soil extract (SEA) agar. Greatest sclerotium yields were obtained on MYA for AG 3 and PDA for AG 2-1. Sclerotium yields were significantly poorer for AG 2-1 isolates compared to AG 3 isolates tested. Sclerotium yields were significantly improved when mycelia grown on nutrient poor (WA) agar were transferred to nutrient rich (PDA) media after 4 d for AG 3 isolates, but not for AG 2-1 isolates. Optimum temperatures for mycelial growth of all isolates were between 20 and 25C on all media tested. Mycelial growth of all isolates occurred between pH 4 and 9, with an optimum of pH 5.6. Sclerotium formation occurred between pH 4 and 8 and pH 5 and 6 for AG 3 and AG 2-1 isolates, respectively. Sclerotial germination for all AG 3 isolates was optimal between 20 and 30C on all media tested, with a pH optimum between pH 5 and 6. In soil, AG 2-1 isolates grew significantly slower compared to AG-3. Optimum temperature for mycelial growth in soil was between 20 and 25C, regardless of anastomosis group. Sclerotial germination in soil by AG 3 isolates occurred between 10C and 30C. The significance of these results on the pathogenicity of R. solani is discussed.
24332205|Bacterial soft rot can be a destructive disease of ornamental plants. To identify the pathogenic soft rot bacteria occurring in ornamental plants in Tehran and Markazi provinces (Iran), 57 isolates were obtained from 12 different mono- and dicotyledonous hosts and investigated with regard to phenotypic, genotypic and pathogenicity features. Based on phenotypic characteristics, the bacterial strains were identified as Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. This was confirmed by subspecies-specific primers using PCR. Inoculation of all isolates into Aglaonema leaves confirmed the pathogenicity of the isolated strains. To assess the genetic diversity within Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum populations by rep-PCR, 26 isolates were selected according to their host and geographic distribution as well as two strains from Guilan province. Cluster analysis was conducted using the UPGMA method and revealed a possible close relationship between DNA fingerprints and geographical origins of isolates. Our results showed significant genetic variation among the populations of this pathogen. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum on Peperomia obtusifolia, P. caperata, Pilea cadierei, Plectranthus australis, Saintpaulia ionantha and Kalanchoe tubiflora in Iran.
23721582|Field surveys were carried out in the main peach-growing areas of China to assess the virus or viroid disease status of peach trees. A total of 505 leaf samples were tested by ELISA or RT-PCR for the presence of nine major peach viruses. The viruses most frequently detected were Apple chlorotic leaf spot virus (ACLSV) (71.8%), followed by Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV) (20.2%), Cherry green ring mottle virus (CGRMV) (8.1%), and Apricot pseudo-chlorotic leaf spot virus (APCLSV) (1.6%). The overall average of virus infection level in peach trees was 24.6%. Apple mosaic virus (ApMV), Plum pox virus (PPV), Prune dwarf virus (PDV), Cherry virus A (CVA) and Cherry leaf roll virus (CLRV) were not detected. Of another 583 leaf samples tested for the presence of the known major peach viroids, by dot-blot hybridization, 444 (76.2%) were infected. Peach latent mosaic viroid (PLMVd) and Hop stunt viroid (HSVd) were detected in 443 and 18 samples, respectively. This is the first large-scale study on major viruses and viroids that infect peach trees in China.
41998869|Coconut yellow decline (CYD) disease in Malaysia has been shown to be associated with two different phytoplasmas, one from the 16SrXIV group and one from a novel taxonomic group. Here we report the development of a real-time PCR assay using a 16S rDNA-based TaqMan primerprobe set, for sensitive, quantitative and rapid detection of the novel strain of CYD phytoplasmas. The TaqMan PCR assay was successfully used on genomic DNA extracts from symptomatic Malayan yellow dwarf (MYD) and Malayan fed dwarf (MRD) palms, and the analysis of field-collected coconut samples showed that the real-time PCR was better for phytoplasma detection than conventional nested PCR using primers P1/P7 followed by R16F2n/R16R2. Due to lack of specificity, the designed primer probe set also amplified DNA from a range of other phytoplasma strains, including 16SrII chickpea phyllody, 16SrIV Cape St Paul wilt, 16SrVI brinjal little leaf and 16SrXI napier grass stunt, but not from the 16SrXIV phytoplasma associated with CYD, so it could be used to distinguish between infections caused by the two different CYD phytoplasmas present in Malaysia.
41998115|Two primer pairs specific for Rosellinia necatrix, designed from the internal transcribed space (ITS) regions, were utilised to develop a molecular detection method suitable for large-scale analyses of soils and plant materials. One primer (R15) was modified to obtain a Scorpion primer for detecting a specific 71 bp amplicon by fluorescence emitted from a fluorophore through a self-probing PCR assay. Primer R15 Scorpion in combination with a reverse conventional primer (R18) produced a more intense fluorescent signal compared to a previously reported pair of Scorpion primers. Primer specificity was assessed both by means of BLAST (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool) analyses to exclude the presence of similar sequences in other microrganisms among available DNA databases (Gen-Bank) and by using genomic DNA from a large number of R. necatrix isolates and other fungi from several hosts and different geographic areas. Simple, rapid, and effective procedures for direct DNA extraction from soil and plant materials were developed to yield DNA of purity and quality suitable for PCR assays. Combining these protocols and a single amplification with primer R15 Scorpion-R18 it was possible to detect the pathogen in naturally and artificially infected host tissues. To detect the pathogen from infested soils, and to improve the sensitivity on host tissue, a nested Scorpion-PCR with conventional (R3-R8) and Scorpion (R15 Scorpion-R18) primers was utilised. The reliability of the entire procedure was assessed using both artificially and naturally infested soils and plant materials from 26 different woody species. Compared to traditional detection methods based on baiting and fungal isolation on agar media, the molecular approach proved to be more rapid, sensitive, reliable, and enabled large scale analyses.
41998928|Wine samples were collected from German wineries during a two-year study (2007/2008) and their histamine concentration was determined. The data from 2007 showed that between two wineries either no histamine or a low concentration of it was found when with starter cultures (Oenococcus oeni) were used or maximum values of 1,01 up to 7,30 mg/1 were detected when spontaneous MLF (malolactic fermentation) occurred. In the 2008 survey maximum histamine concentrations ranged between 1,85 and 2,24 mg/1 when the musts were inoculated with starter cultures and 2,77 to 3,37 mg/1 in the case of spontaneous MLF. The two-year study showed that inoculation with starter cultures reduced concentrations of histamine in wine but if no spontaneous MLF-bacteria were present, there was no histamine in the wines.
41998391|During spring and summer 2004 and 2005, a new disease of Christ s thorn (Paliurus spina-christi P. mill.) was observed in Iran, in some areas of the Kurdistan province. Symptoms were initially yellow areas on the leaves, in which irregular water-soaked spots 3-5 mm in diameter developed. A non-fluorescent bacterium was consistently isolated from lesions on King's medium B. Fifteen bacterial isolates were obtained from different locations of west Iran. According to phenotypic, biochemical and physiological properties all bacterial isolates were identified as Acidovorax avenae subsp. citrulli. They produced round white colonies 1-2 mm in diameter, were all aerobic, gram-, levan-, arginine dihydrolase-, catalase- and potato soft rot-negative, but oxidase-positive, and induced hypersensitivity reaction in tobacco leaves. Pathogenicity of selected isolates was confirmed by injecting bacterial suspension into the underside of leaves. This is the first report of a bacterial disease on Christ s thorn in Iran.
41998417|In recent years a high incidence of begomoviruses has been reported in different regions of Brazil causing severe losses to tomato crops. In order to study the distribution of begomovirus species in So Paulo State, periodical sampling was undertaken in tomato-growing areas from different municipalities. Plants showing stunting, foliar yellow vein streak, mosaic and malformation were used for sap inoculations, whitefly transmission, electron microscope observations, and DNA extraction, followed by PCR using universal primers for the genus Begomovirus. The fragments amplified were sequenced and compared with other geminivirus sequences in the GenBank. Tomato yellow vein streak virus (ToYVSV) and Tomato rugose mosaic virus (ToRMV) were identified in our samples. Phylogenetic analysis based on the 5' end of the coat protein gene showed a cluster including the ToYVSV isolates. All isolates in the two species identified were whitefly-transmitted, whereas only the ToYVSV isolates from Campinas were also mechanically transmitted. After complete DNA-A component sequencing and comparison with other geminivirus species, the ToYVSV isolate from Monte Mor, SP, was confirmed as a new begomovirus species closely related to Tomato golden mosaic virus (TGMV).
41998368|Cryparin is a cell wall hydrophobin abundantly expressed in Cryphonectria parastica, the ascomycete fungus causing chestnut blight. In this study we compare the cryparin-minus phenotype of a previously characterized knockout strain to that of silenced strains obtained by the transformation of the fungus with a strong elicitor of post-transcriptional gene silencing. We show that cryparin expression can be silenced very efficiently and that the knockout phenotype is similar to the phenotypes obtained through gene silencing. Silenced strains were also experimentally infected with Chryphonectria hypovirus 1 (CHV-1) with no obvious effect on cryparin expression. We also tested the possibility that p29, a protease expressed by the CHV-1 genome, might act as a suppressor of gene silencing in plants.
41998538|ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters are a large superfamily of proteins responsible for the ATP-dependent translocation of a wide variety of different endogenous and exogenous toxicants across cellular membranes. We used a PCR-based approach to isolate from Botrytis cinerea a DNA fragment that proved be an ABC type transporter gene following sequencing and Southern blot analyses. This gene, named BcatrO, was characterized by RT-PCR expression and knock-out mutant phenotype analysis. Treatment of B. cinerea with HO and methyl viologen enhanced transcription of BcatrO. An increase of the gene transcripts was also observed in the early stages of pathogenesis after inoculation of the fungus to bean leaves. BcatrO knock-out mutants of B. cinrea were more sensitive than the wild type both to HO and fungicide fenpiclonil, but displayed the same virulence. The possible role of BcatrO in a mechanism of resistance of B. cinerea to reactive oxygen species (ROS) or their products and in pleiotropic drug resistance phenomena is discussed.
41998007|A new bacterial leaf spot disease on pepper seedlings (Capsicum annuum cv. 'Kurtovska kapija') was observed in 1995 in Macedonia. Pseudomonas bacteria were isolated, belonging to LOPAT group la. Symptoms similar to natural symptoms were reproduced following inoculation on pepper seedlings. Some isolates produced syringomycin and none of them were pathogenic to lilac. In a numerical taxonomic study of five pepper isolates in comparison with 58 pathovars of P. syringae and 10 related species, the five pepper isolates clustered in one phenon. Considering phenotypic characteristics, serology, DNA relatedness and pathogenicity tests, it was concluded that the pepper strains belong to P. syringae pv. syringae.
41998507|Cerato-platanin (CP) is a small protein of 120 amino acids, produced by the ascomycete Ceratocystis platani (Walter) Engelbrecht et Harrington (Cep), the agent of plane canker stain. CP is located in the cell walls of the conidia, hyphae and ascospores of Cep, is able to self-aggregate, and is released into the culture medium in the first growth stages of in vitro culture. CP is the founder member of the CP family, a group of proteins involved in the interaction between the producing microbe and the host cell. Leaves of Cep-susceptible Platanus acerifolia react to treatments with CP in a resistance-like manner, producing extracellular and intracellular phenolic compounds and undergoing cell plasmolysis and/or death. The present study provides evidence that in plane leaves the CP-activated defence-related events are strictly correlated with the inhibition of Cep growth on the leaves and with a high level of transcripts of 78 differentially expressed genes. Of the transcripts, 19.2% regarded as genes coding for defence and/or stress related proteins. The other genes concerned DNA/RNA synthesis and metabolism, protein synthesis/turnover, energy, primary cellular metabolism and the signalling pathways. The results demonstrated that after treatment of the plane leaves with CP, a substantial network of regulatory interaction and coordination was formed, as well as other defence-related molecular events.
41998787|Recently, a new apple scab resistance was found in the apple accession GMAL 2473 and named Rvi15 (Vr2). The resistance reaction mediated by Rvi15 (Vr2) appeared on the upper surface of young infected leaves 7 days post inoculation (dpi) as browning of epidermal cells. Starting from 11 dpi, browning of mesophyll cells was also observed suggesting a gradual involvement of the different leaf tissues. The resistance reaction resulted in pinpoint pits similar to those observed in Malus accessions carrying the Rvi5 (Vm) or Rvi4 (Vh4) resistance, which are considered to induce the classical hypersensitive response (symptoms appearing at both epidermal and mesophyll level 2-3 dpi). When the timing of the reaction is considered, Rvi15 (Vr2) seems more similar to the Rvi7 (Vfh) resistance found in Malus floribunda 821, which results in pinpoint pits 6 dpi. However, size of the pinpoint pits, number of cells involved and accumulation of fluorescent compounds at the site of pathogen penetration are very similar between all four resistance reactions.
23721565|Species of "Candidatus Liberibacter", all vectored by psyllids, are generally recognized as the cause of four serious plant diseases, Huanglongbing, Zebra Chip, Psyllid Yellows and Yellows Decline, which currently threaten and destroy the citrus, potato, tomato and carrot industries, respectively. These are relatively recent diseases in plant crops, thereby inferring a modern evolutionary trajectory, but no overall hypothesis on their origins has been presented. Plate tectonic movements provide an explanation for the disjunction between modern geographic range and phylogeny. Northern species, on Laurasia, represent both modern European and North American ranges. Southern species, on Gondwana, indicate a further speciation event as ancient India, conjoint with Madagascar, separated from Africa, left Madagascar on its own, and produced the single heat tolerant species while drifting across the equator to its modern position. Phylogeny, epidemiology and geography of the modern species point backwards to a single original speciation event from a free-living form, associated opportunistically with angiosperm and psyllid insect ancestors. The original heat-sensitive species lived in the equatorial but cool climate of the Central Pangaean Mountains probably > 300 Ma. The obligately alternating insect/plant host lifestyle developed opportunistically with the evolution and spread of flowering plants and psyllids.
24722551|During 2011-2013, 7-55% incidence of sesame phyllody and witches' broom symptoms were observed on sesame plants in nine states of India. Seventeen sesame symptomatic samples were analyzed by polymerase chain reaction with phytoplasma specific primers, amplifying 16S rRNA and secA genes. Pairwise sequence comparison and phylogenetic analyses of 16S rRNA and secA gene sequences classified them with aster yellows (16SrI) and peanut witches' broom (16SrII) phytoplasma groups. Further virtual RFLP analysis of 16S rDNA sequences allowed finer classification of the sesame phytoplasma strains into 16SrI-B, 16SrII-C and 16SrII-D subgroups. 'Candidatus Phytoplasma asteris' of the subgroup 16SrI-B was present in sesame plants in two states viz., Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, while 16SrII-C subgroup phytoplasma was found in sesame plants grown in four states viz., Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. Phytoplasma belonging to 16SrII-D subgroup was found as the most widely distributed phytoplasma strain on sesame from five states viz., Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. This is the first report of subgroup level classification of phytoplasma strains from sesame in India.
41998145|In vitro cultivated elm cells were used to study the cytotoxicity of cerato-ulmin (= CU), a hydrophobin produced by Ophiostoma ulmi and O. novo-ulmi, two causal agents of Dutch elm disease (= DED). Purified CU was found to bind to elm cells and cause a dose-dependent death both on cells derived from a DED susceptible (C06) and a moderately resistant (196/6) elm clone. Indirect immunofluorescence (IF) tests, using a rabbit anti-CU antiserum, indicated that homogeneous CU binds to elm but not to cells of fennel and pear, two non-host species of Ophiostoma. The binding was demonstrated by quantitative ELISA on extracts from elm cells incubated with purified CU and by measuring the decrease in CU concentration in the incubation mixture. The equation of the saturation binding curve indicated that the maximum quantity of bound CU for elm clones C06 and 196/6 were similar (351.92 and 355.59 pmoles mg d.wt. elm cells, respectively), as similar were the equilibrium dissociation constants (7.09 and 8.08 M CU, respectively). The increase in bound CU correlated with the intensity of the fluorescence signal on elm cells and a higher mortality. Elm cell-Ophiostoma spp. dual cultures in Takai or Murashige & Skoogderived media were used to test the ability of elm cells to support growth of Ophiostoma fungi and CU production. Cells derived from two elm clones supported both abundant fungal growth and CU production. Fungal growth was supported by cells of the Ophiostoma non-hosts fennel and pear, whereas CU was only produced in the presence of fennel cells. The binding and direct cytotoxicity of CU on elm cells support its role as a pathogenicity factor in DED.
41997923|Pseudomonas syringae pv. pisi strains were characterized by pathogenicity tests on eight differential pea genotypes and by two genomic fingerprinting methods: PCR with REP and ERIC primers, and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) of genomic DNA digested by rare-cutting restriction endonucleases. The study comprised reference type strains of all 7 known races and 21 strains obtained from field pea crops in Sicily. PFGE was the most discriminatory method, delineating 6 pulsed-field gel profiles not coinciding with races, whereas REP and ERIC PCR identified 2 profile types. All the P. syringae pv. pisi isolated in Sicily were identified as race 6 on the basis of pathogenicity tests, and their genomic fingerprints by PFGE and REP and ERIC PCR were identical and more closely related to the type strains of races 3 and 6 than to those of the other races. The results are discussed in relation to improvement of detection methods and race-identification protocols. Ceppi di Pseudomonas syringae pv. pisi, provenienti da collezioni internazionali e da coltivazioni di pieno campo in Sicilia, sono stati caratterizzati mediante saggi di patogenicit su cultivar differenziali e mediante due tipi di analisi del genoma: amplificazione enzimatica del DNA (PCR) con primer REP ed ERIC, ed elettroforesi in campo pulsato (PFGE) di macroframmenti di restrizione del DNA. L'elettroforesi in campo pulsato ha portato alla identificazione di 6 distinti profili di restrizione non coincidenti con le razze, mentre la tecnica PCR ha consentito di identificarne due. Tutti i ceppi locali, identificati come razza 6 tramite i saggi di patogenicit, possedevano identici profili, a loro volta uguali o simili ai ceppi tipo delle razze 3 e 6, mentre differivano dalle altre razze tipo del patogeno. I risultati ottenuti vengono discussi per la loro utilit nella diagnosi e nella identificazione delle razze del batterio.
41998285|The genes encoding RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) and coat protein (CP) of a Chinese isolate of Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 2 (GLRaV-2-CF) were cloned in the vector pET-28a (+) and sequenced. Comparisons of these sequences with those of other GLRaV-2 isolates available from databases revealed homology levels with GLRaV-2-PN and GLRaV-2-Sem higher than 98% at the nucleotide and amino acid levels. GLRaV-2-CF had lower homology with GLRaV-2-RG, another distinct strain, with similarities of 78% (RdRp) and 79% (CP) at the nucleotide level. The cloned RdRp and CP were successfully expressed in Escherichia colt BL-21 (DE3 plysS) and the resulting recombinant proteins were used to raise antisera in rabbits. Tests using these antisera readily detected the recombinant proteins in Western blots and the native virus proteins in infected grapevine samples.
41998167|A real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) system based on Taqman chemistry was developed in order to identify a new group of Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. chrysanthemi highly pathogenic on Paris daisy (VCG 0052). Sensitivity of PCR and real-time PCR was compared on genomic DNA from mycelium. The ability to identify symptomless infections on daisy was also evaluated using selective substrate, PCR and real-time PCR. Real-time PCR could identify infected plants on the fifth day after artificial inoculation, although plants remained symptomless until the 13th day after inoculation. The real-time PCR could detect as little as 300 fg of genomic DNA. The advantages of real-time PCR as a diagnostic system for this new epidemic disease are discussed.
41998284|Two Ludwigia hyssopifolia samples G37 and G38 showing yellow vein symptoms were collected from Nanning, Guangxi province of China. Viruses were detected in each sample by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using universal primers for the genus Begomovirus. The complete DNA-A sequences of isolates G37 and G38 obtained from each source plant comprised 2758 and 2745 nucleotides, respectively. Both DNA-A molecules have the typical genome organization of begomoviruses and share 63.7% sequence identity. Further sequence comparisons showed that DNA-A sequences of G37 and G38 most resembled those of Ageratum yellow vein Taiwan virus (AF307861, 73%) and Alternanthera yellow vein virus (AM050736, 93.6%), respectively. A satellite DNA molecule was found to be associated with G37 by using abutting primers beta02 and beta02 specific for DNA. G37 DNA consists of 1347 nucleotides and has relatively low nucleotide sequence identity (32.4% to 50.2%) with other previously characterized DNA molecules. The molecular data suggest that G37 is a distinct begomovirus, for which the name Ludwigia yellow vein virus (LuYVV) is proposed, while G38 is an isolate of Alternanthera yellow vein virus.
24722483|Grapevine rupestris stem pitting-associated virus (GRSPaV, genus Foveavirus, family Betaflexiviridae) is the putative agent of the Rupestris stem pitting (RSP) disease of grapevines. GRSPaV comprises a family of variants whose pathological characteristics are incompletely known. Recently, many of the autochthonous table grape cultivars were tested for the presence of GRSPaV in two major Turkish grape-growing areas, i.e. the Eastern Mediterranean and the Southeast Anatolia regions. Comparative analysis of local GRSPaV isolates from these native cultivars was performed with viral genome sequences from NCBI database. To our knowledge, this is the first report for the presence of GRSPaV in Turkish vineyards.
24722478|Grapevine-infecting viroids do not induce symptoms, except for Grapevine yellow speckle viroid-1 (GYSVd-1) and Grapevine yellow speckle viroid-2 (GYSVd-2), the agents of yellow speckle (YS), a disease characterized by yellow spots or flecks scattered on the leaf blade. The association of these viroids with Grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV) is thought to elicit vein banding (VB), a syndrome characterized by chrome yellow flecks localized along the main veins and progressing into the interveinal areas of affected vines. The occurrence of these diseases and their causal agents was investigated in north-west Iran with a survey in which 137 vines were tested by multiplex RT-PCR for the presence of the five known grapevines viroids. GYSVd-1, GYSVd-2, Australian grapevine viroid (AGVd) and Hop stunt viroid (HSVd) were detected in 91%, 64%, 95%, and 100% of the tested samples, respectively, whereas Citrus exocortis viroid (CEVd) was not found. Combinations of three and four different viroids were present in most plants (88%) whereas GFLV was found in 50 samples (37%). The Iranian isolates of GYSVd-1, GYSVd-2, HSVd and AGVd showed minor molecular changes compared with the respective reference strains from grapevine. VB occurred in 22 vines infected by GYSVd-1, GYSVd-2 and GFLV, whereas YS symptoms, which occurred in 10% of the tested plants, were always shown by vines infected by GYSVd-1 and/or GYSVd-2. These findings are in line with the notion that assigns to GYSVd-1 and GYSVd-2 a role in the induction of YS and to both viroids and GFLV the genesis of VB.
41998685|Fifteen species of weedy plants were collected from potato fields between July and September 2006 in Erzurum (Turkey). In total, 21 isolates of Verticillium dahliae were obtained from Cirsium arvense, Convolvulus arvensis, Chenopodium album, Polygonum lapathifolium and Sinapis arvensis. Of these, 15 were isolated from C. arvense, and one or two isolates from the other weed species. This is the first report of V. dahliae isolated from these weed species in Turkey. All isolates from weeds were assigned to vegetative compatibility groups (VCGs) using nitrate-nonutilizing (nit) mutants. Two VCGs were found and identified as VCG 2B (11 isolates) and VCG 4A (10 isolates) by using tester isolates of known VCGs. Pathogenicity of V. dahliae isolates was tested on potato by the root-dip method. Both VCG 2B and VCG 4A isolates from weeds were pathogenic to potato.
41998541|Samples of Emilia sonchifolia leaves showing conspicuous yellow veins were collected in the Chinese province of Fujian. A specific 500 bp product was consistently amplified from total DNA extracts from symptomatic leaves with universal primers designed to amplify portions of the intergenic region and AV2 gene of begomoviral DNA-A component. Comparison of partial DNA sequences revealed that these samples were infected by the same virus, thus an isolate denoted Fzl was selected for further sequence analysis. The complete sequence of Fzl comprised 2725 nucleotides with typical genomic organization of begomoviral DNA-A. Fzl was most closely related to Vernonia yellow vein virus (VeYVV-[IN:Mad:05], AM182232), with 76.7% nucleotide sequence identity. In line with the demarcation criteria for identifying begomovirus species, Fzl is considered as a distinct begomovirus, for which the name Emilia yellow vein virus (EmYVV) is proposed. This appears to be the first report of a begomovirus infecting Emilia sonchifolia.
24579131|Leaves were collected from a total of 62 trees displaying virus-like disease symptoms such as rugose mosaic in leaf, irregular shaped leaf blades or small leaf blades in a survey of sweet cherry (Prunus avium L. cv Red Lamp) in Shandong Province, the largest cherry production area in China. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis indicated that Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV), Prune dwarf virus (PDV), Little cherry virus-2 (LChV-2), Cherry virus A (CVA) and Cherry green ring mottle virus (CGRMV) were present and that most of the samples (70%) were infected by at least two viruses. A case study in this survey of two selected trees revealed that a mixed infection with these five viruses simultaneously caused two types of field symptoms: late-maturity in fruits or fruit blast. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed that the relative proportion of the virus titers was distinct in the two sampled trees. The PNRSV titer was significantly higher than the four other viruses in the trees that exhibited fruit blast. Phylogenetic analysis of the PNRSV coat protein (CP) gene showed that the isolates HSY-4-1 and X-3, obtained from the two sampled trees separately, were classified into different subgroups of Group I isolates, which is characterized by a six-nucleotide insertion. A non-synonymous substitution was identified in the six-nucleotide insertion in the PNRSV CP gene in one of the two isolates. This is the first detailed study of the incidence of multiple sweet cherry viruses in China.
41998699|We report the successful Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated transformation of the important plant pathogen Verticillium albo-atrum. V. albo-atrum was demonstrated to be hygromycin B sensitive and consequently transformations were based on integration of either the hygromycin B resistance gene (hph) or hph in addition to the fluorescence gene DsRed. The effect of various parameters on transformation efficiency, including spore concentration, acetosyringone concentration, selection media and co-cultivation time were investigated. Transformants were analysed by PCR and Southern analysis, and were found to contain randomly integrated T-DNA that typically inserted as one or two copies. The dual marker system afforded by pCAMDsRed provides an additional and fast method of transformant verification. Development of a successful transformation system for V. albo-atrum should facilitate further molecular studies of this important plant pathogen.
41998827|Leaf stripe caused by Pyrenophora graminea has been the major yield-reducing factor for barley production during the last decade. In this study, the relationship between incidence (I; proportion of diseased plants) and severity (S; proportion of infected leaf area per plant) for leaf stripe of barley was investigated. Disease assessments were made visually at multiple sample sites in artificially and naturally inoculated research and production fields during four growing seasons. Significant differences (P = 0.05) in mean I and S values were found among cultivars, with values being consistently higher in the susceptible ones. However, leaf stripe severity increased linearly as incidence increased. The slopes and intercepts of the I-S relationship were consistent over the four growing seasons. The information obtained from this study is valuable for leaf stripe assessment which can substantially reduce the work load in disease quantification in field surveys and enable to select the resistant cultivars early in breeding programme.
41998062|Among 26 isolates of Phytophthora capsici from pepper and zucchini plants collected mainly in Piedmont (northern Italy) 19 belonged to Al, 3 to A2 mating type and 4 were homothallic. All the isolates grew between 10 and 38C showing significant differences in mycelial growth and optimal growth temperature in the range of 25-32C. 65.4% of the isolates were sensitive to metalaxyl and the others moderately sensitive; nevertheless 50% of them had MIC values  500 pg ml. All the isolates were highly sensitive to dimethomorph, showing mean EC, EC and MIC values of 0.48, 0.90, and 1.02 pg ml  1 . A differential set of 9 plant species (pepper, tomato, eggplant, Solatium nigrum, melon, squash, pea, French bean and Lima bean) allowed the isolates to be grouped in 13 pathogenicity classes depending on their ability to infect different plant species; all were pathogenic on pepper, 79% on tomato, 58% on S. nigrum, 38% on eggplant; 95% were pathogenic on squash and 20% on melon; 33% caused a root rot on pea and 8% on French bean, but none on Lima bean. Moreover, the isolates belonging to the same pathogenicity group differed in virulence on two differential sets of pepper.
41998813|A collection of 432 single-lesion isolates of Phytophthora infestans collected from blighted potato foliage during 2004-2007 in Estonia, were analyzed for virulence (all isolates), mating type (424 isolates) and response to metalaxyl (412 isolates). The samples came from 25 fields comprising conventional production in central, northern, southern, south-eastern and south-western regions and from untreated experimental field trials at Jgeva Plant Breeding Institute in eastern Estonia. Of the isolates 33% were A2 mating type. Both mating types were present in all fields; the frequency of A2 mating type varied from 3% to 71%. In the context of specific virulence, the Estonian population had a very low frequency of virulence against R5 (17%) and R9 (3%). The most common pathotype was 1.3.4.7.10.11. A subgroup of 57 isolates was assessed for mtDNA haplotype and RG57 fingerprints. Three mitochondrial DNA haplotypes, i.e. Ia (51%), IIa (42%) and IIb (7%), were found. Twenty-one RG57 fingerprints were detected. The four most common fingerprints represented more than half of the isolates (67%). On the basis of combined markers, thirty-three multilocus genotypes were identified, of which 81% were detected only once. Genotypic diversity measured by the normalized Shannon diversity index was 0.79. The data indicate that the Estonian population of P. infestans is diverse, having a large number of multilocus genotypes and both mating types within fields, with potential for sexual recombination and spread of fungicide resistance.
41998571|Fusarium head blight (FHB) is an important disease principally attacking wheat, barley and other grains worldwide. Among the Fusarium species causing this disease, the most common is Fusarium graminearum. F. avenaceum, F. culmorum and F. poae are also responsible for FHB, but are less often implicated. F. poae is a fungus of increasingly recognized importance, which has been associated with human and animal toxicoses as its strains produce aurofusarin, beauvericin, butenolide, culmorin, cyclonerodiol, enniatins, fusarin, moniliformin, and trichothecenes of types A and B. The extensive range of mycotoxin production of this fungus requires particular attention because of the toxicological problems it may elicit. Moreover, as the profiles of grain contaminants caused by FHB seem to be related to different environmental conditions, multiple evaluations using data collected from a large range of sites with different climatic conditions, would be extremely useful. The aim of the present review is to highlight the importance of F. poae in the FHB complex.
41998684|Iron-regulated metabolites, such as siderophores are important determinants of fluorescent pseudomonads in induction of systemic resistance (ISR) of plants. In this work, King's medium B supplemented with 120 ppm 8-hydroxyquinoline (8-HQ) chelator was used for screening of pseudomonads from the rhizosphere of cotton with a high capacity to produce siderophores. Use of this medium resulted in isolates with a high ISR capability equal or greater than the reference strain P. aeruginosa 7NSK2. All strains except 13Q and EQ significantly decreased the percentage of infected area on leaves. Siderophore production by both the strains 35Q and 16Q, that were the fastest growing strains on KB media supplemented with 8HQ, was significantly higher than that of the reference strain 7NSK2. In hydroponic cultivation assays, ISR ability of 35Q depended on one or a complex of several iron regulated metabolite/s, as its ISR was significantly reduced in pots with iron excess. Nonetheless, ISR by 35Q was not completely abolished under iron excess suggesting a possible role for other determinants.
41997992|Four sugar beet cultivars exhibiting increasing levels of rate-reducing resistance towards Cercospora beticola ('Cyrano', 'Bushel', 'Monodoro', and 'Break') were used to study two resistance components: length of conidiation period (CP, the time required to produce conidia on the spots incubated under optimal conditions for sporulation) and spore yield (SY, the number of conidia yielded per cm of necrotic area per time unit); morphology and germination of conidia produced on the different cultivars were also considered. Experiments were carried out over a three-year period, considering sporulation on naturally infected leaves, either under field conditions or under optimal laboratory conditions, and on artificially inoculated leaves. Level of host resistance did not influence CP significantly: all spots produced conidiophores bearing conidia extensively 3 days after they had been stimulated to sporulate. On the contrary, resistance affected SY: the more resistant 'Monodoro' and 'Break' yielded fewer conidia per unit of necrotic area than the susceptible 'Cyrano' and the less resistant 'Bushel'; the former cultivars produced about 35% of the conidia yielded by the latter ones. Differences in the cultivar rating were consistent over the experiments. Spores produced on the susceptible 'Cyrano' were longer, wider, and had more septa than the conidia yielded on the resistant cultivars, irrespective of their resistance level; they germinated more quickly than conidia yielded on other cultivars, and germ tubes grew more rapidly.
24722542|Certain pathogens evolve with their hosts in a stepwise arms race of virulence and resistance, mediated by one or a few genetic loci in their genomes. Other pathogens may retain the ability to colonize hosts through multiple small genetic changes, which do not necessarily occur solely at loci under selective pressure. The bacterial plant pathogen Xylella fastidiosa lacks classic indicators of pathogenicity such as a type III secretion system, which makes the identification of its virulence mechanism challenging. We tested the hypothesis that quantitative differences in virulence between pairs of X. fastidiosa isolates were correlated with their respective genetic distances. Isolates from two different X. fastidiosa subspecies were genetically typed using 20 loci, generating information on the genetic distance among pairs of isolates. Virulence data were obtained by determining the impact of these genotypes on the phenotype of alfalfa plant hosts. Results show significant or marginally significant correlations with respect to differences in infection level and alfalfa stunting, suggesting that genetic distance partially explains plant phenotypic differences in virulence among X. fastidiosa isolates. Furthermore, the data demonstrate substantial amount of phenotypic variation among X. fastidiosa isolates within subspecies fastidiosa and multiplex.
41998306|Pyrenophora graminea, the causal agent of leaf stripe of barley, is an economically important disease with a worldwide distribution. This fungus is highly variable thus information regarding polypeptide patterns is essential in studying population genetic structure. To establish the number and distribution of polypeptide patterns of Syrian populations of P. graminea, 61 isolates from diverse regions were analyzed using 10% sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Twelve unique patterns were identified. The most common pattern was p11, which comprised 44% of the isolates examined. In general, northern Syrian isolates exhibited a broader spectrum of polypeptide patterns than those from other regions of the country. Identical numbers of polymorphic bands were observed in all assays (for each isolate/polypeptide pattern). Our results confirm the potential of polypeptide patterns for the molecular characterization of P. graminea, and their usefulness in future selection of isolates to develop durable leaf stripe resistance.
41998367|Phytoplasma strains were detected in an aggressive and widespread, invasive plant species, Heracleum sosnowskyi (hogweed), and in Dictamnus albus (gas-plant) exhibiting yellows disease symptoms in northern Lithuania. Analysis of PCR-amplified 16S rDNAs revealed that the strains, designated heracleum yellows (HerY) and dictamnus stunt (DicSt), respectively, belong to subgroup 16SrIII-F (milkweed yellows phytoplasma subgroup). The results established that phytoplasma is a natural enemy of hogweed and D. albus in the Baltic region. While subgroup 16SrIII-F strains occur in four plant species (Vaccinium corymbosum, V. myrtillus, H. sosnowskyi and D. albus) in Europe, Asclepias syriaca (milkweed) in North America is the only known host elsewhere.
41998235|A protocol was set up to detect latent infections of Ralstonia solanacearum biovar 2, race 3 in field tomatoes. For two growing seasons, healthy tomato plants were inoculated with a virulent strain, and monitored for between 7 and 55 days. Final extracts used for direct isolation on Kelman's medium and for indirect immunofluorescence staining were prepared from 1 cm segments collected from the base of the lowest side shoots. Reisolations were identified by colony morphology, PCR, IFAS, and pathogenicity tests on tomato plantlets. Reisolation was successful from 18 days onwards, with a frequency that constantly increased in the following weeks. Samples prepared by mixing one latently infected segment with increasing numbers of healthy segments revealed a sensitivity threshold of 1: 999. This non-destructive protocol was shown to be appropriate for monitoring in the open field.
23721744|Antagonistic activities of 120 epiphytic bacterial isolates against Erwinia amylovora were evaluated under laboratory and orchard conditions. Samples were collected at three stages of plant growth during 2009. The hosts were chosen from diseased and healthy pome fruit and stone fruit trees in Alborz, Isfahan and Neishabur regions of Iran. Two in vitro tests including antibiosis and immature fruit assay were performed to identify effective bacterial antagonists. Out of 21 strains, four representative strains encoded Kgh1, Abp2, E11 and E10 showed maximum growth inhibition, growth rate and stability in inhibition. Identification of four bacterial antagonists was confirmed by sequencing their 16S rDNA and performing common biochemical tests. These strains were identified as Pseudomonas fluorescens (E10), Pantoea agglomerans (Abp2), Pseudomonas putida (E11) and Serratia marcescens (Kgh1). Some complementary tests were then conducted to check their antagonistic activity against Erwinia amylovora on pear blossom. In all evaluation procedures, biocontrol effects of Pantoea agglomerans Abp2 and Pseudomonas fluorescens E10 were more promising than those afforded by Pseudomonas putida E11 and Serratia marcescens Kgh1. A one-year field experiment was also carried out on a partially susceptible domestic pear cultivar in an infested orchard in the Karaj region of Iran. The selected bacteria were applied twice at 20% and 80% of blooming. The results showed 46.9% disease occurrence in control plants, while the antagonistic bacteria reduced the disease between 23 and 60%. In the orchard trial the most effective antagonist was P. agglomerans Abp2, while the least effective was S. marcescens Kgh1.
24579136|Analysis of the effects of jasmonic acid (JA) (at 1.5 mM and 2.5 mM) and acibenzolar-S-methyl (BTH) (at 0.5 mM and 1.5 mM), applied separately or together, on the development of fire blight in cv. Gala apple trees showed that almost all variants of elicitor treatment reduced fire blight symptoms compared to control. Disease severity in control plants was much higher in the nitrogen-fertilized than in the nitrogen-deficient plants, and the efficacy of the elicitors in disease control was also higher in the N-fertilized plants. The expression of selected PR apple genes (PR-1a, PR-2, PR-3) was induced more significantly by BTH than by JA. This study has disclosed the existence of mutual relations between JA and BTH in the induction of PR gene expression. These relations depended on nitrogen fertilization but, generally, JA was antagonistic to BTH more often than BTH to JA. However, this was not reflected in the severity of disease symptoms. Analysis of the costs of induced defence showed no effect of the application of the elicitors on shoot growth, fruit yield, or seed weight in apple trees in either fertilization variant.
41998973|A carrot disease resembling carrot yellows has recently appeared in Israel. Electron microscopy and PCR analyses confirmed that the causative agent is a phytoplasma. This is the first report of carrot yellows in Israel. It was detected in five varieties from different regions of the country. Most of the infected plants carried the AY-type phytoplasma, but a few were found to carry a unique type of phytoplasma, hitherto not reported in carrots, which resembles X-disease agent. Both types of phytoplasma could be transmitted to periwinkle.  apparsa recentemente in Israele una malattia della carota simile al giallume da fitoplasmi, la presenza dei quali  stata accertata nelle piante infette con osservazioni al microscopio elettronico. La malattia, che  nuova per Israele,  stata identificata in cinque diverse regioni del paese. La maggior parte dlie piante erano infette da fitoplasmi del gruppo AY (aster yellows) ma alcune contenevano un fitoplasma di tipo diverso, talora in infezione mista con AY, simile all'agente della malattia X (western X disease), non segnalato precedentemente nella carota. Entrambi i fitoplasmi sono stati identificati mediante amplificazione genica (PCR), usando primers gruppo-specifici, seguita da analisi RFLP dei prodotti PCR, e sono stati trasmessi con successo alla pervinca (Catharantus roseus).
41998382|Cultures, designated Ag1, Ag2 and Ag3, of a fungus resembling Ascochyta rabiei, Didymella rabiei (teleomorph), were isolated from blighted chickpea plants growing in three regions of Algeria. The isolates were shown to be the cause of the disease by fulfilling Koch's postulates and were identified as A. rabiei by sequencing ribosomal DNA. When grown on a defined liquid medium, consisting of Czapek Dox nutrients and five cations, the filtrates inhibited germination of chickpea seed, and elongation of hypocotyls and radicles of seedlings. All three isolates produced the phytotoxin solanapyrone A in culture and maximal concentrations in the culture filtrates, recorded after incubation for 14 days were 15.1  1.29 g/ml, 8.4  1.19 g/ml and 7.4  0.85 mg/ml for Ag 1 Ag2 and Ag3, respectively. ED 50 values were 7.15  1.77, 5.87  1.40 and 3.60  1.47 g solanapyrone A/ml for inhibition of germination, hypocotyl elongation and radicle elongation, respectively. Concentrations of solanapyrone A in dilutions of culture filtrates that caused 50% inhibition of these three parameters were sufficient to explain their inhibitory effects in all cases except the inhibition of germination and hypocotyl elongation by filtrates of Ag2 and Ag3. Here they were only 65% and 58% of the amount required to cause the inhibition of germination, respectively and 60% and 63% of the amount required to inhibit hypocotyl elongation, respectively, suggesting that other factors may be involved.
41998849|The cocoa tree (Theobroma cacao L.) is a cash crop cultivated in humid tropical regions. The commercialization of cocoa seeds constitutes a major source of income to farmers in the producing countries. Nevertheless, a major limiting factor to the culturing of this plant in Cameroon is black pod disease caused by Phytophthora megakarya. The vulnerability of T. cacao to P. megakarya was assessed in two hybrid populations (F79: T79/467xTSNK13; F13: SNK13xTT79/467) through the daily measurement of the necrotic lesion on the pods after artificial inoculation. The parental and progeny productivity was also assessed through measurements of the weight of 100 cocoa seeds. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) of the necrotic lesion on the pods taking into consideration the development of necrosis during time showed that 95.73% and 94.48% of the total variability expressed by axes 1 and 2 enables the classification of the different genotypes into 4 and 5 groups for F79 and F13 families, respectively. In addition, ANO VA results indicated that necrotic surfaces showed a significant effect of day after inoculation and genotype to all the progeny (P<0.001). Heritability of the two reciprocal crossings is high (0.81 for F79 and 0.91 for F13) and does not show a significant difference, suggesting the absence of maternal effects in the developmental character of necrosis. The hybrids F7902, F7909, F7917, F7921, F7925, F7928, F1304, F1307, F1309, F1314, F1318, F1323 and F1325 showed a higher productivity and less development of necrosis than those of the best parents. They can thus be considered as the best genotypes. These results suggest that a large scale distribution of these genotypes to farmers will permit a short term improvement of cocoa yield in Cameroon.
41997886|An immunoenzymatic staining procedure was used to assess the level of Pythium spp. colonization on the root surface of tomato plants growing in commercial hydroponic cultures. Sampling was performed with roots free of distinct necrosis or other symptoms. It was shown that 40% of the root segments on average were colonized by Pythium spp. Hyphae formed loose or dense mycelium networks on the root epidermis. The frequent occurrence of the minor pathogen, Pythium F, in soilless cultures was pointed out because it represented 82% of all the Pythium spp. isolates. It was observed by ultrastructural and cytochemical studies that, under such cultural conditions, Pythium F penetrated the cortical root areas, and induced striking alterations within the walls and the cytoplasmic contents of the invaded host cells. These host cell damages led to tomato yield losses although the roots looked macroscopically healthy. The ubiquitous occurrence of Pythium F and its pathogenic abilities can be of relevance, since such a minor pathogen can have a key impact in soilless cultures.  stata impiegata una procedura di colorazione immunoenzimatica per determinare il livello di colonizzazione, da parte di Pythium spp., della superficie radicale di piante di pomodoro allevate in coltura idroponica. I campionamenti sono stati effettuati considerando radici esenti da necrosi o da altri tipi di sintomi. Il 40% delle porzioni di radice saggiate era colonizzata da Pythium spp.; le ife formavano ramificazioni pi o meno compatte sull'epidermide radicale. Il frequente rinvenimento di un patogeno minore, Pythium F, nelle colture fuori suolo  stato messo in evidenza poich il patogeno rappresentava 1'82% degli isolati di Pythium spp. Studi ultrastrutturali e citochimici hanno evidenziato che, in tali condizioni colturali, Pythium F penetra nelle aree corticali delle radici inducendo alterazioni della parete e del contenuto citoplasmatico delle cellule dell'ospite. Tali alterazioni delle cellule causano perdite di prodotto nelle colture di pomodoro sebbene le radici appaiano macroscopicamente sane. L'ubiquitariet di Pythium F e la sua capacit patogenetica possono risultare di grande importanza poich, come patogeno minore, pu svolgere un ruolo chiave nelle colture fuori suolo soprattutto nei periodi colturali in cui le piante sono sottoposte a stress.
24722541|The complete genome sequence of a garlic isolate of Leek yellow stripe virus (LYSV) from Brazil (LYSV-MG) was determined and its phylogenetic relationships with other LYSV isolates from other parts of the world were inferred. The LYSV-MG genome consists of 10,341 nucleotides and encodes a polyprotein of 3,221 amino acids. Brazilian LYSV isolates are more closely related to S-type than to N-type isolates but do not have a deletion in the P1 gene. Partial nucleotide sequence analysis of the P1 gene revealed 97-99% identity among Brazilian isolates, and 51-64% identity between Brazilian isolates and isolates from other countries for which sequence information is available in GenBank. The Brazilian isolates formed a monophyletic group closest to the S-type isolates and one isolate from Okinawa (O-type). These data suggest that Brazilian LYSV isolates are derived from an ancestral source of the Okinawa and S-type isolates, prior to the occurrence of the P1 deletion and divergence of the S-type isolates.
41998359|Different storage methods were tested to examine their usefulness in viably maintaining field isolates of Cochliobolus sativus. Fungal isolates were stored at (i) 4C in sand, (ii) in silica gel at 4 C (iii) on potato dextrose agar (PDA) medium at 4C, or (iv) frozen as conidia at -20C. The cultures were assessed after 12 and 24 months of storage. Cultures of all isolates were viable after two years of storage in sand and silica gel at 4C or dry at -20C, whereas, isolates stored on PDA were not viable and heavy contamination with bacteria was frequently observed. After two years storage, isolates were able to infect barley leaves but sporulation was reduced dramatically, depending on the isolate and the storage method employed. AFLP analysis revealed several genetic changes between stored and non-stored isolates. A total of 444 scorable DNA bands were obtained; 324 of these (71%) were polymorphic. However, the proportion of DNA alterations varied according to the storage method.
41998795|The susceptibility of grain sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) to colonization by Gibberella zeae was assessed by isolation studies involving plants grown in the glasshouse. Studies on infection of sorghum seedlings by G. zeae indicated that this pathogen can infect the host at early growth stages and gradually colonize adjacent tissues as an endophyte. The results also showed that roots as well as stem tissues are susceptible to infection. Indeed, the result suggested that the fungus could infect and colonize the proximal parts of roots more aggressively than the leaf sheaths and stem tissues.
41998956|A strain of Dasheen mosaic virus (DsMV) from Amorphophallus paeoniifolius (Elephant foot yam) plants showing leaf mosaic, puckering and shoestringing was characterized by RT-PCR and amplification of a 1.2 kbp fragment encoding the coat protein (CP) gene and the y untranslated region (UTR). BLAST analysis of the cloned DNA amplicon of DsMV-Amp1 revealed at least 80% nucleotide sequence identity with other DsMV isolates from different hosts and geographic origins. The CP gene and the 3'UTR of DsMV-Amp1 consisted of 942 and 260 nucleotides, respectively. The highest nucleotide sequence identity (89%) was with DsMV-ch from Caladium from the USA, and the deduced CP amino acid sequence had 92-98% identity with other DsMV isolates. Nucleotide sequence identity of 82-85% was also found with Vanilla mosaic virus (VMoV), whereas the identity with Bean common mosaic virus (BCMV), Hardenbergia mosaic virus (HaMV) and Watermelon mosaic virus (WMV) ranged from 74 to 79%. Several potential threonine-and asparagine-rich N-glycosylation motifs and a DVG motif potentially involved in aphid transmission were found in the CP of DsMVAmp1. This is the first characterization of DsMV from A. paeoniifolius plants in India.
41998686|Phytoplasmoses are severe diseases of grapevine and other crops, for which no effective means of control are available. However, plants infected by phytoplasma can undergo spontaneous symptom remission (recovery), a long-known phenomenon. A strategy to reduce the number of symptomatic plants could thus arise from the stimulation of plant defence systems to induce recovery. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effectiveness of field treatments with resistance inducers to promote recovery in Bois noir (BN) infected grapevines. Five commercial products (Chito Plant, Mette, Kendal, Bion, and Olivis) described as plant defence promoters were sprayed on the canopy of BN-infected grapevines of cv. Chardonnay. Treatments consisted of weekly sprays in spring-summer 2007 (seven applications) and 2008 (thirteen applications). All treatments increased the number of recovered plants with respect to the control. The best results were obtained with Kendal, Olivis and Bion, while Aliette and Chito Plant performed better in the first than in the second year. Molecular analysis of leaf vein extracts from recovered plants failed to detect the phytoplasma. An induction of host defence is likely to be responsible for the effectiveness of these resistance promoters in the control of BN.
41998865|The rice variety Jiajing3768 is susceptible to neck blast at the booting stage (BS) but resistant at the full heading stage (FHS). This variety was used to analyze the inducible expression of defence genes and activities of antioxidant enzymes in the necks, at both the BS and FHS, after inoculation with Magnaporthe oryzae. We found that defence genes PRlb (pathogenesis-related class Ib), PBZ1 (probenazole-inducible gene), PAL (phenylalanine ammonia-lyase), and CHS (chalcone synthase) may play roles in the resistance difference to neck blast between the BS and FHS in Jiajing3768. No significant differences were observed between the BS and FHS in the inducible expression of PRla, PR4, and JIOsPR10 (jasmonic acid induced PR 10). The antioxidant enzymes Superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, catalase, glutathione reductase, and malondialdehyde coordinately participated in the stage-dependent resistance difference in Jiajing3768, and that oxidative damage is lower in the necks at the FHS than at the BS.
41999000|Sixteen isolates of Plum pox virus (PPV) were collected during a survey in the Egyptian areas of Sinro and Apoxa (El Fayoum) and El Amar (Nile Delta). All isolates reacted with the universal PPV monoclonal antibody MAb 5B and were identified as PPV strain EA by phylogenetic analysis of the full-length sequence of the coat protein (CP) gene. This classification was confirmed by detection with the strain-specific MAb EA24, except for an isolate denoted APR 50. Detailed analysis of the CP amino acid sequence of the EA isolates and epitope mapping revealed that histidine at amino acid position 65 of the CP sequence is an essential component of the epitope required for MAb EA24 recognition. APR 50 has an arginine substitution at this position. Five EA serogroups were identified, serogroup I being the prevailing one with 10 of the 14 isolates characterized. Moderate serological and relatively high genetic diversity was observed among isolates of PPV-EA. The most variable isolate, APR 48, contained a deletion of 33 nucleotides at the 5' terminus of the CP gene. The relatively high genetic diversity of PPV-EA suggests that it is not a recent introduction.
41998939|On-farm surveys were conducted in the Uttar Pradesh (India) during the two rainy seasons 2007 and 2008 to monitor pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum) downy mildew incidence. Twenty-one isolates of Sclerospora graminicola, the pearl millet downy mildew pathogen, were collected from different hybrid cultivars. These isolates were established on seedlings of the highly susceptible line 7042S grown in the greenhouse and were characterized for their virulence diversity using a set of seven host differential lines. Quantitative differences in virulence among pathogen isolates were determined by calculating virulence index (percent disease incidence  latent period). Results were submitted to cluster analysis using the Average Linkage method to determine similarity among pathogen isolates. The two highly virulent isolates, Sg 492 from Aligarh and Sg 510 from Badaun, representing geographically diverse locations were selected for use in greenhouse screening of pearl millet breeding lines.
41998701|Phenotypic and genetic characteristics were investigated of 24 isolates of Pectobacterium carotovorum, recovered in summer 2001 from artichokes in the Sele valley (Campania, southern Italy). Based on biochemical tests, all isolates were identified as P. carotovorum subsp. carotovorum, except for four atypical ones. PCR-amplification of a 434 bp fragment of the pectate-lyase-encoding pel gene, gave the expected band from all isolates, whereas no amplicons were obtained using P. atrosepticum-sptciiic primers. PCR-RFLP on pel gene, placed the four atypical isolates in the RFLP groups 8, 9 and 11 (ISPaVe 110A, ISPAVe 105A and ISPAVe 91B) of the subspecies carotovorum and in the RFLP group 3 of the subspecies odoriferum (ISPaVe CA). DNA-polymorphism investigated by rep-PCR and M13-PCR showed the isolates to be distributed in two main groups, totalling 14 haplotypes. Eight different haplotypes were obtained from samples collected in the same field and three different haplotypes were found in the same plant. The rep-PCR fingerprinting of ISPaVe CA was the same as P. carotovorum subsp. odoriferum NCPPB 3839. The majority of the isolates did not show a significative differential virulence response, with the exception of ISPaVe 114B, the most-virulent, and ISPaVe 105B, the least-virulent.
41998337|Different aged shoots of X-disease cherry trees (Prunus avium cv Bing) collected in spring (June) or summer (August) were assayed using fruit spurs or bud chips from current, 1-, 2- and 3-year old shoots. Ten to 20 single t-grafts were made onto indicator trees of Bing scions on mahaleb (P. mahaleb) rootstocks. Spring collections, irrespective of shoot age, produced transmission rates of 10%. In contrast, over half of the indicators were infected with summer collections, which when t-bud propagated onto mazzard (P. avium) seedlings resulted in 90% diseased progeny trees. Results showed that biologic assays for cherry X-phytoplasma were optimized using summer collections. Besides cherry sources, index-transmissions and propagations of scion buds from X- and peach yellow leaf roll-(PYLR) peach trees produced high rates of transmission (both diseases) and high numbers of diseased progeny (PYLR).
41998577|Fusarium virguliforme (Akoi, O'Donnell, Homma & Lattanzi), formerly named F. solani (Mart.) Sacc. f.sp. glycines, is the cause of soybean sudden death syndrome (SDS). Over the last 6 years, an international collection of F. virguliforme isolates has been established and maintained at the National Soybean Pathogen Collection Center, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Using part of the collection, aggressiveness of F. virguliforme isolates to a susceptible soybean cultivar, Great Lakes 3202, was evaluated under controlled conditions in the greenhouse. After an initial evaluation of 123 isolates on soybean, 30 isolates from different geographic origins with different levels of foliar severity were selected to further evaluate both foliar and root severities. Variability of aggressiveness based on measurements of SDS foliar severity, shoot, root, and root lesion lengths, shoot and root dry weights, and total dry weights was found among isolates (P<0.01). Isolate FSG1 (Mont-1), a reference isolate that has been widely used by the soybean community for basic and applied research, caused the greatest reduction in shoot weight and shoot length compared to the non-inoculated control plants, but six isolates caused higher foliar severity and 15 isolates caused longer root lesion length than the isolate FSG1. Isolate FSG5 caused the greatest reduction in root weight among isolates. Knowledge about the variability of the pathogen is important for selection of isolates for testing for broadbased SDS resistant soybean lines.
41998627|The competitive saprophytic ability (CSA), expressed as competition for wheat straw, between Rhizoctonia solani and two antagonistic strains of Trichoderma (T. virens I10 and T. asperellum 1252) was evaluated. Both antagonists competed with R. solani for wheat straw possession for up to 10 days. Later, straw baits were occupied by R. solani, but the rates depended on the antagonist present. Cellulolytic activities were evaluated as a possible mechanism for maintenance of the resource, since the major components of wheat straw are cellulose and hemicelluloses. Mycelial protein content was used to estimate fungal growth, with sucrose or straw as the only carbon source. R. solani grew equally well with sucrose or straw, whereas the antagonists did better on straw. Levels of extracellular proteins produced by the three isolates changed with the carbon source, being highest in straw for all fungi tested. Among the enzymatic activities tested, only cellulase activity of T. virens I10 decreased with time and this correlated with reduction in competitive ability. We conclude that efficient exploitation of cellulose plays a role in competition for straw.
41998696|Fusarium graminearum is one of the main causal agents of fusarium head blight (FHB) in Italy. A population of 74 F. graminearum strains was collected from symptomatic durum wheat spikes from different fields around Bologna (Emilia-Romagna, northern Italy) between 2006 and 2008. The data obtained showed that the F. graminearum population is variable in an homogeneous restricted geographical area. F. graminearum sensu stricto strains were examined using specific primers for chemotypes based on the production of the trichothecenes deoxynivalenol (DON) and nivalenol (NIV). The strains were analyzed by multiplex PCR in the Tri12 sequence of the trichothecene gene cluster and assigned to one of three profiles of trichothecene chemotypes. All three fungal chemotypes were found. The 15-acetyldeoxynivalenol (15ADON) chemotype was the most frequent (87.2%), followed by the 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol (3ADON) (8.1%) and NIV (2.7%) chemotypes. The variability of the strains in such a restricted area leads us to hypothesize that there is similar variability of F. graminearum throughout Italy.
24722465|Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. insidiosus (Cmi) is a seed-borne pathogen that causes bacterial wilt of lucerne (alfalfa, Medicago sativa). The pathogen has a limited distribution worldwide and is included in the A2 pest list of the European and Mediterranean Plant Protection Organisation (OEPP/EPPO). In South Africa, Cmi was first reported in 1967 in a few regions (Western Cape province and in the Eastern Cape), with the last doubtful listing in 1983 also reporting it from the Transvaal region (currently known as Gauteng, Limpopo, North West and Mpumalanga provinces). Subsequently, lucerne plants exhibiting bacterial wilt symptoms have not been observed in any region of South Africa. Nevertheless, for South Africa, Cmi is listed as "present, restricted occurrence" by the OEPP/EPPO. Therefore, the status of Cmi in South Africa was re-investigated through field inspections and seed testing. Field inspections of lucerne seed crops conducted in all production regions from 2006 to 2014 did not reveal any symptomatic plant. Seed testing of 67 representative commercial seed lots showed that Cmi was absent from all of the seed lots. Prior to testing the commercial seed lots, artificially inoculated seed lots were used to show that the serial dilution plate method was sensitive (0.1% detection limit). It was also shown that a published Cmi semi-selective glucose-yeast-carbonate agar medium containing kanamycin and cycloheximide was able to more readily reveal the presence of presumptive Cmi colonies than the media of the EPPO diagnostic protocol, and the International Seed Health Initiative ring test.
41998050|Detection of Citrus psorosis virus (CPsV) by direct tissue blot immunoassay (DTBIA) was attempted using different tissues from CPsV-infected sources. Freshly cut surfaces of different plant organs were gently pressed on nitrocellulose membranes, exposed to a CPsV monoclonal antibody (MAb Ps29) conjugated with alkaline phosphatase, and stained with BCIP-NBT Sigma fast. For comparison, some expiants were tested also by DAS-ELISA using the same MAb and a polyclonal antiserum for plate coating. Purple staining (positive reaction) was readily observed when flower explants were used, especially the ovary. DTBIA from ovaries cort-elated with DAS-ELISA, proving reliable and sensitive for the rapid detection of CPsV infections.
41998949|A survey of virus diseases and bacterial wilt was carried out in four major potato growing administrative zones in the west Amhara sub-region of Ethiopia in 2008. Leaf samples with symptoms suggestive of virus infection were collected from 38 randomly selected fields in 16 locations, whilst for bacterial wilt detection tuber and stem samples were collected from 23 and 12 fields in 15 and 12 locations, respectively. Disease incidences were visually assessed in the field and the identities of the pathogens were confirmed by laboratory testing using double antibody sandwich (DAS)-ELISA for viruses, and nitrocellulose membrane (NCM)-ELISA kits for Ralstonia solanacearum. In addition, an enrichment procedure was used to determine latent infection by R. solanacearum. Virus disease incidence varied from zero to 100% in different potato growing systems, whilst bacterial wilt incidence as high as 25% was recorded in farms in the west Gojam and north Gonder zones when assessed based on visual field symptoms. Results of laboratory testing for viruses confirmed the occurrence of at least five viruses, with Potato virus S (PVS) being the most widely distributed. Other viruses identified included Potato virus X (PVX), Potato virus M (PVM), Potato leaf roll virus (PLRV) and Potato virus Y (PVY), in order of importance. Mixed infections with two or more viruses were also detected. Potato virus A (PVA) was not detected in any of the samples tested. Latent infection by R. solanacearum was found in various potato fields, including experimental plots, farmers' seed potato production fields, suggesting the need to consider strict quarantine measure and restrict the free movement of seed tubers.
24579145|Anthracnose symptoms consisting of necrotic spots on the leaves, twigs and branches were observed on mango trees of cv. Kensington Pride in orchards located in the countryside of Palermo and Milazzo (southern Italy). Based on morphological observations and phylogenetic analysis of the -tubulin (benA) and histone H3 (HIS3) genes, three Colletotrichum species were identified and recovered from diseased plants, i.e. C. karstii (nine isolates), C. kahawae subsp. ciggaro (six isolates) and C. gloeosporioides (six isolates). Following artificial inoculation, all species induced symptoms on the leaves and fruits of cv. Kensington Pride. To our knowledge, this is the first report of mango anthracnose caused by C. karstii, C. kahawae subsp. ciggaro and C. gloeosporioides in Italy.
41998688|The efficiency of two novel compounds, thyme essential oil (TEO) produced from zaatar (Zataria multiflora) and Nanosilver (NS), as well as some commonly used chemicals were evaluated against citrus bacterial canker using detached-leaf assays in the laboratory and whole seedlings in the greenhouse. Mexican lime seedlings were used for detached leaf assays. Treatments included 0.3% copper oxychloride (COC), 1.5% Bordeaux mixture (BO), 0.3% COC+0.04% Mancozeb (MZ), 1.5% BO+0.04% MZ, TEO at 10 dilution, three concentrations of NS (100, 150 and 200 ppm) and 100 ppm Streptomycin (S). The BO+MZ, COC+MZ and TEO treatments were found most effective based on mean number of lesions and type of symptoms on detached leaves. Greenhouse experiments were done to assess the protective effects of the same treatments. Nine-month-old seedlings were sprayed with the treatments and after 24h, the young leaves were inoculated with bacterial suspension by pin-prick. The number of lesions on treated leaves was counted 14 days after inoculation and rates of infection were measured. Results showed that all treatments were significantly different at P<0.01%. The best results were obtained with BO+MZ and TEO at 10 dilution, with infection inhibition of 78.44% and 69.78%, respectively. Moreover, COC+MZ, BO, S and COC alone reduced the disease by 60.15%, 55.15%, 45.78%, and 41.09%, respectively. The least effective compound was 100 ppm NS which only reduced the infection by 15%.
24722460|Citrus tristeza virus (CTV) is the causal agent of devastating epidemics that have changed the course of citrus industry worldwide. Sixty-eight Mediterranean and eight exotic CTV isolates were characterized based on sequence divergence within the 5' terminal genomic region and the major coat protein gene (CP). Different genotype profiles were assigned to each of the isolates examined according to their specific signals against a set of reaction to selected molecular markers. High sequence polymorphism in the CP region was observed from various CTV isolates between and within countries. Results indicated that T30 mild strain genotype was a stable viral component among the isolates under investigations. CP haplotypes showed high nucleotide identities with standard strains associated with high virulence behavior, such as T3 and SY568 while severe VT and T36 genotypes were the main variants in the Middle East and East Adriatic regions, respectively. The possible rapid diffusion of these severe CTV strains by aphids raises the risk of new outbreaks in the Mediterranean region.
24331967|Wood decay of kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa) is a relatively new disease of complex etiology. This disease has gained much attention in recent years because it has become widespread in kiwifruit-growing areas. Foliar symptoms of the disease are associated with toxins produced by pathogens and develop presumably in response to certain environmental and physiological factors. Vineyard surveys were conducted over nine years in a main Italian kiwifruit growing area, to investigate a potential correlation between soil sodicity and the occurrence of leaf symptoms. Greenhouse trials were also carried out to evaluate physiological parameters potentially associated with the symptoms, as transpiration rate, stomatal conductance, net photosynthesis, and water potential of potted vines grown with different levels of soil sodicity. In the vineyard trials, an increase in soil sodicity significantly augmented the incidence of wood decay of kiwifruit. Higher levels of soil sodicity correlated to increased transpiration and decreased water potential in plant tissues, which in turn can increase toxin translocation and accumulation in the leaves.
41998148|In order to study the Syrian pathotype diversity of Cochliobolus sativus, the causal agent of barley spot blotch disease, a survey was conducted using 31 isolates and 13 barley genotypes. Four pathotypes (pt 1-4) were identified based on the lesion form and infection response of the genotypes with mean disease rating from 1.76 to 7.46. Pt 1 exhibited low virulence on all used genotypes, pts 2 and 3 were moderately virulent and pt 4 was highly virulent. The two most common pathotypes were pt 3 (35%) and pt 4 (42%). The barley genotype AECS 71 was highly resistant to all pathotypes suggesting the existence of a general resistance mechanism. This genotype may be recommended as a possible donor in breeding programmes. The information obtained from this study should facilitate deploying effective resistance to C sativus in barley.
23721536|Apple scar skin viroid (ASSVd) is a fruit-damaging pathogen that causes significant economic losses to pome fruit trees. In the context of a survey on fruit tree viroids in Greece, ASSVd was initially detected by RT-PCR in two sweet cherry trees of cv. Tragana Edessis in an apple orchard in Florina (Macedonia, Greece). This finding was confirmed by direct viroid sequencing of the amplified RT-PCR products. In order to verify this finding, we further examined four sweet cherry trees cvs Tragana Edessis and Biggareau Burlat, two sweet cherry trees of undetermined cultivar, and fifteen neighboring apple trees in the same orchard for possible infection with ASSVd. The viroid assay was done by tissue print hybridization using an ASSVd-specific DIG-labeled probe at stringent hybridization conditions and by RT-PCR using two different ASSVd-specific primer pairs. ASSVd was detected in the six sweet cherry trees, including symptomatic samples, but not in any of the 15 apple trees. Purified ASSVd-positive RT-PCR products from sweet cherries were sequenced either directly or after cloning into pGEM-T or pCR II plasmid vectors. Sixteen ASSVd sequences obtained from five trees were 327-340 nucleotide long and shared 96-99% identity with ASSVd isolates from Indian apples. There was no cherry-specific nucleotide changes in the ASSVd sequences obtained. The viroid was graft transmitted successfully from cherry trees to cherry rootstocks and the newly developed rootstock leaves were ASSVd-positive by RT-PCR. To our knowledge, this is the first molecular and biological analyses of ASSVd infecting sweet cherry trees.
41997867|Vegetative incompatibility in Cryphonectria parastica, the pathogen causing chestnut blight, was overcome by fusion of protoplasts of two spontaneous mutants resistant to two different drugs which yielded viable fusion products. Colonies from PEG-fused protoplasts were selected by their ability to grow in the presence of both drugs. Fusion frequency was low (< 0.01%) both for intra and interstrain fusion experiments. The fusion of protoplasts from incompatible cells yielded colonies in which conidia resolved only one nuclear type. The almost equal number of colonies developed on selective, semiselective or non selective media suggests that none of the hybrids was a heterokaryon. Therefore the nuclear type resolved was different from either of the parental strains. Fusion products were characterized according to morphological and physiological parameters including morphology of the colony, cultural stability, vegetative compatibility and virulence. Results indicated that fusion products were similar to one of the parental drug-resistant mutants. Protoplast fusion between these vegetatively incompatible strains of C. parastica suggests the occurrence of a genetic rearrangement between the two genomes, one of which appears dominant. L'incompatibilit vegetativa in Cryphonectria parasitica, agente del cancro della corteccia del castagno,  stata superata mediante la fusione di protoplasti tra mutanti spontanei resistenti a due sostanze tossiche diverse ottenendo prodotti della fusione vitali. Le colonie ottenute dalla sospensione di protoplasti trattata con PEG, sono state selezionate per la loro capacita di crescere in presenza di entrambe le sostanze tossiche. La frequenza di fusione, sia negli esperimenti intraceppo che interceppo,  risultata piuttosto bassa (< 0,01%). La fusione di protoplasti tra ceppi incompatibili ha dato origine a colonie i cui conidi erano di un nico tipo, diverso da quello dei ceppi parentali. Nessun ibrido  risultato essere un eterocarion poich circa lo stesso numero di colonie si son sviluppate su mezzo selettivo, semiselettivo e non selettivo. I prodotti della fusione son stati caratterizzati sulla base di parametri morfologici e fisiologici: morfologa della colonia, stabilit in coltura, compatibilit vegetativa e virulenza. I risultati delle indagini hanno evidenziato come i prodotti della fusione risultino molto simili ad uno dei mutanti resistenti parentali. Nel loro complesso le esperienze condotte suggeriscono che sia awenuto un riarrangiamento gentico tra i due genomi parentali, uno dei quali si comporta come dominante.
41997887|Naturally diseased grapevines exhibiting symptoms of grapevine yellows disease were observed in Israel and Greece. Infection of the plants by phytoplasmas (formerly mycoplasmalike organisms, MLOs) was indicated by amplification of phytoplasma DNA in nested polymerase chain reactions (PCR) primed by phytoplasma-universal and group-specific oligonucleotide pairs. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of amplified 16S rDNA and putative restriction site analysis of the nucleotide sequence of 16S rDNA from stolbur (STOL) phytoplasma indicated that the phytoplasmas in the diseased grapevines and STOL phytoplasma were affiliated with 16S rRNA group 16SrXII (stolbur phytoplasma group), subgroup A (formerly subgroup G in group 16SrI), a genetically distinct strain population unreported in North America. Viti con sintomi di giallume (yellows) osservate in Israele e Grecia sono risultate infette da fitoplasmi (in precedenza noti come organismi micoplasma-simili, MLO) la cui presenza  stata accertata con amplificazione genica (PCR), utilizzando come innesco coppie di oligonucleotidi universali e gruppo-specifici. L'analisi RFLP (polimorfismo della lunghezza dei frammenti di restrizione) degli amplificati di DNA ribosomiale 16S (16S rDNA), e l'analisi dei possibili siti di restrizione della sequenza nucleotidica del 16S rDNA del fitoplasma dello stolbur, hanno dimostrato che i fitoplasmi presenti nelle viti infette e quelli dello stolbur sono affini al gruppo 16SrXII, sottogruppo A (gi sottogruppo G del gruppo 16SrI), costituito da una popolazione di ceppi geneticamente distinti, non riscontrata in Nord America.
41998339|Heliococcus bohemicus Sulc is very frequently found in vineyards in Northern Italy, where grapevine leafroll is widespread. Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 1 (GLRaV-1) and Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 3 (GLRaV-3) are also quite frequently observed, often in association with Grapevine virus A (GVA). The capacity of the mealybug to transmit these viruses to vine was therefore evaluated. Virus-free insects were fed on infected vines and then transferred to healthy test-plants. GLRaV-3 was transmitted to two out of 77 inoculated test-plants and GVA to one out of 38; GLRaV-1 was not transmitted. This is the first report of GVA transmission by H. bohemicus and the first report of the capacity of this mealybug to transmit GLRaV-3 to grapevine in Italy.
41998304|Alternaria alternata, Botryodiplodia theobromae and Botrytis cinerea were isolated from rotted fruits of mango cultivars Keitt, Kent, and Tommy Atkins, and proved to be highly pathogenic to all these varieties. Preliminary tests showed that dipping fruits in hot water (HW) at 50C for 5 min or holding in hot air (HA) for 4 h at 40C did not damage the fruit. Combination of HA for 4 h followed by HW for 5 min (HA + HW) was the most effective treatment for retarding postharvest disease without peel blackening and fruit damage. These heat treatments, especially HA + HW increased the shelf life of inoculated and uninoculated fruits. The quality characteristics of non-inoculated fruits of the three varieties including total soluble solids, titratable acidity and vitamin C contents were not significantly affected by these heat treatments.
41997863|An apparently new sap-transmissibile virus was isolated in Apulia (Southern Italy ) from a grapevine with corky rugose wood symptoms. Virus particles were filamentous with distinct cross-banding and a size of 82512 nm. Coat protein sub units had an estimated M r of ca 20.5 kDa and the genome was an ssRNA ca 7600 nt in size. A virus-specific antiserum was raised, which decorated virions to a dilution of 1/50 but did not recognize particles of grapevine trichovirus A (GVA), B (GVB), and C (GVC). Antisera to GVA, GVB, GVC, Heracleum latent trichovirus (HLV), grapevine berry inner necrosis virus (GBINV) and to each of the seven grapevine leafroll-associated closteroviruses (GLRaV-1 to -7) known to date, did not decorate virus particles. The cytopathology of infected Nicotiana occidentalis plants largely conformed to that elicited by GVA and GVB. A cloned cDNA probe 420 bp in size hybridized with purified viral RNA and total nucleic acid extracts from virus-infected N. occidentalis, but not comparable preparations of GVA and GVB. Sequencing of a 963 nt long 3' terminal fragment of the viral genome revealed the presence of two open reading frames (ORFs). ORF 1 encoded a polypeptide with a M r of 17.6 kDa, which was identified as the coat protein (CP) and possessed 75% and 64% identical residues with GVA and GVB CPs, respectively. ORF 2 coded for a polypeptide with a M r of 10.4 kDa resembling the putative nucleic acid-binding proteins identified in the same position in GVA and GVB genomes. The above data strongly support the hypothesis that this newly recovered grapevine virus belongs to the Trichovirus genus, representing a new species for which the name of grapevine virus D (GVD) is proposed. An investigation for the presence of GVD, carried out with RT-PCR on 307 vines of diverse varieties and geographical origins, showed that the virus occurred in ca 4% of 218 accessions with rugose wood symptoms, but in none of 89 disease-free vines. Un virus filamentoso apparentemente nuovo  stato isolato in Puglia da una vite affetta da legno riccio suberoso. Le particelle virali hanno evidenti striature trasversali e dimensioni di 82512 nm, subunit capsidiche con Mr di circa 20,5 kDa e genoma costituito da una molecola di ssRNA di circa 7600 nucleotidi. In saggi di immunomicroscopia elettronica, un antisiero virus specifico ha decorato le particelle virali fino alla diluizione di 1: 50, ma non ha riconosciuto il trichovirus A (GVA) n il trichovirus B (GVB) della vite. Parimenti negative sono state le reazioni con antisieri a GVA, GVB, GVC, nonch al trichovirus latente dell'Heracleum (HLV), al virus della necrosi interna delle bacche di vite (GBINV) ed a ciascuno dei sette closterovirus associati alTaccartocciamento fogliare della vite (GLRaV da I a 7). La citopatologia di piante infette di Nicotiana occidentalis  apparsa assai simile a quella indotta da GVA e GVB. Una sonda clonata di cDNA di 420 bp ha ibridato specificamente sia l'RNA virale che gli estratti di RNA totale da piante infette di N. occidentalis, ma non analoghi preparad di GVA e GVB. L'analisi della sequenza di un frammento genomico 3' terminale di 963 nt ha rivelato la presenza di due griglie di lettura (ORF), una delle quali (ORF 1) codifica un polipeptide con Mr di 17,6 kDa, identificato corne proteina capsidica (CP) con alta identit di sequenza con le CP di GVA (75%) e GVB (64%). L'ORF 2, invece, codifica un polipeptide pi piccolo (10,4 kDa) simile alle protine con affinit per gli acidi nucleici presenti nella stessa posizione nel genoma di GVA e GVB. Le caratteristiche fsico-chimiche, morfologiche, ultrastrutturali e molecolari del virus in studio suggeriscono concordemente che esso appartenga al genere Trichovirus, di cui peraltro rappresenta una nuova specie, per la quale si propone il nome di virus D della vite (GVD). Una ricerca sulla diffusione di GVD condotta con RT-PCR su 307 viti di varia provenienza, ne ha dimostrato la presenza nel 4% circa delle piante con legno riccio, ma in nessuna delle 89 viti senza sintomi.
24332223|The first complete nucleotide sequence of a Grapevine virus B (GVB-QMWH: GVB-Qimiaowuhe) isolate from China is reported. The genome organization of GVB- QMWH is similar to that of previously described GVB isolates. However, the 7,610 nt genomic RNA is the largest of the GVB genomes reported to date, including a 10 nt insertion in the 3' UTR. Moreover, the sizes of open reading frame (ORF) 1 and 2 did not correspond to those found in the other previously published GVB isolates (EF583906, GU733707, JX513897 and X75448). ORF1 of GVB-QMWH was 6 nt longer than that of EF583906, GU733707 and JX513897, and 12 nt longer than that of X75448. ORF2 was 21 nt smaller than that of EF583906, GU733707 and JX513897, and 27 nt smaller than that of X75448. The isolate was found to be less than 80% similar to other reported GVB variants, and phylogenetic analysis based on the complete nucleotide sequence suggested that GVB-QMWH is distantly related to other isolates.
41998164|Papaya ring spot virus (PRSV) causes major diseases in papaya and cucurbits in the Indian sub-continent that result in significant yield losses. Molecular characterization of the coat protein (CP) gene of a South Indian strain (INP-UAS) of PRSV-P revealed an open reading frame of 849 bp that encoded the putative coat protein of 283 amino acids (GenBank Ace No. AF528190). The DAG triplet associated with aphid transmissibility and the potential protease cleavage site Q/S, located in the N-terminus of the INP-UAS CP, were conserved, as has been reported for other PRSV coat proteins. The sequence had a deletion of 24 nucleotides that corresponded to eight amino acids in the N-terminal region of the CP. A comparison of the amino acid sequence of the INP-UAS CP with those reported for other PRSV isolates showed that the N-termini were variable and suggested that the distinctiveness of INP-UAS was linked to its geographical location. Phylogenetic analysis also showed that the INP-UAS strain coat protein gene was relatively divergent from those of other PRSV-P isolates as it formed a separate and distinct group. The implications of sequence variability for the use of CP-genes in the development of transgenic plants for viral resistance are discussed.
41998540|The genetic variability of 43 Xanthomonas fragariae strains isolated in Italy during three different field outbreaks was compared with 20 representative strains previously isolated in Australia, USA, Brazil, Greece, New Zealand and Italy, and obtained from international culture collections. Typing was performed by repetitive-sequence PCR (rep-PCR) using BOX, ERIC and REP primer sets and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis. Both techniques revealed that X. fragariae strains can be divided into different subgroups. No correlation between DNA amplification product patterns and geographic areas of origin was found. AFLP analysis revealed the existence of two major groups of strains related at a level of 73%. BOX, ERIC and rep-PCR assays identified five, three and two genotypes, respectively. The grouping of strains inferred by these two techniques was not mutually consistent. The strains of the three outbreaks in Italy showed in general a very similar banding pattern. No host specificity groups could be identified since two X. fragariae strains isolated from Fragaria vesca and one strain obtained from Fragaria chiloensis showed a similar banding pattern, like other strains isolated from Fragaria x ananassa. As determined by pathogenicity tests, no difference in virulence could be observed among strains of the classified groups. For the improvement of X. fragariae detection in strawberry propagative material, the relevant genetic variability of the pathogen should be taken into consideration.
41998079|Five methods for the detection of Phytophthora spp. in water recirculation systems of four commercial nurseries were compared: direct plating, three bait tests (apple, lupin seedling, Rhododendron leaf test) and DASELISA with two Phytophthora specific polyclonal antisera. Water and sediment samples were taken from different places in the recirculation systems over one year. With all methods except direct plating Phytophthora spp. could be detected in the four nurseries. In most cases the detection rates were influenced more by the method itself than by different conditions on particular nurseries. The Rhododendron leaf test trapped the widest range of Phytophthora species and was the most successful method followed by ELISA with antiserum against P. cinnamomi. Although the chemical analysis of the water samples showed a good water quality for nursery cultivation, there was a close relationship between the detection rates obtained with ELISA and the total salt content of the water. The results are compared with those of in vitro experiments and their relevance for commercial nurseries is discussed.
41998416|A Chinese isolate of Citrus tristeza virus (CTV), denoted HB1, was not recognized by a polyclonal antiserum (PAb-I) raised to the Italian CTV isolate 0002 and ten monoclonal antibodies to the Chinese isolate S4 (MAbs-S4). However, it reacted with a polyclonal antiserum (PAb-L5) raised to the Chinese isolate L5 in both ELISA and Western blots. To understand this unusual serological behaviour, the CP gene sequence of HB1 and other CTV isolates was determined. The results showed that HB1 was closely related to L5 at the nucleotide and amino acid levels. However, three amino acid residues in the HB1 CP differed from those of L5, which were conserved in all other isolates sequenced, including CTV-0002 and S4. This suggested that the failure of PAb-I and MAbs-S4 to recognise HB1 could depend on these molecular changes. Prediction of Antigenic Indexes and Surface Probability in four isolates (HB1, S4, L5 and 0002) with the Peptidestructure and Plotstructure softwares, showed that the HB1 tracing contained two small peaks at aa 84 and 190 that did not appear in any of the other profiles, but no apparent difference in aa 98. However, HB1 and L5 showed a similar small peak at the 5' end which did not occur in the S4 and CTV-0002.
41998152|An epidemiological survey on 176 soil samples, collected from carnation fields in the Vesuvius area (Naples, Italy) revealed, in more than 90% of samples, the occurrence of second stage juveniles of the cyst nematode Heterodera daverti parasitized by the nematophagous fungus Hirsutella rhossiliensis. The diffusion of the fungus over the area of cultivation of carnation could account for the substantial decrease in severity of nematode attacks, which were observed over the last five years. The influence of various factors on H. rhossiliensis-mediated suppressiveness in soils subjected to repeated treatments with fumigants is discussed.
41998117|A virus with isometric particles ca. 30 nm in diameter and angular contour was isolated by inoculation of sap from a Turkish grapevine showing very mild fanleaf symptoms. In sucrose density gradient centrifugation the virus sedimented as three components: T (empty shells), M (particles containing a RNA species with mol. wt 1.4  10 Da) and B (particles containing a RNA species with mol. wt 2.2  10 Da). The coat protein subunits were of a single type with Mr ca. 55.5 kDa. An antiserum with a titre of 1:256 was raised, which did not react with healthy plant antigens. A fragment 1,274 nt in size, representing the 3' terminal region of genomic RNA-2 was sequenced. Direct comparison analysis with sequences from the same region from GenBank-EMBL databases revealed variable levels of homology with other grapevine nepoviruses, the closest being Grapevine chrome mosaic virus (GCMV) (62% identity at the amino acid level), Artichoke Italian latent virus (AILV) and Tomato blackring virus (TBRV) (49% identity at the amino acid level with both). Based on the determined sequence, specific primers were designed which in RTPCR assays amplified a 343 bp fragment virus from grapevine crude tissue extracts. Infected N. occidentalis leaves had a cytopathology comparable to that of nepovirus infections, typical virus-containing tubules, mostly associated with plasmodesmata. The physicochemical and ultrastructural properties of this virus resembled very much those of nepoviruses. However, it was serologically unrelated to 17 different members of this genus, including all those recorded from grapevines. These results support the notion that the Turkish grapevine virus is a hitherto undescribed member of the genus Nepovirus belonging in subgroup B, for which the name Grapevine Anatolian ringspot virus (GARSV) is proposed.
41998362|One hundred twenty-five trees (each of a different cultivar) of sour and sweet cherry from two large varietal collections in Serbia were visually inspected for virus symptoms and tested for the presence of cherry viruses by ELISA, herbaceous host assays, graft-indexing on P. serrulata cv. Kwanzan, and RT-PCR. All samples were tested by ELISA for Prunus necrotic ring spot virus (PNRSV), Prune dwarf virus (PDV), Apple chlorotic leaf spot virus (ACLSV), Apple mosaic virus (ApMV), and Plum pox virus (PPV). The overall detection of PDV, PNRSV, and ACLSV was 63%. Additional ELISA tests were done on 80 trees for Arabis mosaic virus (ArMV), Cherry leaf roll virus (CLRV), Strawberry latent ring spot virus (SLRSV), Petunia asteroid mosaic virus (PetAMV), Raspberry ringspot virus (RpRSV), Tomato black ring virus (TBRV), Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV), and Tomato ringspot virus (ToRSV). In these tests, one tree tested positive for PetAMV RT-PCR testing of 44 trees detected another five viruses: Cherry green ring mottle virus (CGRMV), Cherry necrotic rusty mottle virus (CNRMV), Cherry virus A (CVA), European rusty mottle associated virus (ERMaV) and Plum bark necrosis and stem pitting-associated virus (PBNSPaV), but not Cherry mottle leaf virus (CMLV). In graft-indexing tests on Kwanzan with all 125 trees, samples from 38 trees induced symptoms of necrotic crook disease (causal agent unknown). Viruses reported for the first time in Serbia were CGRMV, CNRMV, CVA, ERMaV, PBNSPaV, and PetAMV.
41998958|Huanglongbing (HLB), is a destructive quarantine disease of citrus transmitted by psyllids and grafting, with which three species of Candidatus Liberibacter (Ca. Liberibacter asiaticus, Ca. Liberibacter africanus and Ca. Liberibacter americanus) are associated. To investigate the diversity of the Ca. Liberibacter asiaticus, the omp genes of 23 Ca. Liberibacter asiaticus isolates with different symptoms from seven provinces in China were assayed by restriction endonucleases TaqI, BclI, ApoI, SspI and EcoRI. Sequence analysis of omp genes showed that the HLB isolates under study shared 99% identity with Ca. Liberibacter asiaticus (AY642159) and 72% identity with Ca. Liberibacter africanus (AY642158). In a phylogenetic tree, Ca. Liberibacter isolates grouped in two major clusters. The 23 isolates under study grouped with the Asian strains. The groups of Ca. Liberibacter asiaticus was distributed in three subgroups depending on their geographical origin. No genetic evidence for a host determinant was found in Ca. Liberibacter asiaticus isolates except the genetic diversity of the geographical origins.
41999015|Pepino mosaic virus (PepMV) causes economic damage to the tomato industry worldwide. In Italy, the virus is endemic in Sicily, an important tomato-production region, and a new outbreak has been recorded in Sardinia after the first PepMV appearance in 2001. Italian PepMV isolates from these two geographically distant regions were molecularly characterized and the complete nucleotide sequence of four isolates was determined by walking primer strategy. The complete ncleo tide and deduced amino acid sequences were analyzed and compared with published PepMV sequences. Italian isolates belong to the PepMV-Ch2 strain and had 97.2% to 98.5% identity with those of the reference PepMV-Ch2 deposited in GenBank. The two Sicilian isolates were slightly more variable in the RdRp and TGB1 genes. This study provides new insights into the occurrence and variability of PepMV isolates in Italy.
41998583|Endopolygalacturonases (endoPGs) are fungal enzymes secreted during the infection in order to degrade plant cell wall pectins. In Fusarium spp., endoPGs are among the first enzymes produced during infection and play a crucial role in plant tissue penetration and colonization. The endoPG of F. phyllophilum strain FC-10, previously classified as F. verticillioides, is the best characterized Fusarium cell wall degrading enzyme. In this work we have carried out a phylogenetic analysis of the endoPG (pg) gene sequence that confirms the classification of the FC-10 strain as F. phyllophilum , and also shows an unexpected divergence of the pg gene of F. phyllophilum strain NRRL 25305. This gene and the biochemical characteristics of the encoded product appear more closely related to those of F. verticillioides pg. This observation and the evidence that endoPGs have experienced positive selection indicate that selective pressure acting on these enzymes may limit the use of their gene sequences as reliable markers for phylogenetic studies.
41997888|Densitometric analysis was performed on the whole cell proteins of 53 strains of Ralstonia solanacearum (Rs) isolated from different host plants and geographical areas. This study also included 18 unidentified, endophytic potato bacteria, non-pathogenic on tomato and eggplant, forming colonies similar to Rs (Rs-like bacteria) on differential or selective media. The comparison of the electrophoretograms was performed by calculating the correlation coefficient (r) and by principal component analysis. Visual comparison generally made it possible to distinguish between the Rs strains and nonpathogenic Rs-like bacteria. Densitometric analysis of the electrophoretograms revealed a main group of strains (r=0.76) including 4 subgroups. Subgroup 1 (r=0.92) included potato and tomato strains attributable to race 3 biovar 2, including all those of Mediterranean origin. Principal component analysis again included the Mediterranean strains in a single group characterised by just one of the two bands identified as differential in the Rs profile. Principal component analysis revealed that one Rs-like bacterium, with a markedly higher correlation coefficient (r=0.83), was clearly distinct from Rs. The results confirmed the reliability of the European diagnostic protocol as a basis for identification at the species level, that must be based on the pathogenicity test combined with whole cell protein profiles when these are used as a single phenotypic fingerprint.  stata fatta una analisi densitometrica dei profili delle proteine cellulari totali di 53 ceppi di Ralstonia solanacearum (Rs) isolati da differend piante ospiti e aree geografiche. Nello studio sono stati inclusi anche 18 batteri non identificati, endofiti di tuberi di patata, non patogeni su pomodoro o melanzana, producenti colonie simili a Rs (batteri Rs-simili) sui substrati differenziali o selettivi di isolamento. La comparazione degli elettroforetogrammi  stata fatta mediante il calcolo del coefficiente di correlazione (r) e analisi delle componenti principali. La comparazione visiva dei profili permetteva in genere di distinguere facilmente i ceppi di Rs dai batteri non patogeni endofiti della patata. L'analisi densitometrica degli elettroforetogrammi individuava un gruppo principale di ceppi (r=0,76) comprendente 4 sottogruppi. Il sottogruppo 1 (r=0,92) includeva tutti i ceppi da patata e da pomodoro di origine mediterranea riferibili alla razza 3 biovar 2. L'analisi delle componenti principali ha incluso i ceppi mediterranei di nuovo in uno stesso gruppo caratterizzato da una sola banda delle due individuate come differenziali nel profilo di Rs. Un batterio Rs-simile avente coefficiente di correlazione apprezzabilmente alto (r=0,83)  risultato nettamente distante da Rs in analisi delle componenti principali. I risultati confermano la correttezza del protocollo diagnostico europeo secondo cui l'identificazione a livello di specie deve fondarsi sulla prova di patogenicit abbinata ai profili delle protine cellulari totali quando questi sono usati come unica impronta fenotipica.
41998588|We developed a novel inoculation method, the 'filter-paper method', for the assay of grey leaf spot (GLS) in Italian ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.). In this method, a conidial suspension of Pyricularia oryzae, the causal agent of GLS, is dropped onto a filter paper, which is placed, inoculated-side down, on the abaxial surface of a detached leaf on an agar plate. The filter-paper method was more repeatable than the spot inoculation method developed for rice, and the disease scores obtained were correlated (r = 0.6, P < 0.01) with those obtained under glasshouse conditions by the standard inoculation method. We optimized this novel method and demonstrated its usefulness for the selection of GLS resistance in Italian ryegrass.
41998150|Penicillium expansion causes severe rots on apple fruit during storage and shelf life. Aiming at the development of new antagonistic yeast active in controlling postharvest pathogens of fruit, several isolates were obtained from fig (Ficus carica) and cactus pear (Opuntia ficus-indica) grown in untreated orchards in Northern Sardinia (Italy). Two yeast strains of Candida guillermondii were selected for their remarkable antagonistic properties against P. expansum on apple. A film-forming strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae isolated from wine was also included in the experiments. In trials carried out on the cv. Golden Delicious and Fuji, the yeasts applied alone or in the presence of various additives reduced apple rot with up to 100% efficacy. Killed yeast cells and culture filtrates had no biocontrol activity. Addition of different sugars in the apple wound had no detrimental effect on the biocontrol potential of the tested yeasts. Conversely, several nitrates significantly inhibited the antagonistic capability of C. guillermondii, thus suggesting that competition for nitrogen should play a major role in the biocontrol activity of the antagonistic yeast.
23721750|Powdery mildew (PM), caused by Erysiphe pisi DC, is the major disease of dry pea in southern Italy and the use of resistant cultivar is the best choice to control it. Screening field trials were conducted with eleven pea genotypes in four different farms located in the typical pea-growing areas of the Campania region (Scafati, Caserta, Acerra and Eboli). All resistant varieties showed no symptoms in three (Scafati, Acerra and Eboli) of the tested environments, whereas at Caserta, three of the cultivars, i.e. Fallon, SW Carousel, and ISCI 7/16-2, which are reported to carry the powdery mildew resistance gene er1 showed symptoms; the resistance of cv. Stirling was confirmed. Following artificial inoculation under greenhouse conditions, the three above cultivars supposed to carry er1 gene showed severe PM symptoms when exposed to the fungal isolate EpCE2 from Caserta. No symptoms were obtained with the other three isolates tested. The cv. Stirling maintained its resistance both in the field and greenhouse. Morphological and molecular analyses of the fungus that induced disease on resistant cultivars proved that the isolates used as inoculum belong to E. pisi. This result was confirmed by the molecular analysis performed on the leaves of resistant cvs Fallon, SW Carousel and ISCI 7/16-2 inoculated with the EpCE2 isolate from Caserta. Thus, the resistance conferred by the er1 gene can be broken and further investigations are needed to clarify the different behavior of resistant cultivars. To our knowledge, this is the first time that breaking of er1 resistance is reported in Italy.
24331959|Harpins are heat-stable, glycine-rich proteins secreted by several Gram-negative phytopathogenic bacteria, involved in the induction of hypersensitive response in nonhost plants. HrpZPss is highly heat stable, exists as a polydispersed, multimeric protein in nature and the functional significance for its existence in many oligomeric forms, remains still unclear. It was suggested that the leucine zipper-like motifs (LZMs) may take part in the formation of oligomeric aggregates, which may be responsible for HR elicitation by harpins and for their high thermal stability. To test the involvement of LZMs in HR elicitation and induction of defense responses, we have generated deletion mutants with or without LZMs and analysed their ability to induce HR, and/or activate the defense responses. The deletion mutant HrpZMM1, with no LZM also elicited HR as well as defense responses in tobacco suggesting the LZMs are not essential for elicitor activity of HrpZPss. However, the ability to elicit defense responses may be linked with the ability to induce HR.
24332211|Four strains belonging to biovars 2A and 2T (N2) of Ralstonia solanacearum and two mutants impaired in extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) production were studied for their virulence to tomato, colonization of host tissue and survival in the soil. Mutants impaired in EPS biosynthesis were generated using a plasmid containing Tn5. Results showed that whereas biovar 2A is more virulent than 2T, they did not differ in the ability to survive in the soil. Susceptibility of various tomato cultivars to R. solanacearum strains was evaluated. Results showed that besides the bacterial biovar, the host cultivar is effective in determining disease severity. However, no significant differences were observed in bacterial populations from tomato cultivars with different susceptibility. Mutants defective for EPS production were less virulent than the wilde-type strain, highlighting the role of EPS in pathogenicity. No difference was observed in the colonization of tomato stems by either mutant impaired in EPS production and the wild-type.
41998505|A virus recovered in 2006 from Phlomis fructicosa L. (family Lamiacee) by mechanical transmission to Nicotiana occidentalis had flexuous particles ca. 850 nm long with an outward aspect recalling that of some members of the family Flexiviridae. Sequencing of a 3035 nt fragment of the viral genome, spanning from part of the RdRp gene to the 3' terminal poly(A) tract, showed a structural organization comparable with that of species in the genus Trichovirus. The 5' proximal open reading frame (ORF1) encoding the RdRp protein, was followed by two ORFs showing homologies with movement proteins of the p30 superfamily (ORF2) and the coat protein of flexiviruses (ORF3). These polypeptides had a substantial level of similarity with the corresponding proteins of members of the genus Trichovirus. A putative ORF, showing homology with nucleic acid binding proteins (NB) of some flexiviruses, was identified at the extreme 3' region of the viral genome. Its origin and expression are discussed.
41998796|Three major Plum pox virus (PPV) strains have been identified as prevalent in most of the central-and east-European countries, i.e. PPV-M, PPV-D and PPV-Rec. PPV-Rec, which arose from homologous recombination between PPV-M and PPV-D, has been recognised only recently. Although important studies on its genetic variability have been done in the last years, the biological and epidemiological data are scarce. It is generally thought that recombination events may provide some selective advantage to the recombinant isolate over its parent variants to become established in nature. Therefore, the behaviour of different PPV-Rec isolates in mixed infection with either PPV-M or PPV-D was studied by simultaneous co-inoculation of Nicotiana benthamiana plants. A stable balanced inter-strain mixed infection could be detected in about 40% of individual plants. No clear-cut strain-specific behaviour of PPV isolates in term of competitiveness in mixed infection could be observed. This further confirmed the existence of biological variability within single PPV strains.
41999024|The objectives of this study were to assess the relationship of infection of apple by sooty blotch and flyspeck (SBFS) to environmental conditions during fruit developmental stages and to monitor the chronology of increase in SBFS incidence in an orchard of southern Brazil. Seven "infection windows" (IWs) were simulated by exposing developing fruit (cv. Fuji) for predetermined periods of time and covering them with fruit bags during the rest of the season. Check treatments included fruit that were either surface-disinfested and covered or disinfested and uncovered. SBFS incidence was recorded after harvest on the fruits from each treatment, after incubating them in a moist chamber, and correlation analysis was used to assess association with moisture-related variables during each IW. In a separate experiment, timing of disease appearance was monitored by sampling non-covered fruit weekly until harvest. SBFS signs were observed on the fruits from all IW and check treatments. Average incidence ranged from 15 to 65% across the IWs, whereas incidence was >95% in fruits that were not covered during the experiment. SBFS infections were detected at harvest in the partially covered check treatment, thus suggesting that inoculum was present before the fruit was first covered 31 days after petal fall. Linear relationships were observed between SBFS incidence, rainfall and leaf wetness duration recorded within an IW. The period between fruit inoculation and appearance of the disease in the field was about 49 days.
41998060|Chrysanthemum yellows phytoplasma (CY), subgroup 16SrI-B, was experimentally transmitted to seedlings of grapevine (Vitis vinifera), cv. 'Barbera' and 'White Muscat' with four leafhopper species: Euscelidius variegatus, Euscelis incisus, Macrosteles quadripunctulatus and Scaphoideus titanus. Acquisition was accomplished in three days by 3rd instar nymphs on CY-infected marguerites (Chrysanthemum carinatum). After three weeks, insects were moved to new test plants of the same species and allowed to feed for seven days. They were then transferred to grapevine seedlings for another seven-day-period, and so on as long as they survived. The four leafhopper species transmitted CY to both marguerite and grapevine with the following respective rates: M. quadripunctulatus, 100 (25/25) and 33.3 (9/27); E. variegatus, 59.6 (31/52) and 47.5 (28/59); E. incisus, 95.6 (22/23) and 33.3 (6/18); S. titanus 12.5 (7/56) and 17.0% (8/47). Symptoms on C carinatum were typical of those already described, while on V. vinifera they consisted of growth reduction and abnormal production of axillary shoots bearing small chlorotic leaves. Downward rolling and reddening of basal leaves was occasionally observed on cv. 'Barbera'. RFLP analysis of ribosomal DNA amplified in direct and/or nested PCRs driven by universal or 16SrI group-specific primers confirmed that the phytoplasma present in symptomatic plants, either used as inoculum or obtained by transmission, and in inoculative S. titanus did belong to subgroup 16SrI-B and was identical to the CY reference isolate.
41998009|Pseudomonas corrugata, causal agent of tomato pith necrosis, was modified with the lux operon of Vibrio fischen. Transposon Tn4431 was used to introduce the lux operon into the chromosome of P. corrugata strain 4.3t. Light, emitted by bioluminescent mutants, was detected with photometry and autoradiography. One bioluminescent mutant, designated strain 4.3t lux18, expressed high levels of light in vitro and in vivo. This strain was identical to its wild-type parent in all aspects studied, including colony morphology, pathogenicity, and growth in vitro and in planta. Bacterial growth in symptomatic and asymptomatic tissues was monitored and visualized by bioluminescence. The results indicate that bioluminescence is a good genetic marker system for investigating the epidemiology and population dynamics of P. corrugata.
24722536|Foodborne pathogens such as Escherichia coli O157:H7, Salmonella spp., Listeria monocytogenes are responsible for frequent occurrences of illness and mortality in humans. Several economically important plant diseases are caused by pathogenic bacteria. Economically important plant diseases and post-harvest losses and decay are also incited by plant pathogens such as Erwinia, Pectobacterium, Botrytis, and Pseudomonas spp. This paper discusses the potential of predatory bacteria for biocontrol of foodborne and plant pathogens with emphasis on the deltaproteobacteria group. Deltaproteobacteria (Bdellovibrio and Bacteriovorax sp. as well as Daptobacter, and Myxobacteria) are Gramnegative predatory microorganisms which prey mainly on Gram-negative bacteria and occur in diverse soil, marine and fresh water ecologies. The predation of Gram-negative bacteria by Bdellovibrio and Bdellovibrio-like organisms (BALOs) may enhance their potential application for biocontrol of foodborne and plant pathogens. The difficulty in controlling foodborne and plant pathogenic bacteria is due to the paucity of available bactericidal chemicals and regulations limiting the use of antibiotics in pathogen control. In this review, the types and mechanisms of predation by predatory bacteria (PB) are discussed with respect to potential utilization as biocontrol agents. Their diversity and relationships is highlighted by genomic research. Potential for biocontrol of foodborne and plant pathogens by PB is discussed in terms of attributes and limitations. Although research in animal systems (Salmonella/chicken) indicates significant biocontrol potential when PB are applied as probiotics, their application to foodborne and plant pathogens are limited. With increased research in metagenomics on PB effects on animal cells /tissues, a better understanding of regulation of cellular metabolism and their association with growth of PB and prey degradation will ultimately enhance the utility of PB as biocontrol agents of foodborne and plant pathogens.
41998776|The biological and molecular characterization of a Potato virus Y (PVY) isolate, denoted PVYC-to, associated with a necrotic phenotype of tomato plants grown in the province of Foggia (Apulia, southern Italy) is reported. The fully sequenced PVYC-to genome consists of 9,691 nucleotides and is 94,8% similar to that of PVY LYE84.2, an isolate of the PVYC strain group. Using programs in KDP package, a putative recombination breakpoint was identified at approximately nucleotide position 2056 to 2632, corresponding to the HC-Pro/P3 coding region. The event seems to represent an introgression of a PVYO strain group sequence and, in particular, of PVY-OZ, which is a non recombinant isolate of the O lineage. From this analysis PVYC-to appeared to be a recombinant isolate. The virus has a very weak infectivity in pepper and possesses a CP coding region characterised by a PVYC restrictotype. Our results seem to support the hypothesis that PVYC-to is a recombinant isolate of the PVYC strain group.
41998025|In this article the distribution, general tasks and services of culture collections worldwide will be described briefly. In addition we want to outline the special requirements that are necessary for plant pathogen collections in order to fullfil their duties. The changes in collection activities, due to new technologies and demands from science, politicians, industry and society will be mentioned. Based on these demands we discuss solutions that might be suitable for collections and especially plant pathogen collections to survive, this would, besides financial support, be also the integration of plant pathogens into the worldwide biodiversity approaches.
41998581|Spot blotch, caused by Cochliobolus sativus (Ito and Kurbayzshi) Drechsler ex Dastur is a serious constraint to production of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) in tropical and sub-tropical environments. Previous efforts to develop genotypes with high levels of resistance combined with other desirable agronomic features have been unsuccessful. This failure was assumed to be largely due to the association of undesirable characters with heightened resistance but information on the existence of such associations is limited. Recently, high levels of resistance have been reported in CIMMYT synthetic wheat genotypes. Our study was done on three populations derived from the spot blotch resistant genotypes 'Milan/Shanghai #7', 'Chirya. 3' and 'NL 971' crossed with the susceptible commercial cultivar 'BL1473'. Fifteen different physio-morphological traits and areas under disease progress curves (AUDPC) were evaluated in F and F generations during 2005-2006 at Rampur (Chitwan, Nepal). The majority of traits showed weak negative significant or non-significant genetic and phenotypic correlation with AUDPC except Area Under SPAD (soil plant analysis development) decline curve (AUSDC) and flag leaf duration Results showed no undesirable genetic association of resistance with physiomorphological characters, and thus independent selection for individual traits is possible. In addition, AUSDC and flag leaf duration have potential application as complementary traits in selecting for high resistance.
41998170|Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV, Genus Ilarvirus, Family Bromoviridae) was isolated from stone fruit trees showing virus-like symptoms grown in Jordan. Identification of this virus was based on host range, properties in crude sap, transmissibility, and serological tests. PNRSV-J has a limited range of experimental hosts. The dilution end-point of infectivity was 10, the thermal inactivation point was 57C, and purified virus had an in vitro longevity of 16 h at 25C. PNRSV-J was detected by double antibody sandwich-enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (DAS-ELISA). PNRSV-J was purified from cucumber leaves harvested 6-8 days after inoculation. The modified purification method gave an adequate virus yield for antibody production. Antiserum produced by immunizing a rabbit had a titer of 1024 in direct antigen coating (DAC)-ELISA, with high specificity to PNRSV An immunocapture-reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (IC-RT-PCR) protocol was useful for the detection of PNRSV in herbaceous and woody plant tissues. Nucleotide sequence and phylogenetic analysis of RT-PCR products derived from RNA3 of PNRSV-J confirmed its identity as an isolate of PNRSV and revealed that it is a member of Group I (PV32) isolates.
23721522|Bacterial wilt caused by Ralstonia solanacearum, is one of the most important diseases of potato in tropical, subtropical and warm temperate regions of the world and is prevalent in many areas in India. The disease was only once reported from Indore and Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh (India) in 1970, but was never a problem until 2007. From 2007, the disease suddenly emerged as a major constraint for potato cultivation in this region causing heavy crop losses; hence, warranting immediate steps for its management as the region is known to produce potatoes mainly for processing. Therefore, surveys were conducted to know the exact status of bacterial wilt and brown rot of potato and to collect plant and tuber samples from infested fields in several villages of Indore, Ujjain and Devas districts of the Malwa region of Madhya Pradesh during December 2009 and February 2010. The disease incidence ranged from traces to 80% depending upon the seed source. Wherever the farmers used healthy, certified seed, incidence of bacterial wilt and brown rot was negligible or very low. The identity of 21 of 22 bacterial isolates from infected potato plant/tuber samples from Indore, Ujjain and Devas districts of Malwa region was confirmed as R. solanacearum by colony characteristics on Kelman's TZC agar medium, PCR with R. solanacearum specific primers YII and OLI 1 and a pathogenicity test on potato. Using bio-chemical tests, based on the ability to utilize disaccharides and oxidise hexose alcohols, 21 isolates were categorized as biovar 2 which were further identified as phylotype II sequevar 1 as the characteristic race 3 biovar 2 specific 278 bp band was amplified from their DNA using the primer pair 630/631. All the 21 isolates proved to be pathogenic on potato, 18 on tomato, 15 on eggplant but none on pepper. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of occurrence of R. solanacearum race 3 biovar 2, phylotype II sequevar 1 in the Madhya Pradesh state of India.
41998506|Three dsRNA molecules with estimated molecular weights of c. 1.7, 1.5 and 1.4 kbp were extracted from a symptomless hybrid tea rose cv. Sheer Bliss, and further characterized. Analysis of complete sequences showed that they represent genome segments of a tripartite cryptic virus with the proposed name Rose cryptic virus 1 (RCV-1). All three segments were monocistronic, with the dsRNA-1 encoding a protein containing conserved motifs of RNA-dependent RNA polymerases. The two proteins encoded by dsRNA 2 and 3 shared c. 20% common amino acids and are probably involved in the make up of the viral capsid. Phylogenetic analysis based on the viral RdRp gene showed closest relationships of RCV-1 with Fragaria chiloensis cryptic virus (FCCV) and Raphanus sativus cryptic virus 2 (RsCV-2), both recently described tripartite cryptoviruses. Interestingly, this group of viruses appears to be phylogenetically closer to mycoviruses belonging in the genus Partitivirus than to plant-infecting cryptoviruses. The virus was detected by RT-PCR in ca. 30% of the tested samples belonging to different cultivars/hybrids, indicating that it may be quite common in rose germplasm.
24722475|Cowpea aphid-borne mosaic virus (CABMV) infects cowpea and some non-legume plant species (Chenopodium amaranticolor) worldwide, including India. The genome of CABMV RR4, an Indian viral isolate, consists of a positive-sense RNA molecule 9,159 nucleotide in size encoding a single polyprotein of 3,053 amino acids. The nucleotide sequence of CABMV RR4 genome showed the highest identity of 73% and 95% with CABMV-Z isolate from Zimbabwe at the nucleotide and polyprotein level, respectively. The phylogenetic analysis of CABMV RR4 showed the ancestry and evolutionary relationship with CABMV-Z and CABMV-A132 isolates.
24332208|Bacteria use an unique and sophisticated system for regulating diverse physiological processes in function of their population size. This regulatory procedure, called "quorum sensing" (QS), depends on the synthesis and perception between bacteria of small signal molecules such as acyl-homoserine lactones (AHLs). It is now evident that plants can listen to bacterial signals and respond in sophisticated ways to the information. The anti-QS activity of the methanolic extract of 44 plant species was detected through the inhibition of the QS-related violacein pigmentation in Chromobacterium violaceum CV026 in the presence of 5 mgl of C-homoserin lactone. In addition, the ability of test plants to produce AHL-mimicking compounds that excite QS-related response in CV026 was investigated. The results revealed that the QS inhibition activity was observed in the leaves and stem extracts of tarragon (Artemisia dracunculus), radish (Raphanus sativus) and hollyhock (Althea officinalis), which repress violacein production in CV026. We have also shown that Trifolium repens contains AHL-mimicking molecules that can activate QS function in biosensor bacterium and induce violacein production in CV026. Methanolic extracts were also able to inhibit QS-regulated virulence in Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum on potato tubers. The results suggest that plants have quorum sensing-mimicking signals that could potentially be used for disrupting quorum sensing of associated bacteria thus controlling their infections.
41998622|PCR-based methods offer advantages over more traditional diagnostic tests, in that organisms do not need to be cultured prior to their detection and protocols are highly sensitive and rapid. Consequently, there is a shift in research towards DNA-based techniques. Although reports already exist on a variety of PCR-based fingerprinting assays used to analyse the genetic diversity of bacterial populations and define their relationships, this review focuses on the general use of PCR in phytobacteriology for detection and diagnosis purposes. An updated and detailed list of published PCR protocols for detection and identification of plant-pathogenic bacteria is presented and discussed, aimed at facilitating access to information that could be particularly useful for diagnostic laboratories. This compilation includes and discusses 246 articles published between 1989 and 2007 addressing 23 genera, more than 50 species, 10 subspecies and more than 40 pathovars.
41998643|Maize ear rot is an important disease of maize in Kenya. In this study fumonisin B (FB) and aflatoxin B (AFB) analysis were conducted on symptomless and rotten maize harvested at different harvest time points after physiological maturity (HTPAPM). Fusarium verticillioides dominated at all HTPAPM. Other fungi reported include Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus parasiticus and Sternocarpella may dis. In 2001, FB levels in symptomless maize ranged between 22 to 1348 g/kg. Mean FB levels at 4, 8, and 12 weeks HTPAPM for Malava were 56, 80 and 317 g/kg respectively. In Tongaren during 2001 mean FB levels of 41, 179 and 590 g/kg were recorded at 4, 8, 12 week HTPAPM respectively. The FB levels in rotten maize ranged from 39 to >5000 g/kg and increased with HTPAPM. The highest AFB level was 17 g/kg in rotten maize. The results suggest that delayed harvesting could increase FB contamination in maize.
41998520|During 2001-2005, 54 bacterial strains were isolated from the rhizosphere and phyllosphere of hazelnut trees with symptoms of dieback. The bacteria were screened by in vitro agar plating assays for possible biological control of hazelnut dieback. Two of the bacteria inhibited the growth of the hazelnut dieback-associated pathogens, Pseudomonas avellanae and Pseudomonas syringae pv. coryli. The antagonistic bacteria were identified as Pseudomonas fluorescens and Bacillus megaterium according to phenotypic characters and 16S rDNA sequencing.
24332033|The quantitative and qualitative changes in phenolic compounds were compared in Nicotiana spp. plants that were either wounded or infected with Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) containing satellite RNA. Significant changes in total phenolic (TP) content were analysed in N. megalosiphon, N. glutinosa and N. tabacum var. Samsun at four different time intervals. The highest decrease of TP was detected in wounded N. megalosiphon plants while the highest increase was detected in infected N. megalosiphon plants. Depending on treatment and time, a significant increase or decrease of caffeic acid, quercetin or kaempferol was detected in the investigated species. The strongest increase in quercetin concentration was observed in infected N. glutinosa. The largest number of significant changes of caffeic acid, quercetin and kaempferol concentration in the analysed time intervals was observed in infected N. megalosiphon plants. The defence response to wounding in all investigated Nicotiana species resulted in a significant decrease of detected phenolic content. The detected changes in phenolics in virus-infected plants were characteristic for each species, suggesting that each species activates a different defence response to viral infection. The observed changes of phenolics are obvious responses to wounding and viral infection, which could likely be involved in activating a distinct defence response to a specific stress.
23721742|Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum (Pcc) is the causal agent of soft rot of potato tubers. This study was conducted to assess the genetic variation of a collection of 32 Pcc isolates from three different potato cultivars grown in the eastern parts of Iran using subspecies-specific PCR, 16S rDNA sequencing and rep-PCR analyses and comparing these methods with each other. In initial experiments, the identity of isolates was confirmed by specific primers related to Pcc subspecies and differentiated from closely species (P. wasabiae) using restriction enzyme analysis. All isolates were also checked for phenotypic properties and pathogenicity on potato tubers. Phylogenetic analysis, using clustering methods on partial sequences of the 16S rDNA, showed that all Iranian isolates grouped with the Pcc type strain (ATCC1571) except for six isolates from Kashmar. Based on rep-PCR cluster analysis of the pairwise similarity values using UPGMA, bacterial isolates could be separated into three clusters, the third of which (Kashmar isolates) was allocated in a distinct group. The similarity coefficients among strains ranged from 0.2 to 1. Rep-PCR primers disclosed different levels of genetic heterogeneity among Pcc isolates. No clear association was found between clustering based on rep-PCR and the geographical origin of the isolates, original host plant cultivars and the year of collection.
23721580|In this study, we analysed a collection of Waitea circinata comprising 20 isolates (17 var. zeae; one var. circinata and two var. oryzae) from different localities and hosts with macroscopic anastomosis tests, PCR-RFLP and phylogenetic analysis of the 18S-28S rDNA-ITS region. Macroscopic anastomosis was not useful for the identification of W. circinata isolates because all isolates, even those of the same variety, gave tuft reactions indicating unrelatedness. However, varieties of W. circinata showed unique RFLP patterns with HhaI, MseI and TaqI enzymes, suggesting that this molecular method may be suitable for quick identification. 18S-28S rDNA-ITS phylogeny revealed two main monophyletic groups within W. circinata var. zeae isolates. The first main monophyletic group appeared global as it contained isolates from Asia, the Americas and Europe, and the second main monophyletic group was only comprised of isolates from the Americas. Because the genetic diversity of W. circinata var. zeae isolates from the Americas was higher than that from other continents, it may have originated there and later it may have disseminated from Far East to Eastern Europe.
24579139|Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV) was detected by PCR in Tunisian stone fruit germplasm collections. Peach had the highest infection rate reaching 50%, followed by apricot (46.8%), almond (35.5%) and plum (9.5%). The genetic variability of the CP gene of 10 PNRSV isolates was evaluated by SSCP analysis of PCR products and analysis of their sequence. In phylogenetic trees, Tunisian PNRSV isolates clustered in the three major groups, PV96, PV32 and PE5. However, an almond isolate (AlTun8) segregated as an out-group. This isolate is phylogenetically distant from other PNRSV isolates from different parts of the world and displays nucleic and amino acid identities of 83-86% and 65-74%, respectively, with PV96, PE5 and PV32. This is the first report on the molecular variability of PNRSV in different Prunus hosts in Tunisia.
41998442|To determine the natural incidence of Plum pox virus (PPV) in ornamental Prunus species, surveys of 120 species/cultivars were conducted in Hungary between 2002 and 2007. Fifty-nine PPV-infected trees were detected by ELISA and/or PCR. Twenty-five were P. cerasifera cv. Nigra with dark red leaves, which accounts for a significant proportion of street-grown Prunus trees in Hungary. Molecular assays showed a prevalence of strain PPV-D (22) over PPV-M (2) and mixed infection of strains M and D (1). Infection was identified in: *Persica x davidiopersica cv. Atropurprea, P. cerasifera, *P. cerasifera (Blue-fruited), *P. cerasifera (Light-pink-fruited), *P. cerasifera cv. Nigra, *P. cerasifera cv. Pendula, *P. cerasifera cv. Pissardii, *P. cerasifera cv. Woodii, P. glandulosa, *P. glandulosa cv. Alba Plena, *P. japnica, *Prunus x blireana, *Prunus x blireana cv. Moseri. On cultivars with dark-red leaves, symptoms could not be recognized even if the virus concentration was high. It can be assumed that in Hungary the latently infected red-leaved cultivars can play an important role in the wide distribution of PPV. Therefore it is a must to implement the certification scheme for propagating materials also considering that a number of Prunus species and cultivars (marked by an asterisk above) have been identified as previously unreported natural hosts of PPV in Hungary.
41998443|Transgenic C5 cv. Honey Sweet is a clone of Prunus domestica L. transformed with the Plum pox virus coat protein gene (PPV-CP). This transgenic plum displays post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) which makes it highly resistant to PPV infection. To test the effect of heterologous viruses on the efficacy and stability of PTGS against PPV, transgenic C5 trees were graft-inoculated with different combinations of Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV), Apple chlorotic leaf spot virus (ACLSV), Prune dwarf virus (PDV) and PPV-D strain. The potential for suppression of the silencing mechanism mediated by these viruses was evaluated. Challenge experiments were performed under greenhouse, nursery and field conditions in Romania and Spain, comprising two different environments, continental and Mediterranean, respectively. Virus infections were evaluated by visual monitoring of symptom and by serological and molecular assays. The engineered resistance to PPV in C5 transgenic plums was stable and was not suppressed by the presence of the challenging heterologous viruses over a three-year experimental period across all trials.
23721755|The fungus Cochliobolus sativus is the causal agent of Barley spot blotch (SB) disease. In order to better understand barley physiological reaction towards this disease, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and ion fluxes in two different genotypes inoculated with a virulent isolate of C. sativus were investigated. Results showed that SB development was directly dependent on H2O2 generation and accumulation during infection. Significant differences (P<0.001) in H2O2 values were found among different time points, with values being consistently higher in the resistant genotype. The interaction between host leaves and pathogen produced a marked increase in electrolyte leakage from the susceptible genotype compared with the resistant one. The information obtained from this study highlights crucial points that can guide hypothesis-driven research to elucidate the molecular mechanisms involved in C. sativus-barley interaction
41998592|The aim of this study was to evaluate the survival of a strain of Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. phaseoli var. fuscans (Xap), resistant to streptomycin sulphate, in common bean leaflets placed on the soil surface and buried at a depth of 10 and 15 cm. Four assays were carried out from November 1998 to December 2000 in Bandeirantes (Paran, Brazil). The leaflets were collected every 15 days, crushed and the dilution-plated on a semi-selective medium. Under mild temperatures and low rainfall, Xap survived for 65 to 180 days in the leaflets on the soil surface, and for 30 to 120 days in those incorporated in the soil, regardless of the depth. When higher rainfall and temperatures occurred, the survival was from 45 to 60 days in the leaflets on the soil surface and from 30 to 45 days in those buried 10 or 15 cm deep.
41997875|After treatment with a pulse of ozone (120 ppb, 4 h), enzymatic activities involved in the detoxification of reactive oxygen species [superoxide dismutase (SOD), total peroxidase (PX), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), syringaldazine peroxidase (SPX) and guaiacol peroxidase (GPX)] were determined in the primary leaves of two cultivars of bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), which on the basis of macroscopic responses were designated ozonesensitive (cv. Pinto) and ozone-resistant (cv. Groffy). Although slightly higher in the sensitive cultivar, all PX activities were found to be at nearly comparable levels in the untreated plants of both cultivars; hovewer for SOD, constitutive levels were about twice as high in the resistant cultivar. The response to ozone developed rather slowly, being maximal after 48-96 h. Exposure to ozone caused a large increase of SOD and PX activities in the sensitive Pinto, and smaller variations in the resistant Groffy. The largest variations (up to 7-11 fold increases) were observed for APX, SPX and SOD activities in Pinto. We conclude that the induction of antioxidant enzymes does not represent a major defence mechanism against ozone in bean, but appears to be a secondary consequence of ozone injury. Attivit enzi matiche ritenute implicate nella detossificazione delle specie attive di ossigeno [superossido dismutasi (SOD), perossidasi totali (PX), ascorbato perossidasi (APX), siringaldazina perossidasi (SPX) e guaiacolo perossidasi (GPX)] sono state determinate 0, 4, 24, 48 e 96 h dopo l'inizio di una fumigazione con ozono (120 ppb per 4 h) nelle foglie primarle di due cultivar di fagiolo (Phaseolus vulgaris), che - sulla base della risposta macroscopica - erano indicate come ozono-sensibile (cv. Pinto) e ozonoresistente (cv. Groffy). Tutte le attivit PX risultavano a livelli comparabili nel materiale non trattato, anche se leggermente superiori nella cultivar sensibile; il contrario era vero per SOD. L'esposizione ad ozono causava un notevole incremento delle attivit SOD e PX nelle piante di Pinto e minime variazioni nelle resistenti Groffy. Le variazioni massime (incrementi fino a 7-11 volte) erano osservate per APX, SPX e SOD in Pinto. In fagiolo, l'induzione di attivit enzimatiche ad azione antiossidante non costituisce il principale meccanismo di difesa dall'ozono; essa sembra essere, piuttosto, una conseguenza del danno provocato dall'inquinante.
41998094|Dills (Anethum graveolens L.) grown from seeds in a small area of the Italian Riviera showed symptoms including stalk discoloration, flower virescence and phyllody. The affected plants were tested for the presence of phytoplasmas. DNAs were PCR-amplified in reactions with ribosomal universal or group-specific primer pairs and analysed by restriction digestions with BfaI or Msel enzyme. Phytoplasmas, identified as members of 16SrI-B, I-C, V-A and XII-A subgroups were present in 18 out of 22 samples (81.8%). Of these, 9 (50% of the infected) carried a single phytoplasma [3 subgroup 16SrI-B (16.6%), 1 16SrI-C (5.5%), and 5 16SrV-A (27.7%)]. Seven samples (38.8%) carried two different phytoplasmas (6 members of subgroups V-A and XII-A; 1 member of subgroups I-C and V-A). Two samples carried phytoplasmas of three different subgroups in different mixes (I-C, V-A and XII-A; I-B, I-C and XII-A). There was no clear correlation between a given symptom and the presence of one or more phytoplasmas. This is the first report from Europe of phytoplasmas in dill plants.
41998393|Within the context of a program in Cyprus for the control of Citrus tristeza virus (CTV), the coat protein (CP) genes of 12 local isolates of the virus that induced different symptoms on host trees, were compared to those of known isolates. The CP genes were reverse-transcribed (RT) and amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and the resulting amplicons were cloned and sequenced. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed no signs of geographic speciation. All the sequences obtained clustered close to those of previously known isolates of worldwide origin that are in five distinct groups. The nucleotide diversity was high compared to that found using a worldwide database of CP gene sequences. These data support the existence of different CTV introductions into Cyprus or an introduction from a location in which CTV is relatively diverse. Some of the isolates induced stem pitting on branches of grapefruit and sweet orange. Such isolates have not been noted often in the Mediterranean basin. They were close in CP sequence to isolate B249 from Venezuela, which induces stem pitting, and are of particular concern for the whole region.
24579152|Several vineyards and a Vitis germplasm collection were surveyed in Algeria for the presence of Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 3 (GLRaV-3) by DAS-ELISA. The virus was found in almost half (44%) of the samples tested (212 out of 484). The genetic diversity of selected GLRaV-3 isolates was determined by characterizing fragments of the heat shock 70 protein homologue (HSP70h) and coat protein (CP) genes by single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) and sequencing. Algerian GLRaV-3 isolates showed three SSCP patterns and belonged to previously described phylogenetic groups I, II and III. Analysis of phylogenetic trees obtained with partial HSP70h gene sequences suggested the existence of two new subgroups and confirmed a few stand-alone variants. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first characterization of GLRaV-3 isolates from Algeria.
41997917|Tagetes Witches' Broom disease (TWB) was first recorded in Italy in 1958, and in 1972 a phytoplasma was associated with the disease. Infected Tagetes patulus plants were used as source of inoculum for phytoplasma transmission to Catharanthus roseus. The phytoplasma was also back-transmitted from C. roseus to T. patulus and T. erectus by dodder. Three monoclonal antibodies (Mabs) were obtained against the TWB agent (TWBa); all belonging to subclass IgG1. Using ELISA and DIBA (dot immunobinding assay) it was possible to detect TWBa in experimentally inoculated periwinkle and Tagetes, and in naturally infected Tagetes. The specificity of the Mabs was also evaluated by ELISA checking 30 phytoplasmas isolated on perwinkle from different herbaceous and woody plants. Serological correlation was observed only between TWBa and a phytoplasma isolated from a yellows-infected grapevine. La malattia denominata scopazzi del tagete (TWB)  stata segnalata in Italia nel 1958, e nel 1972 un fitoplasma  stato associato alia fitopatia. Piante di Tagetes patulus infette sono state sate come sorgente d'inoculo per la trasmissione del fitoplasma a piante di Catharanthus roseus. Il fitoplasma  stato inoltre trasmesso di ritorno da C. roseus a T. patulus e a T. erectus usando la cuscuta. Sono stati ottenuti 3 anticorpi monoclonali (Mabs) specifici per l'agente di TWB (TWBa), tutti appartengono alla sottoclasse IgG1. I tre Mabs, in ELISA indiretto, in DASELISA e in DIBA (dot-immunobinding assay) hanno permesso di diagnosticare TWBa sia in pervinca e tagete inoculati sperimentalmente che in tageti con infezione naturale. La specificit dei Mabs  stata valutata in ELISA indiretto con 30 fitoplasmi, isolati su pervinca da diverse piante erbacee ed arboree. Correlazione sierologica  stata osservata solo tra TWBa ed un fitoplasma isolato da vite affetta da giallume.
41998134|Two experiments were carried out in different Jordanian locations to test the effect of solarization on populations of Agrobacterium spp., including Agrobacterium tumefaciens, the crown gall agent that was inoculated in the soil, as well as on crown gall incidence. The results of these experiments showed that solarization markedly decreased the populations of three Jordanian A. tumefaciens isolates that were used as inoculum in the trials. Bacterial population reduction was correlated with temperature and soil type. Agrobacterium spp. population decreased by 99% in the first three weeks after inoculation. Lower bacterial recovery was obtained from solarized plots in the Jordan Valley (silty clay soil and temperature ranging from 39 to 51C) than from the comparable treatments carried out in the uplands (clay soil and temperature ranging from 29 to 46C). Solarization did not completely eliminate Agrobacterium spp. from the soil, but the number of GF677 and bitter almond roostock seedlings with crown gall was significantly reduced in solarized plots in the Jordan Valley and uplands (by 89 and 94%, respectively) as compared with seedlings planted on non-solarized plots.
41997889|In cells infected by cymbidium ringspot tombusvirus (CymRSV) the limiting membrane of peroxisomes proliferates, leading to the formation of multivesicular bodies (MVBs). Immunogold labeling in thin-sectioned cells showed that the virus-encoded 33K protein was associated with MVBs. Uninfected cells of transgenic Nicotiana benthamiana plants expressing the 33K (prereadthrough) or the 33K/92K (replicase) proteins presented abnormal cytopathological structures in the cytoplasm, differing from MVBs but containing the 33K protein. These findings suggest that the abnormal structures observed in cells of transgenic plants originate from deranged peroxisomes and that the 33K protein is involved in their development as well as in that of MVBs in infected cells of non-transgenic plants. Le cellule infette dal virus della maculatura anulare del cymbidium (CymRSV) subiscono una profonda modificazione della membrana periferica dei perossisomi che attraverso un progressivo processo vescicolativo, trasforma gli organuli in strutture citopatologiche chiamate corpi multivescicolari (MVB). Mediante immunomarcatura con oro colloidale,  stata accertata l'associazione della proteina non strutturale 33K di CymRSV con i MVB in cellule di Nicotiana benthamiana sistemicamente infette dal virus. Le cellule di piante della stessa specie trasformate con la proteina 33K o con il complesso replicasico 33K/92K, hanno mostrato la presenza nel citoplasma di circa il 75% di esse, di strutture anomale diverse dai MVB e non ritrovate nei testimoni, derivanti da una profonda modificazione dei perossisomi. A seguito di marcatura con oro colloidale, anche queste strutture, ma non i perossisomi non modificati, hanno mostrato la costante presenza della proteina 33 K. Questi reperti suggeriscono che la proteina 33K  coinvolta nella genesi sia dei MVB nelle cellule infette delle piante normali, che delle strutture anomale nelle cellule delle piante transgeniche.  stata cos ottenuta la prova visiva di quanto precedentemente accertato con esperimenti di frazionamento cellulare differenziale e con Tuso di ceppi virali ricombinanti prodotti in laboratorio.
41998018|Species of Trichoderma are commercially applied as biological control agents against fungal pathogens. Since this process requires the degradation of the cell-wall of the fungal host, chitinases secreted by Trichoderma have been addressed as major determinants of biocontrol activity. In this review we will report on the recent progress in the understanding of chitinase multiplicity in Trichoderma, on the outstanding role of one chitinase isoenzyme  the 42-kDa endochitinase  for biocontrol by T. atroviride and in rekombinant plants, and on the regulatory circuits governing its expression upon contact of Trichoderma with plant pathogenic hosts.
41998678|Mineral factors are important in optimizing growth media for production of high quality biocontrol agents. In this work we investigated the effect of some minerals and some combinations of them during fermentation of Pseudomonas fluorescens UTPF61 on its growth in flask and fermentor and its subsequent antagonistic activity in vitro and in planta. Its survival during the formulation process and shelf life over a period of 60 days was investigated. None of the mineral amendments had an effect on bacterial growth. In dual culture assays bacteria grown in a zinc-supplemented medium, showed the maximum inhibition (20 mm) of mycelial growth of Sclerotinia sclerotiorum. Medium including a combination of zinc, bromine and iron gave maximum inhibition of mycelial growth. In greenhouse studies, bacteria grown in medium with zinc showed high inhibition against S. scletoriorum. Cobalt, magnesium and copper had a negative effect on antagonistic activity. Bacteria obtained from medium including a combination of zinc and molybdenum showed high antagonistic activity and resulted in 55% healthy plants. A combination of Zn-Fe-Mo improved resistance of the bacterial cells to the drying process. In all treatments (in both flask culture and fermentor studies) UTPF61 survived up to 60 days without any dramatic decline from the initial population.
23721572|Colletotrichum kahawae, a very aggressive pathogen causing coffee berry disease (CBD), is specific to Arabica coffee (Coffea arabica) in Africa. This species is a significant quarantine pathogen in many countries which are still free from CBD. C. kahawae is morphologically similar to C. gloeosporioides but is phylogenetically and phenotypically distinct. Loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) is a simple, cost-effective, and rapid method for specific DNA-based detection. In this paper, the Apn2/ MAT locus was selected as candidate marker, on whose basis species-specific primers were designed for loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) diagnosis of C. kahawae. The accuracy of this assay was tested using the type strains of other closely related species in the C. gloeosporioides species complex. The sensitivity of LAMP is high, with 810-2 pg l-1 genomic DNA as the lowest detectable concentration. It offers a new and effective way for the rapid, specific and cost-effective diagnosis of severe fungal pathogens, thus representing a favourable option to conventional PCR and real-time PCR assays. LAMP diagnosis of C. kahawae is likely to provide a useful technological option for quarantine and disease management and control to prevent further spreading of this pathogen.
23721518|Nonhost resistance (NHR) confers plants immunity to most microbial pathogens. Resistance responses in nonhost pepper cv. A11 and the incompatible host wheat cv. Suwon 11 against the stripe rust fungus Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici (Pst) were studied histochemically. Similarly high germination rates of Pst were observed on both nonhost and resistant host. However, the majority of germ tubes failed to form substomatal vesicles and fewer haustoria formed in the nonhost interaction, while the ratio of H2O2 accumulation was considerably high in pepper. During a further incubation period, no secondary hyphae were found in nonhost pepper-Pst. In contrast, significantly higher proportion of haustoria and a much lower production of H2O2 and secondary hyphae were detectable in the incompatible host resistance deployed by wheat. The incidence of hypersensitive cell death was found to be slightly higher in the nonhost interaction. These results indicate that H2O2 and hypersensitive cell death play important roles in the NHR of pepper to Pst, and nonhost and host resistance may share similar mechanisms.
41999040|A potyvirus associated with foliar mosaic symptoms displayed by Hippeastrum (Hip-Br) and two Euch arts samples (Euch-B and Euch-C) from three different cities of Brazil was detected and identified by transmission tests, electron microscopy, reverse-transcription, RT-PCR and sequencing. Transmission electron microscopy revealed the presence of elongated, flexuous viral particles in the extracts of symptomatic leaves, while in thin sections of symptomatic leaves, cytoplasmic aggregates of type II lamellar inclusions (Edwardson's classification) were observed. The experimental host range was restricted. RT-PCR using universal potyvirus primers amplified DNA products of 1,499 bp corresponding to the partial nuclear inclusion body (Nib) gene, full-length coat protein (CP) gene and 3' end untranslated region (UTR). Pairwise analyses from CP and Nib nucleotide sequences of Hip-Br, Euch-B and Euch-C viruses and other potyviruses revealed high identities with previously reported Alaska (GQ857550) and Rilona (EF203685) Hippeastrum mosaic virus (HiMV) isolates, Amazon lily mosaic virus (ALiMV, AY590143), and Amaryllis potyvirus (AmaPV, AY566239). The phylogeny calculated by a maximum likelihood method showed that Hip-Br, Euch-B and Euch-C formed a monophyletic group supported by 100% bootstrap with HiMV. This is the first report of HiMV in Hippeastrum sp. and Eucharis sp. from Brazil. Our data support the taxonomic position of HiMV and other potyviruses isolated from amaryllis and Amazon lily in a separated cluster of Amazon lily mosaic virus (AB158523).
41998093|During 2001, in the Aegean Greek islands of Rodi and Kastellorizo, wild castor bean plants (Ricinus communis L.), showing yellowish vein netting and mottling of the leaves were observed. A virus was isolated by mechanical inoculation from such plants to herbaceous hosts, which based on biological, serological and molecular assays was identified as an isolate of Olive latent virus 2 (OLV-2/CB), virtually indistinguishable from the type strain. The field syndrome was experimentally reproduced in artificially inoculated castor bean seedlings and the virus reisolated, thus fulfilling Koch's postulates. This is the first report of OLV-2 outside Italy in a natural host other than olive.
41998675|The necrotrophic fungus Botrytis cinerea is the causal agent of grey mould disease on grapevine. In contact with mature grape berries, the fungus encounters an environment particularly rich in polyphenols and proteins, where the stilbenic phytoalexin trans-resveratrol may accumulate. Some grape proteins are structurally and functionally related to plant pathogenesis-related proteins. To mimic conditions similar to those found in grape berries, B. cinerea was grown in vitro with proteins and polyphenols extracted from mature grapes, and with trans-resveratrol. Results showed that in the presence of highly toxic amounts of trans-resveratrol, grape polyphenols allowed total recovery of fungal growth, and proteins allowed partial recovery. These resveratrol-polyphenol or resveratrol-protein combinations also induced a strong release into the medium of lacease activity, which is likely to be involved in trans-resveratrol detoxification. The protein pattern changed during fungal growth; most grape proteins quickly disappeared from the culture when polyphenols and trans-resveratrol were present together. Similar protein patterns were obtained in vitro by incubating grape proteins with grape polyphenols and/or trans-resveratrol with a purified B. cinerea lacease. Under these conditions, most proteins became insoluble. The grape protein pattern obtained from grape berries infected by B. cinerea strongly resembled that obtained in vitro by incubating grape proteins and polyphenols with fungal laccase. It seems that B. cinerea, through lacease secretion and activity and by exploiting the berry polyphenols, easily neutralizes the toxicity of grape stilbenic phytoalexins and makes the grape pathogenesis-related proteins insoluble.
41998376|Twenty isolates of unidentified bacillus species were obtained from pathogen-suppressive soils of pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan) fields for the biocontrol of a wilt disease complex caused by Heterodera cajani, Meloidogyne incognita and Fusarium udum. Five isolates (B602, B603, B605, B615 and B618) were considered to have biocontrol potential on the basis of antifungal activity, inhibitory effect on the hatching and penetration of nematodes and colonization of pigeon pea roots by these isolates. The five Bacillus isolates were evaluated for biocontrol potential under pot conditions. Isolates B615 and B603 were found to be the most promising and should be further studied in field experiments.
41998077|Apple dimple fruit viroid (ADFVd) causes a severe fruit disorder in several apple cultivars. The viroid was discovered a few years ago, and only a limited number of sequence variants has been reported so far. In this work, the sequence variability of two ADFVd field isolates from two commercial apple cultivars was studied. Sequencing of 18 full-length cDNA clones revealed five new sequence variants, all adopting a similar quasi-rodlike secondary structure of lowest free energy. Sequence comparison showed nine polymorphic positions distributed in different regions of the ADFVd molecule. Since symptoms of apple dimple fruit disease resemble those of dapple apple induced by Apple scar skin viroid (ASSVd), and it has been experimentally demonstrated that these two viroids may co-exist in the same plant, a fast and sensitive method for their rapid detection and discrimination is needed. We report here a method that meets such needs. Total nucleic acid minipreparations from symptomatic fruits, obtained by extraction with buffer-saturated phenol and further treatment with a silica-gel capture system, were used as templates for the simultaneous detection of ADFVd and ASSVd by multiplex fluorescent RT-PCR amplification. The incorporation in the PCR reaction of two viroid-specific primers, each labeled with a different fluorescent dye, simplifies and facilitates distinction of the amplified products, and avoids the use of the mutagenic and cancer inducing agent ethidium bromide for gel staining.
23721513|Kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa) was introduced to New Zealand more than one hundred years ago and the New Zealand-raised cv. Hayward is now the dominant cultivar grown worldwide. Further accessions of kiwifruit seed and scionwood have been sourced from China for research and breeding. In one importation consignment, the first virus naturally infecting kiwifruit, Apple stem grooving virus (ASGV), was identified following symptoms observed in quarantined plants (2003). Since that time a further 12 viruses have been identified in kiwifruit. We classify these 13 viruses into three groups. The first group comprises the non-specialist viruses and includes Alfalfa mosaic virus (AMV) and Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) both members of the family Bromoviridae. The group also includes a further five viruses that appear to have limited effect on kiwifruit: two tobamoviruses, Ribgrass mosaic virus (RMV) and Turnip vein clearing virus (TVCV); a tombusvirus, Cucumber necrosis virus (CNV); a novel potexvirus; and Apple stem gooving virus (ASGV, genus Capillovirus). Most of the viruses classified in this first group are cosmopolitan and sometimes orchard weeds provide reservoirs for infection. The second group comprises the kiwifruit-adapted viruses. This group includes three novel viruses, i.e. two vitiviruses, Actinidia virus A (AcVA) and Actinidia virus B (AcVB), and a citrivirus closely related to Citrus leaf blotch virus (CLBV). In addition, preliminary evidence of a novel virus belonging to the Closteroviridae family has been obtained. The third group of viruses induces disease in kiwifruit. To date only two viruses have caused significant damage to kiwifruit within commercial orchards. In New Zealand, Cherry leaf roll virus (CLRV) has been detected on kiwifruit associated with symptoms including leaf spots, fruit malformation, reduction in yield, bark cracking and cane wilting. Pelargonium zonate spot virus (PZSV) has been detected in Italy associated with severe symptoms on leaves and fruit.
41998692|Huanglongbing (HLB), the most devastating citrus disease in the world, has been recently seen in Cuba. Characteristic HLB fruit symptoms, blotchy-mottled leaves and yellow shoots were observed on trees of several citrus varieties and species in urban areas of Havana city, and in citrus groves from the central, western and eastern parts of the country. The presence of only Ca. Liberibacter asiaticus in symptomatic citrus plants and in adult individuals of the Asian citrus psyllid, Diaphorina citri, was determined by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Transmission electron microscopy showed liberibacter-like structures to be exclusively located in the sieve tubes. DNA fragments amplified from the rplKAJL-rpoBC operon were cloned and sequenced. Sequence analyses revealed 100% identity with the corresponding sequences of ribosomal rpl protein genes from Ca. L. asiaticus.
41997916|Peach latent mosaic viroid (PLMVd) was detected by indexing on peach 'GF-305' seedlings and by molecular hybridization with a digoxigenin-labelled riboprobe, in 9 out of 14 peach samples from the Liaoning province of the People's Republic of China. For molecular assays four different tissue processing methods were compared, two involving total nucleic acid (TNA) extraction with or without organic solvents followed by formaldehyde or alkaline denaturation, and two based on direct denaturation of crude leaf sap. All extracts, regardless of the method used, gave positive hybridization signals, but alkaline denaturation increased the sensitivity of detection in both TNA and crude sap preparations. Because of its simplicity and minimal manipulation, alkaline denaturation of crude sap appears to be the best method for routine detection of PLMVd. Il viroide del mosaico latente del pesco  stato identificato in 9 su 14 piante di pesco della provincia cinese di Liaoning sia con indexaggio sull'indicatore "GF-305", che con ibridazione molecolare con una ribosonda marcata con digossigenina. Per i saggi molecolari sono stati provati quattro metodi di preparazione del campione, due dei quali prevedevano l'estrazione dell'TRNA totale con solventi organici o no, e due erano basati sulla denaturazione diretta di sueco fogliare con formaldeide o con idrossido di sodio. Tutti i tipi di estrazione, indipendentemente dal mtodo adoperato, hanno dato risultati positivi alia ibridazione. La denaturazione alcalina, tuttavia, ha aumentato la sensibilit delle reazioni, per cui, a causa della semplicit e della scarsa manipolazione che richiede, il trattamento con soda di estratti grezzi di sueco fogliare appare come il metodo pi indicato per la diagnosi di routine.
41998623|Conidia of Pyrenophora graminea, the causal agent of barley leaf stripe, were simultaneously exposed outdoors to direct solar radiation or placed in an adjacent ventilated enclosure in the dark for four months. After exposure, conidia were placed on water agar in closed Petri dishes and allowed to germinate for 24 h. Shaded conditions were always more favourable to conidia germination and mycelial growth than sunlight conditions. Significant decreases (P<0.05) in conidia germinability (60.6%) and mycelial growth (41.46%) were detected in light-exposed conidia in comparison with the non-exposed control. Exposure also decreased the pathogenicity of fungus on different cultivars. The possibility that sunlight exposure may reduce conidia germinability over the hottest four months and aerial transport distances should be considered.
41998392|Peach latent mosaic viroid (PLMVd), the causal agent of peach latent mosaic disease, is transmissible by grafting and pruning tools and, occasionally, by aphids. There is no information on other possible ways of transmission. The high incidence of field infections and the rate of natural spread (5-10% of newly infected plants per year), prompted us to investigate the role, if any, that pollen, seed and root contact could play in PLMVd dissemination. The viroid was detected by molecular assays in pollen, seeds and roots of infected trees. Five out of 18 plants, pollinated with pollen from infected trees, became positive for PLMVd. Seeds from PLMVd-infected trees were also viroid-positive, but their seedlings were apparently viroid-free. PLMVd was not detected in the roots of healthy seedlings grown for six years in a container together with infected seedlings, indicating that no transmission had occurred via roots. Thus PLMVd is pollen-transmitted but is not transmitted through seeds nor roots of infected peach plants.
41998940|During 2006-2008, a survey conducted in soilless and soil-grown tomato crops in eastern and southeastern Sicily (Italy) disclosed the presence of widespread leaf chlorosis and necrosis associated with yellow, pink or brown discolouration of vascular and pith tissues. Bacteria were always isolated from symptomatic tissues on KB and NA media. A total of 158 isolates showed the LOPAT characters of group Va (-+-+-) and group Vb (++-+-) and 21 of these strains were identified as different biovars of Pseudomonas fluorescens and P. putida. Koch's postulates showed that 42 fluorescent Pseudomonas isolates are able to induce vascular discolouration of tomato plants but not leaf chlorosis and necrosis. The interactions of vascular infections and abiotic stresses were studied in growth chamber experiments. Differences in virulence were found among P. fluorescens biovar I and P. putida bv. A strains on tomato plants grown under saline stress conditions. Both bacteria were able to induce leaf chlorosis, necrosis or death of tomato plants under saline stress conditions.
24722546|Rhynchosporium secalis, the causal agent of barley scald disease, begins the infection process as a biotroph and switches to necrotrophism after colonization. It is well known that plants require distinct arsenals of genes to successfully respond to either biotrophic or necrotrophic pathogenic stages. To characterize the defense responses initiated by resistant and susceptible barley genotypes when R. secalis changes the trophic lifestyle, a temporal survey of transcript abundance at early points of infection was conducted. A total of 285 gene transcripts, 37 of which exhibited significant (P<0.001) differential accumulation in the resistant and susceptible cultivars, compared to non-inoculated controls, with 11 transcripts (4 defense-related) in common. Transcripts were divided into one of six general categories (defense, metabolism, regulatory, transport, miscellaneous, and unknown function), in which defense and metabolism had the greatest number of common transcripts in the resistant cultivar. Quantities of differentially accumulated gene transcripts in both cultivars were identified at 24 h post infection, the approximate time when R. secalis changes trophic lifestyle. Differentially and significantly accumulating transcripts either unique or common between susceptible and resistant barley genotypes suggest distinct defense responses based on the pathogen trophic lifestyle.
41998333|Single strand conformation pattern (SSCP) analysis of the HSP70 homologue gene of thirty isolates of Olive leaf yellowing-associated virus (OLYaV) from different geographical origins showed the existence of wide variability within this virus. This variability was clearly confirmed when multiple alignments of the HSP70 nucleotide sequences of 13 isolates that had different SSCP patterns were analysed. All isolates clustered with OLYaV-type in a phylogenetic tree constructed with the available HSP70 sequences of several members of the family Closteroviridae. The level of variability in a fragment of 383 nucleotides of the HSP70 gene ranged from 1% to 23%. Three distinct groups of isolates were identified, each of which had an internal variability lower than 10%, but showed a higher divergence from members of the other two groups (from 15 to 23%). In RT-PCR assays, primers specific for HSP70, but not those specific for the RdRp or HSP90 cistrons, amplified isolates of all groups. Whether or not the molecular differences observed in a highly conserved portion of the Closteroviridae genome (HSP70) can be indicative of the existence of more than one species within the OLYaV population remains to be ascertained.
41992425|The appearance of virus-like symptoms in leaves and fruits of Japanese plums in a stone-fruit tree germplasm collection in Tunisia led us to screen them for the presence of known stone-fruit viruses. Chip-budding of dormant bark from suspected plums onto seedlings of the biological indicator GF 305, and subsequent testing of these plants by serological and molecular tests, confirmed the presence of Plum pox virus (PPV) and demonstrated for the first time the occurrence of this virus in Tunisia. The use of monoclonal antibodies and restriction fragment length polymorphism of amplified cDNA identified the virus as belonging to strain D. Two Japanese plums cultivars '606' and 'Fortune' were severely affected. Seven other plum cultivars were also infected with PPV.
41998516|Eggplant mottled dwarf virus (EMDV) was detected for the first time in southern Italy in several Hibiscus rosa-sinensis L. plants with vein yellowing. The virus was identified by the reactions of a herbaceous host range, cytopathology and serology. Virions were observed only in the nuclei of infected cells where they accumulated between the inner and outer lamella of the nuclear envelope. The virus was identified by an antiserum to a potato isolate of EMDV both in immunoelectron microscopy tests and in leaf sap with indirect ELISA. A limited survey revealed that EMDV occurs in naturally infected hibiscus in Campania, Calabria and Sicily (southern Italy). Some aspects of the epidemiology of EMDV are briefly discussed.
41998590|The Sudanese citrus industry is mainly based on old-line cultivars of grapefruit, sweet orange and willow leaf mandarin, grafted almost exclusively on sour orange. Infection with graft-transmissible agents, viroids in particular, may have deleterious effects on the productivity of these citrus species and, more importantly, limits the choice of rootstocks should sour orange be replaced by alternative rootstocks because of tristeza disease. Three cv. Foster pink grapefruit sources and one local selection of Nuri-16, a local sweet orange selection, proved to be infected by several viroids, including Citrus exocortis viroid (CEVd) and Hop stunt viroid (HSVd), the causal agents of exocortis and cachexia, respectively. Cloning and sequencing of four HSVd isolates showed that in addition to the characteristic variants containing the "cachexia expression motif" or the "non-cachexia expression motif", other variants were also present. To secure additional information, samples from 24 citrus species and cultivars were collected in 2008 from several citrus-growing regions and analyzed for the presence of viroids. The results confirmed that CEVd, HSVd, Citrus bent leaf viroid (CBLVd), Citrus dwarfing viroid (CDVd), and Citrus bark cracking viroid (CBCVd), but not Citrus viroid V (CVd-V), are widely spread throughout the surveyed areas. None of the collected samples was found to be viroid-free. The relationships between viroid infection and "gummy bark" and "Kassala disease", two affections of unknown etiology, but with cachexia-like gum impregnations in the bark, are discussed.
41998188|Four races of Xanthomonas campestris pv. malvacearum (Xcm) viz. races 23, 27 and 32 (isolated from Gossypium hirsutum) and race 23b (from Gossypium barbadense) were studied. The plasmid profile of the natural isolates showed four plasmids in races 23 and 23b (ca. 60, 40, 23, 8.2 kb), five in race 27 (ca. 60, 40, 23, 8.2 and 3.7 kb) and six in race 32 (ca. 60, 40, 23, 8.2, 3.7 and 1.6 kb). Continuously sub-cultured laboratory isolates of the Xcm races resulted in the loss of all but two plasmids, ca. 60 and 40 kb in size. When the laboratory isolates were passed through cotton (Gossypium hirsutum), they regained certain plasmids so that four plasmids were found in race 23 and 23b (ca. 60, 40, 23 and 8.2 kb), five in race 27 (ca. 60, 40, 23, 8.2 and 3.7 kb) and six in race 32 (ca. 60, 40, 23, 8.2, 3.7 and 1.6 kb), which was more or less similar to the original isolates. The isolates recovered from cotton maintained their plasmid profile (except for minor changes in the miniplasmids) after storage for six months at -70C in 50% glycerol. It is suggested that plasmid profiles among highly virulent races of Xcm are unstable during repeated sub-culturing at room temperature, resulting in rapid loss of some plasmids. However, when the cultures were sub-cultured and stored at -70C the plasmid profile was fairly stable except for the miniplasmids (ca. 3.7 and 1.6 kb).
41998129|This study was carried out to verify the usefulness of isozyme analysis in identifying species of wood decaying fungi isolated from sporocarps and wood of decayed trees. Twelve different enzymes were analysed by native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and seven of them gave positive response. Two staining procedures showed a characteristic profile allowing specific identification for the following species: F ornes fomentarius, Fomitiporia punctata, Inonotus hispidus, Phellinus torulosus, Rigidoporus ulmarius (Polyporaceae s. l.).
41998314|Ninety fluorescent pseudomonads obtained from pear cultivars Coscia and Tosca showing symptoms of bacterial blast were assessed by biochemical tests and pathogenicity on lemon fruits, and pear and lilac leaves. Presence of the syrB gene and ice-nucleation activity was also determined. In addition, genetic variability was assessed using repetitive sequence PCR with the BOX A1 primer. The patterns were analyzed with UPGMA and Dice's coefficients. Eighty-nine isolates were determined as putative Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae. Four genomic patterns, A, B, C and D, were obtained by BOX-PCR analysis. Patterns A and C were identical to those shown by other P. s. pv. syringae strains previously isolated from pear in other areas. Pattern B was associated solely with leaf spot symptoms observed on cv Coscia. The syrB gene was present in 38.8% of the isolates, whereas ice-nucleation activity was observed in 77.7%. Isolates possessing the syrB gene were the most aggressive in pathogenicity tests. Different populations of P. s. pv. syringae appear to be involved in inducing blast symptoms on pear in central Italy.
24332220|China rose (Hibiscus rosa-sinensis) is a perennial ornamental plant grown throughout the tropics and subtropics. China rose plants with severe vein thickening/greening, leaf curling, and enations on the lower leaf surface were found near cotton fields at the Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology (NIAB) in Faisalabad (Pakistan). These symptoms were very much similar to those of cotton leaf curl disease (CLCuD). DNA was extracted from 10 naturally infected symptomatic China rose plants and subjected to PCR using begomovirus- and betasatellite-specific primers. The expected products of 2.8 kb and 1.4 kb for begomoviruses and betasatellites, respectively, were amplified. The begomovirus and its cognate betasatellite isolated from China rose were sequenced and submitted to GenBank with accession Nos. HG003876 and HG003877. Owing to a 99% nucleotide sequence identity, the virus under study was identified as an isolate of Cotton leaf curl Burewala virus (CLCuBuV). The sequenced betasatellite showed 96% nucleotide sequence identity with Cotton leaf curl Multan betasatellite (CLCuMuB). Induction of CLCuD symptom upon indexing in LRA-5166, a CLCuBuV susceptible cotton genotype that resists Cotton leaf curl Multan virus (CLCuMuV), further confirmed the presence of CLCuBuV in China rose. To our knowledge, this is the first report of CLCuBuV and its cognate betasatellite in China rose.
41998242|RACE-PCR using a denatured dsRNA extract from an olive plant infected by Olive leaf yellowing-associated virus (OLYaV), extended a previously sequenced large fragment of the viral genome by 854 nt downstream in the heat shock protein 90 (HSP90). This sequence showed from 45 to 53% identity at the nucleotide level with that of putative HSP90s of different members of the family Closteroviridae. In phylogenetic trees constructed with published HSP90 and RdRp sequences, OLYaV was well separated from other viruses, as was Little cherry virus 1 (LChV-1), another unassigned species in the family Closteroviridae. A polyclonal antiserum was raised to a recombinant protein encoded by the HSP70 gene in fusion with sequence encoding the maltose binding protein. In Western blots of extracts from infected olive tissues, IgGs purified from this antiserum reacted with a polypeptide with a Mr of ca. 65 kDa, which was identified as the putative viral HSP70. Closterovirus-like flexuous particles with distinct cross banding and a maximum length of ca. 2000 nm were seen in extracts from infected roots and leaves of rooted olive cuttings. The cytopathology of infected leaves was similar to that induced by other members of the family Closteroviridae. However, the new information is still insufficient for the ultimate classification of OLYaV.
24331960|Atmospheric pressure plasmas have received much attention lately as a promising physical tool for biological decontamination and sterilization. Two phytopathogenic bacterial species, Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis and Erwinia amylovora, and one cosmopolitan bacterium, Escherichia coli (control), were employed to study the bacterial growth mechanism after exposure to the atmospheric pressure GlidArc plasma. The results have shown that low-temperature plasma treatment affects all three bacterial species by slowing down growth and reproduction rate. After plasma treatment, both Gramnegative bacteria (E. coli and E. amylovora) reached their maximum growth sooner than the Gram-positive C. michiganensis subsp. michiganensis. This is however caused by a longer cultivation period of Clavibacter bacterial genus. The application of GlidArc plasma is a suitable treatment that can be used in agriculture for plant protection.
41998469|Viroids are sub-viral plant pathogens consisting of covalently closed circular RNAs that infect herbaceous and woody hosts. They do not code for any peptide or protein and therefore are fully dependent on the host machinery for most biological processes, including pathogenesis. Certain viroid-host combinations show severe symptoms but the biochemical bases of this process are currently unknown. In this work, we have characterized the symptoms induced by Hop stunt viroid (HSVd) when provided as a transgene in Nicotiana benthamiana plants, a natural non-host that is able to process and translocate HSVd. The presence of HSVd in this transgenic plant causes severe stunting and decrease in the leaf size, followed by strong alteration of flower development and reduced fertility. These symptoms are similar to those induced by HSVd in natural infections, indicating that in N. benthamiana HSVd expression mimics the metabolic disorders induced in natural hosts. Therefore, these transgenic plants may be useful to study the viroid-host interactions leading to pathogenesis.
41998438|Transgenic plum (Prunus domestica L.) clone C5 was grafted on virus-free St. Julien rootstocks and inoculated by bud grafting with the recombinant strain (PPV-Rec) of the Plum pox virus (PPV). Non inoculated C5 plums were used as controls. Transgenic plums infected with PPV-Rec and control plants were evaluated for six years in the open field. PPV symptoms, mild diffuse spots and rings, appeared on the basal leaves the second year after inoculation. The presence of PPV was confirmed by DAS-ELISA, ISEM, and RT-PCR. Severe PPV symptoms appeared in the leaves of shoots grown from non-transgenic inoculum buds. A reduction of symptoms and a decrease of the relative PPV concentration, as determined by DAS-ELISA in transgenic C5 plants, were observed from the third to the fifth year after virus inoculation. Very mild symptoms in older leaves of the basal branches of trees subsided by the end of the vegetative period, and were difficult to observe. The level of PPV detection by DAS-ELISA dropped from June to August together with a reduction of symptoms. PPV was undetectable by DAS-ELISA in more than half of the trees by the end of August. PPV-Rec was detected by RT-PCR in the basal and middle parts of the C5 scions. The upper leaves did not contain a detectable level of the virus. These results show the high level and stability of PPV resistance in graft-inoculated C5 trees.
41998638|The presence of Fig leaf mottle-associated virus 1 (FLMaV-1) and Fig leaf mottle-associated virus 2 (FLMaV-2) was investigated in fig orchards of six Mediterranean countries. A total of 415 samples coming from Albania, Algeria, Lebanon, Syria, Tunisia and Italy were collected and tested by PCR, which detected the presence of at least one of the tested viruses in all surveyed countries. Except for Algeria and Syria, where FLMaV-1 was absent, both viruses were found in all surveyed countries with mean infection rates of 34% and 18.5% for FLMaV-1 and FLMaV-2, respectively. More than 7% of the samples were infected with both viruses. As ascertained by dsRNA analysis, 25 out of 65 samples (ca. 38.5%) showed visible bands in polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Single strand conformation pattern (SSCP) analysis of a portion of the viral HSP70 gene from figs of different geographical origin showed heterogeneous patterns for both viruses. The HSP70 gene variability was confirmed by sequence analysis. The level of nucleotide variability between the isolates reached 18% for FLMaV-1 and 15% for FLMaV-2. While the deduced amino acid sequence variability maintained almost the same range of divergence in the case of FLMaV-1 (19%), this level decreased to 6% in the case of FLMaV-2. The position of the isolates in phylogenetic trees constructed with HSP70 sequences did not correspond to their geographical origin, except for the Lebanese isolates which grouped together in a single cluster.
41998944|The increased presence of Verticillium wilt (Verticillium dahliae Kleb.) in olive groves is often related to the use of infected propagation material and to the planting of new olive trees in contaminated soils. This study assessed the implications of plant propagation, land-use history and soil properties on disease prevalence in southern Spain, the most important olive-growing area worldwide. To this purpose, a large-scale sampling survey was carried out in this area, V. dahliae pathotypes were identified by PCR, and GIS was used to analyze soil properties and cropland-use history. Finally, multiple correspondence analysis was performed to show the statistical association between the variables taken into account. Results strongly indicated the potential risk of planting olive in valleys with irrigated cropland history, especially those that had hosted herbaceous crops, highlighted the importance of using pathogen-free certified planting material as a key component for a successful disease management, and confirmed the role played by saline, alkaline, and steep-slope soils in enhancing V. dahliae prevalence.
41998753|Bacterial canker of stone fruits caused by Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae and pv. morsprunorum has been studied for a century now and this research brought decisive advances in the understanding of the epidemiology of foliar bacterial diseases and epiphytic stages in the life cycles of plant pathogenic bacteria. The economic importance of the disease and lack of effective control measures stimulated recent studies on the ecology of the pathogens and their characterization and identification. New techniques of identification are based on the ecologically and pathologically important siderophores pyoverdine and yersiniabactine, and phytotoxins including coronatine and toxic lipodepsipeptides. Genetic methods based on total DNA homology, repeated sequences (rep-PCR), melting profiles (PCR MP) and DNA sequencing (MLST) proved the existence of three distinct pathogens: races 1 and 2 of pathovar morsprunorum, each genetically homogenous, and pathovar syringae, highly heterogeneous. In both pathovars, genetic groups differing in their pathogenicity were determined and isolate-host relationships pointed out.
41998017|Pathogen-derived resistance (PDR) was the basic concept whereby the first virus resistant transgenic plants (VRTPs) were obtained more than a decade ago using the coat protein gene of Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV). Since then, many viral sequences have been engineered into the genome of a number of crops making them tolerant or resistant to specific viruses for which no corresponding natural resistance genes had been found. Although this represents an indisputable advantage, it is also reasonable that occurrence of potential reassortment (for viruses with segmented genome) and recombination, between endogenous sequences and those of an incoming virus should be taken into consideration. This would affect relative reproductive ability (fitness) of the viral population in a defined environment through the potential emergence of strains with novel epidemiological traits and more damaging properties. The consensus is that the correct baseline for risk assessment is the current situation in the absence of VRTPs. An account is given of the most recent studies on population dynamics of some economically important plant viruses with the aim to discuss whether deployment of VRTPs would present risks different from those already present in the agricultural environment.
24332036|Pseudomonas species causing pith necrosis on tomato were collected from 2005 to 2012 in different regions of the Republic of Macedonia and identified as Pseudomonas mediterranea and P. viridiflava. Other Pseudomonas spp. were also recovered, but they are still under identification. The obtained bacterial isolates were compared with reference strains on the basis of phenotypic characteristics, pathogenicity, sensitivity to antibiotics, BIOLOG tests, DNA fingerprinting by multiplex PCR using two specific primers [type I (PC5/1 and PC 5/2) and type II (PC1/1 and PC 1/2)], and 16S rRNARFLP analysis. Unique DNA bands from 10 representative strains isolated from symptomatic tomato plants disclosed the presence of P. mediterranea by amplification of their genomic DNA. All strains produced one specific band (600 bp) compared with the representative samples IPVCT9.1 (P. mediterranea). Also, we used another representative sample IPVCT10.3 (P. corrugata), to check if we already have P. corrugata or no, in our samples. In order to investigate the bacterial populations causing tomato pith necrosis in Macedonia, a total of 150 isolates were collected and compared with reference strains. This is the first report on Pseudomonas population causing pith necrosis of tomato in the Republic of Macedonia.
41997865|The release of active oxygen (AO) species in cell suspensions and callus homogenates of two melon varieties, Retato and Jerac, respectively susceptible and resistant to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. melonis, race 0, in the presence of hyphal wall components (HWC) of F. oxysporum f.sp. melonis race 0 and 1,2 has been determined by a fluorimetric method for detecting HO, based on peroxidase-driven oxidative decay in fluorescence. AO production was induced only when HWC of race 0 was combined with cells or homogenates of the resistant melon Jerac. AO releasing ability was still present in the soluble fraction of the homogenate. The effects of catalase, Tiron, diethyldithio-carbamic acid and imidazole on the reaction suggest that the primary product is O and that it dismutes spontaneously to HO. The data obtained exclude participation of NADPHdependant membrane oxidase systems. A lipoxygenase/fatty acids complex is probably involved. In sospensioni cellulari ed in omogenati acellulari di callo di due cultivar di melone, Retato e Jerac, rispettivamente suscettibile e resistente a Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. melonis, razza 0, trattati con componenti di prete (HWC) di F. oxysporum f. sp. melonis razza 0 e 1,2,  stata osservata la produzione di specie attive dell'ossigeno (AO) mediante un mtodo fluorimetrico idneo alla misura di HO in base al decadimento ossidativo di fluorescenza perossidasi-dipendente. La produzione di AO  stata indotta solamente quando cellule od omogenati della cv. resistente Jerac sono stati trattati con HWC dlia razza 0. La capacit di rilasciare AO era presente anche nella frazione solubile dell'omogenato. L'effetto di catalasi, Tiron, acido dietilditiocarbammico e imidazolo, suggerisce che il prodotto primario sia Fanione superossido che dismuta spontaneamente ad HO. I dati ottenuti portano ad escludere la partecipazione di sistemi di membrana NADPH-dipendenti. Si ipotizza il coinvolgimento di un sistema lipossigenasi/acidi grassi.
41998178|DNA microarrays were first described in 1995 for simultaneous analysis of a large-scale gene expression patterns. Since then, they have moved to center stage in many areas of biological research and now assuming an increasingly important role in diagnostics, genomics, pharmacology, cancer and other biomedical research, among others. In this article, we discuss the scientific background and principle of microarrays; describe their types, several technical steps needed for obtaining microarray data, and their current applications. The potential applications of DNA microarrays in detection and identification of plant pathogens, especially viruses, viroids and phytoplasmas are presented.
41998384|Myrtle (Myrtus communis L.) is an evergreen shrub widely grown in the Mediterranean region for its aromatic leaves and medicinal uses. The bacterium Pseudomonas savastanoi was recently reported to attack this shrub with characteristic symptoms of knot formation on stems and branches leading, in severe cases, to their death. The pathogenesis of P. savastanoi on myrtle was studied macroscopically and by light microscopy. Inoculation of myrtle shoots with P. savastanoi initiated swellings that developed into knots typical of the disease. Starting from the inoculation wound, the bacteria spread into the intercellular spaces, invading and colonizing host tissues by degrading cell walls. They multiplied in the resulting cavities inducing hypertrophy and hyperplasia in the contiguous cells to form tissue masses that grew into knots. The size of a knot depended on the depth of the inoculation wound and more precisely on the parenchyma tissues involved, including those of the cortex, vascular tissues, and/or pith. At an advanced stage of invasion, the knot was composed of an aggregate of tissue masses within which xylem elements had differentiated. The knot became surrounded by wound periderm. Lignification of the parenchyma cells of the knot finally led to its hardening and death. These findings on myrtle were compared to those reported to be caused by the same pathogen on ash, buckthorn, oleander, and olive.
41998144|Non radioactive Differential Display Reverse Transcription-PCR (DDRT-PCR) was used to screen molecular variants at expression level in Pyrenophora graminea and Pyrenophora teres, grown in vitro with glucose or plant cell walls as carbon sources. Several differential transcripts from both species were identified, either constitutive or induced by barley leaf cell walls. Three cloned species-specific transcripts were sequenced: one was constitutively expressed in P. graminea and absent in P. teres, two were specifically induced by host leaf cell walls either in P. graminea or in P. teres. For all three, sequence analysis showed significant homology with known pathogenicity-related genes available in databases, coding for toxic metabolites, cell wall degrading enzymes and regulative factors as kinases. These data are discussed in relation to the biology of the two pathogens under study.
41998926|Erisyphe necator is one of the most destructive pathogens of grapevines and is normally controlled by seven and more fungicide treatments until veraison of grapes. Two fungicide regimes comprising either 3 or 7 sprays per season were compared in a German vineyard between 1999 and 2010. The trials always included: (i) 3 fungicide sprays, one before flowering, the second during blossoming and the third at berries diameter 2 mm [so called "Open Window Period" (OWP) sprays]; (ii) 7 sprays which included OWP sprays of (i) plus one spray before and three afterwards. The trials were carried out with a single line tunnel-sprayer in 4 replicates, each comprising 12 vines of highly susceptible varieties. Experimental rows were separated by untreated rows on both sides. Although in most years, natural initial inoculum was present, in 2008-2010, the initial inoculum was supplemented with artificial infections on the separating untreated spacer lines. Even under extreme disease pressure, 3 sprays in OWP had nearly the same and always more than 90% of the preventive effect of seven sprays.
24722464|Mango (Mangifera indica) is grown throughout a wide range of frost-free climates and is one of the world's most important fruit crops. During 2010-2014, severe symptoms of bacterial apical necrosis (BAN) caused by Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae (Pss) were observed on mango plants throughout all mango-growing areas in Sicily (southern Italy). The causal agent was identified based on phenotypic, genotypic and pathogenicity tests. The genetic variability of strains obtained from different areas and cultivars were assessed by rep-PCR and allowed clear differentiation of the Pss strains isolated from mango from other representative strains of the pathovar. In addition, the respective production of syringomycin, syringopeptin and mangotoxin was checked by in vitro tests and PCR detection. All tested strains showed the presence of mgoA and mgoB of the mangotoxin operon. Some copper-resistant Pss strains showing cusCBA genes were also found in some orchards. This feature could explain the failure of the disease control using copper compounds. Among 71 strains tested using in vitro assay, no copper-sensitive strains were detected, whereas 44 strains (62%) had high resistance, 16 strains (22.5%) were resistant and 11 strains (15.5%) had low resistance to copper sulfate. To our knowledge, this is the first report of copper resistance among Pss strains causing BAN on mango in Sicily.
24332226|In October 2012 a heterothallic Phytophthora was isolated from soil and roots of European chestnut (Castanea sativa) trees from three orchards in Northern Greece. The pathogen was identified as Phytophthora cinnamomi on the basis of morphology and ITS sequence analysis. A pathogenicity test, following the soil infestation method, was performed and P. cinnamomi was re-isolated confirming Koch's postulates. This is the first report of P. cinnamomi as the cause of ink disease in Greece.
41998180|A fragment of 500 nt corresponding to 85% of the coat protein (CP) gene of 35 isolates of Apple chlorotic leaf spot virus (ACLSV) from different hosts and geographical areas were sequenced and the results were compared with those already available. Sequence alignments at the amino acid level showed that most of the variability was present in the N-terminal part of the CP cistron (overlapping with the movement protein) whereas the C-terminus was significantly less divergent. Four isolates (APR-EA5, PE 150, PE 154 and PE 297) differed in showing high variability throughout the CP gene. Phylogenetic analysis at the nucleotide and amino acid level clustered the isolates in two groups: A, containing the great majority of the isolates, and B, containing the above four diverging isolates. A few subclusters could be identified in group A: pome fruit isolates clustered together in two different groups, one being close to the two almond isolates and one subcluster containing all the Spanish isolates. One subgroup was composed of three similar sequences each obtained from different hosts (peach, apricot, plum) originating from three different countries, respectively (Italy, Lebanon and Jordan). In Western blot analysis, three different migration rates were found for the CPs of ten representative isolates. No correlation was observed between the electrophoretic mobility of CPs and the phylogenetic groups, indicating that other factors besides the primary structure must account for the different electrophoretic mobilities observed.
41998239|Quantitative expression of Sclerotinia sclerotiorum genes encoding two endo-polygalacturonase (endo-PG) isoforms (PGa and PGb), malate dehydrogenase (MDH, a key enzyme in fungal biosynthetic pathway of oxalic acid), and plant polygalacturonase-inhibiting protein (PGIP) were monitored by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) during the early stages (0-48 h) of soybean seedling infection. The activity of the two endo-PGs was also investigated during plant infection. PGa and PGb activity reflected very closely the pattern of their transcript accumulation as determined by qRT-PCR. In particular, the PGb encoding gene (Sspgb) was induced at 8 h after inoculation and reached a maximum at 16 h; expression of the PGa encoding gene (Sspga) was comparatively lower, reaching its maximum level later and its rate of increase paralleled that of the S. sclerotiorum -tubulin gene; the expression of the MDH encoding gene (Ssmdh) was maximal 16 h after infection; soybean pgip transcript began to accumulate 8 h after inoculation reaching a maximum after 24 h. Expression patterns of reported genes are discussed in relation to the ability of S. sclerotiorum to induce disease by regulating endo-PGs and oxalate accumulation to elude the effect of plant PGIP.
41997938|Four sugar beet cultivars exhibiting increasing levels of rate-reducing resistance towards Cercospora beticola ('Cyrano' or 'Univers', 'Bushel', 'Monodoro', and 'Break') were used in monocyclic infection experiments to study the following resistance components: incubation length (IP, the degree-day cumulation, base 5C, during the time between inoculation and appearance of spots), infection efficiency of conidia (INF, the number of necrotic spots per cm of leaf at the end of a single infection cycle), and lesion size (LS, the area of single spots). All the resistance components were influenced by cultivar significantly; whereas no differences in lesion type were found. Resistance delayed the appearance of spots by a maximum of 12 days compared to the susceptible cultivar. IP was delayed by a degree-day cumulation of 28C, 60C and 100C in 'Bushel', 'Monodoro', and 'Break', respectively. More resistant cultivars showed a reduced INF compared to both less resistant and susceptible cultivars, of about 44% in 'Monodoro' and 79% in 'Break'. Furthermore, in 'Break' the LS was 45% smaller than that of the susceptible cultivar. Differences between cultivars were consistent from one experiment to another. Within cultivars variability was an important source of variation; it was attributed to both 'between plants' and 'between leaves within plants' variability. The former was due chiefly to the genetic heterogeneity of the cultivars used, which are open-pollened three-way cross hybrids; the latter, to differences in the age of the leaves of a plant. Quattro variet di barbabietola da zucchero con livelli crescenti di resistenza a Cercospora beticola ("Cyrano" o "Univers", "Bushel", "Monodoro" e "Break") sono state usate in esperimenti con singoli cicli di infezione, per studiare le seguenti componenti di resistenza: durata dell'incubazione (IP, sommatoria termica a base 5C nel tempo fra l'inoculazione e la comparsa dei sintomi), efficienza di infezione dei conidi (INF, numero di macchie necrotiche per cm di foglia al termine del ciclo infettivo) e dimensione delle lesioni (LS, area delle singole macchie). Tutte le componenti di resistenza sono state influenzate significativamente dalla variet, mentre non sono state rilevate differenze nel tipo di lesioni. La resistenza ha ritardato la comparsa dei sintomi fino ad un massimo di 12 giorni rispetto alla variet sensibile. L'IP  stato allungato di una sommatoria termica pari a 28C, 60C e 100C in "Bushel", "Monodoro" e "Break", rispettivamente. Le variet pi resistenti hanno avuto una INF ridotta del 44% ("Monodoro") e del 79% ("Break") rispetto aile variet sensibili o meno resistenti. Inoltre, "Break" ha mostrato macchie necrotiche pi piccole del 45% rispetto alla variet sensibile. Le differenze fra le variet sono risultate costanti nei diversi esperimenti. La variabilit entro ciascuna variet  apparsa una importante fonte di variazione. Ad essa hanno contribuito la variabilit fra piante, dovuta principalmente alla eterogeneit genetica delle variet impiegate (che sono ibridi a 3 vie ad impollinazione aperta), e la variabilit fra foglie della stessa pianta, dovuta alla differente et delle foglie stesse.
41998851|This study was focused on the genetic diversity of a collection of Phoma tracheiphila isolates recovered from different orchards and host species in Tunisia. Knowledge of the sequences permitted molecular assessment of the pathogen s downward progression from the point of inoculation on citrus leaves. Analysis of 58 isolates of P. tracheiphila including four Italian isolates assessed by ITS-RFLP molecular markers revealed that Tunisian isolates of P. tracheiphila are homogenous and genetically similar to the Italian isolates. Development of this pathogen is likely clonal under Mediterranean conditions and this should be taken into account when developing management strategies based on resistant varieties. The result made possible the molecular monitoring of the pathogen's migration in sour orange vessels using only one representative and virulent isolate. PCR showed that within 10 days post inoculation (dpi) fungal DNA was detected 10 cm from the inoculation point and at 30 dpi it was present in the stem vessels at a distance of 50 cm and more. P. tracheiphila basipetal translocation is very quick and occurs prior to symptom expression. Consequently, diagnosis of mal secco based on typical symptom like shedding of leaves, wilting and the salmon pink discoloration of wood is not appropriate to estimate disease development and must be replaced by a molecular technique that allows earlier detection of the infection in still symptomless material.
41998758|Despite the basic importance of studying the epidemiology of bacterial pathogens for their effective control in the field, for many pathogens causing diseases of economic importance there is still a large body of knowledge to acquire. In this minireview the main epidemiological aspects and predisposing factors of some important diseases of stone and nut tree fruit species caused by bacteria are summarized. Apricot (Prunus armeniaca L.), peach (P. persica Batsch.), sweet cherry (P. avium L.), sour or tart cherry (P. cerasus L.) and European plum (P. domestica L.) are the stone fruit trees species that can be severely attacked by two pathovars of Pseudomonas syringae worldwide: P. syringae pv. syringae (Pss) and P. syringae pv. morsprunorum (Psm). The high sensitivity of some recently introduced apricot cultivars would seem a main predisposing factor enhancing the aggressiveness of Pss. Sandy and very clayey soils as well as soils characterized by a low calcium content can also contribute to enhance the sensitivity of apricot and peach trees to Pss. Xanthomonas arboricola pv. pruni is the causative agent of bacterial spot threatening peach, apricot, Japanese plum (P. salicina) and almond (Amygdalus communis L.). This pathogen is present worldwide and is currently spreading in many European countries. A relative humidity of 100% over a period of three days has been shown fundamental for the appearance of the disease in peach leaves. Xanthomonas arboricola pv. juglandis is the causal agent of walnut blight and fruit apical necrosis often severely attacking Juglans regia L. Recent in-depth studies showed that this pathogen starts the infection process at the apex of the fruit. Fungi play a secondary role as saprophytes or opportunistic pathogens in this apical necrosis of fruits. Pseudomonas avellanae is the causal agent of bacterial canker and decline of hazelnut (Corylus avellana L.). So far, this destructive disease has been reported solely from northern Greece and central Italy. Soil of volcanic origin with pH values <5.0 can increase the susceptibility of hazelnut to bacterial canker.
23721735|A study was conducted to investigate the genetic diversity of C. radicicola from different regions of Oman and its relationship to populations of C. radicicola from other parts in the Arabian peninsula and the USA. A total of 32 C. radicicola isolates from Oman (23), the United Arab Emirates (UAE) (2), Kuwait (1) and the USA (6) were analyzed using sequences of the internal transcribed spacer region of the ribosomal DNA (ITS rDNA) and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP). AFLP analysis of the 32 isolates produced 32 different genotypes and 999 polymorphic alleles (100% polymorphism). The Omani population of C. radicicola was found to be more genetically diverse (H = 0.274) than the USA population (H = 0.186), which may suggest a longer history of C. radicicola in Oman. UPGMA analysis based on Nei's genetic distance as well as phylogenetic analysis based on ITS rDNA sequences separated the USA isolates from those from Oman, UAE and Kuwait with a very high bootstrap support. This was supported by low to moderate levels of genetic differentiation between populations of C. radicicola within the Arabian peninsula (FST = -0.0297-0.1341) as compared with high levels of genetic differentiation (FST = 0.2939-0.3913) of the population from the USA. These findings may imply that populations of C. radicicola from the USA and the Arabian peninsula have been evolving independently for a considerably long period of time as opposite to constant gene flow between regions in the Arabian peninsula. Analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) showed that genetic variation is more associated with geographical regions (FST = 0.1807, P < 0.0001) than hosts (FST = 0.0307, P = 0.1681), which may imply the lack of host "cultivar" specialization in C. radicicola.
41997947|The development of plant transformation and gene cloning techniques has opened new avenues for augmenting disease and insect resistance in crops. The concept of ' Genetically Acquired Resistance' now encompasses a variety of strategies based on the transgenic expression in plant of genes from many different origins. Some of the most potentially useful transgenes capable of enhancing resistance to attack by microbes, viruses and insects have been obtained from bacteria and fungi, which are regarded as rich sources of desirable traits for plant genetic improvement. The main research directions have included: (i) the enhancement of the plant anti-microbial and insecticidal arsenal by the constitutive or inducible synthesis of various pathogen inhibiting compounds; (ii) the alteration of the plant response to pathogens by the appropriate induction of the local or systemic defence mechanisms, or by the interference with plant-pathogen signalling and (iii) the inactivation of pathogen toxins or the improvement of plant resistance to them. Although transgenic plants that are insect-resistant or bear other useful traits obtained from microbes, such as herbicide-resistance or enhanced food quality, are being commercially marketed, genetically-engineered crops exhibiting resistance to fungal or bacterial diseases have yet to reach the marketplace. The main focus of this paper addresses the application of bacterial or fungal genes to improve plant resistance to insect, fungi, bacteria and viruses, and the usefulness of these microbial genomes in the development of new transgenic technologies. In addition, perspectives dealing with environmental concerns and important biosafety questions resulting from these technologies are briefly discussed. Lo sviluppo di tecniche sempre pi potenti per la trasformazione di piante e per il clonaggio di geni ha aperto nuove vie per la produzione di colture resistenti alie malattie ed agli insetti. Il concetto di "Resistenza Ge nticamente Acquisita"  oggi ampiamente applicato in una variet di stratgie che si basano sulTespressione in planta di geni di varia origine. Alcuni dei geni che si son dimostrati potenzialmente pi utili per aumentare la resistenza a microbi, virus e insetti son stati ottenuti da batteri e funghi, i quali son oggi consideran come una ricca sorgente di caratteristiche interessanti per il miglioramento gentico delle piante. Le principali linee di ricerca hanno riguardato finora: (i) l'incremento dell'arsenale antimicrobico e insetticida della planta ottenuto mediante la sintesi costitutiva o inducibile di diversi composti che direttamente inibiscono il patgeno; (ii) Falterazione della risposta della pianta ai patogeni inducendo in maniera appropriata i normali meccanismi di difesa localizzata o sistemica, o interferendo con i segnali di riconoscimento tra pianta e patogeno; (iii) l'inattivazione di tossine prodotte dal patgeno o Faumento della tolleranza della pianta verso di esse. Anche se variet transgeniche resistenti agli insetti o che contengono altre caratteristiche utili dervate da microrganismi (ad esempio resistenza a erbicidi o migliorata qualit del prodotto) sono state commercializzate, colture genticamente modifcate per la resistenza a malattie fungine e batteriche non son ancora apparse sul mercato. Questo articolo riguarda principalmente le applicazioni di geni fungini o batterici che hanno lo scopo di migliorare la resistenza delle piante a insetti, funghi, batteri e virus, e discute Putilit del genoma di questi microrganismi nello sviluppo di nuove biotecnologie transgeniche. Inoltre, si prendono in considerazione importanti problematiche che riguardano l'impatto ambintale, la sicurezza ed i rischi connessi all'uso su larga scala di piante resistenti ad agenti patogeni.
41998090|Prune dwarf virus (PDV) and Plum pox virus (PPV) are two of the most common viruses infecting stone fruit trees, which are economically important worldwide. To improve the detection of PDV and PPV by PCR technology, we investigated the possibility of detection of these viruses in standard and multiplex RTPCR-ELISA assays. Total RNA was extracted from cherry, peach, or plum leaves and cherry pollen of PDV-infected or uninfected trees. Total RNA was also extracted from PPV-infected or uninfected leaves. Samples were extracted using commercially available RNA extraction kits. A RT-PCR-ELISA assay was developed for the detection of PDV in a single reaction or with PPV in a multiplex reaction. The use of a PDV-specific capture probe or a PPV-specific capture probe allowed the detection of each virus in a single RT-PCR-ELISA assay. Simultaneous use of the PDV-specific and PPVspecific capture probes permitted the sensitive detection of both viruses in a multiplex RT-PCR-ELISA assay. Nucleotide sequence analyses of the cloned RTPCR fragments of PDV or PPV obtained from total RNA extracts of infected leaves from different geographical locations revealed > 90% identity with published sequences, which confirmed the identity of each virus isolate investigated.
41998589|Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 1 (GLRaV-1) and Grapevine rupestris stem pitting-associated virus (GRSPaV) were eradicated from Vitis vinifera L. cv. Agiorgitiko by combining in vitro thermotherapy and tissue culture. GRSPaV is known to be quite recalcitrant to elimination, whereas GLRaV-1 is more easily knocked out. In this study, the effectiveness of two different virus elimination techniques, including meristem- and shoot-tip culture, was evaluated. Results showed that meristem-tip culture combined with thermotherapy was the most effective for eliminating both viruses as confirmed by nested RT-PCR assays. Success rate for GLRaV-1 (91.2%) was higher than for GRSPaV-1 (67.6%). The ratio of virus elimination to survival was higher for meristem-tip culture than for shoot tips (1.108 and 0.469 respectively). The effect of six basal media on in vitro shoot proliferation of virus-free expiants of cv. Agiorgitiko was also studied and woody plant medium (WPM) proved to be the most effective. The presence of cytokinin 6-benzyladenine (BA) alone resulted in chlorotic plandets, while supplementation with the auxin naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) enhanced proliferation rate. Root induction at two temperature regimes (222C and 262C) revealed that higher temperature was more effective in the presence of IBA (indole-3-bu-tyric acid) rather than NAA.
41999045|Alternaria spot, caused by Alternaria tennis, is an important disease of cladodes of the prickly pear cactus (Nopalea cochenillifera) in Brazil. There are no standard methods for assessment of the disease, so a standard area diagram set (SAD) was developed based on disease severity encompassing 2, 4, 7, 12, 22 and 40% of the cladode area spotted. SAD was validated by 10 raters, who analysed 50 cladodes with a range of disease severity, without and with SAD as an assessment aid. The accuracy, precision, reproducibility and repeatability of the estimates with and without the scale were determined using simple linear regression analysis. Without SAD the accuracy and precision of raters' estimates were poor, with significantly constant and systematic bias, and determination coefficients (R) ranging from 0.56 to 0.78. When raters employed SAD, significant reductions were observed in both constant and systematic bias, with R ranging from 0.91 to 0.96. In fact, raters achieved the highest repeatability (mean R = 0.95) and reproducibility (R 0.80 in all cases) of estimates when using SAD. The proposed SAD set is suitable for assessment of Alternaria spot of prickly pear cladodes and improves the accuracy and precision of assessments.
41998169|A study was undertaken on Platanus  acerifolia to assess the potential of wounding, salicylic acid, jasmonic acid, the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-lcarboxylic acid, and the pharmacological inhibitors antimycin and norbornadiene, to induce local resistance to Ceratocystis fimbriata f. sp. platani, the agent of canker stain. In vitro studies were used to determine fungitoxicity and phytotoxicity of the chemicals. Fungitoxicity was characterized by fungal growth and germination of conidia on media supplemented with the chemicals. Results from these experiments indicate a role of salycilic acid and ethylene in promoting C. fimbriata conidia germination. Treatments of detached branches and leaf discs with the chemicals were used to determine nonphytotoxic concentrations for the experiments of resistance induction. Leaf and wood disc assays were developed for measuring the induction of resistance. In these assays, pretreatment with the chemicals caused a reduction of disease severity and of fungal growth, respectively, with the exception of jasmonate, which enhanced disease severity, compared to the 48 h wounding/water control. In leaf and wood disc experiments, wounding reduced disease severity and mycelium growth respectively. The fungitoxic effects of inducers and the possibility that a genuine induction of resistance could be triggered in the assays are discussed.
23721741|Citrus canker, caused by Xanthomonas citri subsp. citri (Xcc), is a serious disease of susceptible citrus in Florida and other citrus-growing areas of the world. The effect of leaf preconditioning as a route for entry of the bacteria is poorly characterized. A series of experiments were designed to investigate the effects of wind and rain (to simulate a storm), high humidity (>90%) and mild abrasion with sand (to simulate wind-blown sand and debris) in predisposing citrus foliage to infection with Xcc. Exposure of leaves of Swingle citrumelo seedlings to wind and rain [16 m sec-1 (58 km h-1, 36 mph) and 235 mm h-1 (9.25 ins h-1), respectively] for 15 or 30 min caused significant injury and disease incidence was twice as high and severity was ten times greater than on leaves on seedlings of unexposed control plants. The points of attachment of the lamina to the petioles were particularly susceptible to wind-induced injury with up to 25% showing symptoms compared to 0% for the unexposed control. Over 80% of injured leaves had lesions associated with the site of injury. There was little or no effect of humidity >90% for 1.5 or 2.5 h on disease incidence or severity compared to the unexposed control. Mild leaf abrasion of grapefruit seedlings with sand increased incidence and severity of disease two-fold. Ways to reduce leaf injury by minimizing wind speed in orchards may contribute to reducing canker incidence and severity.
41998698|Two vineyards planted in the Langhe (Piedmont, Italy) with clonal vines of Vitis vinifera cv. Nebbiolo originating from heat-treated mother plants, were monitored for the occurrence and spread of viral infections. More than ten years after the establishment of one of the vineyards, where rows of vines infected with Grapevine virus A (GVA) and Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 1 (GLRaV-1) or GVA and Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 3 (GLRaV-3) were interplanted with rows of healthy plants, viruses had spread to 18.5% of the healthy vines. Spreading was slow and limited to small groups of vines, the size of which increased slowly, thus providing indirect evidence of transmission by vectors. Mealybugs collected in the vineyard were classified as Heliococcus bohemicus. RT-PCR analysis of mealybugs revealed the presence of at least one virus in more than 45% of the tested insect batches, indicating that H. bohemicus can acquire viruses during feeding on infected plants, thus acting as a potential vector. No natural spread of Grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV) was detected in a second vineyard which had been fumigated before re-planting, because of the heavy incidence of fanleaf disease in the preceding uprooted vineyard, and where Xiphinema index, the GFLV vector, was found only occasionally.
24332025|Citrus variegated chlorosis is among the principle diseases that affect sweet orange in Brazil and Argentina, and is viewed as an emerging threat by the U.S. sweet orange industry. The disease is caused by the fastidious bacterium Xylella fastidiosa. We have tested seed extracted from fruit heavily infected and symptomatic for X. fastidiosa infection as well as seed obtained from normal asymptomatic fruit from the same trees in Brazil. Seeds from symptomatic fruit were tested by PCR and found to be contaminated with X. fastidosa, and to weigh less than seeds from normal-sized fruit. Seed from both symptomatic and asymptomatic fruit were sown in the greenhouse and studied following germination. The growth of shoots, but not of roots, was reduced in seedlings produced from seed collected from symptomatic as compared to asymptomatic fruits. Symptoms of citrus variegated chlorosis were not observed in any of the seedlings derived from seed from symptomatic and asymptomatic fruit. Roots and leaf midribs from 260 seedlings were tested for the presence of X. fastidiosa by PCR three months after sowing. No positive PCR results were observed. Leaf midribs from 148 seedlings were tested subsequently at 17 months after sowing using both standard format and qPCR assays, also without any positive results. Leaf midribs from 349 seedlings from a second seed harvest were tested seven months after sowing by qPCR also without any positive tests. Thus in this study no evidence for the vertical transmission of X. fastidiosa through contaminated seed was obtained.
41998544|In 2004 and 2005, 51 peach and 5 nectarine trees from different peach growing areas of the East Mediterranean Region of Turkey were analyzed by RT-PCR for the presence of Peach latent mosaic viroid (PLMVd). Most of the samples were from germplasm collections and did not show specific symptoms. PLMVd was detected in three nectarine and eight peach trees. The nucleotide sequence of the eleven PLMVd isolates was determined. Like previously studied PLMVd isolates, Turkish isolates varied in length from 336 to 340 nucleotides. Multiple alignments and phylogenic analyses showed that 31 clones of 11 isolates clustered in PLMVd Group III. Three clones of isolate 99 showed the greatest variability among the isolates characterized in this work and 12 previously characterized isolates. mFold analysis of secondary structures of the three clones of isolate 99 showed that most of the variations are located in a stem involved in the pseudoknot structure, in loop 10 and in the hammerhead arm region. PLMVd isolate 99 showed a high identity with isolate 162.4 from peach cv. Early May Crest.
41998756|Diagnosis and detection are key aspects related to plant health status. A critical review of the available diagnostic methods utilised for Agrobacterium rhizogenes and A. tumefaciens, Pseudomonas amygdali, P. syringae pv. mors-prunorum, P. syringae pv. persicae, P. syringae pv. syringae and Xanthomonas arboricola pv. pruni, the main pathogens of the stone fruit trees, is presented. As there is a general lack of updated standardized protocols for the detection of most of these bacteria, the most appropriate media for their isolation are reported along with serological reagents, PCR and real-time PCR protocols with comments on their accuracy for the analysis of these pathogens in plant samples. There are many selective media for isolation, especially for Agrobacterium spp., but fewer for Pseudomonas spp. and X. arboricola pv. pruni. Serological techniques are not very useful for these pathogens due to the current lack of specific antibodies commercially available. As to molecular methods, it is surprising to find so many PCR protocols for Agrobacterium species, very few and unspecific for the Pseudomonas species pathogenic to stone fruit trees, and several recent PCR protocols for X. arboricola pv. pruni. The new advances in genomics and proteomics will provide information for selecting new targets to develop specific and sensitive techniques for the diagnosis and detection of these bacterial pathogens in plant material.
41998031|We purified four xylan-degrading enzymes (endo-xy lanases: EC 3.2.1.8) produced in vitro by the fungal pathogen Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. lycopersici (Fol). The xylanases were resolved by a combination of ion exchange and hydrophobic interaction chromatography, and preparative native-PAGE electrophoresis. They had molecular masses of 38, 34, 22 and 19 kDa, pi higher than 9.3, endo-cleavage mechanism and maximal activity at pH 6.0 and 45C. Comparison of the reaction products showed differences in the cleavage mechanism of two of the xylanases. In addition their role as possible elicitors of stress and defence responses was examined in preliminary assays. Xylanases from a variety of pathogenic and nonpathogenic fungi have been described as inducers of plant stress and defence responses. A role as elicitors of active defence mechanisms was suggested for the ethylene biosynthesis-inducing xylanase from T. viride (EIX) and EIX-like enzymes from a variety of pathogenic fungi. In spite of the homologies with the EIX from T. viride none of the Fol xylanases examined by us were antigenically related to it. Furthermore, they showed no EIX-like eliciting activity on cell culture suspensions or intact tomato leaflets in our tests. Therefore their role as recognition factors is not established in our experimental model.
41998553|RNA replication of Cymbidium ringspot virus (CymRSV) normally occurs in plant and yeast cells in association with membranes derived from peroxisomes. However, in yeast strains devoid of these organelles CymRSV RNA replication takes place on the perinuclear membrane and cytoplasmic endoplasmic reticulum (ER) strands. The association of the CymRSV RNA replication complex to ER is mediated by the ORF 1-encoded protein p33. To analyze which part of this protein contains the information leading to localization to ER, a deletion analysis was carried out. The behaviour of deletion mutants was studied by confocal immunofluorescence microscopy and membrane floatation gradient analysis. It was shown that the signal targeting p33 to ER membranes largely coincides with the peroxisomal targeting signal, but contains additional elements in the first 87 amino acids.
41998848|Epiphytic populations of Xanthomonas citri subsp. citri (Xcc) were found on symptomless grapefruit and mandarin fruits for as long as six and five days of incubation under laboratory and orchard conditions in Saudi Arabia, respectively. No differences were noticed between populations of the bacteria in the susceptible cultivar of grapefruit and the moderately susceptible cultivar of mandarin under both conditions. The occurrence of epiphytic populations was not related to subsequent appearance of symptoms on branches or leaves directly below contaminated fruits. A single chlorine treatment at 200 ppm without prewashing in water did not reduce total Xcc recovery compared to the control. However, prewashing fruit and treating with chlorine significantly reduced total bacterial recovery compared to chlorine treatment alone with both varieties.
41998043|The sources of inoculum of Eutypa dieback of grapevines, caused by Eutypa lata, are not fully understood. Ascospores are thought to be the main source, but in populations with low disease incidence conidia may be important. Earlier studies of this disease in Italy and Germany did not report sexual structures (perithecia) of E. lata on grapevines, leaving open the possibility that populations of this fungus are clonal in some areas. However, we found perithecia in 24% and 43% of symptomatic vines in vineyards in Italy and Germany, respectively. Spatial patterns of symptomatic vines in the German vineyard were significantly aggregated but the aggregation was not strong, as might be expected if the fungus dispersed by conidia or mycelium on pruning tools. In contrast, vines with stromata and perithecia were not significantly aggregated in space. Vegetative compatibility (vc) types segregated among ascospore progeny in all perithecia sampled from both vineyards, indicating that this fungus consistently outcrosses in these populations. Finally, we found a high diversity of vc types in both vineyards, where isolates from different vines (with one exception) had unique vc types. These results reject the hypothesis that clonal reproduction of E. lata is epidemiologically significant, and strongly suggests that ascospores of E. lata are an important source of inoculum. Furthermore, E. lata's mating system is characterized by outcrossing in nature.
41998181|A virus associated with leafroll symptoms in Vitis vinifera was selected for further analysis because it was undetectable in all reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests available for Grapevine leafroll associated viruses (GLRaVs). Extracts of infected plant material were also negative in all enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays available for GLRaVs. Nonetheless, the unknown virus caused typical grapevine leafroll symptoms in the indicator host, V. vinifera cv Cabernet Franc. High molecular weight double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) purified from an infected vine appeared typical of the dsRNA recovered from plants infected by viruses in family Closteroviridae. RT-PCR was performed using this purified dsRNA with degenerate oligonucleotide primers designed to amplify a fragment from the heat shock protein 70 homologue (HSP70) from any closterovirus. Sequence information from the resulting RT-PCR products allowed the determination of a full length HSP70 sequence from the unknown virus for comparison with those of other GLRaVs. A specific RT-PCR assay based on primers developed from this sequence was negative for all GLRaVs tested, other than the unknown virus. The name Grapevine leafroll associated virus 9 (GLRaV-9) is tentatively proposed for the novel pathogen.
23721524|The host range and genetic variability of Tomato mosaic virus (ToMV) from Iran were investigated using isolates from different vegetables and chenopodiaceous weeds collected from 10 Iranian provinces. Of 849 symptomatic vegetables and 45 asymptomatic chenopodiaceous weeds sampled, 85 different vegetables and three nettle-leaf goosefoot (Chenopodium murale L.) samples were infected with ToMV, as indicated by DASELISA. Analysis of the biological properties of selected ToMV isolates revealed three pathological groups, indicating the presence of different ToMV populations in Iran. Iranian isolates NL93 and NO1, belonging to group II, did not infect solanaceous plants whereas four other Iranian ToMV isolates along with other global isolates in group I mostly infected the solanaceous host species tested. Phylogenetic analyses of the complete ToMV coat protein open reading frame sequences indicated two clades on the basis of nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences, and suggested the genetic relationship between isolates from various geographic origin due to the exchange of infected plant materials between Asian countries. The broad diversity of Iranian ToMV isolates showed that the ToMV populations in Iran consist of several strains that have high nucleotide diversity.
23721731|In recent years quantitative PCR (qPCR) detection methods have been widely utilised to detect phytopathogenic fungi and oomycetes and have greatly contributed to the advancement of knowledge in plant pathology. However, major drawbacks and common errors, most typical of earlier reports, still affect many methods currently available in the literature. Errors can be made throughout the entire process for the development of qPCR methods, at the level of selection of appropriate DNA extraction and purification protocols, identification of suitable target regions, choice of the chemistry, design and validation of specific primers and probes, analysis of sensitivity, choice of an absolute and/or relative quantification approach and analysis of the risk of detecting target DNA from dead sources. In the present review the above mentioned steps are analysed, highlighting their critical aspects and providing a practical guide for the users.
41998114|Six-hundreds-twelve barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) accessions were tested for resistance to Pyrenophora gramnea under natural infection in an organic farm in Lower Saxony, Germany, during 1999-2002. More than 30% of these accessions were observed to be resistant in the field and are listed in this report. Varieties with previously documented 'Vada'-and 'Betzes'-resistance, were observed without infection, but those with 'Lion'-resistance and with 'Thibaut'-resistance were found to be susceptible. Many new sources of resistance from East Asia and also samples with deviating symptoms of sensitivity were found. A small group of accessions was infected artificially with two aggressive isolates of the pathogen (12, 15) and tested by the sandwich method. This revealed both differences and agreement with the results obtained under natural infection. Accessions BGRC 5592, HOR 333, HOR 11475 and OU J362 showed resistance in all experiments.
41998687|The use of compost tea extracts to control leaf diseases is an alternative that enables the use of chemicals in agriculture to be reduced. However, little is known about the mechanisms responsible. We examined an aerated compost tea prepared from composted market and garden wastes and tested its effect on naturally occurring powdery mildew disease produced by the foliar pathogen Erysiphe polygoni in tomato plants (Lycopersicon esculentum cv. Roma) grown in perlite in an unheated greenhouse. Untreated plants showed whitish patches of powdery mildew, while in the treated plants the mycelium could hardly be seen and leaves only showed localized yellow spots corresponding to former sites of infection. Tea compost reduced disease incidence by 19% when used as a preventive treatment and eradicated the pathogen on the leaves when applied as a curative treatment. Treatment was not associated with increased peroxidase or chitinase activity in the leaves and induction of local resistance is unlikely to have been responsible. Instead, the effects of the compost could be due to the presence of bacteria and fungi, which may act as antagonists to the pathogen. The compost was rich in inorganic salts, organic carbon and phenols, which can affect pathogen growth and phyllosphere microorganisms.
41998943|Thirty Erwinia amylovora strains, collected from the main rosaceous crop-growing regions of Syria, were chosen as representatives of all major pathogenicity groups and were genetically studied by AFLP. Eight primer combinations were utilized and approximately 300 scorable bands in total were generated. Based on similarity coefficient, E. amylovora strains were placed into a main cluster containing two sub-clusters, indicating very low genetic variations among the studied pathogen. The existence of two plasmids, pEA29 (present in nearly all E. amylovora isolates) and pEL60 (present mainly in Lebanese strains), was confirmed using multiplex PCR in all tested Syrian E. amylovora strains, indicating that Lebanese and Syrian isolates may share a common origin.
41998578|Papaya meleira virus (PMeV), a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) virus present in the latex of papaya (Carica papaya L.), is the causal agent of 'meleira' or 'sticky disease', which prevails in eastern Brazil. Disease management strategies in the orchards are impaired by the lack of knowledge on PMeV transmission. We have therefore evaluated inoculation methods (five mechanical and one biological) for virus transmission to different papaya cultivars using crude latex collected from symptomatic plants. Inoculated plants were kept under observation for symptom development and checked for the presence of viral dsRNA for over three months. Test plants wounded by cutting or abrasion, which resulted in latex exudation, were not infected, whereas PMeV dsRNA was detected 15 days after inoculation by latex injection into the stem apex. The whitefly Trialeurodes variabais was unable to transmit PMeV from diseased to healthy papayas, even though the presence of the virus was ascertained in adults and nymphs. These data confirm previous field observations that failed to associate sticky disease with this whitefly species.
41998997|The chemical compositions of hydrodistilled essential oils and n-hexane extracts from Origanum acutidens, O. rotundifolium and O. vulgare were analyzed by GC and GC-MS. Essential oils and hexane, chloroform, acetone and methanol extracts were tested against 25 plant pathogenic bacterial strains. Essential oils showed a wide spectrum of antibacterial activity, probably due to the phenolic components such as carvacrol and thymol. It was also shown that carvacrol, thymol and other main components such as terpinen-4-ol and linalool possess antimicrobial activity. Plant extracts, however, did not show any antibacterial activity, with the exception of the acetone and hexane extracts from O. rotundifolium. Our findings suggest that the essential oils may be valuable as potential antibacterial agents against plant pathogens, and show the potential value of Origanum oils as seed disinfectant.
41998163|Cerato-platanin (CP), a previously purified and sequenced protein of about 12.4 kDa, has been studied with regard to the relationship between the fungal growth and the in vitro production by Ceratocystis fimbriata f. sp. platani, the causal agent of plane canker stain. Obtaining CP-specific polyclonal antibodies from rabbit allowed us to prepare a quantitative ELISA which indicated that CP was produced by C. fimbriata f.sp. platani in the first days of in vitro culture. Moreover, for the first time it was demonstrated that a small amount (< 2 nmol) of CP elicited the synthesis of phytoalexins such as umbelliferone and glyceollin, in host plane leaves and non-host soybean cotyledons, respectively.
23721515|Pleurotus eryngii is one of the most commercially-grown mushrooms in the world. In this study, the pathogen causing postharvest water-soaked and sunken lesions on the stipes and decay of P. eryngii in Jiangsu (China) was isolated and identified as Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis based on phenotypic characteristics and the nucleotide sequences of 16S rRNA and gyrB gene. Disease incidence rates were 45.08.0% after mushroom storing for 5 days at 20C in summer, 35.56.3% in autumn, 20.53.5% in spring, and only 7.52.5% in winter. Disease development was closely related to the ambient temperature at which the harvested mushrooms were kept. Thus, cold storage was an effectively method to control the disorder, for the pathogen's growth was strongly inhibited when mushrooms were grown at a temperature below 10C and postharvest storage was at 5C. L. lactis subsp. lactis greatly inhibited the mycelial growth of P. eryngii, and it had obvious extracellular protease activity. To our knowledge, this is the first report that L. lactis subsp. lactis is the causal agent of postharvest decay of P. eryngii.
41997929|Experimental transmission of European stone fruit yellows phytoplasma to Japanese plum cv. Ozark Premier' was achieved using Cacopsylla pruni, caught in the field or raised on infected plants under controlled conditions. Using different groups of infectious psyllas, 89% of the inoculated test plants were infected. Both nymphs and adults were able to transmit. Insects exposed to test plants immediately after capture or raised in cages transmitted the disease. After an incubation period of 4-5 months the first test plants showed typical symptoms. Sources of inoculum, test plants and vectors were examined by PCR for the presence of phytoplasmas. Following digestion of the amplification products with restriction enzymes, isolates from plants and insects showed the same restriction profiles. Interestingly, pear decline and European stone fruit yellows, members of the apple proliferation cluster, are both transmitted by Cacopsylla spp. Si riferisce su una serie di esperimenti condotti in ambiente controllato al fine di individuare il vettore del giallume europeo delle drupacee (ESFY). Attraverso una serie di esperienze condotte in passato ed utilizzando varie tecniche di trasmissione, non era stato possibile trasmettere la malattia con nessuna delle numerse specie di insetti, principalmente cicaline, prese in considerazione. Anche mediante tecniche di biologia molecolare (PCR) non era stata messa in evidenza la presenza del fitoplasma in insetti catturati in zone infette. In seguito, in una zona del nord-est Italia ove si pratica l'agricoltura biolgica, si  potuta osservare, a inizio di primavera, la presenza di Cacopsylla pruni su impianti di susino giapponese con evidenti sintomi di ESFY. Nelle prove di trasmissione successivamente condotte si  potuto dimostrare che tale specie di psilla  vettore del fitoplasma associato a ESFY. Oltre agli adulti svernanti ed aile ninfe e adulti della nuova generazione raccolti direttamente in frutteti infetti, anche ninfe ed adulti allevati in cattivit hanno trasmesso il patgeno in studio. Dopo inoculazioni multiple, 89% delle piante test (susino cv. Ozark Premier') sottoposte ad analisi mediante il test DAPI e PCR-RFLP  risultato infetto. Le stesse piante hanno anche manifestato dopo 4-5 mesi i tipici sintomi della malattia, fatta eccezione per la necrosi del floema. Sottoponendo a digestione enzimatica il DNA amplificato di fitoplasmi ottenuto dalle piante sorgente di inoculo, dalle piante test e dai vettori animali, sono stati ottenuti costantemente gli stessi profili di restrizione. Sulla base dei dati finora a disposizione, emerge che i fitoplasmi inclusi nel gruppo gentico degli scopazzi del melo (es. moria del pero e giallume europeo delle drupacee) sono trasmessi da psille.
41998286|Four oomycetes (Pythium aphanidermatum, Pythium dissimile, Pythium papillatum and Phytophthora nicotianae) and three plants (Lucerne, sugarbeet and tomato) were used in order to study the effects of species diversity on zoospore encystment and pathogenicity. The plant intra-specific variation affected the number of P. aphanidermatum zoospores that encysted in the elongation zone of lucerne and tomato seedlings but not of sugarbeet. Differences in encystment were not reflected in disease severity with the exception of root reduction of lucerne seedlings. Differences in zoospore encystment between isolates of P. aphanidermatum and Ph. nicotianae were reflected to the severity of disease symptoms caused only on lucerne seedlings. The mixed inoculum experiment indicated that in most combinations the encystment density was intermediate between the observed for single oomycete inoculations. Disease symptoms of the mixed inocula varied and either resembled the symptoms caused by one oomycete or did not differ from the symptoms caused by single inoculations.
41998766|Geographical distribution records of pathogens and pests are the basis for phytosanitary decision-making. Monilinia fructicola, one of the three Monilinia species responsible for brown rot of stone fruit, is listed as a regulated pest for South Africa. Many disputes about the justification of this classification have arisen during the past years as records have been published regarding the presence of this pathogen in South Africa. Results of several surveys conducted from 1985 in stone fruit orchards, revealed that M. laxa is the only causal agent of brown rot in South Africa. However, another notification of non-compliance (interception of regulated pests) was received by the National Plant Protection Organisation of South Africa in 2003 stating that M. fructicola was detected on consignments of South African Prunus fruits (P. domestica) in the United Kingdom. A detection survey according to inspections and sampling relevant to the biology of Monilinia species were conducted in the identified orchards at various stages throughout the year. Molecular techniques with species-specific primers for M. fructicola, M. laxa and M. fructigena based on the EPPO Diagnostic Protocol for M. fructicola were used for the identification of presumptive positive Monilinia isolates. The absence of M. fructicola from South African stone fruit orchards was again confirmed by this survey and its status in South Africa can be reported as: absent, not known to occur, confirmed by a detection survey. The regulated status of M. fructicola in South Africa is therefore scientifically justified by the results from this survey.
41998334|The presence of Grapevine rupestris stem pitting-associated virus (GRSPaV) together with other viruses can cause severe damage to infected grapevine plants, therefore the use of GRSPaV-free vines for multiplication and vineyard planting is highly desirable. This paper reports on several virus eradication techniques applied to grapevine clones in attempts to eliminate GRSPaV. The presence of GRSPaV was determined by RT-PCR. The traditional sanitation techniques, i.e. meristem tip culture, in vivo and in vitro thermotherapy, did not provide satisfactory results since more than two-thirds of derived lines were still GRSPaV-infected after treatment. However, regeneration through somatic embryogenesis always gave rise to plants free from GRSPaV. Among the tested techniques, somatic embryogenesis seems to be the most promising procedure for GRSPaV elimination, despite the technical problems related to the use of this technique and the theoretical possibility of somaclonal variation.
41998942|Citrus tristeza virus (CTV) is transmitted in a semipersistent manner by several aphid species, among which Toxoptera citricida is most efficient. After 24 h acquisition access period, eight CTV isolates were detected in single T. citricida with frequency of 63.3-91.1% and 71.1-91.1% by nested RT-PCR and real-time RTPCR, respectively. More copies of CTV-targets were detected in single viruliferous T. citricida individuals that acquired high transmissibility CTV isolates. Analysis by single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) of viruliferous T. citricida individuals that had acquired CTV isolates ST9, GS14, CT11, HH12, and of CTV-infected receptor plants showed that most of the CTV-infected receptor plants and individual of viruliferous aphids carried one CTV haplotype, and that CTV in the receptor plants showed less haplotype diversity than that in aphids.
41999007|Pseudomonas fluorescens strains EPS817 and EPS894 protecting strawberry plants against Phytophthora cactorum root rot and producing different bioactive metabolites were used in combination to enhance the level of biocontrol achieved by each strain used alone. Moreover, it was confirmed by chemical analysis that the strains have clear physiological differences in terms of biocontrol potential. EPS817 produced 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol and HCN, and EPS894 produced phenazine-l-carboxylic acid and pyoluteorin. Interaction studies between bacterial strains and P. cactorum revealed a significant inhibition of cyst germination in vitro. Scanning electron microscopy confirmed that each strain inhibited P. cactorum cyst germination on the strawberry root surface. Bacterial strains were able to colonize and survive on strawberry roots individually and together in a substrate potting mixture, thus indicating compatibility between strains. Biocontrol experiments performed in strawberry potted plants under greenhouse conditions revealed that the mixture of both strains not only reduced the disease severity of Phytophthora root rot but also the variability within experiments compared to single strain application.
24579134|Information about slow rusting resistance to pea rust (Uromyces fabae) is limited. Five slow rusting components, i.e. area under disease progress curve (AUDPC), latent period (LP), number of pustules per leaf (NPL), pustule size (PS), number of aecial cups (NAC) and sensitivity of leaf to rust (SLR), were evaluated in 38 pea genotypes under field conditions. Estimates of correlation coefficients indicated a high negative association of LP with AUDPC (r = 0.751; P  0.001), NLP (r = 0.808; P  0.001), PS (r = 0.458; P  0.001) and NAC (r = 0.476; P  0.001). However, significant positive association was found between AUDPC and NPL (r = 0.78; P  0.001), PS and NAC (r = 0.545; P  0.001). Factor analysis showed that, three of the slow rusting components, i.e. AUDPC, LP and NPL accounted for 49.77% of the total variance as the first main factor, while the other three traits distributed within the next two factors determined 26.34% and 10.46% of the total variance, respectively. A multiple regression analysis showed that the variation in AUDPC was significantly explained by number of pustules followed by latent period. Selection for slow rusting could be based on one component since they are interdependent but, for accumulating more partial resistance in a line, selection should be based on more than one component studied.
41997996|A polyclonal antiserum was raised to the 20 kDa product encoded by ORF2 of Grapevine virus B (GVB) using a recombinant protein. A rabbit was immunized with the polypeptide expressed in Escherichia coli fused with gluthatione-S-transferase. The antiserum successfully detected the 20 kDa protein in Nicotiana occidentalis plants in the late stages of infection, an accumulation pattern that differs substantially from that of GVB movement protein.
41998810|Virus diseases, especially those caused by mixed infections, are among the economically most devastating diseases of sweet potato. Sweet potato virus disease (SPVD), which is caused by mixed infection of Sweet potato feathery mottle (SPFMV) and Sweet potato chlorotic stunt virus (SPCSV), is the most widespread in East Africa. Lack of rapid and sensitive techniques for detecting the two viruses makes their control almost impossible. In this study, a multiplex polymerase chain reaction (mPCR) protocol was developed and subsequently evaluated for its effectiveness in simultaneous detection of SPFMV and SPCSV using 13 samples. Total RNA extracts were subjected to reverse transcription followed by PCR with two sets of virus-specific primers. DNA bands of 703 and 235 bp were obtained for SPFMV and SPCSV, respectively. No amplification products were obtained from healthy controls. Results obtained from nitrocellulose membrane enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (NCM-ELISA) confirmed the efficiency of the mPCR protocol. We recommend the developed mPCR technique for routine molecular diagnostic purposes.
24722458|The utilization of organic amendments has been proposed to decrease the incidence of plant diseases caused by soilborne pathogens. In this work we reviewed reports concerning disease suppressiveness by the new organic amendment biochar. A total of 12 papers were included in this analysis with 61 experimental case studies. The effect of biochar amendment was suppressive in 85%, non-significant in 12%, with only 3% of studies reporting a significant increase of disease incidence. Biochar can be effective against both airborne (e.g. Botrytis cinerea, different species of powdery mildew) and soilborne pathogens (e.g. Fusarium spp., Phytophthora spp., Rhizoctonia solani). Five different mechanisms have been proposed to explain biochar disease suppression: (i) induction of systemic resistance in host plants; (ii) enhanced abundance and activities of beneficial microbes, including mycorrhizal fungi; (iii) modification of soil quality in terms of nutrient availability and abiotic conditions such as liming effect; (iv) direct fungitoxic effect of biochar; (v) sorption of allelopathic, phytotoxic compounds that can directly harm plant roots and thus promote pathogen attacks. Potential side-effects of biochar have been reported, like the possibility of absorbing agrochemicals like herbicides, insecticides and fungicides, thus reducing their efficacy. Results from this review demonstrate that biochar amendments have great potential but, until now, not enough studies are available for a widespread adoption of biochar as a soil amendment in today's agricultural systems. More investigations on the mechanisms underlying biochar disease suppression, as well as long-term field experiments, are needed to make biochar a safe, effective and affordable tool for the control of plant pathogens.
24331980|A virus species provisionally named Grapevine virus F (GVF) was found in grapevine by deep sequencing. GVF is a vitivirus distinctly different from the other four members of this genus, as shown by nucleotide sequence and phylogenetic analysis. An RT-PCR test was developed for the detection of this virus. In a collection of 454 grapevine accessions from worldwide sources, an infection rate of 7% was found.
41998875|In the years 2007 and 2009 leaf spots and cankers were observed on different hazelnut cultivars grown in one orchard in central Poland. In both years yellow colony-forming bacteria were isolated from the margin of diseased and apparently healthy tissue. Fifteen isolates tested positive in a PCR assay using primers X1 and X2 specific for bacteria belonging to the genus Xanthomonas. Results of most of the physiological and biochemical features determined in our study agreed with those given in the EPPO standard PM 7/22, but some of them (utilization of L-arabinose, maltose, glycerol, D-xylose, lactose and raffinose) differed. However, they were identical with those of the reference strain Xanthomonas arboricola pv. corylina (Xac) LMG 688. The 15 isolates tested were also identified as Xac on the basis of cellular fatty acid content converted to methyl esters (FAME) as well as in gyrB gene sequence analysis. All isolates showed pathogenic ability on young leaves of potted hazelnut plants cv. Webb's Prize Cob in a greenhouse test and could be re-isolated from symptomatic tissues. In rep-PCR (BOX, ERIC and REP-PCR) all isolates showed patterns very similar to reference Xac strains (LMG 688, CFBP 1159). Peculiarly, a slight difference in the rep-PCR patterns of isolates recovered in 2007 and 2009 was found. This is the first time that Xac and hazelnut blight are found in and reported from Poland.
41998468|To gain insight into the molecular mechanisms of plant defence response to Verticillium dahliae, we identified the genes whose expression patterns were altered during early response to V. dahliae toxins (VD-toxins) in Arabidopsis seedlings using the mRNA differential display approach. Four true positive bands (DD1, DD2, DD3 and DD4) were confirmed from the 30 differentially displayed bands. The deduced nucleotide sequence of the DD1 and DD2 clones showed strong homology with genes encoding a putative histone H2B and a pumilio /Puf RNA-binding protein, respectively. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR assays suggested that the expression pattern of genes of DD1 and DD2 in two ecotypes of Arabidopsis were clearly different. The results indicate that the putative histone H2B and pumilio/Puf RNA-binding protein encoded by DD1 and DD2 genes may be involved in regulation of the defence responses against VD-toxins in Arabidopsis and the pumilio/Puf RNA-binding protein plays a more important role in the defence responses.
41998441|Plum pox virus (PPV) is a potyvirus causing economic losses to stone fruit trees. In the present study we have analyzed more than 40 PPV isolates collected from different western, eastern, central European and north African countries To preserve the originality of these isolates, the majority was maintained in GF305 peach (Prunus prsica), some in apricot (P. armeniaca), plum (P. domestica, Pinsititia), or ornamental (P. tomentosa) trees. Serological tests conducted in 2004, 2005 and 2006 with polyclonal antisera by Agdia (USA) validated the high rate of response with all PPV tested. Two primer pairs were designed to amplify 1200 nucleotides (nt) of the 3' region of the PPV genome spanning from the carboxy-terminal part of the Nib cistron to the carboxy-terminus of CP, and 500 nt starting from the conserved EcoRI site of the CP cistron to the polyA tail, respectively. Nucleotide sequences of these isolates were determined either from the amplified fragment or the recombinant plasmid cloned into E. coli. Two regions with variable nucleotides were found, the first 110 nt upstream the cleavage site, and the second in nucleotides encoding the cleavage site of NIa-Pro between the Nib and CP cistrons. Sequence homology among the viral isolates was very high. However, phylogenetic analysis of the sequences coding for CP indicated that diversity resided in the amino-terminal section. This finding was corroborated by the use of monoclonal antibodies to PPV D (Durviz, Spain) and PPV M (Agritest, Italy). We discuss the results of these analyses and, particularly, the significance of these nucleotide diversities.
41998938|Disease problems resulting from replanting alfalfa (Medicago sativa, MS) have been associated both to autotoxicity of undecomposed plant residues and activity of soil-borne fungal pathogens such as Pythium spp. and Rhizoctonia solani. However, the interaction between MS residues and soil-borne pathogens has not been previously investigated. In this work we studied the effects of the decomposition process of MS residues, in aerobic and anaerobic conditions on: (i) the growth of MS seedlings; (ii) the growth of 17 fungal species selected among saprophytic, biological control agents, foliar and soil-borne pathogens and (iii) the outcome of the plant-pathogen interactions. MS chemical changes during decomposition were characterized by C-CPMAS-NMR spectroscopy. Autotoxicity and phytotoxicity of MS extracts rapidly decreased during decomposition, in both laboratory and litterbag in aerobic conditions, but increased sharply in anaerobic conditions. Undecomposed MS extracts positively affected fungal growth, while extracts from MS residues decomposed both in aerobic and anaerobic conditions showed an inhibitory effect. MS seedling damping-off caused by Pythium ultimum and R. solani increased when soil was amended with MS residues, suggesting that availability of more nutrients and energy sources may be important in increasing disease severity. C-CPMAS-NMR analysis revealed that dramatic chemical changes occurred during decomposition. O-bearing carbon compounds, mainly associated with sugars, decreased steadily, while aliphatic compounds increased during decomposition. It was concluded that there is a consistent relationship among MS chemical changes, its autotoxicity and the effects on fungal growth.
41998340|The ability of fluorescent Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism (fAFLP) technique for typing Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae strains isolated from different host plants was investigated. Fragments up to 700 bp were separated on a CEQ 8000 automated DNA sequencer and electropherograms were generated with CEQ 8000 analysis software. Different patterns were generated from 57 P. s. pv. syringae strains examined and seven fAFLP clusters partially corresponding to the host of origin were identified. The analysis of the electropherograms allowed the identification of host-specific discriminative peaks. One peak was present in 93% of the analyzed strains. FAFLP analysis showed an high genetic heterogeneity in the P. s. pv. syringae strains examined, including strains isolated from the same host.
24722468|Sclerotium delphinii (syn. Sclerotium rolfsii var. delphinii) is a serious pathogen infecting plants in the genus Ajuga, Arachis, Hosta, Iris, Malus and many additional herbaceous ornamental species but there has been no report of this pathogen infecting cotton. Plants infected with S. delphinii were first noticed in the fields of Wardha, India, during 2011-2012. The causal agent was isolated in PDA medium and identified by sequencing the ITS region and its pathogenicity was determined by fulfilling Koch's postulates.
41998411|Genetic diversity among 64 isolates of Ascochyta rabiei obtained from diseased chickpea plants in 18 different provinces of Turkey was characterized by microsatellite-primed PCR using di-, tri- and tetra-nucleotide repeats. Of sixteen primers tested, ten amplified 61 bands, of which 56 were polymorphic. UPGMA (Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic Average) analysis, performed with the resulting data of SSR (Simple Sequence Repeats) fingerprints clustered Turkish isolates of A. rabiei into seven groups. However, these groups did not correspond to their geographic origin. Group 2, the largest group consisting of 35 isolates from 16 different provinces, clustered together with one Syrian isolate belonging to pathotype 3 while isolates belonging to pathotypes 1 and 2 did not cluster with any isolate originating from Turkey. The highest genetic diversity within geographical populations was found in the South Eastern Anatolia region (Shannon index: 0.156). Also, rDNA ITS (Internal transcribed spacer) regions of isolates representative of each group were sequenced. The ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 sequences were highly conserved among all groups of A. rabiei. This is the first report on detection of genetic diversity in A. rabiei populations in Turkey. The SSR fingerprints (three or four repeats) generated using A. rabiei DNA indicated that such microsatellites are useful for population studies in this fungus.
41998806|Forty nine endophytic bacterial isolates were obtained from knots on olive stems induced by Pseudomonas savastanoi pv. savastanoi (Pss) and from symptomless leaves of olive trees naturally infected with Pss from six orchards from different locations in Tunisia. Populations of all endophytic bacteria were higher in knots (1-14 10 CFU/g) than in leaves (5-21 10 CFU/g). A 16S rDNA sequence analysis revealed the presence of many saprophytic bacteria associated with Pss, such as Pantoea agglomerans, Enterobacter sp., Pseudomonas sp., P. fluorescens, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia and Burkolderia cepacia. In the leaves, however Pss was often associated with Bacillus subtilis and an Acinetobacter species. Screening of antagonistic activity of 18 isolates associated with Pss in knots or leaves showed that only one strain of P. fluorescens and one strain of B. subtilis were highly antagonistic against Pss. The active compound produced by B. subtilis is a protein whereas that produced by P. fluorescens is not.
41998113|In a recent survey of the sanitary status of stone fruits in Palestine, a virus (isolate PL27) was transmitted to Nicotiana occidentalis by mechanical inoculation from Japanese plum. Purified virus consisted of quasi-spherical particles 26-35 nm in diameter which sedimented as 3-4 components in density gradient centrifugation. Virus coat protein had an estimated molecular mass of ca. 25 kDa, while four encapsidated RNA bands were visible in electrophoregrams of purified nucleic acid. The nucleotide sequence of a 385 bp PCR-generated amplicon from RNA-3 was determined showing 99% identity at the nucleic acid level and 98.9% similarity at the aminoacid sequence level with a previously characterized RNA-3 region of American plum line pattern virus (APLPV). A digoxigenin-labelled probe was synthesized which specifically recognized virus isolates in extracts from herbaceous and woody samples but did not cross-hybridize with Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV), Apple mosaic virus (ApMV), and Prune dwarf virus (PDV). An antiserum to PL27 was raised, which recognized homologous antigens but not PDV and PNRSV. An ELISA kit prepared with this antiserum was successfully used for the detection of PL27 in infected Prunus species. Based on particle morphology, biological, serological, and molecular properties, PL27 was identified as an isolate of APLPV.
41998454|Hop stunt viroid (HSVd), genus Hostuviroid, family Pospiviroidae is a circular single-stranded RNA 294-303 nt in size, infecting a large number of woody hosts, such as grapevine, Citrus spp. and Prunus spp. In this study, we report the identification and molecular characterization of HSVd variants isolated in Turkey from different naturally infected Prunus sources, including apricot, plum and peach. We determined the nucleotide sequences of eleven isolates and found five new sequence variants of 296 (3 variants) or 297 (2 variants) nt, comparable in length to previously known HSVd isolates. Multiple alignments and phylogenetic analyses showed that one apricot isolate (HSVd.AP1) clustered with the recombinant P-H/cit3 group, whereas all the others (one apricot; HSVd.AP23, two plum; HSVd.PL49 and HSVd.PL278 and one peach, HSVd.PE73) clustered with the Hop group, confirming the molecular variability of HSVd isolates. The sequence variability seems to be more related to the geographical origin of the isolates than to their hosts.
41998783|Bean damping-off caused by Rhizoctonia solani is one of the most widespread diseases of this plant. Fluorescent pseudomonads able to produce secondary antifungal metabolites can inhibit soil-borne plant pathogens. For this reason the antagonistic activity of Pseudomonas fluorescens UTPF5 against R. solani AG-4 was assessed in bean under in vivo and in vitro conditions. Production of some secondary metabolites and their impact on mycelial growth of R. solani was also studied. The results showed that UTPF5 could inhibit the growth of R. solani both in vitro and in vivo, and suppress the disease by 33.34% and 14.29% by soil drenching and seed treatment, respectively. Population density of UTPF5 decreased from about 10 CFU seed to 2.07  10 CFU g root after one month of growth of plants in non-infected soil. Production of HCN, siderophore and protease, and involvement of siderophore, volatile and nonvolatile metabolites on growth of the fungus were observed in UTPF5. Occurrence of the phlD gene in UTPF5 was demonstrated using PCR with the primers phl2a and phl2b. The characteristics mentioned above show that P. fluorescens strain UTPF5 is a potential biocontrol agent of R. solani.
41998225|Pith necrosis, caused by Pseudomonas viridiflava (Burkholder) Dowson, has been an important problem of greenhouse-grown tomatoes in the eastern Mediterranean region of Turkey since 1998. In the study, the epiphytic survival of P. viridiflava on weeds was investigated by using a semi selective agar medium (T-5) and indirect-ELISA in commercial greenhouses with a history of pith necrosis in three different locations of the region during 2001 and 2002. It is the first study showing that pathogenic strains of P. viridiflava on tomato may survive as an epiphytic population on the phyllosphere of Amaranthus spp., Conyza canadensis, and Orobanche ramosa in Turkey. The strains were identified as P. viridiflava by morphological, physiological, biochemical tests, indirect-ELISA and fatty acid methyl ester analysis, and were found to be pathogenic on tomato plants.
41998423|During surveys carried out in June and October 2005 and August 2006 for assessing the occurrence of cucurbit-infecting viruses in Tunisia, samples of squash, melon and snake cucumber showing virus-like symptoms were collected from the major cucurbit-growing areas. Besides mosaic-inducing viruses, DAS-ELISA and RT-PCR tests showed the presence of yellows-inducing viruses: Cucurbit aphid-borne yellows virus (CABYV, Polerovirus), Cucurbit yellow stunting disorder virus (CYSDV, Crinivirus) and Cucumber vein yellowing virus (CVYV, Ipomovirus). While CABYV, a virus previously reported from Tunisia, was detected throughout the country, CYSDV and CVYV, reported here for the first time, were found only in the Sahel and the Southern part of the country. The identification of CYSDV and CVYV was confirmed by immunosorbent electron microscopy. Phylogenetic analysis done on parts of the CP gene sequence showed that Tunisian CYSDV isolates have high sequence identity (99-100%) with isolates that have recently emerged in the Middle East, Southern Europe and the United States. In contrast, CVYV isolates from Tunisia are more divergent (96.6%) from Middle East isolates and are only distantly related (94.5-95%) to isolates which recently emerged in Spain, Portugal and France.
41998521|Sheath blight on rice and banded leaf disease on maize are epidemic in Yunnan, China, causing severe losses of both crops. Isolates from maize sheaths showing symptoms of sheath blight, were collected from five representative counties in Yunnan. These isolates were identified as Rhizoctonia spp. based on their morphological characteristics. Four anastomosis groups (AGs) of R. solani were identified: AG-1 IA (10 isolates, 28.3% of the total), AG-1 IC (8.3%), AG-4 (11.4%) and AG-5 (11.4%). The binucleate isolates o Rhizoctonia spp. belonged to AG-A. Thirteen multinucleate isolates failed to anastomose with the AG testers of R. solani, but they possessed morphological characteristics of Rhizoctonia zeae and anastomosed with the tester isolate of anastomosis group Z of the Waitea spp. (WAGZ). Isolates of AG-1 IA were highly pathogenic at heading stage on maize, while isolates of AG-5, AG-1 IC, and WAG-Z were considerably less pathogenic. Isolates of AG-4 and AG-A were the least pathogenic. Among the sheath samples of rice with sheath blight symptoms, forty-nine isolates from 15 counties in Yunnan were collected. They were identified as four AGs of R. solani, AG-1 IA (31 isolates, 65.3% of the total), AG-1 IB (6.1%), AG-1 IC (6.1%) and AG-4 (2.1%). Binucleate isolates belonged to AG-Bb. Tested isolates of AG-1 IA, AG-Bb, and AG-4 were highly pathogenic at the heading stage on rice; isolates of AG-1 IC were moderately pathogenic, whereas isolates of AG-1 IB were non-pathogenic on rice.
41999027|The genetic variability of six isolates of Grapevine fan1Eaf virus (GFLV) from South Moravia (Czech Republic) and Italy was investigated by RT-PCR and sequencing within part of the RNA-1 -encoded genes 1BHel (379 nts) and 1EPol (365 nts). Sequence analyses showed 96-100% and 91.4-100% identity at the amino acid 1Evel for genes 1BHel and 1EPol, respectively, among Czech, Italian and other isolates for which sequence information is available. As expected, some of the conserved motifs of the helicase and polymerase proteins were found in the deduced amino acid sequences, although isolates PN33 from Czech Republic, and isolates 55TK and UR11 from Italy had a He to Val subtitution in the helicase motif B. Phylogenetic analyses confirmed the close relationship among GFLV isolates and the relatedness of GFLV isolate WAPN173 with Arabis mosaic virus (ArMV) in protein 1BHel. Two distinct phylogenetic clusters were identified for protein 1EPol, with isolates from California and the French reference strain F13 grouping together, and isolates from the Czech Republic, Italy, New Zealand, and USA grouping in a different lineage. This study provides new insights into the genetic variability of GFLV RNA-1-encoded genes 1BHel and 1EPol.
24331962|The objective of this study was to identify viral species infecting pumpkin in the Khartoum and Gezira states of Sudan, and to evaluate the genetic variability among members of the same viral species. A total of 60 symptomatic pumpkin leaf samples were collected from three different locations throughout the Khartoum state, and examined for viral incidence. Symptoms observed varied from mosaic, malformation, blistering of the leaves and stunting. Degenerate genus-specific and species-specific primers were used for the detection of common cucurbit viruses. Results showed that the highest incidence (21.7%) was for Cucurbit chlorotic yellows virus (CCYV) and Cucurbit yellow stunting disorder virus (CYSDV), followed by (18.3%) Zucchini yellow mosaic virus (ZYMV), and (15%) Watermelon chlorotic stunt virus (WmCSV). Single and multiple infections with more than one virus were detected. The partial nucleotide sequences of the regions encoding CI and CP, CP, HSP70h, and AV2 proteins of ZYMV, CYSDV, CCYV and WmCSV, respectively, have been deposited in NCBI GenBank. Phylogenetic analysis based on nucleotide sequences showed no or little variation among the studied viral isolates since each of them grouped well with its corresponding reference species.
24332202|Here we review the suppressive capacity of 14 agroindustrial subproduct-based compost against the disease caused by Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria (Xcv) in tomato crops. The obtained results have shown that the in vitro compost's suppressive effect on Xcv growth was mainly due to biotic factors, since sterilised compost samples were not effective. The most effective composts were 44TRI, 50, 51, 52 and 55, while the rest of them apparently did not affect the in vitro growth of the bacterium. When the same composts were applied in a tomato seedbed, the sample named 51 showed the most suppressive effect against the symptoms caused by the pathogen. Disease incidence reduction after this treatment reached 80%. In this case, a clear indirect relationship was detected between disease incidence and fresh weight losses of treated plants. Finally, the suppressive characteristics of an agroindustrial-based compost were improved after the inoculation with a biological control agent, a strain of Bacillus pumilus MSW231 known to be effective against Xcv. In this case, the isolation of the pathogen from infected plants was reduced up to 95% as compared to plants treated with another non-suppressive substrate. The present results indicate that the agroindustrial subproducts-based compost posseses an important suppressive effect towards the disease caused by Xcv, mainly due to biotic factors, and therefore it can be improved by the inoculation with biological control agents, worsened by sterilization and even modified by the inoculation with other biological control agents, so as to obtain an effective compost  la carte.
41998279|Abutilon mosaic virus (AbMV) and Bean dwarf mosaic virus (BDMV) are phylogenetically related, bipartite-genome begomoviruses. AbMV is limited to the plant host phloem but BDMV is not. We have previously provided evidence that the genomic DNA-A component of BDMV contains determinants involved in movement (Levy and Czosnek, 2003). We report here that the DNA-A-encoded genes AC2 and AC3 are involved in virus accumulation and spread. To follow AbMV and BDMV movement in inoculated bean plants, we replaced their coat protein genes (CP) with DNA encoding the green or the red fluorescent proteins (GFP, RFP) to create BDMV-CP:GFP, BDMV-CP:RFP, and AbMV-CP:GFP. Frame-shift mutations in BDMV AC2 and AC3 to produce BDMV-CP:GFP-mC23 resulted in inhibition of BDMV movement when co-inoculated with BDMV DNA-B. The mutation reverted to wildtype and movement was restored when BDMVCP:GFP-mC23 was co-inoculated with BDMV-CP:RFP and BDMV DNA-B, which strongly suggests that the AC2/AC3 region is important for BDMV movement. Consequently we replaced the AC2/AC3 region of Ab-MV-CP:GFP with that of BDMV to create AbMVCP:GFP-C23: BDMV AbMV-CP:GFP-C23: BDMV inoculated together with AbMV DNA-B moved from cell to cell in the epidermis towards the phloem, and long-distance in the entire plant, even though inocula lacked part of all of BDMV DNA-B. AbMV-CP:GFP with its cognate DNA-B was unable to move. Inoculation of bean with AbMV-CP:GFP-C23: BDMV and BDMV DNA-B resulted in the accumulation of very large amounts of viral DNA, in remarkably fast systemic movement, and in the early appearance of severe symptoms, which in most cases, resulted in an inhibition of germination. These results suggest that interactions between AC2/AC3 of BDMV and other proteins encoded by AbMV DNA-A and DNA-B influence the ability of AbMV to overcome the phloem barrier and move in non-phloem cells. Furthermore, they suggest that proteins encoded by AbMV DNA-A also interact with those encoded by BDMV DNA-B, resulting in an enhancement of systemic spread and of symptom development.
41998414|This study was carried out with the aim of assessing the antibacterial effect of hydrogen peroxide (HO) and N-heterocyclic pyridinium chlorochromate (PCC) on Xanthomonas campestris pv. vignicola, the causal agent of bacterial blight of cowpea. Disease severity in cowpea was analysed after seed and seedling treatment with the chemicals at different stages of growth. Pretreatment of cowpea seeds and seedlings with 1 mM HO or PCC led to a reduced disease severity compared to untreated controls. A combination of HO and PCC treatment conferred a better suppression of the disease in greenhouse trials than when HO or PCC were used individually. In addition, the efficacy of PCC and HO when used together to sterilise seeds was higher than that of sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl), a well-known seed sterilizer. The induction of NADHperoxidase activity mediating disease defence response in chemically treated cowpea seedlings is discussed. Our results suggest that PCC and HO inhibited pathogen growth in seeds and seedlings and can be used to control seed-borne diseases under laboratory conditions.
23721753|An isolate of Chilli veinal mottle virus (ChiVMV) was characterized, which infects tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) in the Chinese province of Yunnan inducing mottling and necrotic spots on the leaves. Nine solanaceous crops inoculated mechanically proved susceptible to this viral isolate (ChiVMV-To) and reacted with symptoms including systemic mottling and leaf distortion. ChiVMV-To has filamentous particles ca. 760 nm long and a genome composed of 9,724 nucleotides (nts), excluding the poly(A) tail, comprised in a single open reading frame encoding a polypeptide 3,089 amino acids (aa) in size. The 5'- and 3'-untranslated regions (UTRs) are 168 and 286 nts in size, respectively. The complete genome sequence of ChiVMV-To shares 78.5 to 79.1% nt and 83.8 to 86.7% aa identities with those of six other ChiVMV chilli isolates reported previously. Phylogenetic analysis based on the polyprotein sequences of other potyviruses suggests ChiVMV-To to be most closely related to Wild tomato mosaic virus (WTMV). This is the first complete genome sequence characterization of ChiVMV isolated from tobacco in China.
41998771|There is growing interest in the use of biological approaches to replace chemicals in fertilizing soils or improving plant resistance against phytopathogens. In this regard plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) have a potential role. In search of efficient PGPR strains with multiple activities, we prepared eight new bioformulations using two strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens isolated from different rhizosphere soils and plant roots in the Iranian cotton fields. Formulations included a talc-based powder and bentonite-based powder as mineral carriers and peat and rice bran as organic carriers for increasing stability in interaction between PGPR and cotton plants. The results of a greenhouse experiment, where these products were applied to cotton seeds at intervals of 15, 30, 45 and 60 days after sowing to control seedling damping-off, showed that all treatments except TAL-B were effective (up to 62.5% control) as compared to untreated seeds. The efficacy of BENT-B, PT-B and PT-B treatments was much higher (between 1.42 to 1.92 fold) than that of the standard carboxin-thiram fungicide treatment at all stages. Our results indicate that organic and inorganic carriers may efficiently be used for improving the stability and effectiveness of biocontrol-active microorganisms in controlling plant diseases.
23721749|Fire blight, caused by Erwinia amylovora, for the last 20 years has been the most destructive disease of pear, apple, quince and several other members of the family Rosaceae in the Republic of Macedonia. E. amylovora is a quarantine pathogen that has already caused considerable damage to orchards, and shows the tendency to further spreading. Bacteria with colony morphology similar of those of E. amylovora were repeatedly recovered from wild pear (Pyrus pyraster) on a semi-selective medium and identified as E. amylovora based on morphological, pathological, biochemical, nutritional, physiological methods, BIOLOG and PCR. The detection of E. amylovora on wild pear (Pyrus pyraster) in our country casts doubt on the reported suitability of this species as a source of resistance for pear breeding.
41998539|A total of 191 Fusarium isolates were recovered from maize ears collected from 11 different geographic regions in Iran during 2004 and 2005. Fusarium isolates were identified on morphological characters and using species-specific PCR assays. DNA sequence-based identification of some unknown isolates was achieved using the translation elongation factor I- (TEF) gene region. Fusarium verticillioides was the most prevalent species representing 69.6% of the isolates. PCR analysis using the species-specific primers VER1/2 and PRO1/2 confirmed 98.5% and 85.1% of the morphological identifications of F. verticillioides and Fusarium proliferatum respectively. Based on sequence analysis five isolates were identified as either Fusarium oxysporum, Fusarium cf. hullatum or Fusarium thapsinum. Two isolates appeared to represent a new unnamed Fusarium species. This is the first report of F. cf. bullatum and F. thapsinum on maize kernels in Iran.
41998021|Despite its great potential benefit, the introduction of genetically modified microorganisms (GMMs) as biocontrol agents in agricultural environments still faces several problems impeding success. One of the major constraints is represented by the excessive cost of product development and regulatory approvals required for each strain, formulation and use. The regulatory bottleneck derives from the common fear that the application of novel biotechnology products may pose potential hazards to the environment. Therefore, national regulations now require a detailed analysis of the environmental impact as part of any new application for registration and commercial development of biocontrol agents. Additional requirements are needed if the biocontrol agent has been genetically engineered. This review will focus on the key factors to be considered in assessing the risk of unmodified and genetically modified antagonists under the present European regulation.
41998378|Surveys of fields, parks, and forests in the Golestan province of northeast Iran resulted in the record of fourteen rust-induced diseases on weeping willow, black poplar, blackberry, rose, estragon, garlic, wild oat, barley, ryegrass, wheat, peach, plum, alfalfa, and broad bean. Causal agents were identified as Melampsora coleosporioides, M. allii-populina, Phragmidium bulbosum, Ph. violaceum, Ph. rosae-pimpinellifoliae, Ph. tuberculatum, Puccinia absinthii, P. allii, P. coronata f.sp. avenae, P. coronata f.sp. hordei, P. graminis f.sp. avenae, P. hordei, P. persistens subsp. triticina, Tranzschelia discolor, Uromyces striatus, and U. viciae-fabae. Weeping willow rust and barley crown rust are reported for the first time from Iran and Asia, respectively.
24332034|Reverse transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) assays were developed for the detection of the ilarviruses Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV), Prune dwarf virus (PDV), Apple mosaic virus (ApMV), and American plum line pattern virus (APLPV), and the nepoviruses Tomato ringspot virus (ToRSV) and Cherry leafroll virus (CLRV). These viruses affect various stone fruits such as apricots, cherries, peaches, plums, and almonds. The goal of this work was to improve the RT-qPCR detection of PNRSV, PDV, and ApMV in addition to developing three new RT-qPCR assays for the detection of APLPV, ToRSV and CLRV. Primers for conventional RT-PCR as well as primers and probes for RT-qPCR assays were designed after aligning coat protein (CP) gene sequences of geographically diverse isolates with the corresponding CP gene sequences from the GenBank, targeting regions with 100% sequence identity. The efficiency of each RT-qPCR assay, as well as the intra- and inter-assay variability were determined. These conventional RT-PCR and RT-qPCR assays were validated using purified total RNAs from 221 trees from the USDA Clonal Germplasm Repository orchards. The data showed that more isolates were detected by RTqPCR than by RT-PCR.
41998034|Peach latent mosaic viroid (PLMVd) and apple scar skin viroid (ASSVd) were detected in naturally infected cultivated pear Pyrus communis in Greece and Italy and wild pear P. amygdaliformis in Greece. Pear blister canker viroid (PBCVd) was also detected in P. communis and pear P. amygdaliformis in Greece. PLMVd, ASSVd, and PBCVd were detected by molecular hybridization analysis in about 37%, 39%, and 62%, respectively, of 48 samples of fruits, leaves, buds, shoots, or twigs of cultivated and wild pear trees in Peloponnesus, Greece. PLMVd variants from the Italian pear cultivar 'Passacrassana' and the Greek wild pear both had a chain length of 338 nucleotides and 89-90% identity with the French and Italian PLMVd variants from peach. ASSVd and PLMVd in infected pear cultivar 'Passacrassana' were graft transmissible in pear. This is the first report which shows that PLMVd and ASSVd naturally infect cultivated and wild pear in the Mediterranean and that PLMVd naturally infects hosts other than Prunus spp. Our findings suggest that PLMVd, ASSVd, and PBCVd may have originated in the Mediterranean in their host plants, most probably in P. amygdaliformis.
41998535|Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. malvacearum (Xam), the causal agent of cotton angular leaf spot disease, causes severe qualitative and quantitative losses in most cottongrowing areas of the world. Forty virulent strains of Xam originally selected from 200 isolates were tested against a set of ten differential cotton varieties. Forty isolates representing nine defined races were used to detect the genetic diversity among these races using RAPD and ISSR PCR-based techniques. Both techniques revealed high degrees of polymorphisms among the studied races. Combined data showed that percent disagreement values (PDV) ranged between 0.13 and 0.37. RAPD identified 7 isolates with the majority having several unique bands. ISSR, on the other hand, identified 9 isolates with the majority having less unique bands. A single isolate (race 32) was not characterized by any unique band and thus was not distinguishable by both methods. The combined dendrogram based on UPGMA analysis contained two main clusters. The first cluster contained four isolates (races), three of which were the lowest in virulence, and the second cluster contained three highly virulent isolates (races). The two outgrouped races, namely 11 and 26, were of medium virulence and were characterized as being the most distinguishable by both methods (15 and 17 unique bands for races 11 and 26 respectively). It was concluded that analysis of genomic DNA using RAPD and ISSR is a suitable typing method for since both techniques proved to be fast, sensitive, and reliable for determining genetic relationships among Xam isolates.
23721590|Four commercial papaya orchards in the Sindh province of Pakistan were surveyed for the presence of Papaya ringspot virus (PRSV) in February and May of 2012. Leaf samples with mottling, yellowing and dark streaking were collected from trees with fruits showing concentric C-shaped rings and tested by ELISA with virus-specific antibodies. Results showed that 70 samples tested positive to PRSV, nine of which were characterized by RTPCR using primers designed in the sequence encoding the nuclear inclusion b (NIb) and the coat protein (CP) genes. Phylogenetic analyses of the partial coat protein sequence showed a close relationship of the isolates from Pakistan to one other and to an isolate from India (99% identity) but a relative divergence with other isolates from different geographical locations. This is the first report of PRSV on papaya in Pakistan.
41998044|The 'life cycle' of pear decline phytoplasma in the vector Cacopsylla pyri has been studied. For two consecutive years, groups of insects caught monthly from March to October were used for transmission trials. The psylla was equally infective throughout the experimental period. In the second year, insects were fed on dormant plants from November to March and regularly tested. Retention of infectivity of the pear decline phytoplasma in the vector lasted through the winter. The overwintering adults of C. pyri did not transmit the phytoplasmas to plants in dormancy, but they did, without any previous recharge feeding, after bud break in the spring. Control of the overwintering adults of C. pyri appears to be of fundamental importance for preventing the spread of pear decline.
24331969|Several species and varieties of the family Crassulaceae have been introduced and cultivated for ornamental as well as medicinal purposes in Brazil, more prominently Cotyledon orbiculata (pig's ear). This work reports the identification and characterization of viruses associated with foliar mosaic and distortion of C. orbiculata from the succulent plant collection of the garden of the University of So Paulo, Brazil. In situ analyses revealed enveloped bacilliform particles in the perinuclear space of infected C. orbiculata cells, and cytoplasmic cylindrical inclusions, typical of the family Potyviridae. Viruses were mechanically transmitted and separated by differential indicator hosts and aphid transmission (Myzus persicae). Chenopodium amaranticolor and Datura stramonium served as differential hosts for the potyvirus and the bacilliform virus, respectively. Positive serological reactions were obtained when leaf extracts from naturally infected C. orbiculata and experimental hosts were exposed to an antiserum to Sonchus yellow net virus (genus Nucleorhabdovirus). Identification of the potyvirus by RT-PCR, cloning into pGEM-T vector and sequencing generated a 1,752 nt fragment corresponding to part of the nuclear inclusion protein b (NIb), the complete coat protein (CP) and the untranslated region (UTR). Amino acid identities below 80% and phylogenetic analyses indicated that the potyvirus of C. orbiculata may be a new species belonging to the Potato virus Y subgroup, for which the name Cotyledon virus Y (CotVY) is suggested.
41998327|In plants, the mechanism of RNA silencing has evolved to defend plants against viral infection as well as to regulate of gene expression for growth and development. However, viruses counteract this antiviral defence by expressing silencing suppressor proteins, which are potent weapons in the 'arms' race between plants and invading viruses. These proteins efficiently inhibit RNA silencing by interacting with various steps of the different silencing pathways and these mechanisms of suppression are being unravelled progressively. Our better understanding the molecular bases of the induction and the suppression of RNA silencing dramatically improved our basic knowledge about intimate plant-virus interactions and also provide valuable tools to unravel the diversity, regulation and evolution of RNA-silencing pathways.
41998633|A field survey was carried out in Catalonia (northeast Spain) to characterize the decline of mature grapevines. The relationships of both external and internal symptoms of diseased plants and their associated mycoflora were studied. Co-occurrence of different internal disease symptoms was frequently observed, since 44% of the sampled plants had wood lesions commonly associated with at least two of the following decline diseases: eutypiose, black dead arm or esca. The results obtained suggest that apoplexy might not be associated only with esca-affected plants, since 60% of surveyed vines showing apoplexy showed also V-shaped necroses, which are commonly associated with eutypiose and black dead arm, and 20% were exclusively affected by V-shaped necroses. An experiment was conducted to establish the pathogenicity of the most representative fungi isolated from diseased tissues of declining plants, by artificially inoculating 1-year-old vines of cvs Macabeo and Tempranillo. As indicated by the extension of the vascular lesions, pathogenicity was confirmed for most of the species tested, namely Botryosphaeria dothidea, Diplodia seriata, Eutypa lata, Neofusicoccum luteum, N. parvum and Phaeomoniella chlamydospora.
41998313|Bacterial dieback of hazelnut (Corylus avellana), commonly called moria is the most serious problem in hazelnut orchards in Central Italy. Various copper compounds (copper oxychloride, tribasic copper sulphate with or without addition of a leaf fertilizer, and copper sulphate pentahydrate) were tested in areas affected by the disease, and all gave effective control. Copper oxychloride and tribasic copper sulphate, in combination with a leaf fertilizer performed best, but copper sulphate pentahydrate containing a very low concentration of copper (5.5 g/1), still gave sufficient protection.
41998184|In December 1999, a sample of imported Pelargonium zonale cuttings was found to be infected by Ralstonia solanacearum in the UK. From September to December 2000, bacterial wilt was diagnosed in several Pelargonium nurseries in Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands. R. solanacearum biovar 2, race 3 was consistently isolated and identified. Surveys traced the origin of infections to cuttings produced in Kenya for the European market. Quarantine measures were imposed to prevent spread and persistence of the organism. Infections of R. solanacearum have not been found on imported cuttings or nurseries in European countries since then. The introduction of the pathogen in Pelargonium raised concern of spread to potato. In Kenya it was found that the contamination most probably occurred through contaminated surface (river) water used for irrigation in the nurseries. Infection was found in different cultivars. The nurseries in Kenya have taken strict hygiene and water disinfection measures and eliminated all infected and probable infected plant material. Since than no further infections have been found. The R. solanacearum isolates from Pelargonium were characterised as R. solanacearum biovar 2, race 3 on the basis of host range, morphology, serology, PCR (also using biovar-specific primers, REP-PCR, AFLP) and fatty acid patterns. Symptoms in Pelargonium, results of strain characterisation and a proposed testing method for latent infections are presented.
24579149|The complete genome sequence of one isolate of Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 4 strain 9 (GLRaV-4 strain 9) was determined using a library constructed from the sequencing of the small RNA population. The RNA genome consists of 13,858 nucleotides and contains seven open reading frames. A 5' non coding end (218 nt) is followed by ORF1 encoding the 261.5 kDa methyltransferase/helicase domains then, through a +1 ribosomal frameshift, by ORF1b encoding a 58.28 kDa product corresponding to the replicase RdRp. The ORFs that follow encode the 5.32 kDa P5 protein, the 58.12 kDa HSP70h protein, the 60.18 kDa protein, the 29.9 kDa coat protein and finally the 23.2 kDa p23 protein followed by a 127 nt non coding 3' end. The analysis of virus-derived siRNA populations aligning to the GLRaV-4 strain 9 genome showed a major representation of 21-nt reads, suggesting the involvement of DCL4 in virus silencing. The profile of the vsiRNAs density along the viral genome differed clearly from that of GLRaV-3, the representative member of subgroup I of the genus Ampelovirus, that was present in the same plant.
41998857|Parietaria mottle virus (PMoV) typically occurs at the edge of tomato and pepper crops in north-eastern Spain. Studies were conducted on PMoV transmission both by pollen and by seven insect species of the orders Hemiptera and Thysanoptera. The presence of PMoV was detected by indirect ELISA (I-ELISA) in symptomatic tomato and pepper plants collected from commercial fields. All weed species collected in the area surrounding these crops were symptomless. However, the virus was detected by I-ELISA in pollen extracts from Parietaria officinalis plants and transmitted mechanically to other species, including tomato and pepper. PMoV was transmitted to other hosts using several insect species and P. officinalis plants as a pollen source. Transmission was non-persistent, not very efficient, and it was rare if flowers of infected P. officinalis plants had previously been removed or when alternative hosts that produced smaller quantities of pollen were used. In addition, 36% of the seedlings derived from seed of infected P. officinalis plants were shown to be infected with PMoV. Overall, our results suggest that eliminating PMoV-infected P. officinalis plants that surround tomato and pepper crops could help restraining virus spread.
41998809|The susceptibility of 32 weed species to Impatiens necrotic spot virus (INSV) infection was examined. Cerastium glomeratum, Cardamine scutata, Portulaca oleracea, Galium spurium var. echinospermon, Stellaria aquatica, S. media, Veronica arvensis, and V. persica showed systemic infections. Frankliniella occidentalis acquired INSV from all systemically infected plant species except for P. oleracea, and transmitted it to petunia leaf disks. The transmission efficiencies of all tested weed species were similar. Because none of the F. occidentalis individuals growing on P. oleracea survived, we could not derive the acquisition efficiency for P. oleracea. In a field survey, INSV was regularly detected in C. scutata, S. media, and C. glomeratum that spontaneously grew in an INSV-affected greenhouse. These results suggest that these three weed species are sources of INSV infection. This virus was also detected in one plant of P. oleracea, which may in fact not be a major reservoir of INSV because F. occidentalis individuals could not survive on this plant.
24722469|Powdery mildew is a widespread disease that causes important losses to cucurbit production. The main agents of the disease are Podosphaera xanthii and Golovinomyces orontii. To determine the occurrence of chasmothecia as overwintering forms of both fungal species in northern Italy, powdery mildew-infected samples from cultivated cucurbits were collected in different locations of the provinces of Bologna and Mantova during 2010, 2011 and 2012. Only the sexual stage of P. xanthii was found, indicating that in northern Italy, contrary to what reported from other areas of the Mediterranean basin, the pathogen overwinters as chasmothecia. In parallel, to determine the frequency and distribution of both MAT 1-1-1 and MAT 1-2-1 P. xanthii idiomorphs, a multiplex-PCR with MAT idiomorph-specific primers was carried out on 147 monoconidial isolates obtained from infected leaf samples. The obtained frequencies were tested for random mating. Results showed a MAT ratio that tended to 1:1, supporting the finding of the sexual stage thus suggesting the occurrence of actively mating populations and that sexual reproduction plays a significant role in the life cycle of P. xanthii in this area. The lack of G. orontii chasmothecia suggests that this species might have alternative overwintering strategies.
24332204|The resistance of immature grape berries to Botrytis cinerea Pers. ex Fr. results from a combination of factors, among which the accumulation of the stilbene phytoalexin t-resveratrol. Stilbene accumulation is thought to be induced by oligogalacturonides (OGs) which are released from the plant cell wall during tissue maceration catalysed by polygalacturonases (PGs) produced by necrotrophic fungal pathogens. Inhibitors of PG activity, the polygalacturonase-inhibiting proteins (PGIPs), have the capability to slow the hydrolytic activity of PGs and favour the accumulation of active OGs. In the present work we have observed that artificial inoculation of grape inflorescences and immature berries at bloom and post bloom, leads to severe infection of the rachis, while lesions on young berries did not result in the development of the disease, but in the development of necrotic spots and rings. PG was detectable in berry tissues, but its secretion was significantly lower than in infected leaves. Tissues of immature berries reacted to B. cinerea inoculation by a marked accumulation of t-resveratrol. PG produced during spore germination of B. cinerea elicited t-resveratrol accumulation. Apoplastic fluids (AFs) from immature berries and leaves were found to inhibit total PG activity produced by B. cinerea, indicating the involvement of a proteinaceous or non-proteinaceous PG inhibitor, or both, as intercellular defence mechanisms. Taken together, our results suggest that the inhibition of PG produced by B. cinerea mediated by a putative PG inhibitor during the early stages of infection of immature grape berries plays a central role in promoting accumulation of t-resveratrol and, consequently, the restriction of pathogen spread.
24332206|Lethal Yellowing-type diseases of coconut have destroyed thousands of coconut palms globally, and in Ghana the disease [Cape St. Paul wilt disease (CSPWD)] is considered as the single most important factor affecting the coconut industry. To improve the diagnostics available for CSPW detection, a ribosomal and a non-ribosomal-based assay were assessed for their effectiveness in diagnosing CSPWD. PCR diagnoses and observation of symptom development were carried out twice per year over three years to study the fate of infected palms and the pattern of disease spread. Comparison of the effectiveness of different PCR assays at detecting CSPWD-infection showed a comparable performance of a single round secA-based assay to nested PCR using primers targeting ribosomal DNA sequences. The study showed that all infected palms eventually died from infection and analysis of the location of palms becoming infected showed no clear pattern in the spread of infection.
24331968|Fusarium verticillioides is one of the most common plant pathogenic fungi affecting maize causing ear and kernel rot. Nearly the totality of the fungal strains are able to produce mycotoxins known as fumonisins at very different levels. However, information on the ability of the biocontrol fungus Trichoderma harzianum to induce systemic resistance in maize against F. verticillioides is still lacking. We now show that, upon root colonization by T. harzianum, F. verticillioides consistently reduces maize disease symptoms. The enhanced activation of SA- and JA/ ET-dependent defence responses indicates that resistance in maize is caused by a better perception of the fungal pathogen due to the effect of Trichoderma inocula. Seed biopriming with T. harzianum could be a useful strategy to control F. verticillioides infection and fumonisin accumulation under field conditions.
24722474|An emerging soybean disease observed in Cuba was investigated in view of the possibility that a phytoplasma could be involved in its aetiology. Thirty-five soybean plants showing symptoms of stunting, chlorosis, crinkle and aborted seed pods were collected in Las Tunas and Holguin provinces during 2013, and analysed by nested-PCR with primers targeting the 16S ribosomal DNA (16S rDNA). Phytoplasmas were detected in 83% of symptomatic soybean plants. Conventional and virtual RFLP analyses of 16S rDNA sequences revealed the presence of strains of 'Candidatus Phytoplasma asteris' (16SrI group). Phytoplasmas belonging to ribosomal subgroup 16SrI-B and two putative new ribosomal subgroups 16SrI-W and 16SrI-Y were identified. Phylogenetic analysis corroborated the RFLP analyses, in which the Cuban strains formed a clade with representative sequences of the 16SrI group. 16SrI-B was the most prevalent subgroup (45% of positive samples) and mixed infections of different subgroups were observed (10% of the positive samples). The partial 16S rDNA sequences of three strains showed 99% nucleotide identity to several GenBank sequences of group 16SrI phytoplasmas, including a phytoplasma associated with a soybean disease in Brazil. This is the first report of a phytoplasma belonging to the 16SrI subgroup occurring in soybean in Cuba.
41998240|Single-step and nested polymerase chain reactions (PCR) were used to determine the presence of Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus, the phloem-limited bacterial pathogen of Huanglongbing (HLB), in leaves of wampee [Clausena lansium (Lour.) Skeels], lemon [Citrus limon (L.) Burm.] and several other citrus species. Specific PCR products were obtained when single-step PCR and nested PCR were used to analyze wampee and lemon samples with or without visible HLB symptoms. Nested-PCR was found to be more accurate than singlestep PCR with a sensitivity of about 10 times higher. The amount of bacterial DNA was positively correlated with HLB symptoms in the leaves. Amplicons from single-step PCR and those from nested PCR showed 100% and 99% identity, respectively, with sequences of the rplKAJL-rpoBC gene cluster of Ca. Liberibacter asiaticus. This pathogen is therefore able to infect wampee and lemon, in the leaves of which it can be readily detected by PCR. This is the first report of infections by Ca. L. asiaticus in wampee.
41998825|Tomato yellow leaf curl disease (TYLCD) causes devastation worldwide and in Italy is associated with Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV) and Tomato yellow leaf curl Sardinia virus (TYLCSV). Starting from the valuable traditional tomato cv. Eraldo, which is susceptible to TYLCD, crosses were made with accessions carrying Ty-1 and -2 resistance loci. The F2 progenies were selected using both known and newly developed Ty-associated markers. F3 families derived from markerselected F2 plants were challenged with isolates of TYLCV and TYLCSV present in Italy, under controlled greenhouse conditions. Genotypes carrying marker aleles associated with the Ty-1 gene showed mild symptoms in all cases (tolerance), but the number of plants infected by TYLCV was much higher than those infected by TYLCSV. The majority of plants carrying the marker alleles associated to Ty-2 did not allow any TYLCV replication but, when challenged with TYLCSV, most of them were infected and showed severe yellow leaf curl symptoms. To our knowledge this is the first report of Ty-1 and -2-carrying tomato plants challenged with the type-strain of TYLCSV.
41998420|During routine surveys of wheat-growing (Triticum aestivum L.) areas of Hungary, symptomatic leaf samples were collected from different wheat cultivars. Macro-and micromorphological examinations of singlespore isolates showed some of them to belong to Pi thorny ces chart arum (teleomorph: Leptosphaerulina chartarum). Species assignment was confirmed by sequence analysis of the intergenic transcribed spacer region. P. chartarum isolates produced a range of secondary metabolites including gregatin, alternariol and alternariol monomethyl ether, but not sporidesmin, a mycotoxin responsible for photosensitisation and liver damage of grazing animals. Pathogenicity tests proved that P. chartarum can cause leaf damage to wheat. Disease symptoms were strikingly different in different wheat cultivars. This is the first report on pathogenicity of P. chartarum to wheat in Europe.
41998641|Fifty nine isolates of Ustilaginoidea virens, the cause of false smut of rice (Oryza sativa L.), were obtained from 46 rice hybrids in 14 counties in Sichuan, China during a survey conducted in 2006. Their pathogenicity was tested by inoculation on 3 rice hybrids, Gangyou182, Gangyou94-11 and Yixiangyou2292, 6-9 days before heading in 2007. False smut was assessed 3 weeks after inoculation using a disease index (DI) based on symptom frequency on the panicles. The sporulation capacity of these isolates was also measured. The results showed that: (i) Dis were significantly different (P<0.01) both among pathogen isolates and rice hybrids, ranging from 0 to 98.52; (ii) there was a significant interaction between isolates and hybrids (P<0.01); (iii) significant differences in sporulation among the 59 isolates were found (P<0.01), but no relationship between sporulation and virulence on the 3 hybrids; (iv) variation in sporulation was observed among isolates originating from different counties and from the same county (P<0.05); (v) there were significant differences (P<0.01) between isolate groups from different host origin, female parents and male parents. Our results indicated a linkage between the pathogenicity of U. virens isolates and the resistance of rice hybrids. The 59 isolates could be classified into 6 groups based on their virulence to the tested rice hybrids. While variation in sporulation did not indicate host genotype-pathogen isolate interaction, pathogenicity data suggest specialisation, which is dependent on the site of origin of the isolates, the original host (rice hybrids) and the parentage of the original host.
41998866|In the present study, 24 Fusarium spp. isolates (8 Fusarium culmorum, 4 F. solani, 9 F. verticillioides and 3 F. equiseti) collected from wheat grown in Syria were analyzed using inter-retrotransposon amplified polymorphism (IRAP), a technique based on the amplification of genomic regions between long terminal repeats. IRAP analysis allowed differentiation between species on the basis of the banding patterns. A total of 844 bands were scored, 421 (49.88%) of which were polymorphic. A neighbour-joining diagram, based on Nei's genetic distance, showed that isolates formed four phylogenetic groups, but did not fall into clusters or clades correlated with the origin or colour of the isolate, which suggests regional dispersal of these species. The level of genetic variability detected within Fusarium isolates confirmed that IRAP is a reliable, efficient, and effective marker technology for determining genetic relationships within the genus Fusarium.
41998941|Polygalacturonase-inhibiting proteins (PGIPs), extracellular proteins that specifically inhibit fungal endopolygalacturonases (PGs), play a critical role in plant protection by favouring the accumulation of oligogalacturonides (OGs), which are elicitors of plant defence responses. The genes encoding PGIP2 of P. vulgaris and the variant PGIP2.Q224K were subjected to error prone PCR (epPCR) to generate mutated inhibitors with novel and improved recognition capabilities. Using a Pichia pastoris expression library and a high-throughput screening method, two mutated PvPGIP2.Q224K-derived inhibitors active against the PG produced by the phytopathogenic fungus F. phyllophilum (FpPG) were isolated. Both variants were better inhibitors than PGIP2.Q224K and were characterized by the replacement of the lysine in position 224, supporting the view that the absence of this positively charged amino acid at position 224 is a primary requirement for gaining the inhibition capability against FpPG.
41998597|Effects of citric acid and olive mill wastewaters on the growth of seed-borne bacterial pathogens of tomato, Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis and Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato were investigated. Bacteria were exposed to citric acid (0.1 mol l) and 10 fold-diluted filter-sterilized olive mill wastewaters and their growth was determined by the plate count method. Citric acid inhibited the growth of both bacteria. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MICs) of citric acid, determined by the broth dilution method ranged between 1.56 to 3.13 mmol l for C. m. michiganensis, and was 1.56 mmol l for P. s. tomato. Olive mill wastewaters inhibited the growth of both bacteria in most experiments. In some, however, a slight growth or reduction in size of the colonies of C. m. michiganensis was observed. Neither treatment showed negative effects on seed germination. Results of this study suggest that citric acid at 0.1 mol l concentration can prove useful for the elimination of both pathogens from tomato seeds.
41998355|The Suppression Subtractive Hybridization (SSH) method was applied to construct a cDNA library from Gossypium barbadense cv. 'Pima 90'. Two dirigent-like (DIR) genes, Gbd 1 and Gbd 2, were isolated from the library. RT-PCR and Northern blot showed that they were induced after infection by Verticillium dahliae. The nucleotide sequences of Gbd 1 and Gbd 2 were 705 bp and 801 bp long with open reading frames of 531 bp and 525 bp, respectively. Sharing high homologies to disease resistance-responsive family proteins of Arabidopsis thaliana, Gbd 1 and Gbd 2 shared a DIR-conserved domain and possessed a hydrophobic N-terminal signal peptide. Gbd 1 and Gbd 2 encode a class of cellsurface proteins with signals for receptor-mediated plant defense/immunity activities. The possible function of the genes and the mechanism of disease-resistance of 'Pima 90' are discussed.
41998854|A study was conducted to isolate and characterize bacterial strains from greenhouse soils with potential for suppression of Pythium damping-off of cucumber. Out of 100 bacterial isolates collected from greenhouse soils, 20 isolates were found to be antagonistic to Pythium aphanidermatum in in vitro studies. The size of the growth inhibition zone of P. aphanidermatum on potato dextrose agar varied from 4 to 9 mm, with an average of 6.2 mm. Identification of these bacterial isolates to the species level using API20NE as well as sequences of the 16S ribosomal RNA confirmed their identity as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Bacterial isolates showed optimum growth at 30C, whereas a temperature of 37C favored bacterial antagonistic activity. Bacterial growth and antagonistic activity were not affected at high salinity levels (10 dS m) known to be stressful to cucumber production. This provides evidence for tolerance to salinity among the isolated bacteria. In vivo assays provided evidence for inhibition of Pythium damping-off at 28C, with no effect on growth of cucumber seedlings. This is the first report of occurrence of Ps. aeruginosa with antagonistic activity against P. aphanidermatum in greenhouse soils in Oman.
41998033|Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV), a worldwide pathogen of stone fruits, has many isolates with different biological, serological, and molecular properties. Monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) to a peach isolate of PNRSV were used to investigate the serological variability of PNRSV isolates by DASI-ELISA. Isolates from different stone fruit species and different Mediterranean countries were first identified with polyclonal antisera (PAbs), then 81 isolates were selected from Albania (3), Cyprus (10), Greece (5), Italy (31), Lebanon (6), Malta (5), Tunisia (7), Turkey (7) and Spain (1) and characterised against 10 single MAbs. Six U.S. isolates were included as controls. The virus showed high serological variability as shown by the identification of 34 serogroups, many of which were host-specific (64%) and country-specific (67%).
41998338|The bacteria were isolated from the spots of pepper plants, surveys in open-field during 1996-2001 in Macedonia. Symptoms similar to natural symptoms were reproduced following inoculation on pepper leaves. The strains were negative for amylolytic activity and ability to utilize cis-aconitate and belong to type A of Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. vesicatoria, and were identified to race P0 and race P2. All strains were sensitive to copper sulfate and streptomycin sulfate and were homogeneous according to their Polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Polyclonal antibodies produced clear positive reaction in I-ELISA with all strains from Macedonia and reference strains from abroad.
41998030|Virus diseases are the major cause of economic losses in commercial cucurbit production in Lebanon. Field tests showed that cross-protection with a mild strain of Zucchini yellow mosaic virus (ZYMV-WK) gave significant protection of squash plants against severe mosaic and leaf deformation symptoms induced by viruses and resulted in significant yield increase as compared to the control. The use of grey mulch gave only a low level of protection against such diseases. The highest total yield was obtained with floating row covers that gave good early protection against severe mosaic and leaf deformation symptoms and against the yellowing diseases. Plants showing yellowing symptoms were found to be infected by Cucurbit aphid-borne yellows virus (CABYV) or CABYV and Cucurbit yellow stunting disorder virus (CYSDV) in mixed infections.
23721534|Phytophthora capsici is an aggressive plant pathogen that affects solanaceous and cucurbitaceous hosts. From this fungus, the novel laccase gene pclac1 was recovered and its corresponding full-length cDNA was cloned. The 1716 bp full-length cDNA of pclac1 encoded a mature laccase protein containing 571 amino acids. The deduced protein sequence showed high similarity with other known fungal laccases and contained four copper-binding conserved domains typical of laccase protein. Expression pattern of pclac1 in the host plant was evaluated, showing that expression levels increased until the 4th day post inoculation (dpi). Heterologous expression of PCLAC1 was achieved using the expression vector pPIC9K with the Pichia pastoris expression system. The purified recombinant PCLAC1 protein migrated as a single band in SDS-PAGE, with an apparent molecular weight of ca. 68 kDa. A high activity of purified PCLAC1 (88.46 U/ml), induced with methanol with 2,2'-azino-di-(3-ethylbenzothialozin-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) as substrate, was observed at the 7th dpi. The reported data add new knowledge on P. capsici laccase multigene family and shed light on the potential function of individual laccase isoforms of oomycetes for biotechnological and industrial applications.
24332203|The fungicide isoprothiolane (IPT) has widely been used to control the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae for decades. However, the molecular mechanism of resistance is still unexplained and was only believed to be associated with transmethylation in the biosynthesis of phosphatidylcholine. In this study we tested IPT sensitivity of hundreds of M. oryzae isolates collected from Yunnan and Hubei provinces of China. Three IPT-resistant mutants were generated by exposing the mycelium to increasing concentrations of IPT. No fitness penalty was observed in these resistant mutants. In consideration of the role on transmethylation in the biosynthesis of phosphatidylcholine, three candidate genes, PEAMT, CHO2, and OPI3, were sequenced, and their expression profile determined. There was no significant difference in the expression of these genes between resistant mutants and sensitive parental isolates. Additionally, Solexa sequencing was conducted to screen potential target genes. MGG_09793 was the most frequently changed gene between resistant mutant H08-1a_mut and sensitive parental isolate H08-1a after IPT treatment. After knockout, this gene in H08-1a_mut and H08-1a, resistance status did not change. This study indicates that the expected PEAMT, CHO2 and OPI3 genes were not responsible for IPT resistance. Interestingly, the DJ-1/PfpI family protein MGG_09793 was specifically and strongly induced by IPT treatment in sensitive isolates.
41998375|In this paper we review some of the most recent literature about the interactions between Cryphonectria parasitica, the ascomycete fungus that causes chestnut blight, and viruses in the species Cryphonectria hypovirus 1 (family Hypoviridae), which, when present in the fungus, render the fungus incapable of causing the severe disease that is normally the result of infection of European and American chestnut trees (Castanea sativa and dentata, respectively). We provide an overview of the findings accumulated over the last few decades, in an attempt to link them to the technological advances made during this time. In particular, we focus on what is known about the molecular aspects of the virus-fungus interaction, detailing, and critically reviewing some recent findings and their significance in understanding the phenomenon of virus-induced hypovirulence. After describing the diversity of virus species that infect presence of virus has on secretory pathways, and on various elements of signal transduction pathways. We also discuss the recent finding of a silencing suppressor encoded by the genome of Cryphonectria hypovirus 2, and recent results from studies of differential expression profiling using cDNA microarray analysis.
24579144|Eclipta prostrata plants, a common weed species in China, showing vein yellowing symptoms were collected in Fujian province. A fragment of approximately 500 bp was amplified from 13 samples by PCR, using special degenerate primers for DNA-A of begomoviruses. Sequence alignment of the 500 bp fragments revealed overall similarities of 58.1% to 67.0%, indicating that these samples were infected by three distinct viruses, represented by isolates denoted F23, F25 and F26. The complete sequences of the three isolates were determined to be, respectively, 2,740 (EF544602), 2,749 (AM691552) and 2,786 (AM691555) nucleotide in size. Sequence comparisons revealed that these isolates were most closely related to Alternanthera yellow vein virus (AlYVV, DQ375456), Papaya leaf curl China virus (PaLCuCNV, AJ811914) and Pepper yellow vein Mali virus (PYVMlV, FM876847), with a sequence identity of 91.9%, 99.1% and 94.0%. Therefore, F23, F25 and F26 are considered to be isolates of AlYVV, PaLCuCNV and PYVMlV, respectively. Evidence of recombination was found in the F26 genome. Whitefly transmission assays showed that all isolates could individually infect E. prostrata. The results indicate that E. prostrata plants are reservoirs of several begomoviruses in China, and may play a significant role in begomovirus epidemics. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of PaLCuCNV and PYVMlV infecting E. prostrata.
41998354|We examined 41 isolates of Penicillium spp. recovered from rotten fruits (including oranges, grapefruits, pears, lemons, strawberries, apples, loquats, prickly pears) and from air and surfaces of markets and packinghouses. Penicillium isolates were identified as P. expansum, P. italicum, P. digitatum, P. olsonii, P. chrysogenum or P. citrinum. Isolates were tested for sensitivity to commonly used postharvest fungicides, and pathogenicity on different potentially susceptible fruit hosts. Genetic characterization was performed with ITS4 and ITS5 primers that specifically identified Penicillium isolates by amplification of a 600-bp fragment, with PEF and PER primers used to identify P. expansum isolates by amplification of a 404-bp fragment, and with fluorescent amplified fragment length polymorphism analysis (fAFLP). Cluster analysis of fAFLP data divided the isolates into five well-separated P. italicum, P. digitatum, P. citrinum, P. chrysogenum and P. olsonii clusters, whereas P. expansum isolates were divided in three distinct clusters. Within all the eight clusters, isolates were well differentiated. Results obtained with fAFLP analysis confirmed the reliability of the method to characterize and identify strains at intraspecific level.
41998466|Tomato yellow leaf curl disease is the main limiting factor for tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) production in Morocco. The PCR product obtained from a symptomatic sample was cloned and the complete DNA sequence (2781 bp) of the monopartite genome is reported of a Tomato yellow leaf curl virus isolate from north-east Morocco identified as TYLCV-Alm [Ma:Bk:02]. The circular genomic DNA contains six open reading frames encoding proteins of molecular weights ranging from 11 kDa to 40 kDa. Two proteins (V1 and V2) are located on the virion-sense strand whereas four other proteins (C1, C2, C3 and C4) are located on the complementary-sense strand. The two open reading frame groups are separated by an intergenic region of about 300 nucleotides, comprising a sequence capable of forming a stable hairpin loop structure containing the motif 5'-TAATATTAC-3'. The complete sequence obtained was closely related to that of Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV) with nucleotide sequence identity ranging from 93% to 99%. Sequence comparison with other geminiviruses showed that the TYLCV isolate from north-eastern Morocco belongs to genus Begomovirus from the Old World, and is at least 99% identical to the sequence of Almeria TYLCV [TYLCV-(Alm)].
41999050|Bacterial leaf blight caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae (Xoo) is one of the most important bacterial diseases of rice, first detected in Japan in 1884. Repetitive extragenic palindromic (REP) and enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus (ERIC) assays were used to differentiate the phylogenetic relationships among 30 Xoo strains collected from rice fields in the states of Penang, Kedah, Selangor and Melaka (Peninsular Malaysia), during the period 2008-2010. Analysis of the 30 strains with REP and ERIC primers yielded five major amplification bands ranging from 200 to 800 bp in size. Fingerprints determined for each strain contained in total a maximum of 16 reproducible bands and a minimum of 9, ranging from 100 to 2,800 bp. The maximum number of score bands was observed in strains from Melaka and the minimum in strains from Penang and Kedah. Cluster analysis of the results of Rep PCRs yielded two major clusters and five sub clusters. Similarity between the two main clusters was 60% and 75% between five subclusters. This indicates that although there is a phylogenetic relation among strains of Xoo from rice crops of Peninsular Malaysia, nevertheless strains from different geographic regions are phylogenetically diverse.
41998383|Strain IVV7 isolated from an elm tree showing typical symptoms of Dutch elm disease was identified as Geosmithia sp. by colony morphology and sequencing of the internal transcribed spacers (ITS1 and ITS2) and 5.8S region of the nuclear rDNA. UPGMA analysis revealed that IVV7 was taxonomically related to the species G. pallida, G. putterillii and G. tavendula. IVV7 was shown to express the gene of the hydrophobin cerato-ulmin by accumulating the protein in the cell walls and in the culture medium. This is the first report of the cerato-ulmin presence in a non-Ophiostoma fungus.
41998677|Interactions between slow-rusting, highly resistant, and susceptible cultivars of common wheat (Triticum aestivum) with stripe rust (Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici) were studied at the ultrastructural level. The rust fungus extensively colonized leaves of the susceptible wheat cv. Mingxian 169, but was limited or extremely limited in the leaves of slow-rusting cv. Dongfanghong 3 and of the highly resistant Hybrid 46. Microscopic observations showed that nearly all haustoria and hyphae were inhibited in the nearly immune cultivar, the majority of them were inhibited in the slow-rusting cultivars, but nearly all of them developed normally in the susceptible cultivar. The highly resistant cultivar showed heavily necrotized cells, while in slow-rusting wheat cell necrosis occurred during the process of hyphal extension. The slow-rusting cultivar has the same hypersensitive response characters as the resistant cultivar, but the host cells necrotized later and were fewer in number. This inhibited only in part the fungal growth, which resulted in lesser inhibition and necrosis of the fungus. As in the resistant cultivar, defense structures and materials associated with defense reaction were also produced in slow-rusting wheat, but to a lesser extent. The cytological similarities of slow-rusting with hypersensitive resistance are briefly discussed.
24579138|Bacterial spot (Xanthomonas gardneri) is a major disease of tomato affecting the yield of attacked crops. The application of polysaccharides can represent an effective way to control plant diseases. This work aimed at assessing the effect of xanthan gum (GUM) and polysaccharides extracted from X. gardneri (X. gardneri polysaccharides  XP) and Aloe barbadensis parenchyma (Aloe polysaccharides  AP) in the protection of tomato plants against bacterial spot and in vitro development of the bacterium. In vivo experiments were conducted with tomato plants, which were treated with polysaccharides, inoculated with X. gardneri and submitted to evaluation. Samples of treated leaves were collected 0, 2, 4 and 6 days after treatment for determination of the activities of peroxidases and polyphenol oxidases and quantification of total phenolic compounds and flavonoids. The hypersensitivity reaction of tomato plants submitted to polysaccharides was also examined. On average, XP reduced the in vitro growth of X. gardneri by 56%. GUM, AP and XP reduced the severity of bacterial spot up to 76.1, 76.6 and 67.4%, respectively, but GUM caused phytotoxicity in the plants. Plants treated with AP showed an increase in the content of flavonoids and polyphenol oxidase activity. Moreover, leaf cells of tomato plants treated with all tested polysaccharides exhibited accumulation of hydrogen peroxide and an increased peroxidase activity. Reduction of tomato bacterial spot is related to induced resistance, and AP and XP can represent an alternative to the conventional form of disease control.
24332200|The International Society of Plant Pathology Committee on the Taxonomy of Plant Pathogenic Bacteria has responsibility to evaluate the names of newly proposed pathovars for adherence to the International Standards for Naming Pathovars of Phytopathogenic Bacteria. Currently, the Comprehensive List of Names and the List of New Names of Plant Pathogenic Bacteria provide the authoritative register of names of bacterial plant pathogens. In this manuscript we up-date the list of names by cataloguing and evaluating names of plant pathogenic bacteria published in 2011 and 2012. We provide those names that have been validly and effectively published in this time frame, the proposed names that we judged to be invalid, and names published earlier that did not make the previous lists.
23721514|Seventy-seven bacterial strains obtained from wilted bell pepper plants from the Agreste and Mata mesoregions of Pernambuco State (northeastern Brazil), were identified as Ralstonia solanacearum using multiplex PCR. The strains were further analyzed to characterize their biochemical, physiological, and molecular diversities. The biovars and biotypes were determined biochemically, and a molecular characterization of the strains was made using multiplex PCR, rep-PCR, and ISSR. The genotypic diversity was assessed, considering the number of genotypes observed and how they were distributed throughout the populations, for their differences in terms of richness, evenness and diversity. Strains of biovar 3, biotype 8 and phylotype I were predominant (97.40%), but biovar 1, biotypes 3 and 6 and phylotype II were also present. Rep-PCR analysis using REP and BOX primers, and ISSR showed similarities among the majority of the strains; however, these primers did not allow strain separation by biovars, biotypes, phylotypes or areas. Analysis of the genotypic diversity revealed a moderate diversity in the overall population, with a high variability in the strains from the same municipality.
24332201|Cucurbit crops are cultivated throughout the world. Melon (Cucumis melo L.), cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.), watermelon (Citrullus lanatus (Thumb.) Mat. et Nak.), squash and pumpkin (Cucurbita spp.) are the major crops. In Latin America and the Caribbean islands (LAC) cucurbits are consumed as a part of the daily diet since pre-Columbian times, when some species such as Cucurbita pepo L., Cucurbita moschata Duch. and Cucurbita maxima Duch. were domesticated by American Indians. In LAC, cucurbit crops have become export commodities and a source of income for several countries, in addition to their role in local consumption. The increase of area devoted to cucurbit crops and the intensification of production has led to the emergence of severe viral epidemics that threaten the sustainability of these cultures. This paper reviews the cucurbit viruses described in the region and their impact. In addition, the potential of different measures to control the most frequent cucurbit viruses in LAC is discussed.
24332225|Of 88 leaf samples collected from three peach orchards in south-west Bulgaria and tested for Plum pox virus (PPV) by TAS-ELISA, 32 (36.4%) were positive for PPV-M. When these samples were tested by IC-RT-PCR targeting the (Cter)NIb-(Nter)CP genomic region using PPV-M and PPV-Rec strain-specific primers the presence of the M strain was confirmed in 16 of them (50%), whereas the Rec strain was detected in 15 samples (47%). Mixed infection of both strains was found in a single sample. The nucleotide sequences of the (Cter)NIb-(Nter)CP genomic fragment of 13 PPV isolates showed a 98-100% identity with PPV-Rec isolates and 97-98% identity with the reference isolates. The maximum nucleotide identity of PPV-Rec isolates with PPV-M and PPV-D isolates was 92-93% and 84-85%, respectively. These results show that PPV-Rec is widely distributed in peach orchards in southwestern Bulgaria.
24722553|The complete nucleotide sequence of isolate YN of the putative sobemovirus Cymbidium chlorotic mosaic virus (CyCMV) from Cymbidium tortisepalum plants showing chlorotic and necrotic spots in Yunnan province (southwest China) was determined by deep sequencing. Dips from symptomatic leaves showed that this virus has icosahedral particles ca. 30 nm in diameter. The viral genome is a positive-strand RNA molecule 4,081 nt in size (GenBank accession No. KR996515) encoding four open reading frames with an organization similar to that described for sobemoviruses. The complete sequence of CyCMV-YN shares 89.5% identity at the nucleotide level with that of CyCMV-JP isolated from Cymbidium goeringii in Japan. This is the first report of a sobemovirus infecting orchid in China.
41998779|A Gram-negative bacterial isolate, named PG4, was recovered from the rhizosphere of a tobacco plant (Nicotiana tabacum cv. Burley) and was identified as Lysobacter capsici based on the sequencing and phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA and characteristics in the Biolog Identification System. Strain PG4 showed chitinase and protease activity and was able to inhibit the growth of a broad range of phytopathogenic fungi. Growth of Gram-negative bacteria was not affected by PG4, but it was active against some Gram-positive bacteria such as Bacillus subtilis, hysteria monocytogenes and Rhodococcus fascians. Fe availability positively influenced PG4 antagonism towards the latter group of bacteria, even though siderophore production was not detected. Seed bacterization reduced the number of the resulting tomato seedlings infected by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycoper ski, F. oxysporum f. sp. radicis-lycopersici and Rhizoctonia solani. In greenhouse trials strain PG4 drastically reduced the incidence of tomato crown and root rot and led to a marked increase in plant fresh weight.
41998690|A knot disease was detected on some oleander plants in two park since 2007 and in one home gardens in 2008 in the Sanhurfa province (south-east Turkey). Although galls were excised in the first year, they developed again with a bigger size on the lower parts of the main stems. Knots on newly infected plants were common on the upper parts, particularly on twigs, flowers and pistils or at the pistil base. Almost all infected plants belonged to cultivars with pink or red flowers. Biochemical and pathogenicity tests identified the plant pathogenic bacterium Pseudomonas savastanoi pv. nerii as the causal agent of the disease. Although the presence of knots on oleander has long been known, to our knowledge, Pseudomonas savastanoi pv. nerii had never been previously reported on Nerium oleander in Turkey.
41998303|Spiroplasma citri is a plant-pathogenic mollicute, phylogenetically related to Gram-positive bacteria. Spiroplasma cells are restricted to the phloem sieve elements and are transmitted by leafhopper vectors. Recent research has allowed depicting a unique scenario in S. citri pathogenicity, where sugar metabolism plays a major role. In vitro S. citri uses fructose, glucose, and trehalose, which are imported through the Phosphoenolpyruvate phosphoTransferase System (PTS). When both fructose and glucose are present, fructose is used preferentially. The fructose-PTS permease is made of one single polypeptide IIABCFru, whereas the glucose permease is split into two polypeptides IICBGlc and IIAGlc encoded by two separated genes ptsG and crr. The glucose IICBGlc and trehalose IIBCTre permeases function with a single IIAGlc domain, enabling the spiroplasma to rapidly adapt from glucose to trehalose and vice versa. Upregulation of expression of the PTS permease genes by the relevant sugar also illustrates the adaptive capacity of the spiroplasma. S. citri mutants unable to import glucose and trehalose are still highly pathogenic. In contrast, mutants unable to import fructose induce very mild and delayed symptoms, indicating that fructose and glucose play distinct roles in spiroplasmal pathogenicity. While fructose is used as a substrate by the spiroplasma to grow, glucose accumulates in source leaves of the host plant, leading to physiological disorders and down-regulation of photosynthesis genes. Fructose utilization by the spiroplasmas is postulated to deprive companion cells of fructose, thereby impairing sucrose loading in the sieve elements. Alternatively, preferential use of fructose is hypothesized to increase invertase activity, leading to glucose accumulation, and inhibition of photosynthesis. Both model mechanisms may contribute to S. citri pathogenicity.
41998238|The fatty acid profiles of 145 telial isolates of Puccinia recondita sensu lato (Uredinales: Pucciniaceae), from different host species and different geographical origins, were determined by gas chromatography (GC). The isolates clustered into three different GC groups, according to consistent quantitative differences in their fatty acid compositions. Isolates collected from bread, durum and wild emmer wheats, with Thalictrum speciosissimum (Ranunculaceae) as aecial host, regardless of their geographical origin, formed one group. The second group consists of isolates collected on Aegilops spp. and some from durum wheat, all alternating on Boraginaceous species. The third group contains isolates collected on rye, alternating on Boraginaceae. The grouping of P. recndita isolates by fatty acid profiles coincides with a similar one, suggested by several studies involving pathogenicity on alternate hosts, cross ability, teliospore dimensions and relative DNA content of haploid spores. It is concluded that the three groups represent two species and one subspecies: Puccinia triticina (on wheats, group 1), P. recndita subsp. recndita (on rye, group 3) and P. recndita subsp. aegilopis (on Aegilops spp. and durum wheat, group 2).
23721754|Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) is an important plant enzyme in pathogen defense. The purpose of this work was to analyze the phylogenetic relationships of a partial PAL gene sequence from Arachis hypogaea L. (peanut) cv. Tegua (designated AhPAL), a PAL sequence from cultivar JL24 and PAL sequences from other legumes and non-legumes plants. In addition, changes in the AhPAL transcript abundance related to induced systemic resistance (ISR) were also evaluated. AhPAL sequence shows high level of similarity with PAL genes and proteins from several plant species, including legumes and non-legumes. Quantification of relative transcript abundance indicated that AhPAL could be involved in the A. hypogaea cv. Tegua response towards the phytopathogen Sclerotium rolfsii.
41998388|Samples from apparently healthy European pears (Pyrus communis) from Tunisian orchards and from trees showing symptoms recalling those of the "slow decline" form of pear decline, i.e. reduced growth, production of fewer and smaller leaves that turn reddish and drop early in autumn, were analyzed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using the universal phytoplasma primers P1/P7. A band with the expected size (1.8 kbp) was obtained from samples collected from symptomatic trees only. PCR products were used for restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis after digestion with the endonucleases AluI, RsaI and Sspl. RFLP patterns obtained were consistent with those reported for Candidatus Phytoplasma pyri, thus providing evidence of the occurrence in Tunisia of this hitherto unrecorded pathogen.
41998104|Pear scions cv. 'Abate Fetel' on B29 rootstock were raised individually in pots from dormant buds. In autumn 1999, the main stems were divided into 5 groups and inoculated at 10 day intervals starting from 21 September with a virulent RifR mutant of Erwinia amylovora. For the inoculation, 30,000 cells of E. amylovora were deposited on a transverse cut 10 cm from the tip. After ensuring establishment of the pathogen, the five groups of plants were placed in the open and inspected weekly for the presence of fire blight symptoms. Scions treated with water were used as a control. All symptomatic scions were eliminated by mid-April 2000. The frequency of scions developing symptoms (213%) decreased from the first to the last inoculation date (from 5/15 to 1/15). In autumn, a year after inoculation, the plants remaining symptomless were monitored for the presence of endophytic E. amylovora. Re-isolation on selective medium was successful in 13 plants out of 41. Reisolation was also successful in 7 segments taken from the side shoots developed from the first and second nodes below the inoculation point. The results show that E. amylovora can survive a year in symptomless planted scions. Isolation of the mutant from symptomless shoots developed during the growing season following inoculation indicates that E. amylovora may have a prolonged symptomless endophytic phase.
41998937|Rubus spp. plants with severe symptoms of stunting, short and thin shoots were observed in central Poland in both production fields (raspberry and blackberry) and their natural environments. Nested PCR of DNA extracted from symptomatic plants and healthy raspberry, conducted using phytoplasma universal and groupspecific primer pairs, showed the presence of phytoplasmas in all symptom-showing plants selected for this study. RFLP with HpaII, RsaI, HhaI and BfaI and sequence analysis of the 16S rDNA fragment amplified with universal primers R16F2n/R16R2 revealed that assayed plants were infected by phytoplasmas belonging to three different groups. This is the first report of the natural occurrence of 'Candidates Phytoplasma asteris' and X disease phytoplasma in Rubus spp. in Poland.
24579143|Commercial moth bean (Vigna aconitifolia) cultivars are highly susceptible to bacterial, viral and fungal pathogens. The identification of resistance gene analogs holds great promise for development of resistant cultivars. The major known family of plant resistance genes encodes proteins with nucleotide-binding site (NBS) and C-terminal leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domains. Three degenerate primers designed on identified resistance genes (R-genes) were used in combinations to identify resistance gene analogs in the moth bean cv. FMM-96. These primers amplified products with the expected size of 450-600 bp. When their predicted amino acid sequences were compared to each other and to those of known R-genes, a considerable sequence similarity was found. The identification of conserved domains, such as kinase-1a, kinase-2 and hydrophobic motif confirmed that the sequences belong to the NBS-LRR class gene family.
41998963|The majority of plants establish symbiotic associations with arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. The symbiosis provides the plants with an improved mineral nutrition and, to some extent, higher tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses. In this work we have evaluated whether AM symbiosis modifies the response of tomato plants to the attack of the necrotrophic pathogen Botrytis cinerea. Leaves of tomato plants, colonized or not by the AM fungus Glomus mosseae, were infected with B. cinerea. A higher disease index in control plants (60.3%) compared to mycorrhizal plants (37.5%) was observed. To assess the potential involvement of salicylic acid (SA), jasmonic acid (JA) and abscisic acid (ABA) in this response, the levels of these hormones were also measured in the leaves of mycorrhizal and non mycorrhizal plants. While JA was not detected and no differences were observed in the SA content between the two biological conditions, a statistically significant lower content of ABA was detected in mycorrhizal vs control plants. Our results show that AM symbiosis reduces disease severity in tomato plants infected by B. cinerea and suggest that ABA is one component of the AM-induced lower susceptibility to B. cinerea.
24332228|The isolation in pure culture of the Xylella fastidiosa strain associated with the quick decline syndrome of olive, recently observed in Apulia (Salento peninsula, southern Italy) was attempted from symptomatic, naturally infected olive and oleander plants, and a periwinkle seedling that had been exposed to, and was infected by Xylella-positive spittlebugs. Prior to isolation, the presence of Xylella was ascertained in all donor hosts by PCR, indirect immunofluorescence and electron microscopy. Isolations from olive failed because of the heavy contamination by bacteria other than Xylella. By contrast, pure bacterial cultures were obtained from oleander and periwinkle extracts plated in periwinkle wilt gelrite (PWG) and buffered cysteine-yeast extract (BCYE) media. In both media, colonies were slow-growing, small-sized (less than 1 mm 25 days from plating), non pigmented, opalescent and exhibited the same morphology, except for the margin that was entire in BCYE and somewhat irregular in PWG. Bacterial cells were rod-shaped with rounded ends, had a thick and rippled cell wall, an average width of 0.35 m, and a maximum length of ca. 5 m. They gave a positive reaction in immunofluorence assays and were clearly decorated by colloidal gold in immunogold labelling tests. Sequenced PCR products amplified from periwinkle and oleander colonies shared 97-99% sequence identity with known X. fastidiosa strains from database and were 100% identical to one another and to comparable sequences obtained from infected olive trees. These sequences grouped in a distinct cluster of a branch comprising X. fastidiosa isolates belonging to the subspecies pauca.
41998598|Cylindrocladium pauciramosum, hypothesized to be native to South or Central America, has recently been reported from Italy, where it was identified on the basis of morphological characters as well as mating type studies. PCR oligonucleotide primers named CPAUCIR/CPAUCIF were designed from -tubulin gene sequences to improve detection. These primers amplified a 161 bp fragment of the -tubulin gene from all C. pauciramosum isolates tested but failed to amplify DNA from other four Cylindrocladium species (C. scoparium, C. candelabrum, C. insulare and C. mexicanum) and to isolates of several other fungi or stramenopiles. In nested PCR asssays, these primers efficiently amplified C. pauciramosum DNA sequences from infected plants, thus proving to be a suitable diagnostic tool.
41998282|Using two cultivars (the susceptible ILC482 and the moderately resistant INRAT 87/1) of chickpea (Cicer arietinum), the antagonistic activities of 21 Rhizobium isolates were tested in vitro in dual culture, and in vivo under greenhouse and field conditions against Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. ciceris (Foc) race 0, the causal agent of Fusarium wilt of chickpea. In dual culture, 14 isolates inhibited the mycelial growth of the pathogen more than 30% and the most effective were Rh8, Rh11, Rh6 and PchSOM, which inhibited fungal growth more than 50%. Among the 14 Rhizobium isolates tested for volatiles, cyanide production and phosphate solubilisation, 8 significantly inhibited fungal growth by producing volatiles, 6 were positive for cyanide production and only three were able to solubilise phosphate. Isolate Rh8 produced the highest levels of volatiles, giving more than 10.7% fungal inhibition, and was the only one positive for both cyanide production and phosphate solubilisation. Greenhouse experiments on the same 14 isolates revealed the effectiveness of five: PchDMS, Pch 121, Rh5, Rh17 and Pch43. These reduced the percentage of wilted plants in both susceptible and moderately resistant cultivars. These percentages ranged from 12.5 to 54.6% in the susceptible cultivar ILC482 and from 8.3 to 29.1% in the moderately resistant cultivar INRAT 87/1. The best disease control was achieved by isolate PchDMS. Despite its effectiveness in vitro, isolate Rh8 was ineffective under greenhouse conditions. Field experiments showed that none of the 14 Rhizobium isolates significantly reduced the percentage of wilted plants of the susceptible cultivar ILC482, although with the moderately resistant cultivar INRAT 87/1 eight of the isolates significantly reduced wilt incidence. Inoculation of seeds with these isolates reduced the percentage of diseased plants from more than 48.6% in infected control plants to less than 20.3% in plants inoculated with the bacteria and infected with the pathogen. The best protection against disease was obtained with isolates Pch43 and Rh4, which reduced the percentage of wilted plants to less than 8%. Besides their beneficial effects on disease control, our studies showed that rhizobia may improve plant growth and yield. These results indicate that Rhizobium isolates could be effective under commercial conditions in reducing the deleterious effects of Fusarium wilt.
41998821|A survey for viruses by DAS-ELISA of highbush blueberry (Vaccinium corymbosum L.) showing viruslike symptoms and decline in vigor, showed the occurrence of Tomato ringspot virus (ToRSV) and Tobacco ringspot virus (TRSV) in New York State (USA). The presence of the two viruses was confirmed in leaf samples by RT-PCR and IC-RT-PCR with appropriate primer pairs that amplify a 320 bp and a 585 bp fragment of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase gene of TRSV and ToRSV, respectively. Comparative sequence analysis of viral amplicons of New York isolates indicated moderate (80.7-99.7%) and high (90.8-99.7%) nucleotide sequence identities with other ToRSV and TRSV strains, respectively. Analysis of soil samples from the root zone of blueberry bushes for the occurrence of dagger nematodes revealed the presence of Xiphinema americanum-group nematodes at low population densities. Cucumber bait plants potted in soil samples containing X. americanum became infected with ToRSV or TRSV in a greenhouse. Together, these findings show the occurrence of ToRSV and, to a lesser extent, TRSV in highbush blueberry plantings in New York, as well as of the vector X. americanum sensu lato.
24331965|Virus infections are a major constraint to cultivation of black pepper (Piper nigrum L.), a perennial vegetatively propagated spice crop. Real-time PCR and real-time RT-PCR were developed to detect Piper yellow mottle virus (PYMoV) and Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV), respectively, in black pepper plants. These detection assays were up to 1000 times more sensitive than the conventional PCR/RT-PCR assays. Field samples from different pepper-growing regions in India were used to validate the two detection assays, which identified more infected plants than conventional PCR. Our results indicate that real-time PCR should be the method of choice for screening mother plants for PYMoV and CMV.
41997952|Tomato and bell pepper were inoculated with tomato mosaic Virus (ToMV) or tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) when they were 35, 50, 90, and 110 days old. Both viruses infected both tomato and bell pepper irrespective of growth stages. The virus in the leaf was quantified by local lesion assay and that in seed was determined by local lesion assay and ELISA. The viruses became established in the seeds, irrespective of growth stage at time of inoculation. However, the concentration of virus was high in seeds when the plants were inoculated early. Bell pepper and tomato are the preferred hosts for TMV and ToMV respectively. Piante di pomodoro e peperone di 35, 50, 90 e 110 giorni sono state inoculate col virus del mosaico del pomodoro (ToMV) o col virus del mosaico deltabacco (TMV). Entrambi i virus hanno infettato sia pomodoro che peperone a prescindere dallo stadio di crescita. II virus nelle foglie  stato quantificato mediante saggio delle lesioni localizzate e quello nei semi  stato determinato tramite saggio delle lesioni localizzate ed ELISA. I virus si sono stabiliti nei semi indipendentemente dallo stadio di crescita al momento dell'inoculazione, ma, la concentrazione del virus nei semi era alta quando le piante erano inoculate precocemente. Peperone e pomodoro sono gli ospiti preferenziali di TMV e ToMV rispettivamente.
41998773|Alternaria alternata f.sp. lycopersici was isolated from a naturally infected tomato plant and characterized. The pure culture of this isolate produced typical necrotic lesions on the leaves of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum cv. CO-3). The isolated pathogen also secreted a phytotoxic compound into the culture filtrate. This filtrate, when infiltrated into tomato leaves, produced necrotic lesions identical to those produced by pure cultures of the pathogen. Excised tomato leaves showed a dose-response effect to increasing concentrations of culture filtrate. Pathogen infection and culture filtrate infiltration triggered HO production and ethylene evolution from tomato leaves within 6 h of treatment, followed by necrosis of the treated leaves. Application of the antioxidant L-ascorbic acid suppressed the production of HO. Ethylene evolution was also significantly lowered by application of aminoethoxy vinyl glycine. Application of both these compounds also reduced the necrosis induced by Alternaria alternata f.sp. lycopersici and its culture filtrate.
41998019|The interaction between Lactuca spp. (lettuce) and Bremia lactucae (lettuce downy mildew) displays diversity on different levels. In this paper we consider species, individual, tissue, cell and genetic levels. Four important resistance mechanisms (race-specific, racenonspecific, field and 'nonhost' resistance) are considered. Several investigations have confirmed that resistance in L. sativa and L. serviola is inherited as a Mendelian character, and that major genes and racespecific resistance occur very frequently. Interpretation of Lactuca spp.-B. lactucae interaction is based on a gene-for-gene relationship. More than 30 host resistance (Dm) and complementary parasite virulence (v) genes have been identified. Recent studies on the interaction demonstrate a broad variation in host-parasite specificity, genetics, cellular, tissue and phenotypic expression. The common occurrence of race-specificity in L. sativa y many wild Lactuca spp. and some related genera was confirmed. However, the genetic background of this phenomenon is not very well known, except for L. sativa and L. serviola. The incompatibility reactions controlled by Dm genes show that they are mostly associated with hypersensitivity (HR), but the extent and speed of response depends on the interacting genes and the genetic background of the host and parasite. Dm genes and/or R-factors in or derived from L. sevviola showed significant variation and influence on the formation of infection structures, timing and extent of HR, accumulation of phenolics and on alignment of the microtubular cytoskeleton. The same is true for other types of resistance mechanisms. The interactions in Lactuca spp.-B. lactucae are very diverse and complex, and so form an exciting model for further studies of hostparasite specificity on different levels.
41999025|Four cultivars of carrot (Dauern carota) namely S-910, Selection Lalima, DR-333 and New Red were tested for their response to root-knot nematode Meloidogyne incognita and the soft rot bacterium Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum in a pot test. Out of four cultivars tested, DR-333 was found tolerant to M. incognita, whereas S-910 and Selection Lalima were susceptible and New Red was highly susceptible. Cultivars S-910 and New Red were moderately resistant to P. carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. DR-333 was rated tolerant and Selection Lalima as susceptible.
41997974|Ultrastructural observations were carried out on cells of Nicotiana benthamiana infected with a new me chanically transmissible isolate of Grapevine leafroll-as sociated virus 2 (GLRaV-2-4H), Vitis rupestris infected with the same isolate, V. vinifera cv. 'Semillon' infected with GLRaV-2 isolate Se, and an undetermined V. vinifera cultivar infected with Grapevine leaf roll-associated virus 7 (GLRaV-7). GLRaV-2 and GLRaV-7 are members of the genus Closterovirus. Regardless of the host, both viruses appeared to multiply only in the phloem, affecting the cytology of differentiating sieve tubes, parenchyma and companion cells. Both GLRaV-2 isolates induced the same type of ultrastructural modifications in the herbaceous host and Vitis, consisting primarily of membrane proliferation, formation of inclusion bodies and virus particle aggregates. Inclusion bodies were made up of clusters of membranous vesicles with a fibrillar content, surrounded by a single membrane, intermixed with loose aggregates of virus particles. The vesicles did not seem to derive from mitochondria in both GLRaV-2 and GLRaV-7 infections, thus setting a difference between these viruses and two other grapevine closteroviruses (GLRaV-1 and GLRaV-3) previously studied. Virus particles of GLRaV-2 and GLRaV-7 were plentiful and accumulated in the cytoplasm and nuclei of both Vitis species investigated.
41998281|Tomato yellow leaf curl disease (TYLCD) threatens the production of tomatoes both in Turkey and other tomato-growing areas of the world. The disease is caused by several virus species belonging to the genus Begomovirus, family Geminiviridae that are transmitted by the whitefly Bemisia tabaci. There has been no previous information about which virus species/strains occur in tomatoes with TYLCD in Turkey. Therefore, polymerase chain reaction tests using degenerate primers were used to amplify partial sequences (579 bp) of the begomovirus coat protein gene (V1) from samples of diseased tomato plants collected from two major tomato-growing areas of Turkey (Mersin and Mula). DNA sequence analyses of three isolates revealed high nucleotide sequence identities to isolates of Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV, 97-98%) and tentatively identified them as belonging to that species. In addition, the complete nucleotide sequence was determined for one TYLCV isolate from Mersin (TYLCV-[TR:Mer6:04]). This isolate showed high nucleotide identity (98%) to isolates from the "prototype" strain of TYLCV, and only 92% identity to isolates of the TYLCV mild strain. A phylogenetic analysis confirmed that TYLCV-[TR:Mer6:04] belonged to the widespread "prototype" strain.
41997869|A collection of 45 isolates of the grape powdery mildew fungus, Uncinula necator, from different cultivars of Vitis vinifera has been established. Fungal isolates were grown under aseptic conditions on leaves collected from in vitro grown 'Baresana' grapevines and placed on agar medium in Petri dishes. Subculturing at 4-5 week intervals allowed the maintenance of U. necator isolates in pure culture for at least two years without causing any apparent modification of their characteristics. Mating experiments carried out with 41 isolates showed that the sexual compatibility of the fungus is under the control of a single mating type gene, MAT1, with two alleles. The alleles MAT1-1 and MAT1-2 proved to be equally common in natural populations of U. necator in Southern Italy. Hence meiotic recombination can be an important source of genetic variation in this fungus.  stata COStituita una collezione di 45 isolati di Uncinula necator, l'agente causale delToidio dlia vite, derivanti da diverse cultivar di Vitis vinifera. Gli isolati fungini sono stati allevati su foglie distaccate da piante di vite ' Baresana' allevate in vitro e poste su un terreno agarizzato in capsule Petri. Trasferimenti successivi delle colonie, ad intervalli di 4-5 settimane, hanno permesso il mantenimento in coltura pura degli isolati per almeno 2 anni senza causare alcuna apparente modificazione delle loro caratteristiche. Incroci eseguiti con 41 isolati hanno mostrato che la compatibilit sessuale del fungo  controllata da un singolo gene, MAT1, con due alleli. I due alleli MAT1-1 e MAT1-2 sono risultati parimenti comuni nelle popolazioni di U. necator presenti nell'Italia meridionale. Perianto, la ricombinazione meiotica puo certamente costituire una importante fonte di variabilit genetica per questo importante fungo fitopatogeno.
23721571|This research used red, green, blue and white lights to investigate their effects on the growth and development of Botrytis cinerea. Green light suppressed conidial germination and mycelial growth rate of B. cinerea; however, these phenomena were not observed in Alternaria alternata, Fusarium oxysporum and Magnaporthe grisea. Both transmission electron microscopy and laser scanning confocal microscopy demonstrated that the mitochondria damage was most likely to account for the growth inhibition of B. cinerea under green light. Green light also limited the decay development of postharvest grapes and tomatoes infected by B. cinerea, compared to red and blue light and dark treatments. The glucosamine release assay indicated that the mycelial content of B. cinerea-infected grape and tomato tissues were invariably lower in green light-treated groups compared to the other groups. The effects of light on B. cinerea conidiation varied depending on light quality, fungal strains and culturing matrix, with the exception of blue light inhibiting conidiation of all tested B. cinerea strains both in vitro and in the host. In conclusion, the methods to control B. cinerea could benefit from the regulatory effects of artificial light conditions on diverse aspects of the pathogen's growth and development.
41997915|An ELISA kit produced at the Istituto di Fitovirologia Applicata of CNR, Torino, Italy for the detection of citrus psorosis-associated virus (CPsAV) was successfully used to test 4,499 citrus plants of different varieties in nurseries, commercial groves and a germplasm collection of Apulia (Southern Italy). One hundred and seventy trees were indexed for psorosis using 'Madame Vinous' sweet orange and 'Dweet tangor'. From 60 plants that were positive by indexing, mechanical transmissions to herbaceous hosts were attempted. Psorosis was present in most of the citrus varieties, with a low incidence and distribution in commercial groves (7.4% of infected trees) and in the nurseries (4.6% of infected trees). In commercial groves, the local clementine cv. 'Fedele' (14.4% of infected trees) and 'Navelina' old clone sweet orange (9% of infected trees) were the most infected. The same rate of infection was shown by cv. 'Fedele' in the nurseries, whereas the highest infection rates (20.4% of infected trees) were observed in Satsuma 'Miyagawa'. All the plants that were psorosis-positive by indexing were also positive by ELISA with the sole exception of a cv. 'Fedele' source. By contrast, four citrus accessions that indexed negative, were found to be positive by ELISA. Serological tests revealed a high percentage of CPsAV infections in plants indexing positive for concave gum. Only from three plants out of the 60 that indexed positive was a virus with the filamentous particles typical of CPsAV recovered by mechanical inoculation to herbaceous hosts. The demonstration that ELISA can identify psorosis in a sensitive and reliable manner, represents a step forward in favour of serological assays, which can be used for routine testing and as a complement to biological indexing in sanitary selection programmes. Un corredo ELISA prodot to dall'Istituto di Fitovirologia Applicata del CNR di Torino per l'identificazione del virus associato alla psorosi degli agrumi (CPsAV)  stato usato per saggiare 4499 piante di diffrenti cultivar, in impianti commerciali e vivai pugliesi ed in una collezione agrumcola con accessioni di varia provenienza geogrfica. Centosettanta piante sono state saggiate sugli indicatori specifici "Madame Vinous" e "Dweet tangor", e da 60 piante che erano risultate positive all'indexaggio, sono state effettuate trasmissioni meccaniche ad ospiti erbacei. La psorosi  risultata presente sulla maggior parte delle cultivar saggiate con bassa incidenza sia negli impianti commerciali (7,4% di piante infette) ehe nei vivai (4,6% di piante infette). La cultivar locale di clementine "Fedele" e l'arancio "Navelina vecchio clone" sono risultati i pi infetti in campo (rispettivamente 14,4% e 9% di alberi infetti) mentre, in vivaio, i pi alti livelli d'infezione (20,4% di alberi infetti) sono stati riscontrati su mandarino Satsuma "Miyagawa". Tutte le piante positive all'indexaggio sono risultate positive a CPsAV anche in ELISA con la sola eccezione di un campione di "Fedele". Per converso, quattro accessioni negative all'indexaggio sono risultate positive in ELISA. I saggi sierologici hanno anche mostrato un'alta percentuale di infezioni di CPsAV in piante con concavit gommose. Solo da tre piante sulle 60 positive all'indexaggio  stato isolato su ospiti erbacei un virus con le tipiche particelle filamentose di CPsAV. La dimostrazione che l'ELISA pu individuare la psorosi in maniera sensibile ed affidabile, rappresenta un importante passo in avanti a favore della diagnosi sierologica, che perianto si propone come tecnica di routine, ancorch di supporto all'indexaggio, per l'identificazione di CPsAV nei programmi di selezione sanitaria.
41998498|Eutypa dieback is a devastating disease of Vitis vinifera L. caused by the fungal pathogen Eutypa lata (Pers.: Fr.) Tul. et C. Tul., which colonizes the vascular tissues of the trunk. Symptoms observed in developing shoots and in the foliage indicate that a necrotic signal spreads at a distance from the infected area. Previous studies have shown that toxic polypeptides isolated from E. lata cultures are able to induce some modifications typical of the disease observed in grapevines. The main aim of this study was to investigate the biological effects of polypeptide sub-fractions (glycosylated and non-glycosylated) for determining the mode and site of action of these toxic compounds. Compounds in the non-glycosylated fraction induced leaf necrosis, increased vacuolar tannin synthesis, modified mitochondria, but induced only a partial damage of the cell wall. They hindered the H flux and nutrient uptake as a result of the modification of H gradient, as seen on plasma membrane vesicles, without affecting the H-ATPase activity. Eutypine induced the same effects (i.e. on mitochondria and protonophoric action). Polypeptides of the glycosylated fraction increased anthocyanin synthesis in isolated leaves, promoted the decrease of the starch content and casused heavy damage to the cell wall. They also modified H flux and nutrient uptake but, in this case, these processes may be the consequence of a direct effect on the H-ATPase activity. Our results show that the different toxic compounds secreted by E. lata present a complex frame of action on various plant cellular sites. These effects impair plant metabolism and damage cell structure thus favouring host invasion by the fungus.
41998118|Phomopsis viticola (Sacc.) Sacc. is the phytopathogenic fungus causing a severe disease of grapevine known as Phomopsis cane and leaf spot. Protoplasts from mycelium of P. viticola were successfully transformed either with plasmids carrying the bacterial hph gene, conferring resistance to hygromycin B (pAN7-1, pOHT, pOHT-AMA1), or the Bmlr gene from Neurospora eras sa, causing resistance to benzimidazole fungicides (pBT6). Up to more than 300 transformants per g of plasmid DNA were obtained with the hph marker gene. The highest effectiveness was obtained with pOHT, whereas pBT6 yielded around 25 transformants per g of plasmid DNA. Southern blot analysis showed the occurrence of multiple integration events in the fungal genome of all tested plasmids. Experiments of co-transformation with pOHT and pBT6 were successful and about 70% of transformants were resistant to both hygromycin B and benomyl. The "Instant Gene Bank" technique and mutagenesis through Restriction Enzyme Mediated Integration (REMI) were attempted. As reported for other phytopathogenic fungi, the REMI technique proved to be a powerful method for obtaining mutant strains with variation in phenotypic traits.
24579151|Shoot tip cultures coupled with thermotherapy was used for the production of virus-free candidate clones of the Croatian autochthonous and most important red-berried grapevine cultivar Plavac mali. The procedure was successful for the elimination of Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 3 (GLRaV-3) and Grapevine fleck virus (GFkV), but not Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 1 (GLRaV-1). Results showed that a selective virus eradication occurred depending on the initial composition of the viral population of treated samples. When the in vitro growth of cv. Plavac mali explants harbouring different viruses was compared, it was found that, similarly to virus elimination, tissue proliferation was virus composition-dependent. This is a first report on virus elimination in cv. Plavac mali and, by and large, from grapevines in Croatia.
41998415|A tissue printing hybridization (TPH) method for detecting pome fruit viroids was developed and used for a survey in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A total of 310 samples, representative of 65 apple and 51 pear cultivars and of several rootstocks were tested for the presence of Apple scar skin viroid (ASSVd), Apple dimple fruit viroid (ADFVd) and Pear blister canker viroid (PBCVd). Whereas ASSVd and ADFVd were not found, 13% of the pear samples tested by TPH gave positive signals for PBCVd that were confirmed by dot-blot and northernblot hybridization assays. These data show for the first time that PBCVd infects pear trees (belonging to at least 10 different cultivars) in Bosnia and Herzegovina and validate the use of TPH for surveys of viroid infections in pome fruit trees. Molecular characterization of the PBCVd population infecting the native pear cv Rancica identified five new polymorphic positions in the viroid genome, two of which are shared by all the sequenced variants of this Bosnian isolate. Apple cv Spy 227 was shown to be an experimental host of PBCVd.
41998413|The accumulation of cell wall hydroxyproline-rich glycoproteins (HRGPs) involved in plant defence response was studied, in terms of hydroxyproline accumulation on purified cell walls of leaves of tobacco cvs Havana 425, Xanthi-nc (wild type), and NahG-transformed Xanthi (carrying the gene for salicylate hydroxylase). The leaves (7th and 8th leaves) were analysed after treatment with salicylic acid (SA) and the SA analogue acibenzolar-S-methyl (ASM). Upper untreated leaves (9th leaf) were also analysed. Infiltration of 1 mM SA solution into leaves 8 and 9 of Havana 425 and Xanthi-nc, induced significant HRGP accumulation, which also occurred in the upper untreated leaves, more evident at 4 and 5 days after treatment, whereas in NahG plants no accumulation was observed, both in treated and upper leaves. Spraying 1 mM ASM solutions induced insignificant or modest and transitory HRGP accumulation in sprayed leaves of Havana and Xanthi respectively and a clear accumulation in the upper leaves, at 4, 5 and, generally, at 6 days. In NahG plants, modest accumulation was observed only in the upper leaves at 5 or 5 and 6 days. The pattern of HRGP accumulation induced by SA and ASM in Havana and Xanthi-nc appears consistent with the involvement of HRGPs in SAR. In SA-insensitive NahG plants, the lack (SA treatment) or poor (ASM treatment) HRGP accumulations also hint at their involvement in SAR.
41999016|Bacillus subtilis strain IH7 was isolated from the rhizosphere of Tunisian healthy plants and selected for its antimicrobial activities against bacteria and fungi. This strain produced a novel antimicrobial peptide (bacteriocin) called Bac IH7. The pure bacteriocin was obtained after precipitation by ammonium sulphate, chromatography on Sephadex G-25 and C18 reverse-phase HPLC. The SDS-PAGE analysis of purified Bac IH7 revealed a single band with an estimated molecular mass of approximately 14 kDa. Bac IH7 was sensitive to various proteases, thus proving to have protein nature and displayed a wide inhibitory spectrum towards Grampositive and Gram-negative bacteria and fungal pathogens. Purified Bac IH7 exhibited a bactericidal mode of action against Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58 and a fungistatic mode of action against Candida tropicalis R2 CIP203. Interestingly, based on conventional agronomic parameters for seed vigour, the application of Bac IH7 (800 AU) showed it to be a potent exogenous enhancer of growth that enhanced the vigour of tomato and muskmelon seedlings. Compared to the control, the germination percentage, shoot weight, shoot height, and root length were all significantly enhanced in the Bac IH7-treated plant seeds. Bac IH7 also exhibited effective disinfectant properties against seedborne diseases. In treated seeds, Bac IH7 had significant effects on the control of damping-off disease groups at the pre-germination stage, of root rot caused by Alternara solani, as well as of wilt diseases and other bacterial seed-borne pathogens.
41998542|To determine if rolABC genes of Agrobacterium rhizogenes could modify the susceptibility of Troyer citrange to dry root rot, conidial suspensions of a Fusarium solani strain isolated from citrus roots (PVCT1A) were used in cutting, leaf midrib and root inoculation assays of wild type (wt) and rolABC Troyer citrange. In all assays, the pathogen was reisolated equally well from wt and transformant. Interveinai chlorosis, wilt and defoliation of inoculated cuttings and leaf midribs, observed both in rolABC and wt, were more severe in transgenic lines. Two months after root inoculation with the pathogen, root weight was significantly reduced in transgenic lines. No root rot symptoms were observed on rolABC or wt lines, but wilting was more severe on wt. Cell-free fungal culture filtrate induced leaf wilt and defoliation within 10 days from immersion in the filtrate, without any significant difference between rolABC and wt lines. Scanning electron microscopy observations of infected roots showed that fungal penetration and colonization was similar in both lines. Evidence is presented that F. solani colonizes Troyer citrange tissues even in absence of visible symptoms and without differences between wt and rolABC lines.
41998550|Northwestern Brazil is a major center of diversity for cactaceous plants, most of which are grown as ornamentals. Cactus virus X (CVX), the only virus reported so far from Brazilian cactaceae, is widely spread. In this study we have characterized viruses of Opuntia tuna Hylocereus undatus (HU) and Schlumbergera truncata (ST) from the State of So Paulo, showing chlorotic spots and mosaic symptoms. Mechanically inoculated Gomphrena globosa reacted with local lesions, except when extracts were used as inoculum, whereas Chenopodium amaranticolor showed erratic systemic symptoms following inoculations from HU and ST. Transmission electron microscopy showed flexuous particles ca. 550 nm in length and bundles of virus particles in leaf cells from naturally and experimentally infected plants. Virus particles reacted faintly with an antiserum to CVX. Nucleotide sequences of the RNA dependent RNA polymerase gene obtained from cloned RT-PCR products, revealed the occurrence of Zygocactus virus X (ZyVX) in mixed infection by ZyVX and Schlumbergera virus X (SchVX) in HU, and mixed infection by ZyVX, SchVX and Opuntia virus X (OpVX) in ST. This is the first report of ZyVX, SchVX and OpVX in Brazil.
41992430|Plant aspartic proteinases (EC 3. 4. 23) have been associated with abiotic stress responses, but little is known about their possible involvement in biotic stress responses. Here we report the induction of an aspartic proteinase, StAP3 (Solanum uberosum aspartic protease), in potato leaves upon infection with Phytophthora infestans and we compare its antimicrobial activity and substrate specificity whith StAP1, an aspartic protease from potato tubers previously characterized. Both the aspartic proteinase content and activity were significantly increased in leaves from a resistant cultivar (cv Pampeana) as compared to a susceptible one (cv Bintje). In vitro analysis shows that StAP3 has antimicrobial activity towards P. infestans and Fusarium solani, like StAP1 from tubers. Substrate specificity of StAP1 and StAP3 was studied, using oxidized insuline -chain as substrate. Both enzymes have a common cleavage position, like other plant aspartic proteases. Additionally, StAP1 has other two cleavage positions and StAP3 was able to cleave the peptide bond Phe-Phe, a cleavage position found in other plant APs. The induction of both StAPs (StAP1 and StAP3) in potato tubers and leaves after wounding and infection in potato resistant cultivars and their antimicrobial activity would suggest that these StAPs are involved in plant defense response. In a previous paper, StAPs antimicrobial activity was ascribed to StAPs proteolytic activity. Differences in the antimicrobial activity of StAP1 and StAP3 may be associated with the differences found in the substrate specificity between these enzymes.
41998390|The main Iranian sugar beet (Beta vulgaris) growing areas were surveyed for the occurrence and incidence of Beet necrotic yellow vein virus (BNYW), Beet soil-borne virus (BSBV) and Beet virus Q (BVQ). Root samples from 3,486 plants were collected from 184 commercial sugar beet fields of 14 provinces from randomly selected and symptomatic plants and analysed by tissue-blot immunoassay (TBIA). Serological diagnoses were confirmed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction tests (RT-PCR) using specific primers. Based on TBIA data, BNYW was prevalent (overall incidence of 52.4%), followed by BSBV (9.8%) and BVQ (1.4%). High levels of virus infections (more than 70%) were found in Ardabil, Esfahan, Fars, Khorasan and Zanjan provinces, whereas Khuzestan was apparently "virus-free". The putative vector of the soil-borne viruses, Poly myxa betae, was also detected by RT-PCR in 179 fields surveyed.
41999047|Transport inhibitor 1 (TIR1) is an auxin receptor that plays a pivotal role in auxin signaling. It has been reported that TIR-like genes are present in a gene cluster carrying the Mi-1 gene which confers resistance to nematodes, aphids and whiteflies. Since auxin is involved in the pathogenicity of tumor-inducing pathogens like nematodes, the co-localization of TIR-like genes with the Mi-1 gene may imply a role for TIR-like genes in the resistance conferred by the Mi-1 gene. In this study, we monitored the TIR-like transcript abundance (TTA) in both roots and leaves of nematode-resistant and -susceptible tomato lines. Our results demonstrate that TTA in roots, but not in leaves, was lower in nematode-resistant tomatoes than that in nematode-susceptible ones. In order to test whether the TIR-like genes are involved in nematode resistance mediated by the Mi-1 gene, we transiently silenced the Mi-1 gene homologues in a nematode-resistant tomato line and then measured TTA. Results showed that knocking down the expression of the Mi-1 gene homologues had no effect on TTA, therefore, we concluded that involvement of TIR-like genes in the response of tomato roots to nematodes is probably independent of the Mi-1 gene homologues. Further, we propose a possible explanation for the association between TTA and resistance to root-knot nematodes in tomato.
41998502|The incidence of Potato virus Y (PVY) and Potato leafroll virus (PLRV) was studied in field crops and potato seeds in Greece. In 2006, 1-17% of the plants in ware potato crops were affected, the autumn more than the spring crops. PVY infections were detected in ware potato and non-certified seeds in all areas at rates of up to 100% of the suspected plants or tubers. PLRV was widespread mainly in the upland crops in Xanthi (37.8%) and Kilkis (30%), and in non-certified seeds in Pella (29%). A limited number of field plants were infected also by Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV). More than 50% of the potato seed lots produced in Thessaloniki and Arkadia were rejected in 2005 and 2006 during their final stage of certification due to heavy PVY infection (up to 60%). Both PVY and PLRV were also detected with a different incidence in several imported lots of the categories "basic" and "certified" in 2005 and 2006. In "basic" seeds, out of 96 and 84 lots tested, PVY was detected in tubers of 25 and 33 lots, and PLRV in 12 and 3 lots in the respective years. Occasionally, Potato virus X (PVX) was detected in 9 and 7 "basic" seed lots of 2005 and 2006. In "certified" seed-potatoes, PVY was detected in 86 and 145 lots out of 302 and 336, while PLRV was found in 31 and 55 lots in 2005 and 2006, respectively. The results showed that PVY is widespread in Greece and that PLRV is restricted to cold mountainous regions. It was also shown that non-certified seeds are highly infected with PVY, while certified seeds were only occasionaly infected at high rates.
41998959|The carbohydrate-containing polymer 1,3;1,6--D-glucan was obtained by transformation of laminaran from the alga Laminaria cichorioides with endo--1,3-glucanase from marine mollusks. In electron microscope observations of phosphotungstic acid-stained preparations from Nicotiana tabacum cv. Samsun leaves inoculated with a mixture of Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) (1 g/ml) and glucan (1 mg/ml) or with TMV alone, we found that such preparations contained, along with virus particles of normal diameter (about 18 nm), abnormal (swollen and thinner) particles. The highest number of thin viral particles was found in dips from leaves inoculated with TMV together with glucan. It is suggested that this may be caused by a glucan-mediated increase of TMV particle proteolysis in infected leaves.
41998823|Laterally biflagellated first generation secondary zoospores of the parasitic peronosporomycete, Aphanomyces cochlioides locate host plants guided by a hostspecific compound, cochliophilin A (5-hydroxy-6,7-methylenedioxyflavone), and then change morphologically to initiate infection. However, when zoospores fail to find a host during their motile life, they become cysts which generate daughter secondary zoospores up to third generation. This study aimed at comparing the morphology and chemotactic properties of the first, second and third generation of secondary zoospores of A. cochlioides. Scanning electron microscopic observation revealed that all three successive generations of A. cochlioides zoospores were structurally similar but the later generations were smaller in size than those of first generation secondary zoospores. However, all three generations of secondary zoospores responded equally to the host-specific attractants (cochliophilin A and N-trans-feruloy1-4-O-methyldopamine) and other bioactive secondary metabolites but at varying threshold concentrations. These results confirm the hypothesis of repeated zoospore emergence in parasitic Aphanomyces as a possible adaptation to parasitism. A detailed life cycle of A. cochlioides is illustrated on the basis of microscopic studies and current knowledge.
41998470|Grapevines from six Chilean regions were surveyed for virus diseases and tested for the presence of the most important viruses. ELISA testing of 2535 samples and confirmatory RT-PCR of some ELISA-negative samples from symptomatic and symptomless vines gave the following infection rates: 6.36% for Grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV); 4.67% for Grapevine leafroll associated virus 1 (GLRaV-1); 16.05% for Grapevine leafroll associated virus 2 (GLRaV-2); 6.41% for Grapevine leafroll associated virus 3 (GLRaV-3); 0.26% for Grapevine leafroll associated virus 7 (GLRaV-7); 14.99% for Grapevine fleck virus (GFkV); 5.57% for Grapevine virus A (GVA) and 0.78% for Grapevine virus B (GVB). Strawberry latent ringspot virus (SLRSV) Tomato ringspot virus (ToRSV) and Arabis mosaic virus (ArMV) were not detected. Overall infection in the surveyed Chilean grapevines, considering ELISA and RT-PCR, was 32.35%. Virus infection ratio obtained from ELISA analysis in the six regions, varied between 21.19% (Regin Metropolitana) and 74.26% (Coquimbo). RT-PCR was used for detection of the Red Globe strain of GLRaV-2 and Grapevine rupestris stem pitting associated virus (GRSPaV), and to confirm and extend ELISA results. GVB, GFkV, GRSPaV, GLRaV-2 RG and GLRaV-7 are new records for Chile.
24331955|Several diseases, pests and physiological disorders threat date palm life. Among them, Brittle leaf disease or, in French, Maladie des feuilles cassantes (MFC) is a lethal disease that has acquired alarming proportions since the 1960s, when it was first observed in southern Tunisia. Up to now no causal agent has been found. Previous studies have reported that brittle fronds are deficient in manganese but the mechanisms involved in symptom expression have not yet been identified. In this study, an anatomical investigation was carried out in order to identify the deleterious effect of MFC on the development and structure of palm fronds. Results showed that in old healthy fronds the major tissue is schlerenchyma, which is characterized by very thick lignified cell walls and is often associated with conducting tissue. Indeed, large vessels are surrounded by schlerenchyma fibers that are strongly lignified when compared with those of young fronds. Diseased young fronds have almost the same shape as the healthy young fronds. Nevertheless, in old diseased fronds MFC induces important structural changes. Xylem and phloem vessels are larger, taking more space through the fibers that are smaller in number and size, and tighter. The larger diameter of the lumen and the lower thickness of the fibers present in the fronds in advanced disease stages, decreases the lignin content of cells walls, leading to an increased frond friability, which gives "the brittle leaf disease" its name.
41998456|Cultural practices such as tillage and crop rotation can be used as components of pest-management programs. The appropriate combination of tillage systems and crops may favor the development of beneficial microorganisms, preventing the spread of fungal pathogens. A long-term field study was carried out to analyze the effect of crop management on the abundance of actinomycetes, Trichoderma spp., and Gliocladium spp., as potential biocontrol agents (PBAs), and their relationship with the incidence of peanut root rot caused by Fusarium solani. Soil samples were taken at sowing and harvest, and root rot incidence was evaluated at harvest. There was an inverse relationship between root rot incidence peanut populations under no-till suggesting a possible role of PBAs in the control of F. solani, the incidence of root rot being low under no-till and disc harrow, associated with a high concentration of potential antagonists. However, this correlation was not observed when soybean preceded peanut, when the incidence of root rot was low despite relatively lower populations of biocontrol agents present in the soil, in comparison with maize as previous crop.
41999006|In a 10-year survey several Eggplant mottled dwarf virus (EMDV) isolates were collected from diverse hosts from all over Greece. In this study, an IC-RT-PCR assay was developed for the detection of the virus. Degenerate primers were designed on conserved regions of the glycoprotein (G) gene of various plant nucleorhabdoviruses. Based on the initial genetic information obtained, EMDV-specific primers were subsequently designed. The method successfully amplified a 284 bp product from all (76) virus samples originating from tobacco, cucumber, eggplant, Pittosporum tobira and Capparis spinosa (caper). Sequence analysis and Western blot were done for further characterization of representative isolates. Two isolates from tobacco (EMDV-Tob) and cucumber (EMDV-Cu) were also subjected to electron microscopy and host range studies. Sequence analysis of the partial G gene confirmed the classification of EMDV within nucleorhabdoviruses. Genetic comparisons among the EMDV isolates tested indicated low levels of variation with the caper isolate, which is reported for the first time in Greece, being the most deviating isolate. This is the first molecular assay developed for the detection of EMDV and also the first sequence information obtained of its genome.
24579146|Spot blotch has frequently been observed in volunteer wheat plants in Sichuan (China). A fungus isolated from leaf lesions was identified as Bipolaris sorokiniana (Sacc.) Shoemaker, based on morphology and comparisons of DNA sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS), translation elongation factor 1- (EF-1), and -tubulin (BT) genes. Volunteer wheat plants were found to have a major role in B. sorokiniana oversummering in Sichuan, which makes their eradication important for reducing the inoculum that starts disease outbreaks.
41998437|Fiftynine peach, 19 apricot and 19 plum varieties, grown in a screenhouse after inoculation by chip budding with the M strain of Plum pox virus (PPV), were surveyed from 2003 through 2007 for symptom expression on the leaves, flowers and fruits. A large number of accessions of the three species showed discoloration and mottling of the leaves in spring, and many peach varieties with pink flowers displayed strong colour breaking of the petals. Some peach and apricot and a single plum cultivar produced deformed fruit with typical rings and mottling. Eleven out of 97 inoculated cultivars, showed no apparent symptoms and gave negative responses in ELISA and Real time PCR assays. These plants were re-inoculated with the same PPV isolate and will be the object of further observations.
24722482|A virus disease of fig (Ficus carica) known as fig mosaic (FM) is widely spread in Palestine, where its severity varies according to the cultivar and the growing area. At least 10 viruses and three viroids have been detected so far in fig trees. This study reports the results of a preliminary survey carried out in Palestine to secure information on the viruses associated with mosaic-infected figs. Samples were collected from scattered trees, fig orchards and nurseries of different areas of central Palestine, where figs are traditionally grown, and tested for the presence of Fig mosaic virus (FMV), Fig latent virus 1 (FLV-1), Fig badnavirus-1 (FBV-1), Fig leaf mottle-associated virus 1 (FLMaV-1) and 2 (FLMaV-2), and Fig cryptic virus (FCV) in addition to Apple dimple fruit viroid (ADFVd). The following viruses. FMV, FBV-1, FLV-1 and FLMaV-2, were detected by RT-PCR. FBV-1 was the most widespread followed by FMV. The genetic diversity of FMV was assessed by sequencing a fragment from the viral p4 protein, revealing a low divergence from the homologous sequences from GenBank.
41998203|To collect information on the incidence of Verticillium wilt of olive in Apulia (southern Italy), about 6,000 woody samples from 1,390 young and old olive orchards were analysed. Moreover, 565 soil samples from commercial orchards and nurseries located all over Apulia region were tested for the presence of V. dahliae microsclerotia. Verticillium wilt was found in the 18% of the surveyed orchards, mainly in seaside-located intensive plantations, which are usually intercropped with vegetables susceptible to V. dahliae. However, the disease was also found in young plantations established on soil which resulted free of the pathogen, thus indicating a role of the propagating material in the spread of the disease. On the whole, 16% of surveyed fields and 50% of nurseries were contaminated by the pathogen. Overall, the results suggest that preventive diagnostic tests of leafy cuttings, soil and soil mix are mandatory to obtain V. dahliae-free propagative material to limit the spread 'of the disease. The analysis of more than 60 V. dahliae isolates by RAPD-PCR technique indicated a low level of genetic diversity in the Apulian population of the pathogen from infected olive trees. A distinct cluster including few isolates was found, but no correlation could be established among the isolates and olive cultivars and location. Molecular tests to characterize the pathotype of V. dahliae from infected trees indicated that all the isolates belong to the non-defoliating pathotype, except one for which the results were not conclusive.
23721523|Xylella fastidiosa (Xf) causes diseases in many agricultural, horticultural, and landscape crops, including Pierce's disease (PD) of grapevines. PD has been a serious problem in scattered table, wine and raisin grape growing regions throughout California, as well as in Texas for more than 100 years. In this study, we evaluated the genetic variation in diversity and structure of Xf associated with PD of grapevines in California and Texas using simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers. The analysis revealed a high level of genetic diversity across the populations of Xf isolated from the grapevines from different viticulture locations or counties in California and Texas. Overall genetic diversity of Xf was detected comparatively high in Texas (0.835) than that in California (0.662). Hierarchical analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) showed a significant genetic structure of Xf population between California and Texas. UPGMA clustering analysis and the Bayesian clustering algorithm using STRUCTURE consistently placed California and Texas Xf populations into two major genetic groups with no clear population structure within each state.
23721740|Of 170 Iranian isolates of Ralstonia solanacearum from wilting potato and tomato plants, 130 were analyzed for genetic and pathogenicity diversity. Specific PCR assays identified all the isolates as R. solanacearum biovar N2 (2T) and 2A. Based on pathogenicity and PCR tests, the isolates were divided into two pathogenic groups. Group I, corresponding to race 3, was pathogenic to potato and tomato, whereas group II, corresponding to race 1, was pathogenic to tomato, potato, eggplant and tobacco. Molecular analysis was done with random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and rep-PCR using (GTG)5 primer. RAPD and (GTG)5-PCR analysis divided the 130 Iranian isolates of R. solanacearum into eight haplotypes that were grouped in three clusters. Cluster I comprised all biovar 2A isolates with four haplotypes, cluster II and III contained biovar N2 isolates with four haplotypes. Both RAPD and (GTG)5-PCR enabled discrimination of R. solanacearum strains according to biovar and the host of origin.
24722477|Soybean mosaic virus (SMV), the causal agent of a commonly occurring disease of soybean (Glycine max), is seed-borne and readily transmitted mechanically. Soybean plants and seeds in Poland were surveyed by ELISA to evaluate the occurence of SMV and characterize its isolates by RT-PCR using primers designed in the P1, HC-Pro and coat protein (CP) genes followed by sequencing. Two isolates designed A and M differed biologically with SMV-A infecting soybean plants without apparent symptoms and SMV-M causing foliar rugosity and curling, and stunted growth. The CP gene of the two isolates had 92% and 99% identity at the nucleotide and amino acid level, respectively. Phylogenetic analyses showed that the two Polish isolates grouped in two distinct clusters. This is the first report on SMV identification in Poland.
41997936|A brief synthesis is given of what is known about canker stain of plane trees caused by Ceratocystis fimbriata f.sp. platani. This knowledge mainly concerns the morphology, taxonomy and biology of the fungus and relations between host and parasite. The epidemiological data highlight the destructiveness of the disease and its potential danger to all street plantings of Platanus acerifolia in Europe. In the matter of control the effectiveness of chemical and biological control measures is underlined, as well as the serious difficulties encountered in genetic improvement, owing mainly to the genetic uniformity of the host tree and the great variability of the pathogen. Prevention, which in Italy has now been made a legal requirement, also has not produced the desired results because of technical difficulties in raising and tending street trees and the problem of finding funds quickly when an insect pest or an epidemic strikes. Nevertheless, prevention, if carried out systematically and rigorously, can reduce the incidence of canker stain in infection centres and prevent its spread to unaffected areas. Meanwhile genetic improvement may succeed in producing C. fimbriata resistant individuals of the plane tree that are adapted to European environmental conditions. Viene fatta una breve sintesi delle conoscenze finora acquisite sul cancro colorato del platano causato da Ceratocystis fimbriata f.sp. platani. Queste riguardano principalmente la sistematica (morfologia e tassonomia), la biologa e i rapporti fra ospite e parassita. I dati epidemiologici rilevati hanno permesso di metiere in risalto le capacita distruttive della malattia e di sottolineare la Potenziale pericolosita per tutte le alberature di Platanus acerifolia del continente europeo. Per quanto riguarda i mezzi di lotta vengono evidenziate l'inadeguatezza dei mezzi chimici e biologici e le grandi difficolt che si incontrano nel miglioramento genetico, dovute principalmente all'omogeneit dell'ospite alla quale si contrappone una grande variabilit del patogeno. Anche la lotta preventiva, bench in Italia sia stata resa obbligatoria, non ha dato i risultati sperati. Ci  dovuto aile difficolt tecniche insite nel sistema di allevamento e manutenzione delle alberature cittadine, nel coordinamento delle varie competenze territoriali, nonch nelle difficolt di reperimento immediato di fondi da impiegare nelle infestazioni e nelle malattie di natura epidemica. Comunque, quando la lotta profilattica viene condotta con metodo, con rigore e nel quadro di un'azione generale concertata, si pu gradualmente ridurre l'incidenza della malattia nelle zone infette e impedire al parassita di contaminare le zone ancora indenni. Ci in attesa che il miglioramento genetico riesca a selezionare dei platani resistenti alia C. fimbriata e adatti alie condizioni pedoclimatiche del continente europeo.
41998187|American plum line pattern virus (APLPV) was monitored monthly throughout a year in a Japanese plum tree by using ELISA and dot-blot hybridisation. Leaf samples were tested from March to November and dormant buds were tested from December to February. Flowers, cortex and fruits, when available, were also tested. For leaf samples, detection by ELISA and hybridisation was reliable from March to May. For dormant bud samples, detection was reliable from December to February. Detection levels decreased from June to August, and were unsatisfactory from September to November. During this latter period, molecular hybridisation was more sensitive than ELISA. Leaves were better sources of APLPV than flowers and cortical tissues in spring, whereas mature fruits were better sources than leaves in summer.
41997912|Survival in the field of Xanthomonas arboricola pv. pruni was studied using two mutants marked by resistance to 200 g ml of rifampicin (Rifr) and rifampicin-chloramphenicol (Rifr-Chlorr). The mutants were used to contaminate branches (July 1995) and buds/leaf scars (October 1995) of peach trees cv. 'Elegant Lady' in two peach orchards in the district of Verona. A suspension of the Rifr-Chlorr mutant was also used for vacuum infiltration (September 1995) of leaves on detached shoots of the same cultivar. Survival was assessed on the basis of periodic reisolation on appropriate recovery media from bud/leaf scar samples (October 1995-March 1996) and debris of infected leaves kept on the soil (January-April 1996). The pathogen was found in bud/leaf scar samples and in infected leaf debris up to 6-7 months after contamination. The Rifr mutant was only reisolated (frequency 13%) from leaf tissue samples with typical spots collected in one of the two experimental peach orchards in the summer of 1996. The mutants were never found associated with asymptomatic leaf or flower samples (summer-autumn 1995/spring-autumn 1996). X. arboricola pv. pruni apparently survives in buds/leaf scars and in infected leaf debris on the soil, providing potential sources of inoculum for primary infections even in the absence of spring ('black tips') and summer cankers, never observed during the experiments.  stata studiata la sopravvivenza in campo di Xanthomonas arboricola pv. pruni mediante l'uso di due mutanti marcati per resistenza a rifampicina (Rifr) ed a rifampicina-cloramfenicolo (Rifr-Chlorr) alle dosi di 200 g ml per entrambi. I due mutanti sono stati rispettivamente usati per contaminare branche (luglio 1995) e gemme/cicatrici fogliari (ottobre 1995) di alberi di pesco cv. "Elegant Lady" in due pescheti del veronese. Una sospensione del mutante Rifr Chlorr  stata altresi usata per infiltrare sotto vuoto (setiembre 1995) foglie su germogli distaccati della medesima cultivar. La sopravvivenza di X. arboricola pv. pruni  stata valutata in base ai risultati di reisolamenti periodici su appropriati substrati di crescita da campioni di gemme/cicatrici fogliari (ottobre 1995-marzo 1996) e di residui di foglie infette mantenute sul terreno (gennaio-aprile 1996). Nelle gemme/cicatrici fogliari e nei residui di foglie infette il patgeno  stato trovato fino a 6-7 mesi dopo la contaminazione. Solo il reisolamento del mutante Rifr (frequenza 13%) ha avuto successo da campioni di tessuto fogliare con tipiche maculature prelevati da uno dei due pescheti sperimentali durante Testate 1996. In nessun caso, i mutanti sono stati trovati associati a campioni di foglie e fiori asintomatici (estate-autunno 1995/primavera-autunno 1996). Si discutono le modalit di sopravvivenza di X. arboricola pv. pruni. L'evidenza sperimentale indica che sia soprawissuto nelle gemme/cicatrici fogliari e nei residui di foglie infette sul terreno, potenziali sorgen ti di inoculo per infezioni primarle in assenza di cancri primaverili ("cime annerite") ed estivi, mai osservati durante il periodo della sperimentazione.
41998673|Potassium phosphite was applied to 4-year-old chestnut plants either in the form of a foliar spray or by xylem injection to control the development of ink disease, following inoculation with Phytophthora cinnamomi. Foliar spraying reduced symptom expression by ca. 90% within 30 days, and later served to inhibit fungal colonisation of the stem. The injection treatment fully prevented infection, but the efficacy of the curative treatment depended on the initial level of disease severity. Potassium phosphite was injected annually into the trunks of a set of old chestnut and young walnut trees, naturally infected by, respectively, P. cambivora and P. cinnamomi. The treatment was ineffective on heavily diseased trees, but acted curatively on less infected ones. Two fungicidal applications on chestnut (one on walnut) were sufficient to promote plant recovery, as observed by improved vigour of the sprouts, larger size and deeper colour of the leaves, normal fruit development and ripening, a halt in the flux of ink, and the dehydration and compartmentalization of disease lesions.
23721737|Brown rot, caused by Monilinia fructicola, is the most important peach disease in Brazil. However, there is little information about the epidemiology and spatial patterns associated with this disease in organic orchards. This study characterized the spatial distribution of blossom blight and brown rot within trees under natural infection. The study was carried out in 2007 and 2008 in an organic orchard located in southern Brazil. The spatial pattern of diseased flowers (in a sample of 80 flowers per tree per year) and fruit (from 64 to 309 fruit per tree per year) within each peach tree was assessed using 16 quadrats per tree. The dispersion index (D) and the modified Taylor's power law were used to characterize the spatial pattern of the disease. The conidia density of M. fructicola and the weather conditions were monitored. In both years of assessment, diseased flowers were distributed at random in 90% of the trees, and no correlation was found between the incidence of blossom blight from a given year and the incidence of blossom blight or brown rot in the previous year. The distribution of brown rot within the tree was aggregated in both years in 70% of the trees where disease incidence was lower than 90%, and a significant positive relationship was observed in disease incidence from one year to the other. Taylor's power law was significant for blossom blight and brown rot but aggregation was verified only for brown rot. According to these results, blossom blight is not an important source of inoculum to fruits, and we suggest that the intensive chemical control during flowering in the subtropical regions of Brazil should be reviewed.
41998045|Protein synthesis and the activity of Superoxide dismutases (SODs) were analyzed in bean plants (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) cv. 'Groffy' exposed to acute and chronic ozone (O) fumigation. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) patterns of total soluble leaf proteins revealed the accumulation of a newly synthesised 33 kDa polypeptide following acute (150 nl I) and chronic (50 nl I and 100 nl I) treatments and the disappearance of a 36 kDa polypeptide after three hours of recovery from the acute treatment. The control plants showed four distinct SOD isoforms with a relative mobility (Rf) of 0.45 (MnSOD), 0.59 (Cu/ZnSOD), 0.80 (Cu/ZnSOD), and 0.85 (unidentified). Acute O fumigation induced a rise of MnSOD activity while the levels of both Cu/ZnSOD isoenzymes remained almost unaltered. However, the activity of the more anodic Cu/ZnSOD isoform increased remarkably after three hours of recovery in clean air. Two additional SOD isoenzymes (Rf = 0.63 and 0.68), induced by chronic fumigation, reached highest values in plants treated with 100 nl I of O for seven days. Under chronic conditions, MnSOD activity levels remained unaltered or fell with respect to control plants. By contrast, a rise of the activities of both Cu/ZnSOD isoforms was observed after fumigation protracted for two or four days. Nevertheless, after seven days of treatment, levels of both Cu/ZnSOD isoenzymes and of the more anodic (Rf = 0.85) SOD isoform decreased. Changes in the levels of distinct components of the SOD system depending on the level of O fumigation imposed suggest a specific function for each isoform in protecting plant cells from oxidative stress.
24579147|Maize white spot (MWS) caused by Pantoea ananatis is one of the most important foliar diseases of maize in Brazil. The limited knowledge concerning the dispersal, survival and the occurrence of alternative hosts for the pathogen has compromised the development of disease control strategies. The purpose of this study was to evaluate two weed species, Digitaria horizontalis and D. insularis, as alternative hosts for P. ananatis. The bacterial isolate Pa1DI isolated from MWS-like lesions in D. insularis and isolates Pa2ZM and WT-2 from maize MWS lesions were used for cross-inoculation tests in the greenhouse. The presumptive identity of all isolates was determined by Gram staining (), indole production (+), adonitol fermentation test (), ice nucleation activity (INA+), and 16S ribosomal DNA sequencing. Further characterization using species-specific primers for P. ananatis followed by nucleotide sequencing of PCR amplicons confirmed the identity of the isolates. MWS symptoms in the cross inoculation experiment were observed in maize and the two Digitaria species. Thus, these two weed species may act as alternative hosts for P. ananatis. These results that show D. horizontalis and D. insularis as possible P. ananatis reservoirs should be considered in the development of MWS disease control strategies.
24332030|The effect of 15 Fusarium species on seed germination and early plant development was examined in a laboratory study, together with the potential toxigenicity of selected isolates and the possibility of T-2 toxin production on soybean and pea grain. In germination tests, 33 out of 47 isolates of Fusarium chlamydosporum, F. pseudograminearum, F. sporotrichioides, F. crookwellense, F. verticillioides, F. equiseti, F. semitectum, F. solani, F. poae, F. sambucinum and F. compactum significantly reduced the number of normal soybean seedlings, while only six out of 48 isolates of F. sporotrichioides, F. semitectum and F. chlamydosporum significantly reduced the number of normal pea seedlings. When inoculated on plants grown in Hoagland's media, nearly all Fusarium isolates caused necrosis of soybean and pea root, but neither of them significantly reduced shoot and root dry mass of pea plants, or shoot dry mass of soybean plants. Amplification of tri5 and FUM1 genes, required for trichothecence and fumonisin biosynthesis, was carried out by PCR in 45 Fusarium isolates from soybean and 40 isolates from pea. Positive tri5 PCR reaction was recorded in 19 isolates of F. sporotrichioides, F. crookwellense, F. pseudograminearum, F. poae, F. sambucinum, F. culmorum, F. equiseti and F. chlamydosporum. Positive FUM1 PCR reaction was recorded in 35 out of 38 F. verticillioides and F. proliferatum isolates. The content of T-2 toxin produced by eight F. sporotrichioides isolates inoculated on autoclaved soybean, pea and barley grain ranged from 69.4 to 2595.5 g/kg. No significant differences were determined between T-2 toxin production on soybean and barley grain, nor on pea and barley grain.
41998049|Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), sequence analysis of PCR-amplified ribosomal DNA and chromosome size determination by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) were used to characterize phytoplasmas associated with diseases of wild and cultivated plants in southern Italy. The diseases examined were known, but not the identity of the pathogens, their incidence in southern Italy, or their genome sizes. The phytoplasma detected in Dimorphotheca sinuata (Cape marigold) was identified by RFLP analysis as a member of the pigeon pea witches'-broom (PPWB) group and proved to be indistinguishable from the picris echiodes yellows (PEY) reference strain. However, it differed from PEY in genome size. Phytoplasmas infecting Cape marigold have not previously been characterized. The phytoplasma detected in diseased Taraxacum officinale (dandelion) showed the same RFLP profiles as the picris echioides phyllody (PEP) reference strain of the Italian alfalfa witches'-broom (IAWB) group. Members of this group were not previously known to occur in dandelion. The phytoplasmas detected in diseased tobacco, pepper, celery and grapevine were indistinguishable, on the basis of rDNA profiles, from the stolbur phytoplasma strain (STOL). The phytoplasmas in diseased tobacco and pepper were characterized for the first time in Italy. Sequence analysis of the 16S rDNA confirmed that the knautia phyllody phytoplasma (KAP) is a member PPWB group and is closely related to PEY. Chromosome sizes from 785 to 1020 kb were found for the phytoplasmas associated with diseases of Cape marigold, French hydrangea, onion, field bindweed and tomato.
41999043|Xanthomonas citri subsp. citri (Xcc), which causes citrus canker, is a major pathogen of grapefruit and other canker-susceptible citrus species and cultivars grown in Florida and elsewhere. It is dispersed by rain splash, and wind promotes the dispersal of the pathogen. The aim of this study was to explore the relationships between wind speed and the number of bacteria dispersed downwind in rain splash at different heights and distances. Wind (up to 20 m sec) was generated using a fan, and rain simulated using sprayer nozzles. A negative exponential function described the relationship between height and the bacteria flux density (BFD, bacteria cm min), with a rapid decline in mean BFD of Xcc collected at greater heights (P = < 0.0001-0.3838, R = 0.56 -1.00). A power function described the relationship between distance and BFD of Xcc collected at most heights and wind speeds (P= 0.049 -< 0.0001, R = 0.78-1.00). A multiple regression analysis based on wind speed, height and distance suggested predictability of the proportion of the total BFD of Xcc collected downwind of the simulated wind-rain system (P= 49, P< 0.0001, R = 0.46). Crop management options to reduce sources of inoculum and the wind speed in orchards are discussed.
41998086|Jasmonic acid, in synergism with ethylene, seems to play key roles in activating multiple resistance in various host-parasite combinations. Utilising indirect ELISA and a monoclonal antibody, changes in jasmonic acid content were studied in bean-Uromyces phaseoli combination, both compatible and incompatible, at 0, 13, 20, 42, 62 and 92 h after inoculation, in three experiments. In the susceptible cultivar 'Bountiful', infection with U. phaseoli induced an early, slight, but statistically significant JA increase at 13 h after inoculation, but no further significant increase. In the hypersensitive cultivar 'Kentucky Wonder 765', after a slight but significant JA accumulation at 13 h, larger significant increases were detected at 42 h, and a peak at 62 h (673% of the control value), coincident with the appearance of the hypersensitive flecks; at 92 h accumulation was drastically reduced. Uredospores of the fungus contained only 0.95  0.11 SE ng of JA g d.w. and germinated uredospores 0.46  0.10 SE ng. The great JA increase detected in Kentucky Wonder 765, at the same time as appearance of the hypersensitive flecks, appear connected with a specific defensive response associated with the hypersensitive reaction.
41998647|A grapevine accession of cv. Mavro from Cyprus showing mild leafroll symptoms and containing closterovirus-like virus particles failed to react with commercial antisera to Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 1, -2, -3, -5 and -7. The virus, denoted GLRaV-Cyp1, was not mechanically transmissible to herbaceous hosts but was successfully transferred by chip-bud grafting and through Planococcus ficus to healthy rooted cutting of cv. Cabernet sauvignon in which it induced leafroll symptoms as mild as those seen in the mother vine. Three different fragments of the viral genome, corresponding to the heat shock protein 70 homologue (HSP70h), major coat protein (CP) and p23 genes were amplified using degenerate and specific primers, cloned and sequenced. In a comparative analysis, GLRaV-Cyp1 showed amino acid sequence identity never higher than 86% with the HSP70h and 70% with CP and p23 genes of other GLRaVs species and strains, with the exception of a GLRaV isolate from a Greek grapevine, with which it showed 94% identity. In phylogenetic trees constructed with sequences of HSP70h, CP and p23 genes, GLRaV-Cyp1 consistently grouped in a cluster comprising sequences of the "type strains" of GLRaV-4, -5, -6, and -9 and of several other viral isolates regarded as molecular variants of one or more of the above species. This supports the notion that GLRaV-Cyp1 may not be a new ampelovirus species. In a small-scale survey carried out by PCR on a collection of vines from ten Mediterranean countries, GLRaVCyp1 was detected in 5 out of 121 vines tested.
41998332|A total of 54 Xanthomonas strains belonging to X. fragariae and to X. arboricola pathovars fragariae and pruni were screened for their integron cassette arrays banding pattern and for their repetitive-sequence PCR genomic pattern. Species and pathovars showed cassette array patterns that clearly differentiated them. Variability in the cassette array pattern was observed solely within strains of X. a. pv. pruni. No correlation between the two cassette array patterns shown by the strains of this pathovar and host plant or genomic pattern inferred by repetitive PCR was observed. The two xanthomonads pathogenic to strawberry, X. fragariae and X. arboricola pv. fragariae, showed different integron cassette arrays. In addition to species, integrons might generate diversity also within some Xanthomonas pathovars.
23721521|Spot blotch (SB), caused by the fungus Cochliobolus sativus, is a common foliar disease of barley worldwide, but little is known about the host response to infection at the protein level. In this study, a systematic shotgun proteomics approach was chosen to document the early barley response to C. sativus infection. Overall, 28 protein spots were consistently observed as differential in the proteome profiles of the challenged and unchallenged plants. After tryptic digestion, MALDI-TOF/MS analysis and MASCOT database searching identified proteins associated with the defense response including resistance proteins, putative hydrolase, proteinase, kinase and general metabolism and transport proteins. These afford important functions in host resistance and pathogen's inhibition in plants. One of the identified products is a putative NBS-LRR protein which is considered one of the major plant disease resistance proteins identified to date. This work indicates that, in combination with functional genomics, response of barley to challenge by C. sativus involved the recruitment of proteins from various defense pathways.
41998784|Phenotypic and molecular diversity of 57 Phaeomoniella chlamydospora isolates obtained in 2001-2005 from diverse Spanish viticultural areas and scion/rootstock combinations was investigated. Reference isolates of this species were included in the analysis. For phenotypic characterization, mycelial growth rates at 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 and 35C, sporulation on potato dextrose agar (PDA) and production of the Phoma-like synanamorph on carnation leaf agar (CLA) were studied. Molecular characterization was performed using five Inter-Simple Sequence Repeat (ISSR) and 24 random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. Both phenotypic and molecular data showed strong homogeneity among all Spanish P. chlamydospora isolates, regardless of their geographical origin, year of isolation and scion/rootstock combination.
41997926|The economic impact of the bacterial blight of soybean caused by Pseudomonas syringae pv. glycinea has been investigated in three countries belonging to the European Union: Italy, France and Spain. Weather and growing conditions have been monitored over three years of field experiments (1992-1994) and the data analysed in order to evaluate possible yield losses and in view of the production of pathogen free seed. In Italy and France, using different cultivars and seed with a contamination level of 0.5-20% no significant yield losses were found. In Italy the initial seed contamination level was positively correlated with the contamination of the harvested seed by the pathogen; both in Italy and in France on some cultivars, it was possible to correlate seed contamination level with the epiphytic population of the pathogen and the intensity of symptoms affecting plants in the field. No epiphytic contamination by the pathogen was observed in Spain, even at the highest seed contamination rate (20%), and there was no disease in the field and no yield reduction. The pathogen seemed not to become systemic since no contamination was observed on seed aseptically taken in the field just before harvest. The experiments highlighted the low impact of soybean bacterial blight under European climatic conditions, but suggested the choice of dry and warm regions for the production of quality seed to prevent the accumulation of effective inoculum on the seed year by year. In tre Stati Membri dell'Unione Europea, Italia, Francia e Spagna,  stato valutato l'impatto economico dell'awizzimento batterico della soia causato da Pseudomonas syringae pv. glycinea. Nelle aree in cui erano stati approntati i campi sperimentali, durante il triennio 1992-94, sono stati monitorati i dati climatici, agronomici e colturali, utilizzati poi per valutare le perdite del prodotto provocate dalla malattia e verificare la possibilit di produrre seme esente dal patogeno. In Italia ed in Francia, usando cultivars differenti di soia il cui seme era stato sperimentalmente contaminato con livelli di contaminazione che andavano dallo 0,5 al 20%, non ci sono state perdite statisticamente significative di prodotto alla raccolta. In Italia, per, i differenti livelli di contaminazione del seme di partenza sono stati positivamente correlati alia contaminazione del seme raccolto. Per alcune variet coltivate in Italia ed in Francia  stata osservata anche una correlazione positiva tra contaminazione del seme di partenza, livello della popolazione epifita del patgeno durante la stagione vegetativa ed intensit dei sintomi sulle piante in campo. Nei campi sperimentali spagnoli non  mai stata rilevata alcuna contaminazione epifita, come pure non  mai stato osservato alcun sintomo della malattia o significative riduzioni del seme raccolto, anche quando il 20% del seme di partenza era stato sperimentalmente contaminato. Non ci sono state evidenze sperimentali che la malattia possa diventare sistemica poich nessuna contaminazione  mai stata rilevata nel seme prelevato asetticamente in campo prima della trebbiatura. La sperimentazione effettuata ha messo in luce il basso impatto agromomico dell'awizzimento batterico della soia in differenti aree europee, ma suggerisce la coltivazione di questa leguminosa in aree con clima caldo ed asciutto nel caso si voglia produrre seme di qualit.
41997878|The cytopathology of infections by the original isolate of pothos latent virus (PoLV-WT), an unclassified tombus-like virus, an infectious in vitro transcript of its RNA (PoLV-IF), and two RNA transcripts coding for non-encapsidation-competent coat proteins (PoLVBstB and PoLV-Nhe) was comparatively studied in Nicotiana benthamiana. In the early stages of infection all inocula induced the same ultrastructural alterations, consisting primarily of limited peripheral vesiculation of the nuclear envelope. This led to the formation of membranous vesicles with fibrillar content that accumulated in the perinuclear region and increased in number and size as infection progressed. In older infections the cytoplasm showed many membranous bodies lined with peripheral vesicles, some of which contained droplets of electron dense material resembling lipids. Virus particles were plentiful in PoLV-WT and PoLVIF infections, both in the cytoplasm and mitochondria. Cells infected by the two CP mutants contained granules of electron opaque material, possibly accumulations of coat protein. The cytopathology of PoLV infections differs widely from that of tombusviruses, adding strength to the notion that PoLV represents a new taxon in the family Tombusviridae.  stata studiata comparativamente in Nicotiana benthamiana la citopatologia delle infezioni indotte dall'isolato originale del virus latente del pothos (PoLV-WT), un agente tombusvirus-simile non classificato, da un trascritto in vitro infettivo del suo RNA (PoLV-IF), e da due trascritti che codificano una proteina virale mutata che non permette l'incapsidazione (PoLV-BsTB e PoLV-Nhe). Nei primi stadi d'infezione tutti gli inoculi hanno indotto le stesse alterazioni ultrastrutturali, consistenti soprattutto in una limitata vescicolazione perifrica della membrana nucleare con formazione di vescicole a contenuto fibrillare che si accumulano in posizione perinucleare. La vescicolazione si accentua e si estende nelle infezioni piu avnzate in cui si osserva la presenza di corpi d'inclusione citoplasmatici costituiti da una membrana perifrica bordata internamente da vescicole e talora conte -nenti all'interno accumuli di una sostanza opaca agli elettroni di probabile natura lipidica. Le particelle virali sono risultate abbondanti nel citoplasma e nei mitocondri delle celulle infette da PoLV-WT e PoLV-IF, ma non sono state mai osservate nelle infezioni da PoLVBsTB e PoLV-Nhe. In queste ultime, invece, sono present granuli di materiale scuro, possibili accumuli di proteina capsidica. La citopatologia delle infezioni di PoLV differisce notevolmente da quella dei tombusvirus, rafforzando l'ipotesi che PoLV sia il rappresentante di un nuovo taxon della famiglia Tombusviridae.
41997993|Three mechanically transmissible viruses recovered from grapevine (isolate YA200) and lemon (isolate L43) in Turkey and from sweet orange (isolate OR) in Italy, were identified as new strains in the subgroup IA of Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV). Particle morphology, electrophoretic pattern of viral nucleic acids, molecular hybridization with CMV-specific riboprobes, and reactions of experimental test plants, conformed to those of CMV. However, differences were observed in the cytopathology. Furthermore, unlike most CMV isolates, none of the strains under study induced the typical fern leaf symptom in tomato, and all systemically infected Chenopodium quinoa and Vigna unguiculata. In the latter, local infection by YA200 was characterized by very few necrotic lesions, whereas no local lesions were induced by L43 and OR. Partial sequencing of RNA-2 showed that amino acid changes occur in the gene coding for protein 2a of all three isolates, a condition that, as shown with other virus strains (CMV-B, CMV-L) seems to confer ability to infect V. unguiculata systemically. YA200, L43 and OR supported replication of a necrogenic satellite RNA, when added to the inoculum as a biologically active transcript. However, the expected necrotic phenotype was co-determined in 'Rutgers' tomato seedlings only by YA200. Unlike YA200, L43 and OR were destabilized by organic solvents used for purification and were thermosensitive, since symptom appearance in herbaceous hosts was strongly inhibited at temperatures above 25C. CMV has already been recorded from grapevine, but citrus (sweet orange and lemon) represents an addition to the already very wide natural host range of this virus.
41998551|Sixty five wheat cultivars grown in the United Kingdom were characterised for seedling stem rust and stripe rust resistance genes using Australian pathotypes of Puccinia graminis f.sp. tritici and Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici, respectively. The studies detected eight stem rust resistance genes (Sr5, Sr8a, Sr9g, Sr12, Sr30, Sr31, Sr36 and Sr38) and seven stripe rust resistance genes (Yr1, Yr6, Yr7, Yr9, Yr17, Yr27, YrHVII) either singly or in combinations, among which the linked genes Sr31 and Yr9 were the most common. The stem rust resistance genes identified have limited breeding value in Australia and world-wide because virulence for all occurs in many geographical areas. However, for stripe rust resistance, several cultivars represent potentially new sources of resistance. Resistance in these cultivars may be due to uncharacterised resistance gene(s) or gene combination(s) that could not be resolved with the array of pathotypes used. The information presented, when combined with previous characterisation of leaf rust resistance genes in these cultivars, is useful for plant breeders in rationalising germplasm enhancement programs.
41998971|Crown gall susceptibility of six peach rootstocks ('Barrier 1', 'G.F. 677', 'Mriana G.F. 8-1', 'Mr.S.2/5', 'Peach seedling' and 'P.S.') was assayed in field tests throughout four years and with many different strains of Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Plants were inoculated both in the roots and shoots; the plant responses of the two inoculation methods were highly correlated when bacterial suspensions of 10 cfu ml were used. Thus shoot inoculation may become a very useful tool when a large number of genotypes have to be screened for crown gall resistance. With the exception of 'Mr.S.2/5' all the rootstocks displayed a very high level of sensitivity to crown gall. 'Mr.S.2/5' rootstock plants proved nearly insensitive when root inoculated and showed some susceptibility, but much lower than 'G.F.677', when shoots were infected with 35 different strains of agrobacteria under inoculum conditions very favourable to the pathogens. La suscettibilit al tumore radicale di sei portinnesti di pesco ("Barrier 1", "G.F. 677", "Mariana G.F. 8-1", "Mr. S.2/5", "pesco franco" e "P.S.")  stata saggiata in tre anni di prove in campo e con diversi ceppi di agrobatteri. Le piante son state inoculate sulle radici e sui germogli alio stato erbaceo ed  stata evidenziata un'elevata correlazione negli esiti dei due tipi di inoculazione quando sono state utilizzate sospensioni batteriche di 10 cfu ml. Per questo motivo Finoculazione sulle parti aeree pu diventare una pratica molto utile se deve essere saggiato un gran numero di genotipi nell'ambito di programmi di miglioramento genetico. Con l'eccezione del "Mr. S.2/5" tutti i portinnesti si sono dimostrati molto suscettibili al tumore batterico. Le piante di "Mr. S.2/5", invece, sono risultate praticamente insensibili se inoculate all'apparato radicale e hanno mostrato una bassa sensibilit, rispetto a quella del "G.F. 677", quando i germogli sono stati infettati con 35 ceppi di agrobatteri in condizioni molto favorevoli ai patogeni.
24331954|Phytoplasmal diseases occur wherever peach (Prunus persica) trees are grown. However, the causal agents differ considerably in taxonomy, insect vector relationships and geographic locations. X-disease of peach is widespread in North America, but does not occur elsewhere in the world. X-disease is induced by 'Candidatus Phytoplasma pruni', a member of the X-disease phytoplasma group (16SrIII group, subgroup 16SrIII-A). Peach rosette, peach red suture, and peach yellows, which occur in eastern United States and Canada are all caused by the X-disease phytoplasma. Another North America disease, peach yellow leaf roll (PYLR) is present in a limited area of northern California. Its causal agent is classified in the apple proliferation (AP) group, 16SrX group, as a subtype of the pear decline phytoplasma. In Europe, phytoplasmal diseases of peach are reported under the name European stone fruit yellows and incited by 'Ca. P. prunorum', a member of the AP group, subgroup 16SrX-B. 'Ca. P. prunorum' is closely related to the PYLR agent. In Lebanon and Iran, peach trees are affected by almond witches' broom, a lethal disease incited by 'Ca. P. phoenicium', a member of the 16SrIX group, subgroup 16SrIX-B. Phytoplasmas of other phylogenetic groups, known to infect a wide range of plant hosts, have been identified in declining peach trees in several fruit-growing areas of the world. The pathological relevance of several 'non-peach' phytoplasmas requires further investigations as their presence was ascertained by nested PCR assays only.
41999009|Investigations were carried out firstly to determine if there were any differences in symptom expression following spot inoculation of the cotyledons, leaf lamina or the growth apex at different stages of plant growth and, secondly, to determine the specific reproductive stage during development of Brassica juncea at which the flowers have to be inoculated with Albugo candida to maximise development of pod hypertrophies. Spot and growing point inoculations performed at the cotyledonary or true leaf stages caused clear differences in disease progression and severity of disease occurring at subsequent stages of plant growth. In this test, inoculations of only the growing points at the true leaf stage [GS 2.1] resulted in systemic pod hypertrophies. However, among the different reproductive stages tested, only inoculations of flower buds just changing colour [GS 3.3] or just opening flowers [GS 4.1] resulted in pod hypertrophies. Earlier or later inoculations of flower buds or flowers failed to result in pod hypertrophies. These studies have defined, for the first time, the particular reproductive stages of plant development at which infection results in pod hypertrophies. They have also shown that, in relation to infections of shoot tissues, it is the inoculation of the growing point at the first true leaf stage that leads to systemic development of the disease, rather than inoculations of cotyledons or leaf laminae. The findings of this study indicate that fungicide applications, targeting these critical stages of early plant development, and the associated plant sites, and also flower buds changing colour and/or just opening, present the best opportunities for arresting infections that lead to systemic spread of the pathogen within the plant, thus minimizing the extent and severity of both leaf disease and pod deformations. These studies provide a basis for subsequent identification of the mechanisms controlling the systemic spread of A. candida within B. juncea. Once identified, such mechanisms could be exploited in developing and deploying new cultivars with improved resistance against both white rust leaf disease and pod hypertrophies.
41998435|Immunoblotting using a polyclonal antiserum to Plum pox virus (PPV) was used to detect PPV capsid protein (CP) in different parts of mechanically infected Nicotiana benthamiana plants from 1 to 21 days post inoculation (dpi). The velocity of viral spread in infected plants depended only slightly on the inoculum concentration. Roots and tops of the plants became infected 5-7 dpi. Systemic infection of non-inoculated leaves in the middle part of the plants was detected later (7-10 dpi), but infective viral RNA proved to be there 1 dpi. Comparing several isolates of PPV strains M, D and Rec, the fastest infection movement was detected for PPV-Rec, the slowest for PPV-D. Differences in the CP electrophoretic mobility among the strains M, D and Rec did not correspond to their amino acid sequences. Posttranslational CP glycosylation and phosphorylation was detected in six PPV isolates We presume the the nonamino acid compounds linked to the N termini are responsible for the electrophoretic pattern differences among the studied isolates.
41998185|The rare Microbotryum scolymi, a micromycete recently discovered in Greece, damages heavily the heads of Scolymus hispanicus, thus is regarded as a potential biological control agent for Scolymus thistles. Description, illustrations, synonyms, host plant range and geographical distribution of M. scolymi are given, together with a key to the Microbotryum species on Compositae.
41998850|Sharka disease caused by Plum pox virus (PPV) is widespread in a number of Spanish stone fruit-growing areas; only the common Dideron type (PPV-D) is prevalent. Systematic surveys of field and packing houses were conducted in 2002 for detection of the aggressive Marcus type (PPV-M). The focus of PPV-M was an infected cv. Royal Gem peach (Prunus prsica L.) orchard in Zaragoza province (Ebro Valley, Aragn). Over three years, the virus has spread from this orchard to distant plots by means of grafting of infected plant material and to neighbouring plots by aphid transmission. Serological and molecular analyses of symptomatic trees and fruits confirmed the presence of PPV-M in these plots and segregation of the initial viral population into three serogroups and seven different haplotypes as a consequence of host/individual change or vector transmission. Not only did peach cv. Royal Gem become infected, but also cvs Calante and Gladys, in 4 orchards with a total area of 19.5 ha. Spatial analysis of the spread of infection showed a compound contagion process with long-range (up to 150 meters) and short-range movements to adjacent trees in the same row. The main aphid vectors present in the area were Aphis spiraecola Pagenstecher, A. gossypii Glover and Myzus persicae Sulz.. Experimental aphid transmission assays showed that the introduced PPV-M isolate was more efficiently transmitted to other peach cultivars from GF305 peach seedlings, rather than to P. persica cv. Gladys young trees. All tree blocks infected with PPV-M were uprooted. Eight years later (2010) no more PPV-M has been detected in commercial Prunus orchards in the area suggesting successful eradication.
41998394|Potato spindle tuber viroid (PSTVd), a quarantine pathogen included in the EPPO A2 list was identified in plants of Solarium jasminoides and S. rantonnetii in Italy. Molecular characterization of four S. jasminoides and one S. rantonnetii PSTVd isolates showed limited sequence variability. A tissue-printing hybridization method for detecting PSTVd in ornamental Solanaceae was successfully tested and its potential for large scale surveys is discussed. This appears to be the first report of PSTVd in Italy and the first report of PSTVd naturally infecting S. rantonnetii.
41998955|Understanding the environmental fact ors and their impediments to commercialization of microbial biocontrol agents is an essential step for improving biocontrol efficiency. One of these impediments is the lack of liquid culture technology for cost-effective mass production of biocontrol agents and their insufficient longevity during storage. Pseudomonas fluorescens UTPF61 is a biocontrol agent against sclerotinia wilt of sunflower, an important disease caused by Sclerotinia sclerotiorum. This strain was originally isolated from rice rhizosphere and was selected out of 47 strains. In this work liquid culture assays were made to identify nitrogen sources that had a differential influence on the biocontrol activity of UTPF61. Rapid growth in flask was observed in media containing M1+peptone, M1+2-ammonium hydrogen phosphate, M1+ammonium sulfate and M1+urea+ammonium sulfate, respectively. Medium containing M1+urea or M1+ammonium phosphate had the best effect on the antagonistic efficiency. The best effect on plant growth was observed in treatments with M1+2-ammonium hydrogen phosphate under greenhouse conditions since, compared to the control, it significantly increased the length of roots and stems by 124.18% and 168.25%, respectively, as well as the wet weight (by 222.3%) and dry weight (by 246.15%) of the plants.
41998328|A rain simulator was developed to study the effects of rain on the biological and the epidemiological aspects (distribution, epiphytic survival) of Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato populations in the tomato canopy. Two different kinds of rain were simulated. Rain events, relative humidity, drip-irrigation and temperature were automatically controlled and monitored in a growth chamber. Simulated rainfall intensity varied with nozzle size, water pressure at the nozzle, and height of the nozzle above the plot surface. Spray nozzles formed drops of 1.6 mm or 2.7 mm in diameter. Rain was simulated on tomato plants already colonized by P. s. pv. tomato (plants with speck symptoms where bacteria were inoculated 5 days before the rain event) and on plants not colonized by the pathogen (inoculated 3 h before the rain event). After each rain simulation, the horizontal and vertical distribution and epiphytic survival of P. s. pv. tomato were observed, for two weeks. Drops 2.7 mm in diameter were more effective in distributing bacteria over short distances and drops 1.6 mm in diameter more effective in long-distance distribution. Higher rain intensity reduced epiphytic survival of P. s. pv. tomato when the host-pathogen relation was precarious (noncolonized tomato plants) but when the pathogen was already established (colonized plants), higher rain intensity increased bacterial growth.
41998772|Brassica napus cultivars resistant to Leptosphaeria maculans have been widely used to control the blackleg disease. The B. napus cv. Surpass 400, with major gene resistance derived from B. rapa ssp. sylvestris, was inoculated either with a virulent or an avirulent isolate of L. maculans, and changes in the cotyledon protein patterns were studied by proteomic analysis. The two dimensional (2D) protein gels indicated a plant response quantitatively and qualitatively different, when the compatible and the incompatible interactions were compared. Many differential spots were found in the B. napus proteome subjected to trypsin digestion and analysed by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. Peptide mass fingerprinting (PMF), together with data available in the literature, allowed the identification of many proteins involved in stress-related and antioxidant responses, CO fixation, nutrient metabolism, etc. The putative role of some of the identified factors in plant susceptibility or resistance to blackleg disease is discussed.
41997905|Nicotiana benthamiana plants were transformed with sequences derived from the 5'-terminal open reading frames (ORF 1 and 2) of the cymbidium ringspot tombusvirus (CymRSV). These sequences included the pre-readthrough region of the replicase or its N-terminal region, the readthrough domain, and the full-length replicase gene in which the stop codon of ORF 1 was abolished. Some lines transformed with the first two sequences showed complete resistance when challenged with CymRSV. Experiments using protoplasts from resistant lines showed that the resistance operates at the single cell level by abolishing viral replication. Lines resistant to CymRSV were susceptible to two other tombusviruses, artichoke mottled crinkle and carnation Italian ringspot. These data and the lack of correlation between transgene expression and resistance would suggest this to be a form of RNA-mediated resistance. Since resistant lines were only found among those transformed with sequences involved in the build-up of the virus replication complex, it is suggested that resistance may be due to the interference of these sequences with those of the infecting virus. Piante di Nicotiana benthamiana sono state trasformate con sequenze derivate dalle griglie di lettura 5'-terminali (ORF 1 e 2) del virus della maculatura anulare del Cymbidium (CymRSV). Queste sequenze sono le regioni "pre-readthrough" e "readthrough" della replicasi, la porzione N-terminale della regione "prereadthrough" e la replicasi intera in cui  stato soppresso il codone d'arresto dell'ORF 1. Alcune linee trasformate con la sequenza completa delPORF 1 o la sua parte N-terminale sono risultate resistenti all'infezione con CymRSV. Poich la resistenza  risultata operante anche in protoplasti, se ne conclude che essa  dovuta ad un meccanismo di inibizione della replicazione del genoma virale. Le linee resistenti a CymRSV sono risultate suscettibili a due altri tombusvirus, il virus dell'arricciamento maculato del carciofo (AMCV) e il virus italiano della maculatura anulare del garofano (CIRV). Questi dati insieme alla mancanza di correlazione tra espressione del transgene e resistenza suggeriscono che si tratti di una forma di resistenza mediata dall'RNA. Poich le linee resistenti si trovano solo fra quelle trasformate con le sequenze coinvolte nel complesso replicativo virale, si suggerisce che la resistenza sia dovuta all'interferenza di quest a sequenza con quelle del virus infettante.
41998639|Bacterial spot, caused by Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. vesicatoria, is one of the most important diseases of pepper in Turkey, where the disease has been epidemic in the last six years in the eastern Mediterranean region. The incidence and importance of natural infection in pepper seeds produced in the region was investigated in the present study. A total of 29 seed samples were tested by immunofluorescence assay using a commercial specific antibody, semi-selective isolation on medium Tween B, and a seedling screening tests, where plantlets were examined for typical spot symptoms on cotyledons 7-14 days after emergence. Pathogen populations were found to be in the range of 510-510 cells/g seed when using semi-selective medium Tween B. The diseased seeds as determined in the seedling screening ranged from 7 to 36%; these figures agreed with numbers found in the Tween B medium test. The strains isolated on Tween B were identified by PCR using primer designed on the hrp gene specific for Xanthomonas spp., and pathogenicity on pepper plants. Twenty-one out of 29 seed samples were found to be contaminated by Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. vesicatoria. On the basis of these findings, infested seeds must be seen as a major source of inoculum for this disease in the region
41998029|Dust accumulated on greenhouse roofs can be an important source of inoculum of Pythium spp. for the crops developing within. During the period March-May 1998, 20 greenhouses in the horticultural Poniente region of Almera (South-East Spain) were sampled monthly. Pythium isolates were cultured from the greenhouse dust. The density of the Pythium population was measured in the dust from 5 of these greenhouses, and the pathogenicity of 7 isolates was determined. Four species were identified and described: Pythium aphanidermatum, P. catenulatum, P. mamillatum and P. spinosum. This is the first report of P. spinosum for Spain. The mean total Pythium population densities ranged from 60 to 3450 propagules g (d. wt) of greenhouse dust. All the isolates tested were pathogenic. The most pathogenic were the P. aphanidermatum isolates.
41998695|Potato spindle tuber viroid (PSTVd), a quarantine plant pathogen in Europe, was detected in tomato plants in northern Italy. Infected plants, showing shortened internodes, deformed and necrotic leaves, and abnormal fruit maturation, were growing close to symptomless Solanum jasminoides plants also infected by PSTVd. Molecular characterization of field isolates, biological assays and sequence analyses support the likelihood of PSTVd transmission to tomato plants from the neighbouring infected S. jasminoides plants. These data provide the first evidence of the risk of PSTVd spread from symptomless ornamental Solanaceae to susceptible horticultural crops when prophylactic measures are not enforced, suggesting that occasional PSTVd outbreaks in tomato crops reported from several European countries in the last two decades could have a similar origin. This report appears also to be the first of PSTVd infections of tomato in Italy.
41998754|The bacterium Xylella fastidiosa, a xylem-inhabiting, vector-transmitted, Gram-negative, very slow growing bacterium, was cultured and properly described for the first time in 1987 in the USA as the cause of Pierce's disease (PD) of grapevine, Vitis vinifera (disease observed already in 1884) and as the cause of phony peach disease (PPD) in peach, Prunus persica (disease observed in 1890 in the USA) and in 1993 in Brazil as the cause of citrus variegated chlorosis (CVC) or citrus X disease. Moreover, it was found that the bacterium also causes a number of so-called leaf scorch diseases in Prunus spp. (including almond leaf scorch or ALS in Prunus amygdalus and plum leaf scald or PLS in Prunus domestica), Acer spp., Carya illinoinensis (pecan), Coffea arabica (CLC, in Brazil isolated in 1995 and also pathogenic to Citrus), Hedera helix, Morus rubra, Nerium oleander (OLS), Platanus occidentalis, Quercus spp., and Ulmus americana. It infects also Medicago sativa (alfalfa dwarf) and Vinca major (wilting symptoms). Many wild plants may carry the pathogen with, but more often without showing symptoms, such as grasses, sedges and trees. A list of main hosts is presented. All these diseases are not seed-borne and occur mainly in tropical/subtropical areas, although leaf scorch diseases also occur in much colder climate, e.g. oak leaf scorch in eastern North America up to Canada. Several pathogenic varieties of the bacterium have been described, that are often host-specific (e.g., the PD strain will not cause disease if introduced to peach or plum). The following subspecies have been described: (i) Xylella fastidiosa subsp. fastidiosa (erroneously named X. f. subsp. piercei), PD and LSA, strains from cultivated grape, alfalfa, almond, and maple; (ii) X. fastidiosa subsp. multiplex, PPD, PLS, strains from peach, elm, plum, pigeon grape, sycamore and almond; (iii) X. fastidiosa subsp. pauca, CVC, strains from citrus and probably those from coffee (CLC); (iv) X. fastidiosa subsp. sandyi, strains from Nerium oleander (OLS); (v) X. fastidiosa subsp. tashke, strains from the ornamental tree Chitalpa tashkentensis. Vectors are mainly sharpshooters and froghoppers or spittlebugs (Cicadellidae) that lack a latent period, and have no transstadial or transovarial transmission of the bacterium. The pathogen shows persistence in the vector adults, and ability to multiply in the foregut. In North America main vectors (for PD unless indicated) are Cuerna costalis (PPD), Draculacephala minerva (green sharpshooter) important also in ALS in California; Graphocephala atropunctata (blue-green sharpshooter), most important before the introduction of the glassy winged sharpshooter; G. versuta (PPD); Hordnia circellata, most efficient; Homalodisca vitripennis [formerly H. coagulata (glassy-winged sharpshooter or GWSS)]; H. insolita (PPD), Oncometopia nigricans, O. orbona (PPD), Xyphon fulgida [formerly Carneocephala fulgida (red-headed sharpshooter)]. CVC vectors in Brazil are Acrogonia terminalis, that lays eggs externally on leaves, Dilobopterus costalimai and Oncometopia fascialis. Local possible vectors for Europe are Cicadella viridis and Philaenus spumarius (meadow spittle bug). X. fastidiosa is an emerging threat in the south-west USA, mainly due to recent establishment of H. vitripennis, providing much more efficient transmission than local vectors, and leading to very serious outbreaks of PD in grapevine, ALS and OLS. GWSS probably first entered California as eggs in plants. The eggs are deposited into plant tissues. In Central and South America X. fastidiosa has become very noxious due to the rapid expansion (most likely via distribution of infected planting material) of CVC in Citrus, leading to more than a third of all trees in the area having symptoms of CVC, and CLC in coffee. For Europe there are until now only a few unconfirmed reports of the presence of X. fastidiosa in grapevine from Kosovo [erroneously mentioned as Slovenia in Janse (2006)] and in France, based on disease symptoms observation. Since X. fastidiosa has more that 150 hosts and many of them, including Vitis planting material, were and are imported, risk of introduction (especially in latent form) must not be underestimated. Absence of the diseases caused by X. fastidiosa will mainly be due to the absence of suitable vectors. However, introduction of the pathogen and vectors with plant material can not be excluded for certain. More over, also local Cicadellidae (see above) could become (potential) vectors. Therefore, X. fastidiosa has the A1 quarantine status in the EPPO region and H. vitripennis, that has a very large host range and also feeds on almond, peach and plum, was recently put on the EPPO alert list. As in the more northern parts of the USA, Vitis varieties in Europe are very susceptible to X. fastidiosa and this is really a risk should a vector that could survive the winters of southern Europe become established, also in wild hosts (e.g. wild and domestic plums and wild cherry are symptomless reservoirs in the USA) and cause spring infections that would most likely to persist over the years. The same risk holds true for Citrus (sweet oranges, mandarins, and tangerines) and other hosts, such as almond, plum and peach that are widely grown in south-east and south-west Europe, especially in the warmer Mediterranean basin (where a disease-favourable combination of warm nights, regular rainfall/high humidity and long growing season, is present). Possible ways to prevent introduction and to control eventual outbreaks are indicated. The conclusion is that X. fastidiosa is a real and emerging threat for Europe, not only for Vitis and Citrus but also for stone fruits (almond, peach and plum) and oleander (e.g. GWSS likes to feed on oleander), that is difficult to prevent from entering and difficult to control once established, deserving more attention than up till now. Resistance in European grapes is scarce or even absent. Vector control proved not to be very effective in the USA. Cultural practices to keep plants in optimum condition are of importance, but not sufficient and the use of avirulent strains for cross-protection is still in its infancy.
41998440|Plum pox virus (PPV) is considered as the most dangerous viral pathogen of stone fruits. Although PPV is widespread in Romania and causes serious yield losses, little is known about the variability of its isolates. To secure this information we investigated 43 PPV isolates collected from five different plum orchards in the North of Romania in the Bistrita plum-growing area. PPV strains were serologically tested by TAS-ELISA using PPV-D and PPV-M specific monoclonal antibodies. Molecular strain typing was done by IC-RT-PCR targeting three genomic regions corresponding to (Cter)CP, (Cter)NIb/(Nter)CP and CI. RFLP analysis was used to distinguish the two major strains, D and M based on a Rsal polymorphism located in (Cter)CP. All PCR products targeting (Cter)CP and 8 PCR products spanning the (Cter)NIb/(Nter)CP cistrons were sequenced. All PPV isolates typed as PPV-M by serological analysis and by molecular differentiation in the genomic region corresponding to (C-ter)CP were confirmed by nucleotide sequencing to be homologous to PPV recombinant (PPV-Rec) previously reported. All these recombinant isolates share the same recombination breakpoint and conserve the DAG motif, which is considered essential for aphid transmission. This genetic similarity confirms that PPV-Rec may represent an ancestral group with a common evolutionary origin. Overall results provided evidence for endemic distribution of PPV-Rec in plum trees grown in the North of Romania.
24579150|Fusarium verticillioides is a pathogen that can cause ear and stalk rot in maize. Under suitable environmental conditions, this fungus produces large amount of fumonisins, a potential carcinogenic to humans and animals classified as IARC2B. Recent studies have shown that pathogen and host exchange an oxylipin-based cross talk during their interaction. This study was aimed at investigating whether environmental conditions, namely water activity (aw) at 0.90 and 20C, which are the thresholds for F. verticillioides development, affect the maize/fungal oxylipin gene expression profile. Fungal Fvlds1-3, Fvlox, Zmlox3 and the maize defense-related ZmPR1 genes significantly changed their expression after infection at 0.90 aw and 20C. Moreover, the expression of maize genes peaked after that of fungal genes, indicating that, under these experimental conditions, plant and pathogen coordinate the oxylipin gene expression reciprocally. This kind of modulation of fungal and plant gene expression is suggestive of the "zig zag model" proposed for other plant-pathogen interaction systems.
41998693|Japanese plum trees showing symptoms of phytoplasma disease including little leaf, leaf rolling, rosetting, yellowing and shoot proliferation were observed in stone fruits growing areas in the central regions of Iran. DNA isolated from symptomatic and healthy plum trees was used to amplify 16S rDNA and 16S-23S rDNA intergenic spacer (IS) fragments by direct and nested PCR. Phytoplasmas were detected in symptomatic plum trees in the major stone fruit production areas in ChaharMahal-O-Bakhtiari, Isfahan and Tehran provinces in central Iran. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analyses of fragments amplified by nested PCR revealed that the plum phytoplama isolates were genetically different from each other. Sequence analyses of part of the 16S rRNA gene and IS region indicated that the phytoplasmas associated with plum diseases in these regions belong to peanut witches'-broom (16SrII) and stolbur (16SrXII) groups. This is the first report of the presence of phytoplasmas related to stolbur (Candidatus Phytoplasma solani) and peanut WB groups in Japanese plum trees in Iran.
41998957|Kiwifruit is a very important commercial crop in Italy, the most important producer of the fruit worldwide, followed by China and New Zealand. The relatively rapid expansion of the area given over to kiwifruit has resulted in the spread of various diseases including those developing post-harvest. Stored kiwifruit showing post-harvest symptoms of inner rot with disorganized, soft and lighter green tissues, known as stem end rot, were investigated. Phomopsis isolates recovered from symptomatic tissues were examined morphologically, by DNA sequencing and pathogenicity tests, but could not be identified at the species level. Nevertheless, as reported for Diaporthe actinidiae, they were able to induce a soft rot decay that was artificially reproduced only on wound-inoculated fruit. ITS sequences had 98 to 100% identity with Phomopsis spp. from grapevine (N6), Rosa sp., blueberry (P. vaccinii) and Norway spruce (Diaporthe conorum), but were clearly distinct from D. actinidiae. These results call for extreme caution in fruit handling, as they suggest that only wounded fruits are susceptible to infection by this Phomopsis sp.
41998330|Effects of the fungicide tebuconazole, applied as a leaf spray after inoculation of wheat leaves with stripe rust were examined by means of electron microscopy and immunogold labelling Tebuconazole strongly inhibited the development of Puccinia striiformis in host leaf tissues, and also markedly altered the structures of the hyphae and haustorium. These changes included increased vacuolation, irregular thickening of cell walls, necrosis or degeneration of cytoplasm, and collapse of the hypha and haustorium. Large differences were detected in P. striiformis-iniected wheat leaves treated with fungicide compared with the untreated control. A very thick layer of wall appositions and large encasements were usually formed in the infected fungicide-treated leaves whereas such structures were never observed in the infected wheat leaves without fungicide treatment. In addition, chitinase, -1,3-glucanase and lignin were detected in wheat leaf tissues by immunogold labelling. Accumulation of the two enzymes and lignin increased slightly in infected leaves compared with uninoculated healthy leaves, while a much higher accumulation of the two enzymes and lignin was detected in infected wheat leaves after fungicide treatment. Our results suggest that tebuconazole not only inhibited development of P. striiformis in wheat leaves, but also enhanced structural and biochemical host defense reactions in the infected host.
24332032|Asiatic citrus canker (ACC), caused by the bacterium Xanthomonas citri subsp. citri, is one of the most serious diseases affecting citrus worldwide. In areas under quarantine/eradication, such as So Paulo state (SPS), Brazil, the impact of ACC is related to the production costs for inspections and tree removal. Several protocols for eradication were adopted in SPS since the first detection of ACC in 1957. Among these, the one carried out from 1999 to 2009 was the most effective for maintaining the disease at a very low level throughout the state. That protocol mandated periodic inspections and removal of symptomatic and asymptomatic trees based on disease incidence in the block. After 2009 the eradication protocols were less stringent and ACC incidence continued to increase. This study aimed at identifying the key factors for the successful eradication of ACC in a farm located in SPS. Data on the outbreaks from 2006 to 2010 and the related control measures adopted were analysed. The farm remained under quarantine from July 2006 to March 2010. Twelve disease foci were detected from July 2006 to January 2008 and incidence of symptomatic tress ranged from 0.05% to 0.43%. The successful eradication of ACC in this farm is attributed to the relatively low number of diseased trees in all foci detected in the course of frequent and well-executed inspections. The results of this case study may be used to guide containment protocols in other citrus production areas of Brazil or countries where ACC is either absent or has a low incidence.
41998308|Citrus psorosis virus (CPsV) is the putative agent of psorosis, a widespread and economically important disease of citrus. This virus is erratically transmitted to herbaceous hosts in which it multiplies to low titer. It can be purified only with difficulty, which makes the production of antisera laborious. To overcome this impairment, the coat protein gene of an Italian virus isolate was cloned and sequenced. This sequence, which showed 97% identity at the amino acid level with a Florida isolate of CPsV, was expressed in Escherichia colt BL21 as a fusion protein with maltose binding protein. This recombinant protein was used as an antigen for immunization. The. resulting antiserum successfully and specifically recognized CPsV in Western blots, immunoelectron microscopy and different ELISA protocols, using diverse tissues from citrus accessions from different geographical areas.
41998356|A highly pathogenic strain of F. oxysporum f.sp. dianthi (Fod) has been transformed with genes coding for Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) and Red Fluorescent Protein (DsRedFP). Expression of GFP and DsRedFP resulted in bright green or red cytoplasmic fluorescence of mycelium when excited by fluorescent light. Stable transformants, selected on the basis of brightness and stability of fluorescence, were inoculated on roots of a partially resistant cultivar of carnation. Root and vessel colonization was evaluated, at regular times, by fluorescent microscopic observation of plant tissue sections. Autofluorescence of the carnation root was very high at the emission wavelength of the DsRed-Express, so that it was not possible to distinguish infecting hyphae within plant tissues. GFP-transformed Fod was easily visualized on and within root tissues. The fungus invaded the root tip and its growth seemed to proceed randomly in the sub-apical zone. The hyphae were confined within the vascular cylinder by the endodermal cells beginning from the zone of differentiation of vascular tissues, and were able to grow inside vessels.
41998504|This study deals with the potential of reducing Verticillium wilt in susceptible cacao using a fungal suspension compared to a commercial resistance inducer. Plants were sprayed with acibenzolar-S-methyl (ASM; Bion 50 WG (0.2 g I) and a heterogeneous chitosan suspension (MCp) from Crinipellis perniciosa mycelium. Plants were challenged five days later with a virulent isolate of Verticillium dahliae, under greenhouse conditions. A reduction of Verticillium wilt severity was observed in plants treated by the substances tested, with MCp reaching 80% of ASM protection performance. To evaluate local and systemic activation of defences, cacao leaves and hypocotyls exposed to ASM and MCp were assayed for peroxidase, polyphenol oxidase and lignin deposition. Local induction of resistance was confirmed by the increase of chitinase and -1,3-glucanase activities in the leaves, 4-18 days after spraying. Treated and inoculated plants showed, in the leaves and hypocotyls, increased lignin deposition, which is associated with the cacao defence strategy against Verticillium wilt.
41997885|Since the 9th International Virology Congress (Glasgow, 1993), plant viruses, like animal and bacterial viruses, are been classified in families, genera and species. Switching from the previous system, based on taxonomic groups that did not have the status of taxa, was primarily prompted by molecular studies which showed that, recombination and reassortment, two major mechanisms for genetic diversification by which species may arise, can also operate with RNA plant viruses. These new insights brought the Plant Virus Subcommittee of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) to reconsider the whole plant virus classification system, and to propose its incorporation within that used for other viruses. As a consequence, plant viruses are currently classified in 13 families comprising 41 genera, and 17 ungrouped 'floating' genera. One order has also been designated, to accomodate certain related families. The major properties of all these taxa, including those still under ICTV examination, are described together with their relevant epidemiological traits. A partire dal IX Congresso Internazionale di Virologia (Glasgow, 1993), i fitovirus, in analogia con quelli degli animali e dei batteri, sono classificati in famiglie, generi e specie. Il passaggio dal precedente sistema di classificazione basato sui gruppi tassonomici che non avevano dignit di taxa,  stato fortemente favorito dagli studi molecolari i quali hanno dimostrato l'esistenza di processi di ricombinazione e riassortimento genico nei fitovirus ad RNA i quali, unitamente alie mutazioni, rappresentano meccanismi di diversificazione genetica all'origine delle specie. Queste nuove acquisizioni hanno spinto il Comitato Internazione per la Tassonomia dei Virus (ICTV) a rivedere la classificazione dei virus delle piante e a proporre il suo allineamento alle classificazioni degli altri virus. Di conseguenza, i fitovirus sono oggi inseriti in un ordine, 13 famiglie, che comprendono 41 generi, e 17 generi non ancora raggruppati. Di tutti i taxa noti, inclusi quelli ancora sotto esame da parte dell'ICTV, si riportano le principali caratteristiche ed il comportamento epidemiologico.
41998626|Eutypa lata is the causal agent of a devastating disease affecting grapevines around the world. We have previously reported that the fungus secretes in its culture medium a variety of polypeptides, and we have developed serological method of detecting these. Rabbit antibodies raised against the polypeptide fraction, recognized secreted fungal proteins with high sensitivity (commonly 1 ng). These antibodies were specific since they cross-reacted with polypeptides secreted by various strains of Eutypa lata but not by other fungal pathogens involved in other wood decay diseases, namely esca (Phaeomoniella chlamydospora and Phaeoacremonium aleophilum) and black dead arm (Diplodia seriata and Neofusicoccum parvum). These results were obtained by ELISA assay and immunolocalization on ultrathin sections. The ability of the polypeptides to be transported in vines permitted development of a reliable dot-blot method of diagnosis rapid, easy to perform and not destructive for grapevines. Advantages and drawbacks of the method are discussed.
41998868|Microcyclus ulei, a fungus causing South American leaf blight of rubber tree, can only be isolated from asexual spores, which remain on a lesion just for a few days. This is a serious problem when wishing to study the diversity of the fungus on wild trees, which bear stromatic lesions almost exclusively on old leaves. The proposed technique can be used to isolate the fungus easily from sexual spores occurring in these stromata, even on leaves that are several months old.
41998460|Septoria leaf blotch, caused by Mycosphaerella graminicola, is one of the most devastating diseases of wheat worldwide. Forty two isolates of M. graminicola, collected from Tunisia, Algeria, and western Canada were characterized according to their virulence behavior and their molecular patterns. Virulence was assessed through the inoculation of four durum wheat and four bread wheat cultivars. Isolates were differentiated into eight pathotypes. Pathotype 1 and 2 were common to Algerian and Canadian isolates. Pathotype 7 was found in Tunisia and in Algeria. Pathotype 8 was specific to Tunisian isolates. Pathotypes 3, 4, 5 and 6 were found only in Algeria. The seven primer pairs used in amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis yielded a total of 194 polymorphic bands. Analysis of AFLP data revealed that genetic diversity within populations (Hs= 0.315) accounted for 87.5% of the total genetic diversity (HT= 0.360). The proportion of the total genetic diversity attributable to the population differentiation (GST) was 0.125, reflecting a moderate genetic differentiation between the three populations of M. graminicola. Tunisian and Canadian populations from the Old and the New World displayed almost equal levels of genetic diversity. Algerian population showed the highest genetic diversity possessing 5 private aleles which suggests that it could be a source population where diversity was maintained through cultivation of a broad spectrum of wheat cultivars. The hierarchical classification based on the AFLP analysis separated Tunisian and Canadian isolates whereas the Algerian isolates were distributed in all groups.
41998003|A total of 44 accessions of barley landraces from Morocco were screened for resistance to powdery mildew. Nineteen of the tested landraces showed resistance reactions and 45 lines were selected. Sixteen of these lines were tested at the seedling stage with 17, and another 29 lines with 23 differential isolates of powdery mildew respectively. Six lines (170-1-3, 172-3-2, 173-1-2, 181-3-5, 201-3-2, 201-3-3) were identified that have resistance to all the prevalent European powdery mildew virulence genes. It was postulated that 3 different resistance alleles (Mlat, Mla6, and Mla14) are present in the tested lines either alone or in combination. Among the tested lines 8 (18.0%) had one specific gene for resistance and 37 (82.0%) had a combination of different genes for resistance. Among specific resistance aleles the most common was Mlat whose presence was postulated in 20 (44.4%) of the tested lines. The distribution of reaction type indicated that about 79.0% of all reaction types observed were classified as powdery mildew resistance (scores 0, 1 and 2). The majority (65.0%) of resistance reaction types observed in the tested lines was intermediate reaction type 2. The use of new effective sources of resistance from Moroccan barley landraces for diversification of resistance genes for powdery mildew in barley cultivars is discussed.
24722550|Citrus yellow vein clearing virus (CYVCV), the putative causal agent of yellow vein clearing disease of citrus, is transmissible by grafting and is spread by aphids. However, whether CYVCV is seed-transmitted is not well documented. In this study, seed transmission of CYVCV was investigated in Daidai, Carrizo citrange and Rough lemon. CYVCV was detected in the endotesta, cotyledons and embryonic axis of seeds collected from the fruits of CYVCV-infected plants by qRT-PCR. Furthermore, the relative expression values of CYVCV were significantly higher in infected leaves than in the cotyledons or embryonic axis of seeds. Although viral RNA was found in few samples of radicles of germinating seed, none of the seedlings showed any symptoms for one year and were RT-PCR negative for CYVCV. The present study indicated that CYVCV could be localized in the seed tissues, but was not transmitted to the progeny. Absence of seed transmission may be consequent to the low CYVCV titre in embryo tissue.
23721746|Globe artichoke (Cynara scolymus) is a vegetable crop affected by many viruses causing significant economic losses. Virus detection and identification is important to farmers, plant pathologists and others involved in plant protection activities of quarantine and certification programs. To this aim, the potentiality of an oligonucleotide diagnostic array based on the Combimatrix platform for the detection and identification of 14 artichoke-infecting viruses was examined. More than 190 oligonucleotide virus probes (40-mer) were selected and used in the microarray diagnostic technique developed in this investigation. Most of the probes were highly specific for detection, identification and discrimination of target viruses. Further, for the first time the Combimatrix platform was applied directly to evaluate the sanitary status of artichoke samples collected during field surveys carried out in 6 different Italian regions. The repeatability, specificity and sensitivity of the oligonucleotide diagnostic array developed in this investigation demonstrated its applicability for routine diagnostic use in artichoke germplasm as it detected simultaneously 14 viruses in one single hybridization event.
41998587|Charcoal rot [Macrophomina phaseolina (Tassi) Goid.] causes significant yield losses to common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) in Mexico when drought and high temperature stress occur. In this work, in vitro reactions to M. phaseolina in the cotyledons of 100 F plants derived from the cross BAT 477 (resistant) x Pinto UI-114 (susceptible) and the parents were measured, and AFLP molecular markers associated with BAT 477 M. phaseolina resistance were found. The AFLP analysis consisted of selective amplification using 20 EcoRI + 3/MseI + 3 selective oligonucleotides. Charcoal rot resistance is controlled by two dominant genes with double recessive epistatic effects. AFLP analysis produced 294 polymorphic amplified products. Using the 130 least distorted loci a linkage map was produced that included eight LG where 30 loci were mapped. A possible quantitative trait locus (QTL) was found at linkage group 1 (LG1) showing logarithm of odds (LOD) = 5.11 (critical LOD for genomic amplitude level = 7.23 and critical LOD for chromosomal amplitude = 5.5 based on permutation tests). A permutation test for single markers by regression analysis produced a critical value F = 14.76. However, the locus with the highest F was ATA/AGT-19 (F = 9.329, P = 0.0029). In conclusion, BAT 477 resistance to charcoal rot was controlled by two dominant genes with double-recessive epistasis and one possible QTL at LG1 was detected in BAT 477. Better understanding of charcoal rot resistance will provide improved protection for common beans in the future.
41998165|Citrus tristeza virus (CTV) is one of the most dangerous pathogens for Citrus spp.. Early diagnosis is essential for containment of the disease and many diagnostic techniques have been developed. But these need skilled personnel and laboratory equipment, and it takes some days for results to be obtained. We applied the easy-touse technology known as Lateral Flow (LF) to detect CTV in orchard trees within few minutes of samples being taken. We compared LF results from leaf and fruit samples with those obtained by using ELISA and found a good correlation between these two techniques.
41998513|Ulmus L. and Zelkova Spach are two species of the family Ulmaceae occuring in Europe. Ulmus (elm) comprises about 45 species that show a range of susceptibilities to Elm Yellows (EY), the most widespread and serious phytoplasma disease for these hosts. Japanese elm (Zelkova spp.) is known for its resistance to a wide range of diseases and pests, although Zelkova Yellows (ZY) has recently been reported on Z. serrata. Since June 2006, we have carried out surveys to identify the causal agent of the decline of Ulmus spp. and Z. serrata in the Marche Region of Italy. Twenty-five leaf samples were collected from pre-bonsai and bonsai elms (U. parvifolia and Ulmus sp.), and Z. serrata, either symptomless or showing typical EY symptoms, and these were analysed by nested-PCR and RFLP based on the phytoplasma 16S rRNA gene. These analyses detected a single infection of 'Candidatus Phytoplasma ulmi' (16SrV-A) in all of the symptomatic leaf samples. Sequence analysis revealed 99% nucleotide homology with the EY reference strain EY-627 (Genbank accession no. AY197658). This appears to be the first report of 'Ca. Phytoplasma ulmi' associated with EY in Ulmus spp. and Z. serrata that have been trained as bonsais.
41998432|Plum pox virus (PPV) is increasingly endangering plum production in Croatia. This study aimed at determining the presence of this virus in autochthonous plum genotypes and at identifying plum trees of particular genotypes, not infected by it. To sort out the broad array of synonyms used in plum variety naming, the samples were submitted to genetic analysis, for defining their affiliation to a particular genotype (variety). In addition, the presence and frequency was assessed of Apple chlorotic leaf spot virus (ACLSV) and Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV) infections in autochthonous plum genotypes. In 2005, leaf and fruit samples from 54 trees were collected in seven Croatian counties, Osjecko-baranjska, Vukovarsko-srijemska, Pozesko-slavonska, Brodsko-posavska, Viroviticko-podravska, Sisacko-moslavacka and Lickosenjska. The variety Bistrica is cultivated in all seven areas while the other cultivars (Bela staroverska, Bijela rana, Bjelica jajara, Brdaklija, Cericanka, Crnica, Dabinka, Debeljara, Glodara, Kalaca, Kamenjara, Komocanka, Mandalenka, Miholjcanka, Pasjara, Pintara, Plavica, Ruzica, Sitna bijelica, Torgulja, Ilinjaca, Trnovaca and Valpovka) were found in particular locations of specific counties. Serological tests were used for establishing the presence of the three viruses. PPV was detected in four plum genotypes, three of which (cv. Glodara from Dolci, cv. Pasjara from Viljevo and cv. Bistrica from Podvrsko) contained the virus in both leaves and fruits, while cv. Glodara from Crkvari contained PPV only in the leaves. All the other plum genotypes tested were found to be PPV-free. PNRSV was detected in two genotypes. It was found both in the leaves and fruits of cv. Komocanka from Caglin, while only the leaves of cv. Debeljara from Batina were infected by this virus. None of the tested plum accessions was infected by ACLSV. Likewise, none of the three viruses was detected in 48 of 54 trees investigated.
23721752|A study was conducted to investigate the effect of fertilizers with different carbon/nitrogen ratios (no carbon, NC; low carbon/nitrogen ratio, LC; high carbon/nitrogen ratio, HC) on Pythium aphanidermatum and on radish damping-off. The ratio of carbon to nitrogen applied in the field was 29, 22 and 0 in 2007 and 22, 17 and 0 in 2008 for HC, LC (as cattle manure) and NC, respectively. Field experiments over two growing seasons provided evidence for the lowest mortalities due to Pythium-induced radish damping-off to be in soil amended with LC (P<0.05). Isolations from diseased plants yielded P. aphanidermatum. When radish seedlings were planted in autoclaved soil artificially infested with P. aphanidermatum, the highest mortalities were observed in soil amended with HC and NC, while the significantly lowest mortalities were in soil amended with LC. Change in the inoculum density of P. aphanidermatum over time was not significant between soils treated with NC, LC and HC (P>0.05), which may imply a lack of evidence for the effect of carbon/nitrogen ratio on reproduction in P. aphanidermatum.
41998679|Plasmopara viticola epidemics on grapevines are caused by both primary and secondary infections that overlap for part of the season. To date, this complexity has not been incorporated into models for grape downy mildew infection forecasting. A conceptual model was developed that links the quantitative aspects of both sexual and asexual stages of the P. viticola life cycle in a biologically coherent framework. Van der Plank's logistic equation was integrated with a time step of 1 day; the resulting rates of disease increase were calculated separately for primary and secondary infections, then linked together. Key model parameters included oospore density and development, infection efficiency for primary infections, ability of the lesions to reproduce asexually, infection efficiency for secondary infections, and carrying capacity of the host leaves. Model structural adequacy procedures (MSA) were used to estimate model parameters, and the model outputs were compared with real data not used in model development and parameterization. Data used for validation were taken from published studies of 23 vineyards, where lesions had been previously genetically analyzed and distinguished as primary (caused by singleton genotypes) and secondary (caused by clonal genotypes). The 23 vineyards had experienced epidemics characterised by a low to high level of clonality. The estimated model parameters were biologically plausible and consistent with previous knowledge, and the model accurately mimicked the variability of the 23 real epidemics. The model represents a coherent mathematical structure for developing a simulator for downy mildew epidemics in the vineyard.
41998631|The presence of Pseudomonas avellanae and the bacterial flora associated with different hazelnut organs, was monitored from 2004-2007 in two areas of the province of Viterbo (central Italy). Samples were randomly selected from three orchards affected by the disease known as 'Moria' (dieback): symptomatic twigs or branches (2004-2005 and 2007), symptomless suckers (2004-2006), leaves and pollen (2006-2007). The presence of P. avellanae was examined by PCR assay (PCR WA/WC) and also checked by isolation, enabling us to verify the reliability of the PCR. The incidence of P. avellanae in symptomatic samples ranged from 9 to 38% in the areas monitored. P. avellanae was found in up to 3% of symptomless suckers whereas pollen and leaves all tested negative. PCR WA/WC proved to be more reliable than isolation for the detection of P. avellanae. The association of bacteria with different hazelnut organs was assessed by isolation followed by 16S rDNA sequencing. The recovered isolates were closely related to bacteria mainly associated with the environment, with the exceptions of Brenneria quercina and Pseudomonas syringae. B. quercina was rarely recovered, and only from leaf surfaces. On the other hand, P. syringae pv. syringae was frequently isolated from buds, bark tissue and leaves. A preliminary characterization of this P. syringae population by rep-PCR is reported.
41998360|Powdery mildew (Podosphaera aphanis) causes severe losses in strawberry crops. The two aims of this study were to evaluate the efficacy of powdery mildew control agents and compare two geographically distinct populations of the pathogen (from northern Italy and Israel). Germination and germ tube elongation of P. aphanis conidia were tested in the presence of several control agents using both leaf and glass slide bioassays. The leaf bioassay was found to be more suitable for comparing the efficacy of control agents. Agents found effective were used to compare the relative sensitivities of samples from the Italian and Israeli populations. Various chemical agents, including those containing sulphur, strobilurin and triazole fungicides, were more effective than salts and biocontrol agents on both populations. The Italian and Israeli P. aphanis populations were found to be similar in sensitivity to all the agents. Similarly, DNA analyses showed that the Israeli and Italian samples were nearly identical (100-99% similar) based on sequence analyses of a 359 bp fragment of the ITS 1-2 region and 6 random fragments totalling 2800 bp. ITS sequence analysis of an isolate of the synonymous species Sphaerotheca aphanis from strawberry was 100% identical to P. aphanis, compared to 97, 85 and 67% for S. pannosa, S. fuliginea and Leveillula taurica, respectively.
24332215|Durum wheat (Triticum turgidum var. durum) is an important crop in the Mediterranean basin, and in southern Spain. One of the most important biotic constraints to durum wheat production is leaf rust. Breeder deployed resistant cultivars, but mutations in the pathogen create new virulent pathotypes that erode resistance. In this work, two collections of genotypes have been characterized for their leaf rust resistance both in field trials (in Spain and Mexico) and in the greenhouse (with an array of Spanish pathotypes). The first collection included 14 cultivars and lines, mostly from CIMMYT origin, plus six genotypes with known resistance genes. The second collection comprised 29 cultivars commercially available in Spain, plus 11 landraces from the Spanish germplasm bank. Besides, six resistant cultivars of particular importance were crossed with two cultivars with known effective genes (Lr14a and Lr27 + Lr31), and a susceptible one to infer the genetic basis of their resistance. F populations were analyzed. At adult plant stage, 20 genotypes including four landraces were resistant in greenhouse to all Spanish pathotypes. In field trials, 24 genotypes were resistant in Spain, and 22 genotypes in Mexico. The presence of resistant genes Lr14a and the complementary genes Lr27+Lr31 has been deduced in some cultivars either by gene postulation or by genetic analysis. These results provide an opportunity for breeding programs in Spain and elsewhere to target their crossing and selection activities so they can yield lines with effective resistance in the Mediterranean region.
41998811|Tilletia indica Mitra, the cause of Karnal bunt of wheat, is an important quarantine disease around the world. The Humid Thermal Index (HTI) model, and the bioclimate zoning map of wheat in China are based on critical values of key climatic factors during the susceptible period (heading and anthesis of wheat). We have calculated improvements to the HTI value for both early and late sown wheat varieties, with 21 days as a cycle (heading and anthesis period) and 1 day as a slip statistical unit. A GeoPhytopathology Model (GPMTI) for T. indica was built using a Microsoft Access Database, Map-Info MapX and Visual Basic, and was used to predict the potential geographic distribution areas of T. indica using climate data collected in the past 30 years from 670 meteorological stations. The results showed that the pathogen could establish itself in 60% of sites in China (nearly 4,580,000 km), and this region can be divided into four areas: safe areas (HTI value for all periods unsuitable for disease development), low risk areas (HTI value for less than one-third of the periods suitable for disease development), risk areas (HTI value for between one-third and two-thirds of the periods suitable for disease development) and high risk areas (HTI value for more than two-thirds of the periods suitable for disease development). The risk areas and high risk areas were about 3,210,000 km.
41998817|Xylella fastidiosa (Xf) produces extracellular DNA in PD3 liquid medium. This extracellular DNA could enhance biofilm formation, a factor in successful establishment of Xf in planta. The relative amounts of extracellular DNA were positively correlated with planktonic growth and biofilm formation in vitro, but were negatively correlated with cell viability. DNase I treatment of actively growing Xf cultures in PD3 medium decreased or inhibited biofilm formation. In contrast, addition of Xf genomic DNA promoted biofilm formation. These results suggest that biogenesis of extracellular DNA may play a role for Xf biofilm formation and could be a critical step in establishment of host-bacterium interaction.
41998459|The aim of this paper was to further investigate some molecular features of Pseudomonas syringae pv. coryli, the causal agent of hazelnut bacterial twig dieback, and to assess its genetic relationship with some other phytopathogenic pseudomonads of various genomospecies (sensu Gardan et al, 1999). The characterization was done by cloning and sequencing some key genes utilized in taxonomical studies and/or in plant-pathogen interaction such as 16S rDNA, hrpL, as well as the effector genes of the pathogenicity island and the phaseolotoxin tox gene cluster of Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola. Analysis of hrpL and 16S rDNA genes with Mega 3.1 software and the neighbor-joining clustering algorithm showed a relationship of P. syringae pv. coryli with pseudomonads of genomospecies 1, suggesting its inclusion into this group. Investigation of effector and phaseolotoxin genes showed the inconsistent presence of these genes in some P. syringae pv. coryli strains. Neither the effectors nor the PCR product related to the tox gene cluster of P. syringae pv. phaseolicola were amplified from the majority of the strains. However, one strain showed the presence of a homologous of avrPphD, and another contained either this effector (avrPphD) or the 1.9 kb fragment of the phaseolotoxin tox gene cluster.
41998517|This paper reports the complete nucleotide sequence of the genome of Maize white line mosaic virus (MWLMV) and describes the ultrastructural features of infected maize cells. The viral genome is an RNA molecule 4293 nt in size with the same structural organization of members of the Aureusvirus and Tombusvirus genera. It comprises five ORFs flanked by non-coding regions at the 5' (40 nts) and 3' (225 nts) ends which encode, in the 5'-3' direction, proteins with predicted Mr of 30,009 (prereadthrough), 89,140 (readthrough, replication-associated proteins), 35,080 (coat protein), 24,644 (movement protein), and 15,155 (silencing suppressor). Some of ultrastructural features of MWLMV-infected cells, e.g. lobate nuclei, localization of virus particles in tonoplast evaginations bulging into the vacuoles, plentiful occurence of virions and of aggregates of virus coat protein in the cytosol, intramitochondrial patches of electron-dense material, tallied with those reported for a number of members of the family Tombusviridae. However, differences were observed with the cytopathology of the aureusvirus Johnsongrass chlorotic streak mosaic virus (JCSMV) which is the viral species more closely related to MWLMV from the molecular point of view. MWLMV was serologically unrelated to JCSMV, Pothos htent virus (PoLV), the type species of the Aureusvirus genus, and Maize necrotic streak virus (MNeSV), another maize pathogen with similar biological properties, belonging in the family Tombusviridae. In a phylogenetic tree constructed with whole genome sequences, MWLMV clustered with all members of the genus Aureusvirus. Thus, properties and phylogenetic relationships place MWLMV in the genus Aureusvirus. However, molecular differences with all sequenced species of this genus, the lack of serological relationship with PoLV and JCSMV, and the different cytopathology elicited in infected tissues, suggest that MWLMV be regarded as a separate species.
41998065|The identification of red chicory plants infected by Verticillium dahliae at the moment of transplant for seed production is needed since at this time some infected plants could be symptomless. Since the usual plating method is time-consuming and not always reliable, a PCR-based method was evaluated, using oligonucleotide primers described as specific for this pathogen. The experiments allowed to obtain the optimal amplification profile and to verify the good specificity of the primers VMSP1/VMSP2 that, with DNA extracted from Verticillium-infected taproot tissues, amplify a specific fragment of 140 bp.
41998205|A filamentous virus was isolated by mechanical sap transmission from GF 305 seedlings showing asteroid ringspots to Nicotiana occidentalis. The GF 305 seedlings were graft-inoculated with buds from an apricot tree cv Mistikawi, from Palestine. The electrophoretic dsRNA pattern from symptomatic GF 305 and N. occidentalis showed a major band of about 9.5 kbp. Bundles of elongated virus-like particles were present in the cytoplasm of infected N. occidentalis. Dissociated coat protein from partially purified virus preparations consisted of a single subunit with an estimated Mr of ca. 50 kDa. RT-PCR using primers specific for Apricot latent virus (ApLV) RNA amplified a DNA product of about 200 bp from infected GF 305 and N. occidentalis plants. Sequence analysis of this fragment showed 90-93% identity in the encoded amino acid sequence with corresponding sequences from different ApLV isolates. This is the first record of ApLV from the southern Mediterranean. An ApLV-specific digoxygenin-labelled riboprobe was produced and used for molecular hybridisation tests. A survey of apricot orchards in Southern Italy did not show the presence of ApLV.
41997976|Seventeen representative genotypes of Ascochyta rabiei in the Beja region were analyzed for virulence variation. Virulence characterization was based on rating Ascochyta blight disease on eight differential cultivars using the Riahi et al (1990) scale. Cluster analysis of the virulence revealed five highly virulent phenotypes because at least six of the differential lines were severely infected. Virulence cluster analysis was compared to phylogenetic grouping as determined by Morjane et al. (1997) using RFLP assay with microsatellite probes. The correlation coefficient between the virulence and RFLP similarity matrices was low (0.02). This low association indicates that DNA polymorphism is independent of virulence because of virulence instability in Tunisia probably due to the utilization of non resistant cultivars and the occurrence of sexual reproduction between the isolates.
41997899|Grapevine leaf roll-associated virus 2 (GLRaV-2) was purified from Nicotiana benthamiana. The molecular mass of viral coat protein subunits determined by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was ca 21.5 kDa. Double-stranded RNA was isolated from infected N. benthamiana and used for cloning and sequencing. Molecular probes and primers generated during cloning were successfully used for virus detection in infected grapevines by dot spot hybridization and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. The sequence of the 3'-terminal 8590 nucleotides of the viral genome was determined, encompassing eight open reading frames (ORFs). The first ORF consisted of two parts, ORF la, which was incompletetely sequenced and contained the conserved domains of virus helicases in its RNA polymerase) is apparently expressed via a +1 ribosomal frameshift. The ORFs that followed in the 5'-3' direction, encoded proteins of 6 kDa (ORF2); 65 kDa (ORF3), identified as a homologue of cell heat shock proteins; 63 kDa (ORF4); 25 kDa (ORE5), identified as a diverged copy of the coat protein (CP); 22 kDa (ORF6) identified as the CP; 19 kDa (ORF7) and 24 kDa (ORF8). The structural organization of the genome was virtually identical to that of beet yellows virus , the type species of the genus Closterovirus, and also resembled that of citrus tristeza virus. This similarity was confirmed by comparative analysis of phylogenetically relevant proteins. GLRaV-2 has morphological, physicochemical, ultrastructural, and molecular properties that qualify it as a species in the genus Closterovirus. Su preparad del virus 2 associato all'accartocciamento fogliare dlia vite (GLRaV-2) purificati da Nicotiana benthamiana,  stato determinato il peso molecolare della proteina capsidica che  risultato di ca 21.500 daltons. Il clonaggio e sequenziamento dell'RNA genomico virale  stato effettuato da dsRNA estratto da piante infette di N. benthamiana. Sonde molecolari ed inneschi ottenuti durante il clonaggio sono stati usati con successo per l'identificazione di GLRaV-2 in vite mediante ibridazione su membrana e amplificazione genica (PCR). Un tratto di 8590 ncleotidi nella porzione terminale del genoma virale e'stato sequenziato, identificando otto griglie di lettura (ORF). La ORF 1  costituita da due parti, di cui la prima (ORFla)  stata sequenziata solo nella zona virali. La seconda parte della ORF1 (ORFlb) codifica la polimerasi virale (RdRp), che viene espressa attraverso un meccanismo di "frameshift" ribosomale +1. Le sette ORF che seguono codificano rispettivamente protine di: 6 kDa (ORF2); 65 kDa (ORF3) identificata corne un omologo delle protine cellulari da shock trmico; 63 kDa (ORF4); 25 kDa (ORF5), identificata corne duplicato della proteina capsidica; 22 kDa (ORF6), identificata corne proteina capsidica; 19 kDa (ORF7) e 24 kDa (ORF8). L'organizzazione genomica di GLRaV-2  praticamente idntica a quella del closterovirus del giallume della barbabietola (BYV) ed  simile a quella del closterovirus della tristezza degli agrumi (CTV). La similitudine  stata confermata dalPanalisi comparativa delle protine filogeneticamente rilevanti. Perianto, GLRaV-2 possiede caratteristiche morfologiche, fisico-chimiche, ultrastrutturali e molecolari che lo qualificano come specie definitiva del genere Closterovirus.
41998573|Chestnut blight caused by the fungus Cryphonectria parasitica is one of the most important mortality factors of sweet chestnut (Castanea sativa) in Portugal. The disease is widespread in all the regions where chestnut is a major component of the landscape. The factors involved in the spread and incidence of the disease were studied in Trs-os-Montes e Alto Douro, one of the most important chestnut areas of northeastern Portugal. Selected variables were altitude, soil type, diameter at breast height (dbh), location and orientation of cankers in the tree. The incidence of the disease in the study area was estimated to be 40%, ranging from 2% to 100%. The highest proportion of cankers was found on trees with a dbh greater than 30 cm but most frequently on the 31-40 cm diameter class. This relationship could be a consequence of the more intensive management to which those trees have been submitted. Although at the tree level a higher proportion of cankers was found on the south-facing side of the trunks and branches, no significant relationship between canker incidence and grove site exposition was detect. As well, no other factors analyzed were also directly correlated with the incidence and frequency of the disease in the study area.
41998515|Commercial vineyards in the Czech Republic were surveyed for the presence of sixteen different viruses, testing phloem scrapings from dormant one-year-old shoots by ELISA. Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 1, Grapevine fleck virus and Grapevine virus A were found to be the prevailing viruses, with an incidence ranging from 14 to 25%.
41998519|One-hundred and forty-one strains of Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris (Xcc), the causal agent of vascular blackening of crucifers were isolated from different crucifer plants in central and southern Italian regions and characterized for DNA polymorphism by PCR, using primers based on repetitive sequences. By M13-PCR, all strains, except for two, were distributed in three main clusters: , with similarity index (SI) 0.78, containing 70 strains grouped in 19 haplotypes;  (SI = 0.80) containing 54 strains in 17 haplotypes;  (SI = 0.75) containing 15 strains in 6 haplotypes. By BOX-PCR, all strains were distributed in three main clusters:  (SI = 0.58) containing 102 strains distributed in 9 haplotypes;  (SI = 0.45), including 24 strains distributed in 9 haplotypes;  (SI = 0.37), including 15 strains distributed in 3 haplotypes. A very large variability was observed in these Italian populations of Xcc especially using M13-PCR. No obvious relationships were observed between the strains comprised in each cluster, sub-cluster or haplotype and their geographic origin or host plant.
41998591|Sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L. ssp. vulgaris) hosts the soil-borne viruses Beet necrotic yellow vein virus (BNYVV), Beet soil-borne virus (BSBV), Beet soil-borne mosaic virus (BSBMV) and Beet virus Q (BVQ). Only a few isolates of these viruses have been characterized at the coat protein (CP) gene level. In this work, CP gene sequences were determined of three isolates each of BNYW, BSBV and BVQ from different parts of Poland (Wielkopolska, Mazowsze and Dolny Slask). Phylogenetic analysis showed that Polish BNYW isolates belong to the A and B type groups. The CP gene of the three BSBV isolates had 98-100% identity with comparable sequences available in GenBank. CP genes of the three BVQ isolates were almost identical to one another (98-99%) and contained three additional nucleotides, resulting in a further amino acid residue (arginine) at position 86, as reported by Lennefors et al. (2005).
41998457|Rapeseed, one of the most important oilseeds worldwide, suffers from Sclerotinia stem rot. Glucosinolates are important because their hydrolysates are physiological functional to plant growth and development and are poisonous to livestock. However, previous reports only emphasized predominant glucosinolates and ignored trace glucosinolates. In our study a double haploid oilseed rape population was produced to study its interactions with two isolates of Sclerotinia sclerotiorum. Eleven glucosinolates were identified and evaluated for their roles in plant-parasite interactions. It was found that the 2-hydroxy-4-pentenyl glucosinolate induced susceptibility to one fungal isolate, whereas the 1-methoxy-3-indole-methyl glucosinolate induced resistance to the other. In contrast with previous reports, total glucosinolate was not correlated with Sclerotinia resistance. On the other hand, partial correlation was used to understand the association of the biosynthesis between different glucosinolates. The association between seed glucosinolate content and Sclerotinia resistance as well as the association between different biosynthesizing pathways of different glucosinolates is discussed.
41997973|Classical plant breeding has produced many improvements to crop cultivars, including disease resistance. It is a dynamic process in which the objective is usually the improvement of many characters simultaneously, including disease resistance. Some introduced resistances failed rather soon after its introduction, because of evolution to virulence in the pathogens; others did not fail in this way and remained effective despite widespread and prolonged use, thus being identifiable as providing durable disease resistance. Examples of durable resistance achieved by classical breeding are given, and show that there is no single genetic model for durable resistance and also, no typical phenotype by which to identify it. It is the durability that initially allows the identification of it. Disease resulting from introduction of genetic male sterility in maize is described and used to illustrate risk in the use of widespread genetically uniform material. Such risk will be associated with disease resistance introduced by biotechnology just as much as it has been by classical plant breeding. Resistance introduced by biotechnology will only be shown to be durable after widespread and prolonged testing.
41997909|Several Fusarium species occurring worldwide on cereals as causal agents of 'head blight' (scab) of small grain cereals and 'ear rot' of maize, are capable of accumulating, in infected kernels, several mycotoxins some of which of notable impact to human and animal health. The main groups of Eusarium toxins commonly recognized in grains are: trichothecenes, including T-2 toxin (T2), diacetoxyscirpenol (DAS), deoxynivalenol (DON), fusarenone X (FUS), and nivalenol (NIV); zearalenones, essentially zearalenone (ZEN); and fumonisins, in particular fumonisin B (FB). In addition, moniliformin (MON), beauvericin (BEA), and fusaproliferin (FUP) were also found in Eusarium infected cereal ears, important as problems due to them are coming to light. The most frequently encountered mycotoxins in ear blight of wheat and other small grain cereals in Europe, proved to be DON and ZEN, produced by E. graminearum and E. culmorum, occurring from southern (warm) to northern (cold) European areas, respectively. In association with DON, NIV and FUS were found formed, in all climes by F. graminearum, E. crookwellense, F. culmorum and, in Nordic areas, also by F. poae. Moreover, in central to northeastern European countries, MON produced by F. avenaceum, and T-2 and DAS produced by F. sporotrichioides and F. poae, were found respectively. In maize red ear rot affected by F. graminearum ZEN, DON, NIV and FUS were found. In addition, the presence of F. avenaceum and F. subglutinans usually led to the accumulation of MON. Moreover, NIV and FUS were found associated with F. crookwellense, and DAS and T-2 with F. poae and F. sporotrichioides. In maize pink and random kernel rot caused by F. moniliforme, there is increasing evidence of the occurrence of FB, especially in southern European areas where the same fusariosis was reinforced by the wide occurrence of F. proliferatum capable of producing FB, MON, BEA and FUP. Di verse specie di Fusarium agenti di fusariosi dei cereali e in particolare di "scabbia" del frumento e di "marciume della spiga" del mais, sono capaci di formare nelle spighe infette numerse micotossine alcune delle quali di notevole imparto sulla salute umana ed animale. I composti di maggiore importanza fanno parte dei seguenti gruppi principali: tricoteceni, comprenden ti tossina T-2 (T2), diacetossiscirpenolo (DAS), deossinivalenolo (DON), fusarenone-X (FUS) e nivalenolo (NIV); zearalenoni, con lo zearalenone (ZEN); e, fumonisine, con la fumonisina B (FB). Tra le altre micotossine ritrovate nelle spighe infette meritano di essere ricordate per le relative problematiche emergenti: moniliformina (MON), beauvericina (BEA) e fusaproliferina (FUP). Tra le micotossine che pi frequentemente sono state trvate nelle spighe di frumento e di altri cereali affetti da "scabbia" vi sono essenzialmente DON e ZEN, formati da F. graminearum e da F. culmorum che nell'ordine, si succedono in maniera predominante, dalle aree europee meridionali a quelle settentrionali. Assieme a DON, sono stati spesso trovati NIV e FUS formati un po' ovunque come conseguenza degli attacchi di E. graminearum, di F. crookwellense e di F. culmorum e, nelle aree pi settentronali, di quelli pi rilevanti di F. poae. Inoltre, nelle aree europee centrali e nord-orientali sono stati trovati, spesso assieme con DON e ZEN, anche MON in seguito ad attacchi ricorrenti di F. avenaceum, nonch T2 e DAS in relazione ad attacchi sporadici rispettivamente di F. sporotrichioides e di F. poae. Nelle spighe di mais affette da "marciume rosso-vinoso", pi ricorrente nelle aree centro-settentrionali e causato prevalentemente da F. graminearum e in minor misura da F. culmorum, sono stati frequentemente trovati DON, NIV, FUS e ZEN. Nelle stesse spighe, maggiori concentrazioni di NIV e FUS sono state trvate in concomitanza di attacchi di F. crookwellense, cosi come sono stati spesso trovati anche MON, T2 e DAS in conseguenza di attacchi rispettivamente di F. avenaceum, e di F. sporotrichioides e F. poae. Invece, nelle spighe di mais affette da "marciume rosato", pi ricorrente nelle aree europee centro-meridionali e causato essenzialmente da F. moniliforme,  stata trovata FB. Concentrazioni pi elevate di FB sono state trvate in alcune aree europee pi meridionali, dove a F. moniliforme si associa F. proliferation, produttore oltre che di FB. anche di MON, BEA e FUP. Nelle aree centro-settentrionali dove F. proliferatum viene sostituito da F. subglutinans, nelle spighe affette da "marciume rosato" sono stati trovati MON e BEA.
24722476|Grapevine leafroll is one of the most important viral disease affecting grapevines the world over. One of the viruses associated with this disease is Grapevine leafroll associated virus 2 (GLRaV-2), which has two remarkable properties: high genetic variability (up to date at least 6 different lineages have been reported) and the unique ability among leafroll-associated viral species to be transmitted by sap inoculation to herbaceous hosts, specifically to Nicotiana spp. The presence of this virus in Mendoza (Argentina), has been previously reported but no information is available relative to the genetic variability of GLRaV-2 isolates and their biological behavior. The molecular characterization of the CP-p19-p24 genes of the local isolates disclosed that they belong to four of the six described GLRaV-2 lineages. Using at least one isolate of each lineage, mechanical transmission to herbaceous host of the Nicotiana genus were made. Results showed a differential behavior in some combinations isolate/Nicotiana spp. and an incompatible interaction between GLRaV-2 and two new experimental hosts, N. rustica and N. tabacum cv. Samsun and White Burley.
41998832|Orosius albicinctus leafhoppers were collected from herbaceous wild plant, potato, alfalfa and sesame fields in Jiroft and Shahdad (Kerman province, Iran) and caged on periwinkle plants. Two plants developed typical phytoplasma disease symptoms including phyllody and virescence. Total DNA was extracted from the symptomatic plants and tested for the presence of phytoplasma DNA by polymerase chain reaction using primers P1/P7 (for amplification of 16S rDNA) and primers P3/P7 (for amplification of the 16S-23S ribosomal spacer region). According to the congruent results of restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of 16S rDNA, nucleotide sequencing, and phylogenetic analysis of the spacer region, the phytoplasma infecting periwinkles fed on by the O. albicinctus collected in Jiroft showed the closest relationship with subgroup A members of the clover proliferation group, including Iranian cabbage yellows. By contrast, the phytoplasma infecting periwinkles fed on by the O. albicinctus collected in Shahdad was a strain related to Peanut witches' broom group Phytoplasma highly similar to the phytoplasma associated with alfalfa witches' broom. These results indicate that O. albicinctus is the natural vector of two different phytoplasmas in southeastern Iran.
41999019|During a field survey in 2007, sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.) trees with symptom of virescence were found in Yantai, Shandong province of China. Total DNA extracted from symptomatic and symptomless trees was subjected to nested PCR with universal primers for phytoplasmal 16S rRNA gene. A specific fragment of approximately 1.2 kb in length was amplified from diseased but not from healthy samples. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequence showed that the phytoplasma isolate associated with cherry virescence in Yantai (ChV-YT), belongs to 'Candidatus Phytoplasma asteris' (16SrI group). Phylogenetic and computer simulated RFLP analysis of 16S rRNA gene revealed that ChV-YT represents a new subgroup in the aster yellows group, tentatively designated as 16SrI-S. This is the first report of a phytoplasma associated with cherry virescence in China.
41998874|Sweet potato is an important food crop worldwide, but several pests and diseases limit its production. In eastern Africa, virus-induced diseases rank second to weevils in causing yield reduction. Symptomatic sweet potato cuttings (327) were collected from Nyanza and Western Provinces in western Kenya in 2009. The samples were tested for Sweet potato feathery mottle virus (SPFMV), Sweet potato chlorotic stunt virus (SPCSV), Sweet potato mild mottle virus (SPMMV), Sweet potato chlorotic fleck virus (SPCFV), Sweet potato latent virus (SPLV), Sweet potato caulimo-like virus (SPCa-LV), Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV), C-6, Sweet potato virus G (SPVG) and Sweet potato mild speckling virus (SPMSV) using nitrocellulose membrane enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (NCM-ELISA). SPFMV, SPCSV, SPCFV, SPMMV and CMV were detected and 89% of the samples as a whole were found to be infected. SPFMV was detected in all infected samples followed by SPCSV (55%). Multiple infections were detected in the majority of the samples (80%) and the most common dual infection was with SPFMV and SPCSV (52%). The occurrence of CMV was low (5%) but was confirmed by RT-PCR with amplification of a 670 bp coat protein gene fragment from total RNA. This is the first record of CMV in sweet potato in Kenya.
24722471|The status of virus and viroid infections in flowering cherry trees (Prunus yedoensis) in prominent ornamental collections in Korea (Seoul, Jinhae, Jeju) and the U.S. (Washington, D.C.) was investigated. A total of 344 trees was tested by conventional RT-PCR for 13 viruses and 2 viroids. Eight viruses were detected in trees sampled from Korea, and the same eight along with two additional viruses were found in trees in U.S. Cherry Virus A (CVA) was detected with the highest incidence in samples from both countries, followed by Little Cherry Virus-2 (LChV-2). This study represents the first report of LChV-2, Plum bark necrosis stem pitting associated virus (PBNSPaV), and American plum line pattern virus (APLPV) in Korea. Almost all (96%) of the cultivated trees were infected with at least one virus, and 73% were infected with 2-6 viruses. Especially interesting was the detection of three viruses (CVA, LChV-2 and/or PBNSPaV) from three different wild trees on Jeju Island. All three infected trees were proximal to cultivated flowering cherry trees that were infected with at least two of these viruses, whereas ten other tested wild trees in more isolated locations were virus-free. It is possible that transmission occurred from the cultivated to the wild trees.
41998669|Grapevine leafroll-associated Virus 3 (GLRaV-3) adversely alters quantitative and qualitative parameters of wine production. New Zealand grape growers respond to this economic threat by replacing virus-infected grapevines with certified virus-tested vines. When vines are removed, most roots remain in situ, potentially acting as long-term reservoirs of GLRaV-3. In New Zealand this disease is vectored by three species of pseudococcid mealybugs (Hemiptera: Pseudococcidae), i.e. Pseudococcus longispinus, P. calceolariae and P. viburni, with the two latter species frequently found on roots of host plants. Viruliferous mealybugs moving from GLRaV-3 infected remnant roots to newly planted vines form a probable pathway explaining the relatively rapid re-appearance of the disease in replanted vineyards. We conducted four field studies to determine the status of GLRaV-3 in remnant roots after applying herbicide and/or leaving ground fallow for variable intervals following vine removal. In vineyard A, one of three herbicides (glyphosate, triclopyr, or metasulfuron) was applied to freshly cut vine stumps. One year after treatment, roots and mealybugs found tested positive for GLRaV-3. In vineyard B, no herbicide was applied to cut vines, which were removed and the ground left fallow for 12 months. Twenty-six weeks after vine removal, mealybugs found on remnant roots tested positive for GLRaV-3 and after 12 months, virus was detected in 97% of the roots. The absence of any real decline in the proportion of roots with GLRaV-3 prompted testing at vineyard C, where 4 years earlier vines were cut and the stumps swabbed with glyphosate. Despite this fallow period, two thirds of root samples tested positive for GLRaV-3. Before vine removal in vineyard D, glyphosate was applied to leaves. Six months later 87% of root samples tested positive for GLRaV-3. The implications of these results for the management of leafroll virus are discussed.
24722545|The expression of malate dehydrogenase, superoxide dismutase and polygalacturonase-inhibiting protein was investigated in common bean plants inoculated with Xanthomonas hortorum pv. pelargonii as a non-host pathogen and X. axonopodis pv. phaseoli as a host pathogen. In comparison with inoculated plants with a host pathogen, more expression of malate dehydrogenase and superoxide dismutase was observed in treatments of non-host pathogen. The maximum expression of the genes was recorded 48 h post inoculation. Malate dehydrogenase and superoxide dismutase play crucial roles in incompatible plant-pathogen interaction. No significant difference was detected in expression of polygalacturonase-inhibiting protein in inoculated plants with host or non-host pathogen compared to control in any time points. In the absence of polygalacturonase that acts as an elicitor, polygalacturonase-inhibiting protein are not expressed.
41998642|Safflower plants with phyllody symptoms were observed in Fars and Yazd provinces of Iran. Affected plants showed floral virescence, phyllody and proliferation, proliferation of axillary buds along the stem and little leaf symptoms. The causal agent (SP) was transmitted from diseased to healthy safflower by grafting and from safflower to safflower and periwinkle by dodder (Cuscuta campestris). The presence of phytoplasmas in diseased plants was shown by direct and nested polymerase chain reaction assays using phytoplasma-specific primer pairs P1/P7 and R16F2n/R2. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of nested R16F2n/R2 primed PCR product (1.2 kb) classified SP phytoplasma in the clover proliferation phytoplasma group (16SrVI). Sequence homology, phylogenetic and putative restriction site analyses of 16S rRNA gene also identified SP phytoplasma as a member of 16SrVI group. On the basis of molecular analyses, SP phytoplasma was most closely related to brinjal little leaf and periwinkle little leaf phytoplasmas, members of subgroup 16SrVI-C.
41998628|Leaf extracts of Pistacia vera, Pistacia atlantica, Schinus terebenthifolius and Schinus molle were investigated for their antimicrobial effect against Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Pseudomonas savastanoi pv. savastanoi, Fusarium solani and Rhizoctonia solani. Extracts were prepared from dried and powdered leaves with solvents (hexane, ethanol, methanol and water) with different degrees of polarity. Aqueous and methanolic extracts exhibited a high level of antifungal and antibacterial activity. Leaf extracts from P. atlantica showed a high level of antibacterial activity. However, leaf extracts from Schinus terebenthifolius and Schinus molle showed the best antifungal activities. Total polyphenol contents of extracts was positively correlated with the diameter of the inhibition zones suggesting their potential antimicrobial activity. A preliminary phytochemical screening revealed the presence of tannins, flavanoids and alcaloids. These findings suggest that leaves of Pistacia and Schinus spp. are potential sources of antimicrobial compounds.
41998116|This paper reports the properties of a tombusvirus isolated by mechanical inoculation from severely stunted and mottled cucumber plants, infected also by Watermelon mosaic virus (WMV), grown in glasshouses in the Plovdiv area (Bulgaria). After separation from WMV, this virus was characterized biologically (host range reaction), physicochemically, molecularly, and ultrastructurally. The virus invaded systemically with difficulty different cucumber cultivars, producing latent infections. It was not serologically related to 24 different viruses in the genera Tombusvirus, Carmovirus, Necrovirus and Sobemovirus, but it had physico-chemical and ultrastructural properties typical of tombusviruses. The genome, which was totally sequenced, is a single-stranded positive-sense RNA of 4576 nucleotides. The genome structure was identical to that of tombusviruses but the sequence homology of the protein cistrons was not higher than 41% when compared to that of all sequenced members of the genus Tombusvirus. Distinct differences were also found in the N-terminal region of the ORF 1 sequence. The cucumber virus was therefore identified as a new putative tombusvirus species provisionally named Cucumber Bulgarian latent virus (CBLV).
41997864|The capacity of elicitors in crude hyphal wall preparations (CHWE) and in protein fractions of culture filtrates (PFCE) of Phytophthora capsici (Pc), pathogenic on pepper, and of Phytophthora nicotianae var. parastica (Pp), non-pathogenic on pepper, to cause cell browning, to increase alkalinization and conductivity of the medium and to stimulate phytoalexin production and PAL activity has been compared on cell cultures of two isogenic pepper lines (Capsicum annuum), susceptible (QS) and resistant (QR) to P. capsici. The intensity of browning induced by the elicitors was inversely correlated with the compatibility level previously determined in planta for the four Phytophthora-pepper combinations (Pc/QS > Pc/QR > Pp/QS > Pp/QR). Increase of both pH and conductivity clearly discriminated QR from QS irrespective of the type of elicitor and Phytophthora species. PAL activity was stimulated in QR to various extents by CHWE from Pc and Pp whereas it was stimulated by PFCE from P. capsici only. Capsidiol accumulation was not induced by any elicitor. The data indicate that early changes of pH and conductivity of the medium are markers of resistance to P.capsici in pepper but are aspecifically induced by different types of compound obtained from the pathogen as well as from a non-pathogen. Stimulation of PAL activity by PFCE reflects more specifically the varietal resistance of pepper cells to P. capsici.  stata messa a confronto l'attivit elicitrice di un preparato grezzo di parete (CHWE) e della frazione proteica del filtrato colturale (PFCE) di Phytophthora capsici (Pe), patogena su peperone, e di Phytophthora nicotianae var. parastica (Pp), non patogena su peperone. In colture cellulari di due linee isogeniche di peperone {Capsicum annuum), suscettibile (QS) e resistente (QR) a P. capsici, si  valutata la loro capacita di indurre imbrunimento delle colture, aumento del pH e della conducibilit extracellulari, sintesi di fitoalessina e stimolazione deU'attivit PAL. L'intensit deirimbrunimento indotto dagli elicitori  stata inversamente proporzionale al livello di compatibilit precedentemente determinato in planta per le quattro combinazioni Phytophthora - peperone (Pc/QS > Pc/QR > Pp/QS > Pp/QR). L'aumento di pH e della conducibilit extracellulari discriminano nett ament QR da QS, indipendentemente dal tipo di elicitore e dalla specie di Phytophthora. Attivit PAL  stata stimolata in QR in diversa misura dalPelicitore di prete di entrambi i funghi e dall'elicitore proteico della sola P. capsici. Le precoci variazioni di pH e di conducibilit del mezzo di coltura, pur segnalando la resistenza a P. capsici in peperone, son indotte in modo aspecifico da tipi di compos ti diversi ottenuti dal patgeno come da un non patgeno su peperone. La stimolazione dell'attivit PAL da parte di PFCE riflette in modo piu specifico la resistenza varietale del peperone a P. capsici.
41998179|Phellinus torulosus (Pers.) Bourd. et Galz. is the causal agent of white rot that infects especially the roots and the collar of old trees and shrubs of many species. The random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) technique using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to explore the genetic variability in 138 P. torulosus isolates from 139 oak woods of Apulia and Basilicata. The use of 16 random primers yielded 150 polymorphic fragments. The dendrograms generated by analysing RAPD data did not show correlations between the clusters and other characters such as morphotypes, host species, and geographic origin.
41998863|Ptr ToxA was the first proteinaceous, necrosis-inducing toxin identified and cloned from the wheat pathogen Pyrenophora tritici-repentis. It acts as a pathogenic factor and was transferred from another wheat pathogen, Stagonospora nodorum. No sequence variability of the Ptr ToxA gene was found within a P. tritici-repentis population, indicating its probable recent transfer into the genome. The Ptr ToxA gene was detected in isolates of Pyrenophora teres, predominantly a barley pathogen. A study on the presence of Ptr ToxA gene within a central European P. teres population is reported and its consequences are discussed.
41998994|The record of plant pathogenic bacteria includes a number of species for which evidence of pathogenicity is weak or lacking. Some reports are based on the activity of opportunistic saprobes acting under highly favourable conditions. Others appear to be based on misidentification of strains or on saprobes mistakenly selected in the original isolations, or mislabelled strains in culture collections. Eleven taxa are proposed for removal from the list of names of plant pathogenic bacteria, 1980-2007 (Bull et al., 2010). Some minor amendments are also made.
41999017|In this study, we investigated pathogenesis-related (PR) protein expression in interactions between rice plants with bacterial blight resistant gene Xa21 and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the causal agent of bacterial blight. Three PR genes, OsPR1a, OsPR1b, and OsPR1Oa, were cloned and the fusion proteins were expressed in E. colt to generate polyclonal antibodies. The proteins isolated at 0, 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72, and 144 h post-inoculation (hpi) from rice leaves inoculated with incompatible Xoo strains were analyzed using Western blotting. Significant inductions were observed for all three PR proteins in the late stages of inoculation. We also compared the expression of PR proteins among four different modalities: (i) incompatible interactions (R); (ii) compatible interactions in the absence of the Rgene (SR); (iii) compatible interactions in the absence of the avirulence factor in Xoo (SAvr); (iv) mock inoculated control treatments (M). Results showed that the three PR proteins are enhanced in the R, SR, and SAvr interactions more than in the control treatments. The induction of PR proteins in the R interaction is the highest, suggesting that these proteins are involved in the defense mechanism.
41999032|Olive mill waste water (OMW) and phenolic extracts, used at different concentrations in vitro displayed a high level of antibacterial activity against Pseudomonas savastanoi pv. savastanoi, the causal agent of olive knot disease. In in planta experiments, phenolic compounds used at three concentrations (1000, 500 and 100 mg l) completely inhibited the formation of knots on twigs inoculated with pathogenic strains IVIA 1628 and Aw9. GC/MS analysis revealed the presence of hydroxytyrosol in high concentration, in addition to tyrosol, catechol, caffeic acid and p-coumaric acid, suggesting their antibacterial effect. Copper treatment was less effective than phenolic compounds since the inhibition percentages of knot formation were 6% and 12% for IVIA1628 and Aw 9 , respectively. These results show that phenolic compounds extracted from OMW and rich in hydroxytyrosol can be excellent substitutes of copper compounds for controlling olive knot disease.
41999048|The variability of a population of 100 strains of Xanthomonas citri subsp. malvacearum (Xcm) was analyzed based on phenotypic and genotypic characteristics. These strains were obtained from cotton plants showing symptoms of angular leaf spot in the states of Gois, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, and Bahia (Brazil). Amylase, lipase, cellulase and levan were produced by all strains of Xcm, whereas caseinase was generated by only 20 strains. All strains induced a hypersensitivity response in tomato leaves, were sensitive to copper oxychloride, copper hydroxide, oxytetracycline, oxytetracycline plus tribasic copper sulphate, and oxytetracycline plus streptomycin sulfate, and were resistant to kasugamycin. Rep-PCR revealed at 78% the existence of two large clusters and three smaller size clusters of 2-6 strains, and some strains with isolated profiles. Strains from different cotton cultivars and diverse origins were found within the two major clusters and Xcm reference strain IBSBF1733 showed similarity to most of the analyzed strains. We conclude that the Brazilian population of Xcm has a low phenotypic and genotypic variability.
41998804|Following the discovery and description by the middle of the past century in France of an epidemic grapevine disease called Flavescence dore (FD), comparable disorders known with the general name of Grapevine Yellows (GY) were reported from all major grape-growing countries of the world, where they constitute a serious threat to viticulture. In Italy, FD and Bois noir (BN), the two most important diseases of the GY group, have been recorded since the 1970's, both representing a major concern for grapevine growers. FD is caused by phytoplasmas of the 'elm yellows' or 16Sr-V taxonomic group and is transmitted by the leafhopper Scaphoideus titanus in the persistent-propagative manner. Severe FD epidemics started about two decades ago and are still in progress in the main viticultural districts of northern Italy, i.e. Liguria (Italian Riviera), Lombardy, Piedmont and Veneto. The disease incidence may exceed 50% and the economic losses can be very high. BN is caused by phytoplasmas of the 'Stolbur' or 16S-XIIA group transmitted in the persistent-propagative manner by the planthopper Hyalesthes obsoletus. Other hopper species may also act as vectors since the disease has been observed to spread actively in geographic areas where H. obsoletus does not occur. Currently, the presence of FD seems limited to northern Italy, i.e. the Po Valley and a few regions south to it, like Marche, Tuscany and Umbria (central Italy). Its vector, however, has occasionally been found also in regions further south. BN occurs throughout the country and its incidence, initially believed to be negligible by comparison with that of FD, has recently attained economically important levels in some districts. FD and BN are symptomatologically undistinguishable from one another, molecular diagnosis is therefore necessary for the proper identification of the agent. Since 2000, compulsory control measures against FD are enforced in Italy by a govermental decree. These consist mainly in the elimination of infected vines, the use of healthy material for new plantations, and insecticide sprays against S. titanus. Thanks to these measures, a sharp decrease of FD incidence has been registered in the last few years in all affected areas of the country. Research on GY in Italy is now focusing mostly on epidemiological aspects (e.g. new potential insect vectors), new control practices such as genetic resistance to either FD or BN, or both, use of thermotherapy on propagation material, and investigation of the possible role of symbiotic micro-organisms present in host plants and insect vectors as antagonists of the phytoplasma agents of GY.
41997991|Seven affinity-purified monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) produced against Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) subgroup I and II, were screened for their ability to neutralize virus infectivity in vitro. Infectivity was inhibited almost completely when virus preparations were mixed in vitro with the homologous mAb prior to inoculation. The most efficient mAbs were 4H10B12 and 6D11D12 for subgroups I and II, respectively. Aggregation of CMV virions following incubation with mAbs was demonstrated using electron microscopy. The ability of the mAbs to block virus transmission by Myzus persicae was also tested; both, pre-and post-acquisition treatments of aphids with mAbs significantly decreased virus transmission. Treatment with mAb 6D11D12 before or after feeding on purified virus preparations prevented CMV transmission almost completely.
41997922|Systemic acquired resistance (SAR) to virus infections should be carefully distinguished from such resistance regarding other plant pathogens. In particular: (i) SAR operates against localized virus infection by limiting cell-to-cell spread of virus, through a mechanism involving an accelerated hypersensitive reaction without preventing virus replication; (ii) SAR does not operate against systemic virus infection; it neither limits virus replication nor alleviates symptoms. SAR may therefore play an important part in limiting many infectious plant diseases, but must be viewed with less enthusiasm in regard to viruses. Il fenomeno della resistenza sistemica acquisita contro le infezioni da virus delle piante (RSA) viene analizzata criticamente nel pi ampio contesto della resistenza contro le altre classi di patogeni infettivi. L'esame dei dati oggettivamente disponibili permette di rilevare due punti fondamentali: (i) nell'infezione localizzata, la RSA opera limitando la traslocazione dell'infettivit virale da cellula a cellula, secondo un meccanismo analogo, ma verosimilmente accelerato, a quello operante nella reazione di ipersensibilit; (ii) la RSA non  operante contro l'infezione sistemica, non inibendo in alcun modo la replicazione n mitigando la patogenesi virale. Questa caratteristica negativa argomenta contro le ottimistiche affermazioni che attribuiscono alla RSA un ruolo funzionale di controllo contro l'intera gamma delle infezioni patogenetiche.
41999020|A 2,452 nucleotide segment of Apple stem pitting virus (ASPV) genome of an Indian isolate (accession No. FN433599), encoding the triple gene block (TGB) and the coat protein (CP) genes, was amplified, cloned, sequenced and compared with the homologous genomic region of other ASPV isolates available in GenBank. CP identity between the Indian isolate and isolates from China (accession No. FJ619185) and Poland (accession No. AF491931) was 83% and 82%, respectively. It was also observed that the 5' region of the CP gene of the Indian isolate showed great variability in comparison to European isolates, whereas the CP 3' end was more conserved. Recombination analysis showed that the Chinese and Indian isolates are recombinants. Disease incidence, as shown by ELISA assays of infected pome fruit tissues, was 36.7%. Considering the criteria for strain demarcation, it is concluded that the Indian ASPV is a strain of already described isolates of this virus.
41999004|Xanthomonas gardneri is an important species associated with bacterial leaf spot of tomato in Brazil. The losses caused by the disease can reach 100% if preventive measures are not adopted. The polysaccharide chitosan has antibiotic activity and the ability to activate defense mechanisms and may constitute a tool for managing plant diseases. This study aimed at evaluating the antibacterial effect of chitosans with different molecular weights on X. gardneri development and tomato plants protection. Three types of chitosan, i.e. commercial (Ccom), low molecular weight (Clmw), and medium molecular weight (Cmmw), were incorporated in nutrient agar medium to assess bacterial growth. In greenhouse tests, tomato plants were treated with chitosans and inoculated with X. gardneri, and the disease severity was evaluated 15 days after inoculation. Leaf samples were collected at 0, 3, 4, and 6 days after the treatment to evaluate peroxidase and -1, 3-glucanase activities. Chitosans with different molecular weights showed a similar level of antimicrobial effect on X. gardneri. The polysaccharides at concentrations of 1 and 3 mg ml reduced the leaf spot severity by 70%, when applied up to 3 days before inoculation of tomato plants. Enzymatic analysis showed an increase of peroxidase activity in Clmw-treated plants. Thus, the antibiotic activity of chitosan associated with induction of resistance may explain the control level of bacterial spot observed in this study.
41998501|The causal agent of mild chlorosis and stunting of sugar beet in Iran was identified as Chickpea chlorotic dwarf virus (CpCDV). The virus reacted positively with CpCDV-specific antibodies in ELISA, but not with antibodies specific to other viruses of the family Geminiviridae (Beet curly top virus, Bean golden mosaic virus and Tomato yellow leaf curl virus). The virus isolate under study (SK-11) was transmitted by grafting and by the leafhopper Orosius orientalis Matsumara to a range of plant species in the Chenopodiaceae, Fabaceae and Solanaceae, and induced symptoms like those reported for CpCDV. By using a pair of degenerate primers, a short viral genome fragment was amplified by PCR, cloned and sequenced, revealing a close homology to Bean yellow dwarf virus (84.9%-85.3% identity), and a more distant relationship to Tobacco yellow dwarf virus (58.8%). In the present study, two specific primers were designed for detecting CpCDV which allowed the amplification of a DNA fragment of 0.64 kbp. Using these primers, the virus was successfully detected in symptomatic sugar beet field samples collected from the main sugar beet production provinces of Iran. This study reports for the first time information on the genome sequence of CpCDV.
41998463|Smut caused by Ustilago scitaminea (Syd.) is a major disease of sugarcane. Different compounds from a crude fungal extract were separated by capillary electrophoresis. These compounds produced changes in the accumulation of free phenolics and enhanced phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and peroxidase activities in sugarcane leaves of the susceptible cv. Mayar 5514, and the resistant cv. Barbados 42231. Smut-elicitor fractions were resolved by capillary electrophoresis as different peaks. Those inducing the highest biological activity were resolved as three main peaks corresponding to negatively charged proteins, peptides or glycopeptides of medium molecular mass. These compounds enhanced the accumulation of free phenolics, mainly hydroxycinamic acids, by activation of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase in the resistant cultivar, and hydroxybenzoic acids in the susceptible cultivar. Another important difference was the enhancement in the resistant cultivar of peroxidase, an enzyme that uses free phenolics as substrates for the activation of important mechanisms of resistance of sugarcane leaves to the fungal pathogen.
41998826|Molecular markers are becoming essential components in breeding programs involving gene pyramiding. Using marker-assisted selection in a backcross-breeding program, four bacterial blight resistant genes namely Xa4, xa5, xa13 and Xa21 have been introgressed into the hybrid rice parental lines KMR3, PRR78, IR58025B, Pusa 6B and the popular cv. Mahsuri. Only foreground selection was done using markers. Conventional breeding strategy was adopted for background selection. The pyramids showed very high level of disease resistance to 10 highly virulent isolates of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Grain quality parameters of the pyramids were on par with that of the original genotype. This work reports the successful application of marker-assisted breeding for pyramiding simultaneously four bacterial blight resistant genes into multiple backgrounds. These lines can be used directly or can be used as donors of bacterial blight (BB) resistance breeding.
41998789|Antisera were raised in rabbits against two isolates of Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV), representing groups I (DTL) and II (ToRS). The reactions of these polyclonal antibodies (PAbs) with several CMV isolates were checked, using ELISA, Western blotting and IC-RT-PCR. One of the PAbs against isolate M (group I) enabled detection of most of the CMV isolates tested but failed to recognize isolate P26, originating from lily. A PAb against isolate Wie (group II) reacted also with all isolates tested, showing up to 100-fold improvement in detection sensitivity compared with two other CMVspecific PAbs. The coat protein (CP) of CMV isolates belonging to both groups was detected by Western blotting using M and Wie antisera. The suitability of a mixture of PAbs for immunocapturing CMV and for the sensitive detection of all viral isolates tested by IC-RT-PCR was also shown.
41998636|The genetic diversity of stolbur phytoplasma isolates was assessed by different molecular typing methods in a wide range of plant hosts in a limited geographical area of the Czech Republic. Plants of Apium graveolens, Capsicum annuum, Solatium lycopersicum, Solarium tuberosum, Amaranthus retroflexus, Calystegia sepium, Cirsium arvense, Convolvulus arvensis, and Datura stramonium displaying symptoms of proliferation, discoloration, and malformation of flower were collected in vegetable crop plots in the vicinity of the village of Lednice (south Moravia) and examined for the presence of phytoplasmas. Using 16S rDNA amplification and RFLP assays, stolbur phytoplasma was detected in some of the symptomatic plants. The genotype of the phytoplasma isolates detected was investigated by restriction pattern or sequence analysis of two non-ribosomal house-keeping genes (tuf and secY) and a recently characterized polymorphic gene (vmp1). According to tuf genotyping, all isolates were of the tufAY-b genotype sensu Langer and Maixner (2004), a genotype known to be associated with bindweed (C arvensis) reservoirs. A finer isolate differentiation was obtained with vmp1 genotyping as four genetic variants carrying different vmpl RFLP patterns were found, especially in C. arvensis. In addition, preliminary sampling in other south Moravian localities and secY sequence analyses diclosed also the presence of stolbur isolates different from those previously reported in binweed (C arvensis) and grapevine.
41998881|Cultural practices (CPs) can be harnessed for the management of foliar and soilborne diseases by creating an environment which is favorable for the crop and unfavorable for the pathogen. Certain CPs, e.g. flooding and sanitation, are used mainly for pest control while others, e.g. irrigation, can be used for both crop management and pest control. Some CPs, e.g. deep plowing, crop rotation, flaming sanitation, soil solarization and biofumigation, are used as preplanting measures, whereas others, e.g. water and mineral nutrition management, tillage, and alteration of soil temperature, are used both pre-and postplanting. Special plastic covers can be used in protected agriculture to manipulate insect behavior, thereby reducing infestation. CPs are potential components in integrated pest-management programs.
23721533|A survey of Potato spindle tuber viroid (PSTVd) was initiated in Slovenia in December 2006. Out of 398 samples collected between the beginning of the survey and the end of 2010, a quarter tested positive for PSTVd, in particular Brugmansia cordata (1), Solanum jasminoides (88), S. rantonnetii (5), Petunia spp. (3), and S. muricatum (3). Analysis of 96 complete master sequences of Slovene positive samples revealed new variants, although the majority of master sequences were identical to the sequence variant of PSTVd found in S. rantonnetii in Italy (EF459700). A substitution of G to U at position 65 was found in several sequence variants otherwise identical to EF459700. The variability of this site was confirmed by cloning three samples that showed ambiguity at position 65 when the PCR products were sequenced directly. Phylogenetic analyses of Slovene sequence variants and sequence variants from GenBank showed two clearly separated clusters. High variability was observed within each cluster. Although most of the sequence variants from the same ornamental host tended to group together, sequence variants from the same hosts also showed high variability. On the other hand different hosts were found to be infected by the same sequence variant.
41997868|Etiolated soybean hypocotyls, zucchini and apple fruits were inoculated with three types of inoculum of the fungus Botrytis cinerea (ungerminated conidia, germinated conidia and mycelium). All inoculum types caused water-soaked lesions in the plant tissues except for ungerminated conidia which gave rise to necrotic areas in soybean seedlings. Infected tissues were sampled at various intervals after inoculation and assayed for pectin lyase (PNL) and polygalacturonase (PG) activity. After isoelectric focusing the patterns of their isoenzymes were defined. A host and inoculum age dependent PNL and PG isoenzyme sequence was observed and no PNL activity was detected in infected apple tissues. Pectolytic activity was not found in the necrotic areas induced in soybean by ungerminated conidia, where glyceollin I, the principal soybean phytoalexin, was recorded. Constitutive PNL and PG isoenzymes were detected in extracted conidia. The role of pectolytic enzymes, particularly PNL, from B. cinerea, detected in compatible and incompatible interactions during the early stages of infection, is discussed. Ipocotili eziolati di soia e frutti di zucchino e mela sono stati inoculad con Botrytis cinerea mediante tre tipi d'inoculo (conidi non germinati, conidi germinad e micelio). Ad intervalli regolari di tempo si  proceduto al campionamento dei tessuti infetti, al dosaggio dell'attivit di pectin liasi (PNL) e di poligalatturonasi (PG) ed alla loro caratterizzazione isoenzimatica. I tre tipi di inoculo hanno prodotto marciumi molli sui tessuti saggiati, ad eccezione degli ipocotili di soia inoculad conconidi non germinad dove  stata osservata la presenza di lesioni necrotiche. In tutti i tessuti inoculad  stata rilevata una progressiva crescita delle attivit enzimatiche tranne che nei tessuti di mela dove non  stata riscontrata attivit PNL. La produzione di isoenzimi di PNL e di PG ha manifestato una sequenza variabile a seconda del tessuto ospite e del tipo di inoculo. Nelle lesioni necrotiche casate dai conidi non germinad di B. cinerea sugli ipocotili di soia non  stata riscontrata attivit pectolitica, mentre nelle stesse  stata riscontrata la presenza di gliceollina I, la principale fitoalessina della soia. I conidi opportunamente estratti hanno evidenziata isoenzimi di PNL e PG; questa osservazione indica la natura costitutiva di tali enzimi. I dati ottenuti vengono discussi in relazione al ruolo degli enzimi pectolitici prodotti da B. cinerea, in interazioni compatibili ed incompatibili, durante i primi stadi di sviluppo della malattia, con particolare riferimento all'attivit PNL.
41999055|The study was carried out to investigate the effectiveness of Glomus fasciculatum, Trichoderma viride and Pseudomonas fluorescens, alone and in combinations to control disease spread in tomato plants infected with Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici. The three biological control agents were effective in controlling the disease; however the success rate for inhibition varied among the different treatments. Plants inoculated with P. fluorescens had higher concentration of phenol and greater activities of phenylalanine ammonia lyase and catalase. Inoculation with T. viride led to maximum induction of anti-oxidative enzymes such as catalase and peroxidase. On the other hand, G. fasciculatum-inoculated plants showed improved growth and highest phosphorus uptake. A combination of all the three biocontrol agents together, promoted growth and inhibited disease up to 94% in tomato plants. Thus, use of multiple biocontrol agents leads to enhanced level of disease resistance than individual use of bio-inoculants through the induction of multiple defense mechanisms.
24722466|"Candidatus Liberibacter africanus" (Laf) has long been recognised as a causal agent of the devastating citrus disease huanglongbing (HLB) or citrus greening. This species is currently restricted to Africa, the Arabian Peninsula and some Indian Ocean islands and is vectored by the African citrus psyllid, Trioza erytreae. Blotchy mottle on citrus leaves is characteristic of the disease. Somewhat similar symptoms in the rutaceous tree Calodendrum capensis (Cape chestnut) resulted in the discovery of Laf outside commercial citrus crops in South Africa. This was classed as a subspecies of Laf (capensis, hence LafC). In subsequent surveys of commercial citrus crops and Calodendrum, both natural and ornamental specimens, LafC was not found in citrus, nor has Laf been found in C. capensis. HLB was reported from Madagascar in 1968 but no sequences from this source have so far been published. Until fairly recently, only the reference 16S rRNA gene sequences of Laf (L22533) and LafC (AF137368) had been deposited in GenBank. Both of these reference sequences contain a number of unresolved nucleotides. When these nucleotide positions are investigated by aligning against more recently available sequences, it becomes evident that these unresolved positions represent one percentage point difference in similarity between Laf and LafC. The originally reported 97.4% similarity is therefore incorrect based on this new information. Recalculating the similarity on the full length 16S rDNA sequence results in 99.54% similarity, a value too high to justify a subspecies status. LafC should therefore be downgraded as a haplotype of Laf. Further, the six 16S rRNA gene sequences currently available in GenBank identified as Laf as a species separate into two haplotype groups. The three haplotypes of Laf are therefore: (i) LafA, designated as the first accession sequenced (L22533); (ii) LafC, i.e the former subspecies "capensis", to recognise the priority in the use of this term; (iii) LafB, the third previously unrecognised haplotype. Thus the cryptic presence of three haplotypes is revealed by this review of the Laf 16S rDNA sequences.
41998830|Resistance of citrus genotypes to Asian citrus canker, caused by Xanthomonas citri subsp. citri (Xcc) was evaluated on 582 accessions (319 varieties of sweet orange), including varieties with a potential commercial use. All accessions were grown in a greenhouse and were spray-inoculated with Xcc to screen for resistance, based on analyses of lesion expansion. Inoculum (10 CFU/ml) was applied on the abaxial side of all leaves and all plants were incubated up to 30 days. Area of lesions on inoculated leaf blades was scanned and compared with healthy foliar area. A disease index was obtained and used to classify response to citrus canker. Two experiments were carried out with different varieties and distinct periods. A wide range of reaction was observed, with approximately 13% of all accessions resistant to citrus canker, 42% moderately resistant, 20% susceptible, and 25% highly susceptible.
41998961|The oil-and table olive industry in California is growing rapidly. Propagation material is being requested in ever-larger quantities from the USDA National Clonal Germplasm Repository at the University of California, Davis. This collection is recognized as one of the richest sources of olive material in the U.S. The repository maintains 107 different olive varieties imported from 19 different countries. However, the collection's viral infection status has never been systematically analyzed. We have now completed the first comprehensive virus testing of the collection using molecular diagnostic tools. A total of 49 trees from 36 different cultivars were sampled. Though these trees were asymptomatic, the samples from 97.9% of them showed dsRNA profiles indicating viral infection. The 93.8% of these trees tested positive for Olive leaf yellowing-associated virus (OLYaV; an unassigned virus in the Closteroviridae) by RT-PCR analysis, while 34.7% were positive for Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV). PCR amplicons of the OLYaV heat shock 70 homologue (HSP70h) gene were cloned and sequenced to analyze diversity of isolates from trees originating from different geographical regions. Sequence analysis showed a maximum of 32% divergence between amplicons obtained from these selections.
41998234|Most plant viruses are transmitted by vectors from one host to another. Virus transmission by a vector is often characterized by some degree of specificity. Numerous studies suggest the involvement of a virus-ligand interaction in transmission specificity. The coat protein (CP) and its derivatives (readthrough CP and minor CP), and nonstructural proteins, such as a helper component (HC) or a transmission factor, are major viral determinants of transmission specificity. A number of virion-binding vector proteins have been identified as potential receptors. This article reviews the literature on the molecular aspects of virus transmission with a major emphasis on the specificity of transmission. It highlights recent advances in the field and identifies areas of desirable progress.
41998421|An account is given of the presence and incidence of Fig leaf mottle-associated virus 1 (FLMaV-1) and Fig leaf mottle-associated virus 2 (FLMaV-2) in Lebanese fig orchards, as determined by RT-PCR assays. About two-thirds of 102 fig trees tested were infected by at least one virus, with mixed infections in ca. 9% of the samples. FLMaV-1 prevailed (47% infection) especially in cv. Aswad (80% infection) and in Mount Lebanon (95% infection). FLMaV-2 was detected in 29.4% of the trees, with a prevalence in those coming from North Bekaa (57.5% infection). A fragment of the HSP70 gene of four FLMaV-1 and eight FLMaV-2 isolates were sequenced and aligned with the sequences of the homologous genes of the same viruses from Genbank. The comparative analysis showed low levels of variability among both FLMaV-1 (1-3%) and FLMaV-2 (3-9%). isolates.
41999018|Colletotrichum lindemuthianum, which is known for its wide diversity in virulence, is the causal agent of anthracnose of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). Studies of race characterization using the standard set of 12 differential cultivars have shown the predominance of race 65 in Minas Gerais state (Brazil). However, the presence of genetic variability within race 65 has complicated the development of a durable resistant bean cultivar. Therefore, the objective of this study was to identify common bean lines able to differentiate the variation within race 65 to complement the results of the standard set of differential cultivars. A total of 12 common bean lines adapted to Brazilian conditions and 12 fungal isolates classified as race 65 were used. We now propose a new nomenclature to identify the pathogenic variability of race 65 isolates. Using this methodology, five different reaction patterns were observed, allowing the differentiation of regionally important races that could not be discriminated using the standard set of differential cultivars. Furthermore, our approach makes it possible the identification of new genes and sources of resistance to anthracnose.
41998369|A first report is given of the presence of Citrus tristeza virus (CTV) in Angola and Sao Tom e Prncipe. Two out of twenty citrus samples from So Tom e Principe and all of the seven samples from Angola were shown by ELISA to contain CTV. The capsid protein gene variants obtained by IC/RT-PCR were characterized by SSCP analysis to test for the presence of different haplotypes in each isolate and nucleotide sequence analysis of each variant leading to a different SSCP pattern, followed by in silico comparison with previously characterized CTV groups. The results confirmed that each isolate could contain different variants, which clustered with the different groups. Variants obtained from each country fitted into the same three clusters.
41998223|During spring 2003, a small focus of infection by Plum pox virus (PPV) that involved four trees was discovered in an apricot orchard in the Province of Brindisi (Apulia, southern Italy). Virus isolates from all these trees were serologically typed by DASI-ELISA using four strain-specific monoclonal antibodies (Mabs). One isolate (PPV-BR) was also characterized by RFLP analysis of PCR products derived from two genome regions, i. e. coat protein (CP) and P3-6K1. PPV-BR proved to be a recombinant as it typed as PPV-M by strain-specific Mabs and RFLP analysis of the CP gene, but as PPVD by analysis of the P3-6K1 gene. Sequence analysis of the (Cter) NIb-(Nter) CP region of this recombinant showed that the recombination breakpoint was located in the C terminus of the Nib gene, as has been reported for other recognized PPV recombinants. This represents the first record of a recombinant isolate of PPV from Italy.
24332219|Capsicum chlorosis virus (CaCV), which belongs to the Watermelon silver mottle virus (WSMoV) serogroup of the genus Tospovirus, can seriously harm economically important crops. A CaCV strain from Phalaenopsis orchids (CaCV-pha) was identified by RT-PCR. The amino acid sequence of the CaCV-pha nucleocapsid protein (NP) shared 92.0% to 97.1% identity with comparable proteins of other CaCV isolates, with which it was phylogentically related. Since the identification of CaCV-infected crops requires the availability of sensitive diagnostic tools, a prokaryotic expression system was used to obtain a recombinant CaCV-pha NP for antiserum production. The CaCV-pha NP gene was subcloned into the pET-28a (+) vector and transformed into Escherichia coli Rosetta (DE3) cells for expression. After purification, the recombinant protein was injected into rabbits to generate a polyclonal antiserum which, in Western blot tests reacted strongly with the recombinant protein used as antigen. The availability of an anti-CaCV-NP serum will facilitates field surveys and further research on CaCV.
23721588|The occurrence of Citrus exocortis viroid (CEVd), Citrus bent leaf viroid (CBLVd), Hop stunt viroid (HSVd), Citrus dwarfing viroid (CDVd), Citrus bark cracking viroid (CBCVd) and Citrus viroid VI (CVd-VI) in Citrus spp. cultivated in six provinces of Uruguay was surveyed in 2008-2009 and 2009-2010 growing seasons using Northern blot hybridization. Sixty two per cent of surveyed trees were infected with either single or mixed viroid inocula, the latter being more abundant. CBCVd and CVd-VI were not detected in the samples analyzed. HSVd showed the highest prevalence (92%) among infected plants followed by CDVd (50%), CEVd (23%) and CBLVd (19%). The most frequently observed viroid combination was HSVd+CDVd. Our results showed that CEVd, CBLVd, HSVd, CDVd are widespread throughout citrus orchards in Uruguay and highlight the presence of mixed viroid infections.
41998081|The potexvirus Pepino mosaic virus (PepMV) has recently been found infecting tomato in different European countries but little is known on the biodiversity of the different isolates or their relationships with the type strain from Peru. The experimental host range of an Italian isolate from tomato (PepMV-To) differed markedly from that of the isolate from pepino and to a less extent from that of a Spanish isolate from tomato. Among cultivated Solanaceae, eggplant but not pepper or potato were found to be susceptible to PepMV-To. The virus was detected by serology in tomato seeds but it was not seed transmissible to 50 seedlings; it was easily purified by a new procedure, and polyclonal antisera were produced. In tomato and other hosts the virus was efficiently detected by different ELISA procedures and by a quick field immunochromatographic system based on lateral flow, with 100% correlation between DAS ELISA and this new technique.
41998778|The typical citrus canker lesions produced by Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. citri (Xac) have water-soaked margins. Three new variants of Xac producing atypical symptoms were recently described in Taiwan. The variant designated Ar type produces lesions without watersoaked margins on the leaves of citrus species and does not possess pectolytic activity on polypectate media. Five pectolytic genes pel1, pel2, pel3, peh1, and peh2 from strains XW19 (a typical canker lesion-producing strain) and XW121 (a strain of Ar type) were PCR-amplified, cloned and characterized. Only the 1.2-kb pell gene from XW19 expressed pectolytic activity. Sequence analyses revealed over 99% homology in nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences among pell genes from XW19 and XW121, and a pel homolog from strain 306 (GenBank accession No. NC 003919.1, XAC3562). The pell gene from XW19 and XW121 encoded a Pel1 protein of 377 amino acids. However, there was a stop codon located at the 350 th amino acid residue of the gene from XW121. When the pell gene from XW19 was transformed into XW121, the transformant exhibited pectate lyase activity and also induced water-soaked margins surrounding the lesions on grapefruit leaves. The results suggest that expression of the pel1 gene of Xac is associated with formation of the water-soaked margin of the bacterial canker lesion.
24579132|Bacterial soft rot is a new disease that, in recent years, has caused significant economic losses to banana production in China. Four bacterial isolates representative of a larger group of bacteria recovered from diseased banana plants located in different regions of China and a strain of Dickeya zeae (Ec1) from rice, used as control, were characterized by morphological, physiological, biochemical, and molecular assays. Results showed that the bacterial isolates from banana were Gram-negative, rod-shaped with multiple flagella, and produced a brown pigment on NGM medium (nutrient agar supplemented with 1% glycerol), indicating that they belong to Dickeya. Physiological and biochemical assays revealed that all bacteria from banana were in fact isolates of D. zeae differing from Dickeya dieffenbachiae and Dickeya paradisiaca. Phylogenetic analysis in comparison with sequences of 14 strains of Dickeya spp. retrieved from GenBank was done using the concatenated partial sequences of the seven housekeeping genes dnaA, dnaJ, dnaX, gyrB, recN, gapA, and mdh. All banana isolates were closely related to D. zeae and distinct from other Dickeya spp. The germination rate of rice seeds soaked with bacterial culture supernatant (crude toxin) and toxin bacteriostatic test results showed that the banana strains were different from D. zeae Ec1 in toxin production.
24579128|Bacterial diseases of onion (Allium cepa L.) are serious problems in Poland. In this study bacterial strains were isolated from onion bulbs with soft-rot symptoms. Pathogenicity tests were conducted on onion bulbs and also on tobacco leaves on whose basis twelve isolates were chosen to further characterization. These isolates were identified using physiological and biochemical tests, and confirmed by species-specific PCR, ERIC-PCR and sequence analysis of 16S rRNA, gyrB, lepA, phaC, recA gene fragments. All examined isolates were identified as Burkholderia gladioli. It is the first report of the occurrence of B. gladioli on onion as the cause of onion disease in Poland.
41998574|A total of 30 fluorescent Pseudomonas isolates (15 P. fluorescens and 15 P. aeruginosa) were obtained from different plant rhizospheres and were characterized on the basis of biochemical tests and plant growth-promoting activities. Pseudomonas fluorescens AK1 and Pseudomonas aeruginosa AK2 showed the best plant growth-promoting activity. These isolates were tested for their ability to produce indole acetic acid in pure culture in the absence and presence of L-tryptophan at 50, 100, 200 and 500 g/ml. For both strains, indole production increased with increases in tryptophan concentration (0.5, 1.2, 4.3 and 9.3 g/ml; and 0.2, 0.7, 3.8, and 8.3 g/ml, respectively). P. aeruginosa AK2 was less effective in production of indole acetic acid than P. fluorescens AK1. Inoculation of rice seeds with P. fluorescens AK1 and P. aeruginosa AK2 showed a good level (2.30 pmol/ml and 2.1 pmol/ml) of indole acetic acid compared to uninoculated seeds (1.6 pmol/ml).
24722548|The bacterial blight gene locus Xa 27 in rice has two striking differences in the presumed promoter-raised resistant/susceptible allele expression. We used a functional marker targeting the 25 deletion at 18 bp upstream of the putative TATA box and assayed the allelic status at Xa 27 in 572 rice genotypes. The alleles evaluation obtained from 191 cultivars tested may contribute to little information of the resistance specificity associated with allele diversity. The allele frequency associated with complete resistance in the indica was different from that associated with complete resistance in the japonica.
24331956|Root wilt disease of coconut and grassy shoot diseases of sugarcane are diseases associated with phytoplasmas of the 16SrXI group. The present study aimed at characterizing and comparing the potC gene of the coconut root wilt (RWD) and sugarcane grassy shoot (SCGS) phytoplasmas with that of aster yellows (AY) phytoplasma. We isolated the full length potC gene of ATP-Binding Cassette (ABC) transport system from RWD, SCGS, AY phytoplasmas and a partial gene segment of Brinjal little leaf (BLL) phytoplasma using PCR. The full length potC gene, partial sequence of potB and potD genes were sequenced and characterized. Comparative molecular analysis of the potC gene from RWD, SCGS showed that both sequences had 99% nucleotide identity with each other and 70% with AY phytoplasma. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the potC gene of coconut and sugarcane phytoplasmas clustered together and that AY phytoplasma clustered with 16SrI group phytoplasmas. The phylogeny of potC genes followed the 16S rRNA-based taxonomic classification of phytoplasmas so that it can be considered as a potential candidate for phylogenetic studies. Bioinformatics analysis of putative PotC proteins revealed that phytoplasmas have conserved motifs which are absent in other bacteria. However, the PotC proteins of phytoplasma and bacteria have one common domain (ABC transporter intergral membrane type-1 domain) and six transmembrane helices.
24332224|Apple stem grooving virus (ASGV) is one of the relevant apple viruses worldwide. In this study, a simple, sensitive one-step reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) assay was developed for the rapid detection of ASGV, using primers designed in the coat protein gene. The RT-LAMP assay identified 53 infected apple leaf samples while RT-PCR identified only 49 infected samples. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on detection of ASGV by RT-LAMP.
24722472|A survey for viruses was carried out in the main fig-growing areas of Tunisia and in a fig germplasm collection at the Institut Suprieure Agronomique de Chatt Mariem of Sousse. A total of 232 leaf samples were collected randomly from symptomatic and symptomless fig trees of 26 cultivars, and tested by RT-PCR for the presence of Fig mosaic virus (FMV), Fig leaf mottle-associated virus 1 (FLMaV-1), Fig leaf mottle-associated virus 2 (FMMaV-2), Fig mild mottle-associated virus (FMMaV), Fig cryptic virus (FCV), Fig fleck-associated virus (FFkaV) and Fig latent virus 1 (FLV-1), using specific sets of primers. About 62.1% of the samples tested were found to be infected by at least one virus. FMV was the prevailing virus with a 34.5% incidence, followed by FLV-1 (32.4%), FMMaV (10.7%), FLMaV-1 (10.3%), FFkaV (10.3%), FCV (9.9%) and FLMaV-2 (4.3%). The highest infection rate was observed in Sfax (100%), followed by Takelsa (73.4%), Djebba (70.2%), Sousse (66.6%), Mornag (54.4%) and Rafraf (50%), whereas it was moderate in Sidi Fraj (23.3%). Among all viruses detected, FMV was the most widespread, especially in Djebba (51.3%), Sfax (50%) and Takelsa (40.6%). According to the fig varieties, the highest infection rates were in the commercial cvs. Hamouri (87.5%), Bayoudhi (75%), Bouhouli (70.3%), Zidi (54.2%) Bither (53.8%), Bither Abyath (66.6%) and Soltani (69.2%). The results show the need to develop a clean stock program to prevent the dissemination of fig-infecting viruses associated with Fig mosaic disease in Tunisia.
24722552|Potting media, organic fertilizers and composts are widely used by growers in different parts of the world. This study was conducted to investigate the diversity of fungi in 46 potting media products, 17 organic fertilizer products and 9 compost products originating from 14 countries. Fungal diversity was evaluated using direct plating and the identification of fungal isolates was based on morphology and sequences of the internal transcribed spacer region of the ribosomal RNA (ITS rRNA). Analysis showed that Sordariomycetes and Eurotiomycetes (Ascomycota) were the most dominant classes in potting media, organic fertilizers and composts. Evaluation of products from the USA and European and Asian countries revealed that they have high fungal diversity, especially products from The Netherlands. Trichoderma, Aspergillus and Penicillium predominated in most samples. Simplicillium, Cladosporium, Bionectria, Alternaria, and Fusarium were recovered at different frequencies from samples of potting media. Fusarium spp. were recovered at high frequencies from samples of organic fertilizers, and organic and non-organic composts. Findings show that most of the products are dominated by saprophytic fungi and fungi with potential biocontrol characteristics. The findings are discussed in terms of factors affecting the diversity of fungi in these products and the intercontinental spread of fungal isolates, including potentially pathogenic ones.
24332037|Bright mosaic, consisting of white and yellow rectangular or oval to linear patches and stripes, often confluent, was observed on Agapanthus leaves, flower stalks and buds in Italy. To identify and characterize the causal agent, deep-sequencing was carried out and the resulting sequences were assembled. De novo assembly of contigs, along with RACE experiments, resulted in the complete RNA molecule of 13,100nt sharing 85.6% identical nucleotides with the genome of Eggplant mottled dwarf virus (EMDV). Sequence analysis and comparisons of the Agapanthus isolate of EMDV showed five conserved motifs in the L gene, which are localized in the N-terminal region (amino acid no. 531 to 770).
24331975|Sunflower (Helianthus annuus) plants showing chlorotic concentric rings and line patterns on the leaves were observed in field crops near Paran city (Entre Ros, Argentina). Virus-enriched preparations examined with a trasmission electron microscope contained quasi-spherical particles ca. 33 nm in diameter. Symptomatic sunflower samples were serologically negative for six known members of the family Bromoviridae when tested with commercial antisera, but in later tests gave a positive reaction with a Pelargonium zonate spot virus (PZSV) antiserum. The virus was mechanically transmitted to 16 plant species belonging to four families. Its complete genomic sequence, obtained by pyrosequencing, had an organization typical of members of the family Bromoviridae. Three contigs resulting from de novo assembly of deep sequencing reads showed 90.0%, 94.7% and 93.9% nucleotide identity with RNA-1 (GenBank accession No. AJ272327), RNA-2 (AJ272328) and RNA-3 (AJ272329), respectively, of Pelargonium zonate spot virus (PZSV), a member of the genus Anulavirus described in Italy. Therefore, the virus associated with chlorotic concentric rings and line pattern symptoms in sunflower was identified as an isolate of PZSV. To our knowledge, this is the first reference to PZSV infecting sunflower worldwide and the first report of its presence in South America.
41998143|A survey of potato leaf roll disease conducted in major potato growing regions of Kenya (Meru, Kiambu, Nyamira and Kisii districts) revealed the highest incidence in Kisima location, Timau division of Meru district and an absence of PLRV in leaf-rolled samples from Githongo location of the same district. The lowest incidence was recorded in Kisii district. The virus was detected in the phloem tissues of potato sprouts and leaves by tissue blot immunoassay (TBIA). The method was found to be simple, rapid and sensitive in detecting PLRV in infected potato plants. In Myzus persicae Sulz., the Acquisition Access Period (AAP), Inoculation Access Period (IAP) and the Latent Period of PLRV, isolated from potato variety 'Pimpernel' collected from Tigoni location, Kiambu district, were typical of PLRV. It is suggested that virus control in potato in Kenya can be made more effective by planting virus-free seed-tubers and by early treatment with insecticides. Additionally, volunteer plants and alternative hosts should be rogued and destroyed because they serve as sources of virus for subsequent infections.
41998683|Symptoms of Bermuda grass white leaf (BGWL) were observed in several provinces of Iran. Among leafhoppers collected in BGWL-affected areas, Exitianus capicola tested positive for phytoplasma in PCR assays and transmitted the BGWL agent to healthy Bermuda grass plants. Using P1/P7 primer pair, target DNA fragments of approximately 1.8 kbp were amplified from diseased samples of Bermuda grass plants from 10 widely separated areas in six provinces. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of P1/P7 PCR products identified two BGWL isolates from Firouzabad and Juyom (Fars province) denoted FBGWL and JBGWL as members of the Bermuda grass white leaf group, 16SrXIV. Percent homology and phylogenetic analysis of 16S rDNA and 16S-23S spacer region (SR) sequences showed also that FBGWL and JBGWL are related to the 16SrXIV group. Based on RFLP and phylogenetic analyses, FBGWL and JBGWL isolates were distinguishable from each other and were classified in subgroups 16SrXTV-A and 16SrXIV-B, respectively. This is the first report of BGWL disease and leafhopper transmission of the associated phytoplasma in Iran.
41997914|Seasonal fluctuations of Pseudomonas viridiflava, the causal agent of bacterial blight, were investigated on the kiwifruit phyllosphere in relation to ice nucleation activity, at different sites in central Italy (north of Latium), from October 1995 until September 1996. The pathogen was detected during the different seasons on leaves, twigs, buds and fruits with population values ranging between 1.1 10 and 2  10 cfu cm with maxima in spring and autumn. The pathogen was also present in significant amounts in several winter and summer months. No P. viridiflava was detected on flowers. Most of the bacterial isolates showed ice nucleation activity, manifested at relatively low concentrations (10 cfu ml) and at temperatures slightly below 0C (-3 C). Epidemiological implications are discussed. Nel centro Italia (Nord del Lazio), dall'ottobre 1995 al setiembre 1996 in due differenti zone, sono state studiate le fluttuazioni stagionali nella fillosfera di actinidia e l'attivit crigena di Pseudomonas viridiflava agente causale della maculatura batterica dell'actinidia. Il patogeno, durante le diverse stagioni,  risultato presente su foglie, tralci, boccioli e frutti con valori di popolazioni batteriche variabili tra 1.1  10 e 2  10 ufc cm. I valori massimi sono stati riscontrati in primavera e in autunno. Il patgeno  risultato presente con valori di popolazioni batteriche significative anche in alcuni mesi invernali ed estivi. Nessuna cellula di P. viridiflava  stata invece isolata dai fiori. Molti degli isolati batterici hanno manifestato la capacita di nucleare il ghiaccio. L'attivit crigena si  evidenziata a concentrazioni relativamente basse (10 cfu ml) ed a temperature di poco inferiori a 0C (-3 C). Vengono discusse le implicazioni epidemiologiche.
41998637|Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) has been widely used as a method for analysing changes in microbial populations. Here, the technique has been further developed using Gaeumannomyces graminis var. tritici (Ggt) as a model system, to show that it can be used as a semi-quantitative measurement of fungal pathogens associated with the roots of plants, and to monitor the survival of pathogens in the soil. To provide an internal reference for measuring fluxes in Ggt populations, primers were designed to amplify products from the fungal ITS2 region and simultaneously from wheat root DNA. Peak height ratios for the fungus relative to the wheat control were then calculated and these ratios were then compared between samples to measure changes in populations. The results showed that the ratio of the Ggt TRF peak height to the wheat TRF peak height could be used as a measure of the relative amount of Ggt in a sample. These ratios correlated well with disease index scores and also with fungal biomass as assessed by determination of ergosterol content using HPLC. T-RFLP can therefore be used directly as a tool for comparison of the relative levels of Ggt and other fungi on different root samples, and by incorporating fixed amounts of wheat DNA as an internal standard into soil samples prior to DNA extraction, the same method could be used to measure fluxes in soil populations of fungi.
41999033|A survey to determine the incidence in open field squash (Cucurbita pepo) of Papaya ringspot virus (PRSV) in Kafrelsheikh governorate regions (Balteem, Shabah, Kafrelsheikh and Sheno) was carried out in 2009 and 2010. The most commonly observed symptoms were mosaic, malformation such as blisters and narrow leaf blades and malformed fruits. The identification of PRSV by ELISA showed that the virus was highly distributed in squash fields with an incidence higher than 50%. Egyptian isolates of PRSV were easily transmitted by mechanical inoculation and by Myzus persicae. Flexuous particles were observed in leaf dip preparations and pinwheels and scrolls were seen in thin sections of diseased squash tissue. The RT-PCR amplified partial coat protein (CP) gene was sequenced from eight Egyptian PRSV isolates. Sequence comparisons and phylogenetic analysis revealed that the Egyptian isolates grouped together in a distinct clade. Comparison with PRSV sequences retrieved from GenBank presented nucleotide identities in the range of 87.5-97.1% and close relationships of the Egyptian isolates with the two Venezuelan isolates of the so-called type-P, Sucre-ElMuco and Merida6, and to the Mexican and USA isolates. This is the first report on the incidence and characterization of PRSV in Egypt.
41997951|Transgenic 'San Marzano' tomato lines transformed with a chimeric gene expressing a benign satellite RNA of Cucumber Mosaic Virus (CMV) were tested under conditions of natural infection, in southern Italy. Agronomic performance, virus susceptibility and spread of transgenic satellite RNA were monitored during the test. ELISAs and yield measurements showed that virus incidence was slightly lower in transgenic plants compared to controls. Satellite RNA was detected in melon, zucchini and pepper plants grown in the surroundings of the release site. Spread of the benign satellite RNA from transgenic tomatoes to surrounding host plants did not increase disease incidence or disease phenotype. Linee transgeniche di pomodoro "San Marzano" trasformate con un gene chimerico codificante una variante benigna dell'RNA satellite del virus del mosaico del cetriolo (CMV) sono state pro vate in campo, in Italia meridionale, in condizioni di infezione naturale. Le caratteristiche agronomiche, la suscettibilit a virus diversi e la diffusione dell'RNA satellite transgenico sono state valutate nel corso dlie prove. I risultati hanno messo in rilievo una diminuzione del titolo del virus nelle piante transgeniche rispetto ai controlli, evidenziata sia dai test ELISA che dalle rese produttive. L'RNA satellite  stato evidenziato nelle piante di melone, zucchini e peperone coltivate nelle immediate adiacenze del sito di rilascio. La diffusione dell'RNA satellite benigno dai pomodori transgenici non  apparsa comunque associata alia comparsa di sintomatologie diverse da quelle note sulle piante ospiti.
41992429|Fire blight resistance of various pear, apple and, for the first time, loquat cultivars and selections were evaluated in Greece in 1997-1999. Shoots of accessions from Greece, Italy, Spain, France, and Great Britain were inoculated with a mixture of five Greek isolates of Erwinia amylovora, and the size of the lesions was recorded after six weeks. Based on their reactions, the cultivars were grouped into five classes according to the frequency of successful infections and their severity expressed as weighted mean of lesion length as percentage of total length of blighted shoots. All loquat cultivars were very susceptible, whereas apple and pear cultivars showed various levels of susceptibility. Variations were also observed in host reactions in different years.
41998923|Sensitivity of Septoria tritici towards the fungicides trifloxystrobin, folpet, chlorothalonil, propiconazole, prochloraz, tebuconazole, epoxiconazole, and prothioconazole was tested in a bioassay using strains isolated in 1999, 2004, or 2008 in the high-disease-pressure and high-fungicide-input area between the North and Baltic Seas. The percentage of sprays containing at least one demethylation inhibitor (DMI, azoles) was never lower than 60% at any given point of time in the region where the fungal strains were sampled. Quinone outer binding site inhibitor (QoI) use was almost negligible in 1999, increased to about 80% in 2002, and subsequently decreased to 4% in 2008. The bioassay accurately detected the total loss of sensitivity of S. tritici towards trifloxystrobin as a representative of the QoIs that was previously reported. DMI concentrations inhibiting fungal growth by 50% (ECs) decreased on the average by 4817% between 1999 and 2004, and increased by 13242% between 2004 and 2008 compared to 1999. ECs of the multi-site inhibitors folpet and chlorothalonil increased by 12825% between 1999 and 2004, and decreased by 4011% between 2004 and 2008, but changes over time were non-significant for the multi site inhibitors. The period of QoI use approximately coincided with a small but consistent decrease of ECs for all DMIs tested and with a small but consistent increase of ECs for the multi site inhibitors.
41998884|Three major objectives characterize the current trend in intensive agriculture: pest control, environmentally safe measures and consumer demand for, among other things, pesticide-free products. Therefore, the main goal in pest-management research is to improve pesticide application technology for its effective action and rapid dissipation from crop tissues. Air-assisted spraying technology that makes use of fine droplet size and low volumes is an effective way of depositing the spray on both the upper and under sides of leaves. Application of pesticides with aerosol generators (foggers) and other sprayers has shown practical and effective control of insects, mites and foliar pathogens in various field and tree crops. Moreover, effective control is achieved even when pesticide rates are significantly reduced. Soil disinfestation is the most effective tool for knocking out inoculum in soil, but it has to be accompanied by additional measures in the framework of integrated pest management. Research into exploiting soil solarization by combining it with reduced doses of permitted fumigants, or other tools, is expected to produce the most promising approaches. Furthermore, a sublethal dosage of fumigant in combination with solarization, or other pest-management methods, can provide a reasonable solution to many of today's problems. Combining fumigation or solarization with biocontrol agents could also improve the control of target pests, maintain the microbial balance in soils and maintain suppressiveness against pathogen buildup in those soils. Improvement of application methods for soil disinfestation is another issue which warrants special attention.
41998761|Bacterial spot and canker of stone fruits is a multifaceted disease caused by Xanthomonas arboricola pv. pruni. The disease has a more significant economic impact on Japanese plums, peach and nectarines. Estimated crop losses can reach over 10,000 /ha in epidemic years in modern commercial plum orchards. Disease establishment and pattern of the epidemics are strongly influenced by prevailing climatic conditions and by the species and/or cultivar of the host plant. European plums and almond are quite tolerant to the disease, but Japanese plums, peaches, and nectarines are quite sensitive. Sources of resistance are not known for peach and, in general, disease control is based on orchard hygiene and regular sprays with different copper compounds, such as sulphates, oxychlorides and hydroxides, the choice of the copper chemical formulation depending on the phenological phase of the host plant. Alternative control strategies are being developed using bacterial antagonists and possible resistance inducers such as copper glucohumates. Since the disease is strongly influenced by climatic conditions, there is the need to develop a reliable disease forecasting model.
41998632|The objective of this study was to determine the effects of chitosan to control powdery mildew on cucumber cotyledons inoculated with races 1, 2 and 5 of Sphaerotheca fuliginea and race 1 of Erysiphe cichoracearum. Chitosan, an elicitor of plant defences and also an inhibitor of fungal growth, was sprayed on the upper surface of cotyledons at concentrations 1% and 2.5%. Control cotyledons were sprayed with sterile water only. When cotyledons had dried they were inoculated by applying eight 5 l droplets of a conidial suspension (410 or 410 spores ml) on the adaxial surface of each cotyledon. The number of lesions developed (mildew incidence) and lesion size were evaluated ten days after inoculation. The highest chitosan concentration significantly inhibited the mildew incidence on pretreated cotyledons inoculated with races of S. fuliginea and race 1 of E. cichoracearum, at both conidial concentrations compared to control. Significant differences in lesion diameters were observed between chitosan-treated cotyledons and controls after inoculation with S. fuliginea and E. cichoracearum when 410 spores ml were used.
23721526|Citrus huanglongbing (HLB) has affected the citrus industry severely since it was first observed in south Florida in 2005. No published information is available on occurrence and in-grove distribution of HLB and its psyllid vector Diaphorina citri in north central Florida. D. citri and citrus leaf samples were collected from one organic and two conventional groves in Citra, FL, and from individual trees on the University of Florida (UF) campus in Gainesville to be tested for Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus (Las) using qPCR. Las-positive D. citri samples were detected in Gainesville in 2007, and Las-positive trees were first found on the UF campus in October 2011. Las positive D. citri samples were obtained from symptomless trees in the organic grove in 2006 and 2007, and Las was first detected in leaf samples from asymptomatic orange trees in spring 2012. Trees in the conventional groves were Las-negative. HLB symptoms were first found in autumn 2012 in the organic grove and to a lesser extent in one conventional grove. HLB incidence was high along the northeastern edge of the groves. Semivariograms for within-row and across-row HLB spread were constructed using Las Ct values and tree distances. Monomolecular models were fit to the semivariance data. The range (=zone of influence) of HLB-infected trees was greater within rows (20 m) than across rows (13 m), suggesting that D. citri transmits HLB more readily within than across rows. Infection of conventional trees was probably delayed due to surrounding windbreaks. There was no relation between nutrient contents and HLB development.
41998793|The plant growth promoting fungus Fusarium equiseti GF183 effectively controlled Fusarium wilt of spinach caused by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. spinaciae in transplanting systems using paper pots. Reduction in disease severity ranged from 43.5 to 91.8%. Double application of F. equiseti GF183 increased the protective effects. The number of colony-forming units of F. oxysporum f. sp. spinaciae per gram fresh weight of roots was significantly reduced (P< 0.05) in plants treated with F. equiseti. Root extracts from both F. equiseti-treated plants and F. equiseti and pathogen-treated plants significantly inhibited new production of budding-cells of F. oxysporum f. sp. spinaciae.
41998765|'Candidatus Phytoplasma prunorum' is an important prokaryotic pathogen that infects stone fruits in Europe. It is known to cause several economically relevant disorders of Prunus spp. which are collectively referred to as European stone fruit yellows (ESFY). This organism is phylogenetically closely related to other important fruit trees pathogens such as apple proliferation (AP), pear decline (PD) and peach yellow leaf roll (PYLR) agents. Together they form a distinct phylogenetic cluster, the AP or 16SrX group. Like the other fruit tree phytoplasmas of the AP group, 'Ca. P. prunorum' exhibits a high host specificity. In nature, this pathogen has been reported to infect only plants in the genus Prunus and to be transmitted by one insect vector species, the psyllid (Psyllidae) Cacopsylla pruni. Also, 'Ca. P. prunorum' includes strains which greatly differ in virulence. This review summarizes the current knowledge of 'Ca. P. prunorum' with emphasis on advances that have been made during the last two decades in understanding molecular and epidemiological aspects. Prospects for disease management and future research which could provide insights into the largely unknown mechanisms involved in pathogenicity of 'Ca. P. prunorum', are also critically discussed.
41998927|In Austria plant growth regulators have long been used on grapevines for induction of loose clusters and avoidance of Botrytis cinerea attacks. The purpose of this work was to examine the effect of a plant growth regulator containing prohexadione-calcium as active ingredient based on various parameters. The experiment was conducted on cv. Grner Veltliner. Results were analysed on the basis of the following parameters, cluster weight and lenght, berry and seed weight, number of berries and seeds, evaluation of infestation severity by B. cinrea, and FTIR analysis. In addition, the bending index of the berries was recorded, which describes the suppleness of the clusters. The four main test variants were: (i) control, (ii) prohexadione-calcium alone, (iii) prohexadione-calcium with a botryticide and (iv) botryticide alone. Regarding the effect of prohexadione-calcium, results showed that there was a significant difference in cluster compactness. The increased number of small clusters additionally resulted in a significant increase in suppleness and reduced compactness. In 2009, B. cinrea infestation in the control was less than in the other treatments; in 2010, no significant difference was found. In 2010, the application of prohexadione-calcium led to increased must densities, compared with the control plots.
23721520|PRR78 and KMR3 are popular restorer lines of the rice (Oryza sativa L.) hybrids Pusa RH10 and KRH2, respectively. These lines are highly susceptible to bacterial leaf blight caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Nine families each of PRR78 and KMR3 pyramids containing Xa4, xa5, xa13 and Xa21 resistance genes were evaluated for agronomic and related characters (viz., days to 50% flowering, plant height, number of tillers, panicle length, filled grains per panicle, percentage of spikelet fertility, 1000 grain weight, yield, biomass, harvest index and disease resistance). There were no significant differences within the families of the pyramids with respect to any of the characters evaluated. Under disease-free conditions, there was no difference between the parents and the pyramid families for the characters evaluated. However, under inoculated conditions of heavy disease pressure: (i) the parents exhibited highly susceptible reaction, whereas all the families of pyramids of both genotypes were highly resistant; (ii) pronounced variation was observed between the parents and the pyramids under inoculated conditions for the characters viz., FG/P, SF%, 1000 GW and Y. With respect to yield under diseased conditions there was a loss to the extent of 28% in PRR78 and 24% in KMR3 compared to the pyramid families. The pyramids thus protected against the yield loss and pyramiding of the four resistance genes did not have any yield penalty. These pyramids can be used directly in the breeding programs or as potential donors of bacterial blight resistance.
24579133|Colletotrichum species responsible for severe outbreaks of anthracnose on onion in southwest India are reported. These fungi produced white, oval sunken lesions on the leaves and neck at the onset of infection followed by appearance of necrotic centres with grey-colored concentric rings of acervuli, which eventually covered the whole leaves and subsequently led to collapse of the plant. Thirty seven isolates of Colletotrichum recovered from diseased leaves and neck were characterized based on morphological characteristics and partial sequences of ACT, TUB2, CHS-1, CAL, CYLH3, GAPDH, GS and ITS genes. The combined multilocus sequence analysis coupled with a critical examination of the phenotypic characters revealed the presence of two species, Colletotrichum siamense (27 isolates) and Colletotrichum truncatum (10 isolates). Pathogenicity of both species was ascertained on onion seedlings of cv. Arka kalyan. To our knowledge, this is the first report of C. siamense and C. truncatum causing anthracnose disease on onion.
41998576|Symptoms of shoot proliferation and abnormally small leaves were observed in diseased sour cherry (Cerasus vulgaris Mill., syn. Prunus cerasus L.) affected by cherry little leaf (ChLL) disease on the Neringa peninsula, Lithuania. Amplification of phytoplasma characteristic 16S rDNA from the diseased cherry indicated infection by a phytoplasma. On the basis of restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) and nucleotide sequence analysis of 16S rDNA amplified by PCR, the ChLL phytoplasma was classified in group 16SrI (aster yellows phytoplasma group), new subgroup 16SrI-Q. Results from phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that ChLL phytoplasma was related to 'Candidatus Phytoplasma asteris' and may represent a distinct phytoplasma lineage.
24579140|Bacterial wilt or brown rot caused by Ralstonia solanacearum is one of the most damaging diseases of potato worldwide. Strains of R. solanacearum have conventionally been classified into five races (r) and six biovars (bvs). Based on variation of DNA sequences, R. solanacearum strains are now classified into four phylotypes that broadly reflect the ancestral relationships and geographical origin of the strains. These phylotypes can be further subdivided into sequevars based on phylogenetic analysis of the endoglucanase (egl) gene sequences. In the present study, bacterial wilt-infected potato plants/tubers were collected from various potato-growing regions of the East Khasi Hills and West Khasi Hills districts of Meghalaya (India) during summer and autumn of 2012 and 2013. A total of 114 bacterial isolates were recovered, whose identity was confirmed as R. solanacearum by PCR with the species-specific primers 759/760. Using the biovar (bv) classification scheme, 67 isolates (58.8%) were categorized as bv 2T, 41 (35.9%) as bv 2 and six as bv3 (5.3%). A phylotype- specific multiplex PCR assigned 67 (58.8%) isolates to phylotype IV (bv2T), 41 (35.9%) to phylotype II (bv2) and six (5.3%) to phylotype I (bv3). A phylogenetic analysis of partial sequences of the egl gene of all isolates clustered 59 phylotype IV (bv 2T) isolates closely to sequevar 8 (GenBank accession No. DQ657634). The remaining 8 phylotype IV (bv 2T) isolates did not cluster with any of the four sequevar, i.e. 8, 9, 10 and 11 that are defined with phylotype IV and formed a distinct sequevar group. All 41 phylotype II (bv 2) isolates clustered with sequevar 1 (EF371844); three phylotype I (bv 3) isolates with sequevar 30 (AB508598), and three phylotype I (bv 3) isolates with sequevar 47 (GU295014). This is the first study that demonstrates a considerable biovar and phylogenetic diversity among R. solanacearum that cause potato bacterial wilt in the Meghalaya state of India.
41998433|Previous studies have ascertained the presence of Plum pox virus strain M (PPV-M) and D (PPV-D) in various Prunus species all over Croatia. Susceptible plum varieties, known as particularly endangered by recombinant PPV strains (PPV-Rec), were taken into consideration for the molecular typing of PPV isolates carried out in this study. Samples were collected in commercial orchards established with imported plant material, except for one sample coming from the urban Zagreb area. Six out of seven samples tested PPV positive by DAS-ELISA. A modified IC-RT-PCR approach was used for amplifying two target sequences, the carboxyterminus part of the capsid cistron (Cter)CP and the virus segment spanning the carboxy-terminus part of Nib (Cter)NIb to the amino-terminus part of CP [(Nter)CP]. PCR amplification based on the use of the primers targeting the (Cter)CP region revealed the presence of PPV-M in all positive samples. The presence of PPV-D was found in three samples in mixed infection with PPV-M. Two samples harbored PPV-Rec (Valjevka, wild plum). Six sequences of (Cter)CP amplicons clustered in two groups, in accordance with the strain differentiation (PPV-M, PPV-D), while two (Cter) NIb/(Nter)CP sequences clustered within the group of well known PPV-Rec isolates. Phylogenetic analyses suggest different origin of two PPV-Rec isolates in accordance with biological data. If distinct geographical location and different source plant genesis are considered, higher molecular diversity of PPV in Croatia than previously reported is predictable from this first PPV-Rec report.
24332023|Chaetomium globosum is a potential biocontrol agent against various seed and soil-borne pathogens. To ensure proper use of C. globosum in agriculture, accurate data is essential for population monitoring. A PCR-based marker has been developed for detection of this biocontrol agent, which will help to detect the fungus at the place of its application. Out of twelve URP primers tested against 15 isolates of C. globosum and other Chaetomium species, URP 2R amplified a monomorphic band of 1,900 bp only in C. globosum isolates. This amplicon was cloned and sequenced, and based on the sequence obtained, four primer sets were designed, one of which in PCR assays amplified a region (SCAR; SCCgRA) of the expected size (1.9 kb) in C. globosum isolates. The specific marker also detected the presence of C. globosum in soil, roots and leaves. The detection limit of marker in conventional PCR assay was 75 pg. The sensitivity and usefulness of SCAR marker was further enhanced by developing qPCR using the primer set SCCgQF/SCCgQR designed from SCCgRA, which detected as much as 1 pg of DNA (4.8310 copy number of target DNA). The initial population of C. globosum in terms of target DNA in C. globosum-amended soil was equivalent to 2.510 copy number/g soil (0.51 ng target DNA/g soil) which increased approximately 10 times after 15 days of application i.e., 210 copy number/g soil (3.1 ng/g soil). However, with, Bipolaris sorokiniana the quantity of C. globosum target DNA increased slowly reaching 4.3210 copy number/g soil after 15 days. Conventional PCR-based detection using SCAR marker and subsequent qPCR provided a rapid and reliable tool for efficient detection and monitoring of C. globosum at the site of its application.
41999052|In populations of Erysiphe necator, the causal agent of grapevine powdery mildew, two genetic groups have been described, based on several molecular markers. In single vineyards, the two groups seem to occupy different temporal niches, with a temporal alternation that is clear-cut in vineyards intensively treated with chemical fungicides. To shed light on this behaviour, 80 isolates of E. necator from different vineyards and belonging to the two genetic groups were characterized for sensitivity to triadimenol, as representative of sterol demethylation inhibitor fungicides (DMIs). A leaf bioassay and an allele-specific PCR assay were used, based on the point mutation A495T in the CYP51 gene that causes the amino acid change Y136F, associated with high level of resistance to DMIs in E. necator. The CYP51 gene from isolates with different resistance levels was cloned and sequenced. The sensitivity to triadimenol (EC) of isolates of genetic group A was significantly higher than in group B isolates, to which all the moderately and highly resistant isolates belonged. The point mutation A495T was found in the CYP51 gene of isolates showing different levels of resistance, but additional point mutations were found in the same gene. The higher sensitivity to DMIs in group A isolates can be at the basis of their precocious disappearance in vineyards, and can have important implications for powdery mildew control strategies. The molecular basis of E. necator resistance to DMIs was confirmed to be complex and not always associated with the point mutation A495T.
41998797|The Czech collection of garlic genetic resources (648 accessions) was surveyed by DAS-ELISA for the presence of four different viruses, namely Onion yellow dwarf virus, Leek yellow stripe virus, Garlic common latent virus, and Shallot latent virus. All viruses were widespread in the collection with an incidence ranging from 65 to 83% for genotypes and 39 to 61% for plants. Most of the genotypes tested were infected with two to four viruses.
41998089|Pathogenicity of four Armillaria species (A. ostoyae, A. mellea, A. gallica and A. tabescens) was investigated on seedlings and young trees of Quercus cerris, Q. frainetto, Q. ilex, Q. macrolepis, Q. pubescens and Q. trojana in the glasshouse and in the field. The inoculation was made by wounding the main root and inserting a woody inoculum previously colonised by the fungus. Data, related to the evaluation of infection extent and plant decline, were collected one and four years after inoculation. The results were analysed statistically. Although A. mellea and A. gallica proved to be the most virulent species, especially on Q. macrolepis, both seedlings and young trees in most cases recovered. This result confirms the secondary role played by Armillaria in oak decline and suggests oak use for forestation without fear of serious failure due to Armillaria root rot in suitable site conditions.
41998999|The fungal pathogen Bipolaris sorokiniana (Cochliobolus sativus) is the causal agent of severe barley diseases. This study was conducted due to the economic importance of the diseases it induces and the lack of data on its population diversity in Poland. The principal aims of this study were: (i) determination of the intraspecific genetic variability of the pathogen using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis and (ii) assessment of the pathogenicity of 95 B. sorokiniana isolates obtained from different plant parts and cultivars, collected from various locations and cropping systems in 2002-2006. Out of 180 analyzed primers, nine, producing 29 reproducible polymorphic fragments, were retained for RAPD analysis. The UPGMA analysis showed genetic variability among isolates but did not reveal a clear effect of any factor. This suggests that the variation is probably caused by an interaction of various factors. AMOVA showed that geographic origin, cultivation system, cultivar and, in some cases, the plant organ may affect genetic diversity. Pathogenicity tests showed that all isolates were pathogenic to barley seedlings of cv. Justina. ANOVA revealed significant differences in the pathogenicity of the isolates. Most of them showed a higher ability to cause lesions on roots than leaves. There was a negative correlation between the pathogenicity of the isolates towards roots and their weight and no significant correlations between pathogenicity and mycelium morphology or origin of isolates from different plant parts.
23721732|The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of potassium silicate and of the electrical conductivity of nutrient solutions in three experiments against Alternaria japonica attacks to rocket (Eruca vesicaria) grown in a closed soilless system. Potassium silicate was added at 100 mg l-1 of nutrient solution at three different levels of electrical conductivity (EC): 1.5-1.6 mS cm-1 (EC-1), 3-3.2 mS cm-1 (EC-2, 0.70 g l-1 NaCl) and 4-4.2 mS cm-1 (EC-3, 0.95 g l-1 NaCl). Rocket plants were inoculated with A. japonica conidia 18-38 days after sowing or transplant. Electrical conductivity values were negatively correlated with the incidence and severity of the disease, the highest conductivity solution giving the best results. The addition of potassium silicate to the different nutrient solutions resulted in a significant reduction of disease incidence and severity compared with a solution without silicate. The best results were given by the addition of silicate with the highest electrical conductivity (EC-3) in all the trials carried out. The suitability and benefits of applying silicon amendments in practice are discussed.
41997940|Three different agar media were compared on 13 commercial seed samples of sweet basil to detect Fusarium oxysporum. Komada medium shows a restricted growth of many fungi but only F. oxysporum and species within the Liseola section grow slightly faster and sporulate. Most F. oxysporum colonies were recognizable under the stereomicroscope after training. Komada medium was, therefore, chosen for testing. Out of 21 commercial samples, suspected of harbouring the pathogen, 14 resulted infected and 8 internally infected. Five of these latter gave rise, after sowing, to infected plants demonstrating the seed to plant transmission of the inoculum in commercial seeds. Sowing healthy seeds in soil where infected seed lots had previously been sown gave rise to infected plants supporting the role of infected seeds in soil contamination. Isolates of F. oxysporum from basil seeds were tested for pathogenicity. Most isolates tested (88.2%) belong to the f.sp. basilici but some were saprotrophs, in a few cases they represented the only Fusaria present on seeds. A seed health test based on the agar plate method can lead to the refusal of healthy seed lots actually contaminated by saprotrophic F. oxysporum. Artificial inoculations or VCG determination can furnish a correct identification of the pathogen but they are quite time consuming; a molecular identification of the forma specialis is therefore required. Per il reperimento di Fusa rium oxysporum su seme di basilico sono stati confrontad tre mezzi agarizzati su 13 campioni di seme commerciale. Il mezzo di Komada, scelto per le successive analisi, consente una crescita limitata di molti funghi ma solo F. oxysporum ed alcuni Fusarium appartenenti alia sez. Liseola crescono pi velocemente e sporulano. F. oxysporum, con un po' di pratica,  riconoscibile allo stereomicroscopio. Su 21 campioni di seme commerciale, 14 erano infetti ed 8 avevano il patogeno internamente; 5 di questi ultimi hanno dato origine, dopo semina in terreno non sterile, a piantine infette, dimostrando cos la trasmissione per seme del patgeno attraverso l'uso di seme commerciale. Seminando seme sano nello stesso terreno dove erano stati seminad campioni infetti sono state ottenute piante infette dimostrando cos il ruolo del seme nella contaminazione del terreno. Gran parte (88,2%) degli isolati di F. oxysporum provenienti da seme di basilico appartenevano alia f.sp. basilici ma alcuni erano saprotrofi e questi rappresentavano, per alcuni campioni di seme, gli unici F. oxysporum presenti. L'analisi fitosanitaria su mezzo di Komada, portando al riconoscimento di F. oxysporum ma non della forma speciale, pu, quindi, causare la non certificazione di lotti di seme contaminad da forme saprotrofe. Le inoculazioni artificiali o la determinazione del VCG degli isolati possono superare questo probiema ma richiedono tempi lunghi; un mtodo molecolare di identificazione del patogeno sarebbe utile.
41998876|Maize (Zea mays) is one of the most important crops in Poland. Its acreage and production have grown over the last ten years, also thanks to the increasing interest for the bioenergy sector in the country. Maize is used as a source of methanol and biomass, and for fodder. Studies on bacterial infections of maize are plentiful in the world literature, but not in Poland, were only two such reports exist. This prompted the present investigation, in which combined samples from plants growing in different Polish locations were tested. Leaf samples were collected from plants displaying symptoms resembling those of leaf spot disease of maize induced by Pantoea ananatis. Four bacterial isolates were identified as P. ananatis using pathogenicity, biochemical, serological and molecular tests. To our knowledge this is the first report of the presence of the P. ananatis on maize in Poland and in Europe.
41998624|Syrian citrus growing areas (Lattakia and Tartous) were surveyed to assess the distribution of Citrus tristeza virus (CTV) and its vectors. Eight nurseries, two budwood source fields and 19 groves of the main citrus varieties were visually inspected and sampled for laboratory analysis. A total of 89 CTV-infected plants out of 2653 were identified by DTBIA in two nurseries, two budwood source fields and six groves. Based on the reaction with several monoclonal antibodies (MAbs), CTV isolates clustered in 4 serogroups. Only one CTV strain from the sweet orange of cv. Valencia induced severe symptoms on Mexican lime seedlings by grafttransmissions. Hybridization of PCR amplicons from the coat protein gene with a set of strain-specific probes revealed a complex strain mixture. Aphis spiraecola (50%) and A. gossypii (27%) were the most common aphids, whereas no evidence for the presence of Toxoptera citricidus was found.
41998381|Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. lycopersici (FOL) induces wilting in tomato plants (Lycopersicon esculentum). This disease causes large losses and it increases when practices include monoculture or limited crop rotation. Under these conditions, large quantities of tomato plant residues decompose in the field and may affect growth of tomato and FOL and their interactions. Here we show that undecomposed tomato residues are phytotoxic in laboratory and greenhouse bioassays and that leaves are more phytotoxic than roots. During decomposition, phytotoxicity of leaves and roots decreases under aerobic conditions, but increases under anaerobic conditions. On the contrary, FOL radial growth and hyphal density are increased by undecomposed leaves and roots, but decreased with aerobically decomposed plant material. Tomato wilting caused by FOL increased when the soil was amended with undecomposed leaves. Our study shows that, under controlled conditions, undecomposed tomato residues affect the growth of tomato (autotoxic effect) and FOL (substrate effect), by causing an increase in incidence of the disease.
41997925|Pre-treatment of pearl millet seedlings with a suboptimal concentration of the downy mildew pathogen Sclerospora graminicola inoculum induced resistance that protected plants (62%) from subsequent infection by the optimal concentration of the pathogen. Prior inoculation apart from offering protection, enhanced vegetative and reproductive growth parameters of induced resistant plants. Studies on resistance induction in different cultivars of pearl millet suggested that the resistance achieved was independent of the cultivar and not related to its constitutive resistance. Increase of -1,3-glucanase and peroxidase activity was associated with resistance induction in pearl millet. Il pretrattamento di plantule di miglio perlato con una concentrazione subottimale di inoculo di Sclerospora graminicola ha indotto resistenza che ha protetto le piante (62%) dalle infezioni successive causate da concentrazioni ottimali del patogeno. L'inoculazione preventiva, indipendentemente dalPoffrire protezione, ha aumentato i parametri di crescita vegetativa e riproduttiva delle piante indotte. Studi sull'induzione di resistenza su cultivars diverse di miglio perlato hanno suggerito che la resistenza acquisita era indipendente dalla cultivar e che non era correlata alla propria resistenza costitutiva. L'incremento dell'attivit perossidasica e -1,3-glucanasica  stato associato all'induzione di resistenza in miglio perlato.
23721736|Isatis indigotica Fort. is a widely used Chinese medicinal herb. Root rot disease, induced by Fusarium solani f. sp glyeine, causes severe yield losses of this crop in northern China. In order to gain an insight into the response mechanism of tetraploid I. indigotica to F. solani infection, a subtractive suppression hybridization (SSH) cDNA library was constructed. SSH was performed with cDNA from I. indigotica root inoculated by water as the "driver" and by F. solani as the "tester". A total of 160 clones in the SSH library were sequenced and found to represent 25 unigenes. BLASTX results reveal that 19 cDNAs had significant sequence similarity with known sequences in the NCBI database. The identified cDNAs encode proteins involved in cellular processes such as primary metabolism, signal transduction, defense and responses to pathogen, stress and transcription. Eight genes among those identified by the screening were selected for semi-quantitative RT-PCR to confirm the SSH result. The diversity of the putative functions of these genes indicates that infection of F. solani results in a complex response in I. indigotica plants.
41997901|Pear trees with proliferation and decline symptoms were sampled in orchards in Hungary. We describe the results obtained with different approaches in detecting phytoplasmas associated with the symptoms. Analyses with primers designed on ribosomal and non-ribosomal DNA sequences and the restriction profiles of the amplified products revealed the presence of phytoplasmas belonging to the apple proliferation group. This appears to be the first report on the presence of mixed infections of apple proliferation and pear decline phytoplasmas in diseased pear trees in Hungary. Campioni di pero con sintomi di deperimento sono stati collezionati in Ungheria. Nel presente layoro vengono riportati i risultati ottenuti impiegando differenti tecniche molecolari per rilevare e caratterizzare i fitoplasmi associati alia sintomatologia. L'impiego della PCR e dell'analisi dei profili di restrizione enzlmatica hanno permesso di assegnare al gruppo dendrologico  Apple Proliferation  ifitoplasmi present nei tessuti di pero saggiati.  questa la prima segnalazione di infezione mista di fitoplasmi della proliferazione del melo e della moria del pero in peri infetti in Ungheria.
41998503|The interaction between mineral nutrients and foliar diseases is an important factor affecting grain yield and quality of cereal crops. This study was conducted to investigate the effect of blast disease (Pyricularia oryzae Cav.) on nitrogen accumulation and remobilization to grain of rice plants (Oryza sativa L.), and to assess the possible nitrogen losses occurring between anthesis and maturity in response to disease stress in the field. Four rice cultivars with various levels of susceptibility to blast disease were grown in 2003 and 2004 under high and low disease pressure, achieved by early inoculation with the blast fungus and by natural infection, respectively. Inoculation affected the overall nitrogen metabolism of rice plants and in most cases the effect was proportional to disease pressure. High disease pressure increased the tissue nitrogen concentration and the total nitrogen content, but decreased the proportion of aboveground nitrogen that was partitioned to the grain. Post anthesis nitrogen accumulation was lower in inoculated plants, and therefore, their grain filling depended more on the existing nitrogen reserves stored in vegetative parts compared to the non-inoculated plants. Nitrogen translocation was higher in inoculated than non-inoculated plants, mainly due to the greater amount of translocation available nitrogen rather than to the higher efficiency of nitrogen translocation. The great amount of nitrogen accumulated until anthesis by the inoculated plants, in combination with the low grain demands for nitrogen, due to their lower grain yield, resulted in higher nitrogen losses between anthesis and maturity.
41998760|Stone fruit and nut production in Europe is limited by increasingly severe losses caused by bacterial diseases. Crown gall caused by tumorigenic Agrobacterium spp. is one of the most dangerous diseases for nursery production of these and many other plants. In many countries, tumorigenic agrobacteria are considered as quality pathogens. The infection process differs from that of other plant pathogenic bacteria and has a genetic character. Bacteria causing tumors create a very heterogeneous group of strains classified to different species and biovars. Additionally, several strains which may represent separate, hitherto unrecognised taxa are described. The diversity of agrobacteria is observed at the phenotypic as well as at the genetic level. In the later case, high diversity of both chromosomal and plasmid DNA was found. The economic significance of crown gall and the different aspects of diversity of its causal agent are discussed in this review.
41998436|Vertical transmission of Plum pox virus (PPV) was investigated in seeds collected from three plum (Prunus domestica L.) cultivars infected with PPV-M, one apricot (Prunus armeniaca L.) cultivar infected with PPV-Rec and Prunus mahaleb L. The virus strains were identified before the beginning of the study. The presence of PPV in mature seeds and their parts, as well as in germinating seeds and seedlings was detected by ELISA. The highest percentage of infected whole seeds was registered in cv. Tuleu timpuriu (32%), followed by cvs Stanley (26%), Modesto (24%), and Valjevka (14%). The lowest infection rate was detected in P. mahaleb (11%). In the Prunus cultivars under study, PPV was detected in 19% to 35% of the seed coats and in 5% to 23% of the cotyledons. None of the embryonic axes was PPV-positive. In germinating seeds, PPV was detected in up to 34% of the seed coats and in up to 8.3% of the cotyledons. The virus was. not identified in radicles and plumules. Up to now, all planted seedlings originating from seeds of plum cvs Tuleu tumpuriu, Stanley and Valjevka infected by PPV-M, and from seeds of apricot cv. Modesto infected with PPV-Rec, remained symptomless and reacted negatively with an antiserum to PPV.
41997879|The impact of infection by cucumber mosaic cucumovirus (CMV) and watermelon mosaic 2 potyvirus (WMV-2) on melon production was analyzed in an important melon growing area in central Spain. Melon plants of the traditional variety 'Piel de Sapo' were inoculated in an experimental plot with CMV, WMV-2 or CMV + WMV-2 before flowering, between flowering and first fruit set, and after first fruit set. The plot was managed and harvested as usual in the area, and values for standard production components were determined. The impact of virus infection was high for early infections before flowering, leading to a production loss of 50%. Infections between flowering and first fruit set resulted in a loss of 26%. Later infections had no effect on production. Early virus infection also affected quality parameters, but within the range of values accepted as good quality. Early CMV infection affected several production components and had a larger effect on melon production (-60%) than WMV-2 infection (-30%), which only affected the number of fruits per plant. These data will be useful in developing control strategies for virus diseases in melon crops in central Spain. Gli effetti di infezioni del virus del mosaico del cetriolo (CMV = cucumber mosaic cucumovirus) e del mosaico del cocomero 2 (WMV-2 = watermelon mosaic 2 potyvirus) sulla produzione di meloni sono stati valutati in una importante regione produttrice della Spagna centrale. Piante di melone della tradizionale variet 'Piel de Sapo' sono state inoculate in campi sperimentali con CMV, WMV-2 o CMV+WMV-2 prima della fioritura, tra la fioritura e l'allegagione del primo fiore e dopo l'allegagione del primo fiore. La coltura  stata gestita secondo la normale prassi colturale, compresi i criteri per la raccolta, e sono stati determinad i valori delle componenti della produzione. Gli effetti deirinfezione virale sono stati particolarmente sensibili per le infezioni effettuate prima della fioritura, portando ad una riduzione di produzione del 50%. Le infezioni effettuate tra la fioritura e l'allegagione del primo palco hanno portato ad una riduzione del 26% mentre le infezioni pi tardive non hanno avuto effetti sulla produzione. Infezioni precoci influenzano anche la qualit consentendo, comunque, di classificare la produzione come di buona qualit.  interessante notare come infezioni precoci di CMV influenzino diverse componenti della produzione causando perdite pi gravi (-60%) di quelle dovute al WMV-2 (-30%) il quale influenza solamente il numero di frutti per pianta. Questi risultati saranno utili per la messa a punto di Strategie per la difesa da infezioni virali nella Spagna centrale.
41998934|Frosty pod rot of cocoa, induced by Moniliophthora roreri. has become the principal parasitic limitation for cocoa production in Tabasco (Mexico), which has prompted studies on its temporal progress and management. The temporal progress was desumed from estimation of the percentage of diseased fruits in three fruit flushes in the production cycle of 2008-09, whereas a regional management was compared with an Integrated Crop Management (ICM) in two systems of shade (50 and 70%). Three epidemics occurred from May 2008 to April 2009 with crop losses of over 70%. The epidemics occurred during 11 consecutive months associated with cool temperature (20-26.9C) and relative humidity (higher than 90%) 49 days prior to the appearance of the symptoms. The ICM treatment with 50% shade showed a protection effectiveness of 90%. The reduction of shade to 50% alone reduced the incidence of frosty pod rot by 20%. The results suggest the convenience of independent management of the epidemics and the advantage of the following integrated control measures in each of the three fruit flush periods: weekly removal of diseased fruits, pruning of lateral and internal branches, reduction of tree height to 4 m, total elimination of fruits in low production period (purge), treatment of eliminated fruits and harvested litter with 15% urea, a single application with Azoxystrobin (250 g a.i./ha) to fruits under two months of age, and after it, three monthly sprays with copper hydroxide (1500 g a.i./ha). Additionally, weed control and improvement of soil drainage were implemented in both ICM and regional treatments.
41998815|Bacterial wilt is an important disease of tomatoes and peppers, causing plant death and significant yield losses. Control methods include use of resistant varieties, crop rotation, etc. Biological control is desirable because control with other methods gives variable results. This paper describes the effectiveness of microbial antagonists isolated from soils. Of 73 isolated antagonists, eight were screened and evaluated in vitro and in vivo against Ralstonia solanacearum. They all significantly reduced disease symptoms. The effects of carbon and nitrogen source, incubation temperature and broth culture pH were evaluated for production of inhibitory substances. Results indicated that the optima were sucrose 2.5% (w/v), peptone 2% (w/v), temperature 28C, and initial medium pH of 7. Three antagonists isolated from soil (Bacillus megaterium, Enterobacter cloacae, Pichia guillermondii) and Candida ethanolica showed high potential for disease suppression and also increased fruit weight, biomass and plant height. These results provide encouragement for continued research on biological control of bacterial wilt by antagonistic isolates from soil.
41998792|Studies were carried out in Brazil to study the inheritance of tolerance to Zucchini yellow mosaic virus (ZYMV) in cucumber cv. Formosa. This cultivar was individually crossed with two cucumber lines from different varietal types (Lb from a Brazilian type, and Lj from a Japanese type), both susceptible to the virus. Two experiments, one for each line, were separately carried out, where 6 treatments (parents, generations FI, F2 and F1BC1 for both parents) were evaluated in a randomized block design with 5 repetitions. Cotyledons of 2-week-old cucumber seedlings were inoculated with ZYMV. Only the plants that did not show symptoms up to 63 days post inoculation were considered as tolerant. A chi-square (X) analysis for assessing segregation from F2 and both F1BC1, led to the conclusion that the tolerance found in cv. Formosa is determined by a recessive gene.
41998549|During late 2005, a severe phytoplasma-like disease was observed in the Persian buttercup hybrid cv. Pauline in two commercial greenhouses in Southern Italy. Early symptoms consisted of growth abnormalities and shoot proliferation followed by decline, whereas at the flowering stage virescence and phyllody prevailed. The presence in diseased samples of a Candidatus Phytoplasma asteris-related strain, belonging to the 16SrI-B subgroup was demonstrated by PCR-RFLP and phylogenetic analysis. The same phytoplasma was also identified in two batches of ten individuals of Empoasca decipens collected during field surveys, but a Ca. P. aurantifolia-related strain was detected in a third batch of the same leafhopper species. Possible infection pathways for the disease in ranuculus and the risk linked to the new report of a 16SrII-B phytoplasma in Italy are discussed.
41998998|A total of 1116 grapevine accessions from 14 different Croatian domestic cultivars were tested for the presence of Grapevine virus B (GVB) by DASI-ELISA. Samples were taken from 51 commercial vineyards in the Dalmatian region. GVB was detected in 35 samples (3.14%) of nine cultivars namely: Dobricic, Mladenka Vlaka, Nincua, Babic, Plavac mali, Maratina, Poip and Vugava. The presence of GVB was further confirmed by molecular and biological assays. RT-PCR conducted on 14 ELISA-positive samples using the primer pair H28/C410 confirmed the serological data. Partial nucleotide sequences of the coat protein and putative RNA binding protein cistrons were generated for the virus isolates from the nine cultivars and compared with each other and other sequenced GVB. Isolates. Analyses showed sequence variation among the Croatian GVB isolates: they shared 81.3-99.5% similarity or 79.8-83.9% similarity with the GVB reference isolate deposited in GenBank. Deduced amino acid sequences of the partial putative RNA-binding protein gene shared between 80.5 and 100% identity within Croatian isolates and 83.2-86.7% with reference isolate. Fourteen GVB-positive samples were selected for further biological characterization by mechanical inoculation onto a range of herbaceous hosts. Symptoms induced on herbaceous hosts varied according to the isolate. In most cases, GVB isolates from domestic Croatian cultivars induced chlorotic spots and/or vein banding in Nicotiana occidentalis and N. cavicola. However, in some cases, symptoms observed in these two hosts included also necrotic local lesions followed by yellowing, deformation and rolling/curling. To the best of our knowledge this is the first report of GVB in Croatia.
41998147|A virus with isometric particles ca. 30 nm in diameter and angular contour was recovered by mechanical transmission from a grapevine with fanleaf-like symptoms growing at Nevsheir (Cappadocia, Turkey). In sucrose density gradient centrifugation this virus (laboratory code: isolate N66) sedimented as three components, T (empty shells), M, and B, both of which consisted of apparently intact particles. Virus preparations contained two RNA species with mol. wt. 2.6.10 Da (RNA-1) and 1.3.10 Da (RNA-2). The coat protein (CP) subunits were of a single type with Mr of c. 53,000. An antiserum with a titre of 1:1024 was raised, which did not react with healthy plant antigens. A fragment 1,175 nt in size from the 3' terminal region of RNA-2 was sequenced, which comprised part of the CP cistron. Comparison analysis with GenBank sequences from the same region revealed variable levels of homology with other grapevine nepoviruses, the closest being Arabis mosaic virus (ArMV, 69% identity at the amino acid level) and Grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV, 58% identity at the amino acid level), both belonging in subgroup A of the genus Nepovirus. Based on the determined sequence, specific primers were designed, which in RT-PCR assays amplified a 240 bp fragment from grapevine crude tissue extracts. The physicochemical properties of isolate N66 and the cytopathology of infected Chenopodium amaranticolor tissues resembled very much those of nepoviruses. In gel double diffusion tests isolate N66 proved serologically unrelated to 16 different nepoviruses. A distant positive reaction was obtained with ArMV in immunodiffusion (serological differentiation index = 4) and immunoelectron microscopy tests and when leaf extracts from infected grapevines or C. quinoa were tested in ELISA with commercial antisera to ArMV. These results support the notion that isolate N66 is a hitherto undescribed virus species belonging in subgroup A of the genus Nepovirus, serologically related to but distinct from ArMV, for which the name Grapevine deformation virus (GDefV) is proposed.
41997930|Alfalfa mosaic virus (AMV) is of sporadic occurrence in tomato crops. More recently, important epidemics caused by AMV have been reported in fieldgrown canning tomatoes in southern Italy. Since no lines or commercial varieties resistant to AMV are available, we have studied the inheritance of resistance to this virus, derived from the accession of Lycopersicon hirsutum f. glabratum PI 134417. A necrogenic tomato isolate of AMV was used as source of inoculum. Visual observations of symptoms and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were used to screen plants after mechanical inoculation. All the F tested were resistant while the segregation ratios of F and BC generations were consistent with a simple dominant inheritance. We propose tentatively to name this gene Am. Negli ultimi anni sono state segnalate numerose epidemie causate dal virus del mosaico dell'erba medica (AMV) in colture di pomodoro da industria nel sud dell'Italia. Attualmente non  disponibile nessuna linea o variet commerciale di pomodoro resistente a tale virus. Il presente lavoro riporta i risultati relativi all studio dell'eredit della resistenza a taie virus derivata dall'accessione di Lycopersicon hirsutum f. glabratum PI 134417. A taie scopo  stato utilizzato corne fonte di inoculo un isolato di AMV necrogenico su pomodoro. Le piante inoculate meccanicamente sono state valutate per la resistenza mediante saggi ELISA ed osservazioni dei sintomi. Tutte le piante F sono risultate resistenti mentre i rapporti di segregazione ottenuti nelle generazioni F e BC erano in accordo con un eredit monogenica dominante. Per tale gene  stato proposto il simbolo Am.
41998681|Kenaf (Hibiscus cannabinus L.) is a malvaceous bast fibre crop and the most promising source of "tree-free" newsprint in the world. For the last few years a begomovirus associated leaf curl disease of kenaf, characterized by upward leaf curling and stunted growth, has been observed at different locations in India. In this study biological and molecular analyses of kenaf leaf curl disease-associated begomovirus isolates collected from three different locations were carried out. Whitefly transmission efficiency was different for the three geographical isolates which possessed very narrow host ranges. Except kenaf, the isolates from northern India could not infect other experimental hosts studied. Cloning and sequencing of the complete genomes of these isolates revealed the presence of three different monopartite begomoviruses. In eastern and southern India Mesta yellow vein mosaic virus (MeYVMV) and Tomato leaf curl Joydebpur virus (ToLCJV) were associated with the disease, respectively, while in northern India a new begomovirus species was involved, tentatively named Kenaf leaf curl virus (KLCuV). Nucleic acid spot hybridization tests using non-radiolabeled probes developed against these viruses detected the presence of begomoviruses from symptomatic samples collected from the fields at the different locations.
24332227|The efficacy of the novel potassium bicarbonate formulation Karma (Certis Europe) for controlling Penicillium decay of orange fruit was tested. In vitro trials were carried out by amending potato dextrose agar (PDA) medium with different Karma concentrations, thereby revealing a complete inhibition of Penicillium digitatum P. italicum, and P. ulaiense growth at 0.3, 0.3, and 0.2% (w/v), respectively. In vivo trials using dipping and spraying application strategies were conducted on Valencia late and Tarocco, two sweet orange cultivars with different degrees of susceptibility to Penicillium rot. Fruit treated with unformulated potassium bicarbonate (PB) or water served as controls. When applied by dipping, Karma and PB at 3% significantly reduced the incidence of Penicillium decay of cv. Valencia late oranges, i.e. by 79 and 31%, respectively. On the other hand, when applied by spraying, 6% Karma and PB were needed to completely inhibit decay incidence. On cv. Tarocco oranges, Karma and PB applied at 3% by dipping reduced the percentage of Penicillium decay, by a significant 87 and 68%, respectively. However, when applied by spraying at 6%, no difference was observed between the two treatments. Overall, Karma performed better than PB in controlling Penicillium rots and dipping proved to be the best application strategy.
24722540|Populations of the potato and tomato late blight pathogen from different regions of the European part of Russia were studied for their genotypic structure and metalaxyl resistance. The majority of the studied populations showed a high genotypic diversity, i.e. strains of A1 and A2 mating types, Ia and IIa mitochondrial DNA haplotypes, and different genotypes at Pep1 and Pep2 loci were identified. The highest genotypic diversity was registered among P. infestans populations from the North Caucasus, Mariy El Republic, and the Moscow region. The obtained data confirm a high probability of crossing and hybridization within the most part of the field populations of P. infestans from the European part of Russia. Most of the studied populations included strains with high and low metalaxyl resistance, the incidence of resistant strains depending on the use of metalaxyl-containing fungicides.
41997898|Cultivars and differential genotypes of muskmelon were artificially inoculated with isolates belonging to the physiological races 0, 1,2, 1-2y and 1-2w of Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. melonis and 31 isolates of the same/or ma specialis from northern Italy. The results showed that: cultivars 'Aril', 'Delada' and 'Supermarket' can be used in pathogenicity tests instead of the differential genotypes because they have the same reaction to infection; the best separation of fungal isolates into the five races was achieved thirty days after inoculation, when almost all the plants of the susceptible cultivar had been affected; multivariate statistical analyses (i.e. cluster and discriminant analyses) assign isolates more reliably to the right race than the empirical criteria commonly used. Cultivar e genotipi differenziali di melone son stati inoculati artificialmente con isolati delle razze fisiologiche 0, 1, 2, 1-2y e 1-2w e con 31 isolati di Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. melonis provenienti dall'Italia settentrionale. I risultati ottenuti hanno mostrato che: le cultivar "Aril", "Delada" e "Supermarket" possono essere impiegate nelle prove di patogenicit in sostituzione dei genotipi differenziali, in quanto mostrano la stessa reazione alle infezioni; la migliore attribuzione degli isolati fungini alle cinque razze  stata ottenuta dopo trenta giorni dalPinoculazione, quando quasi tutte le piante della cultivar suscettibile sono risultate affette; analisi statistiche multivariate ("cluster analysis" e analisi discriminante) possono essere impiegate per attribuire un isolato fungino alla giusta razza fisiolgica con una maggior attendibilit rispetto ai criteri empirici normalmente adottati.
41998465|Heat stress and spot blotch disease are most important stresses in non-traditional tropical wheat-growing areas causing significant yield losses and covering more than twenty five million hectares of land worldwide. These two stresses are supposed to be associated complicating development of tolerant genotypes. The current study was done with the objective of assessing potential application of canopy temperature depression (CTD) as an integrative trait for screening spot blotch resistance and heat stress tolerance. Ten genetically diverse genotypes with different level of resistance to spot blotch were grown both heat stressed (late sowing) and non-stressed (timely sowing) field conditions during 2002-2003 at Rampur and Bhairahawa, Nepal. Canopy temperature was measured during the different growth stages in fungicide protected and non protected plots using a hand held infrared thermometer and was used to calculate CTD and Area Under CTD Progress Curve (AUCTDPC). A strong negative correlation was observed between AUDPC per day and AUCTDPC (r = -0.72**) indicating that foliar blight susceptibility has important role in decreasing AUCTDPC. Genetic differences were observed for both spot blotch resistance and heat stress tolerance, so that genotypes could be categorized into tolerant to either one or both stresses based on AUCTDPC and AUDPC per day readings. AUCTDPC proved to be an integrative trait for both types of stresses and has promise for further application in selection of stress tolerant genotypes in tropical environments.
41998329|The impact of incorporation of onion, broccoli or carrot crop residues, followed by soil solarization and by incorporation of chicken manure-Trichoderma harzianum (Ch-T) at garlic planting, on sclerotium density and viability of Sclerotium cepivorum, white rot incidence and garlic yield was evaluated in the field in a 3  3  2 factorial arrangement. Planting and incorporation of broccoli significantly reduced sclerotium density and viability (53 and 14%, respectively) and increased the yield of garlic (18%) compared with incorporation of onion (control). Soil solarization significantly reduced inoculum density (75%), viability (84%) and disease incidence (88%), and increased garlic yield by up to 152%, compared with non-solarized treatments. Incorporation of broccoli in combination with soil solarization was the strategy, which gave the greatest reduction in sclerotium density and viability, the lowest white rot incidence, and the highest yield of garlic.
24332210|Chlorophyll fluorescence, UV-induced fluorescence and reflectance signals of grapevine leaf tissue naturally infected by Plasmopara viticola were inspected in three susceptible grapevine cultivars (Cabernet Sauvignon, Pinot Blanc and Pinot Gris). Distribution of FV/FM parameter over the leaf was found to be effective to discriminate symptomatic and asymptomatic leaf tissue. Reduction of FV/FM parameter 25% was found in all infected leaf spots. Infected leaves also expressed significantly changed chlorophyll fluorescence induction kinetics expressing much slower electron transport rate on donor and acceptor site of photosystem II. Symptomatic leaves emitted high fluorescence signal under UV excitation 320 nm, centered at 395 nm, emanated mainly from highly fluorescent compound 2,4,6-trihydroxyphenanthrene-2-O-glucoside. Increase of this compound was found in all inspected grapevine varieties, while its concentration was strongly dependent on resveratrol concentration. Concentration of trans-resveratrol ranged in asymptomatic leaves from 0.1gg (CS) to 0.2gg (PB, PG). Highest increase of trans-resveratrol in infected leaf tissue was found in PB (4.4gg), followed by CS (1.6gg) and PG (1.1gg). 2,4,6-trihydroxyphenanthrene-2-O-glucoside concentrations varied from 0.41 (PB), 0.75 (PG) to 1.01gg (CS) in asymptomatic leaves, since its concentration rapidly increase with severity of infection [71.09 (PB), 79.37 (PG), and 26.14 gg (CS)]. Reflectance vegetation indices SRI R/R, (RR)/ (RR) and CRI were the most powerful to follow changes in chlorophylls and carotenoids contents under Plasmopara viticola infection. Infected leaves also exhibited lower chlorophyll a (50%) and carotenoids (70%) content. Combination of these optical signals can be used as an effective, non-invasive tool for an early detection of Plasmopara viticola in field.
41998219|Nanobiotransducers are biomolecules linked to nanostructures with the ability to generate a physical signal upon the occurrence of a molecular event of biological interest. In this paper we report the use of a diagnostic probe made of a specific oligonucleotide bearing a fluorescein at its 5'end and a 2 nm gold particle at its 3'end, which acts as a quencher. The nanobiotransducer performs as a molecular beacon and emits a stronger fluorescence signal when hybridised to target DNA. The advantage over conventional molecular beacons is that this approach does not require any sequence constraint, because the proximity between the emitter and the quencher is due to the physical adsorption of the fluorophore on gold and not to the formation of DNA hairpins. The probe was used to confirm the identity of PCR amplifications obtained from DNA extracted from grapevine plants affected by flavescence dore. The nanobiotransducer detected all positive samples, although the quantitative results were not in strict agreement with the densitometry values obtained in parallel slot-blot membrane hybridisation experiments carried out with a biotin-labelled probe. This appears to be the first report of the use of a nanobiotransducer for the detection of an infectious agent in field samples.
41998311|Phytoplasmas are cell wall-less prokaryotes that exist as obligate parasites and pathogens of insect vectors and plants. In their descent from walled ancestors in the Bacillus/Clostridium group, phytoplasmas evolved some of the smallest known bacterial genomes. In this study, we cloned and sequenced nusA transcription factor gene sequences from clover phyllody (CPh) and other phytoplasmas and from Acholeplasma palmae, a nonphytopathogenic wall-less bacterium. The CPh nusA gene was flanked at its 5'-end by a hypothetical protein gene and smpB (small protein B), and at its 3'-end by a hypothetical protein gene that may be coordinately regulated with nusA and infB (translation initiation factor). The predicted 357-aa NusA protein of CPh phytoplasma was significantly smaller than those of Mycoplasma spp. and similar in size to NusA of Clostridium spp., Bacillus spp., and A. palmae. A phylogenetic tree based on NusA proteins indicated that phytoplasmal and acholeplasmal nusA genes diverged from a common ancestor. Amplification and RFLP analysis of nusA gene sequences, and phylogenetic analysis of NusA proteins indicated that use of nusA may assist in detection and differentiation of distinct lineages within group 16SrI, ' Candidatus Phytoplasma asteris'-related strains.
41998008|Seed transmission of Citrus psorosis virus (CPsV) was investigated in mandarin cv. 'Grosso di Puglia' and in the Egyptian sour orange cv. 'Baladi'. Seeds collected from infected mandarin trees were subdivided into two lots, one of which was exposed to a hot water treatment (10 min at 52 C) followed by a fungicide treatment before testing by DASI-ELISA. In non-treated seeds, CPsV antigen was detected in seed coats (56.0% mean positive samples) and peeled seeds (7.5% mean positive samples). Detection rates were lower in treated seeds, i.e. an average of 16.0% positive seed coat samples and 3.0% positive peeled seed samples. None of 690 'Grosso di Puglia' mandarin and 202 'Baladi' sour orange seedlings obtained from treated and untreated seeds reacted positively in ELISA and no psorosis symptoms were observed in glasshouse-grown seedlings, nor were expressed by Dweet tangor grafted on 50 of these seedlings.
24332218|Representative isolates of Rhizoctonia solani AG1-IA associated with rice sheath blight obtained from North Vietnam were characterized using rep-PCR fingerprinting and ITS-5.8S rDNA sequencing. For rep-PCR assays primers ERIC2 and BOXA1R were used. Sequences of these isolates were aligned with other known R. solani sequences from the GenBank. Rep-PCR analysis revealed that two genotypes (Rep-Vet1 and Rep-Vet2) were present based on the fingerprinting dendrograms having the similarity coefficient score at 75% differentiation. The two clonal populations were scattered and had different geographical localizations in North Vietnam.
41998833|Two double stranded RNA (dsRNA) segments, ca. 1.7 and 2.0 kbp in length, were extracted from leaf tissues of a pittosporum plant (Pittosporum tobira), infected by the nucleorhabdovirus Eggplant mottled dwarf virus (EMDV), which showed yellowing, chlorotic vein banding and mottling of the leaves. DOP-PCR products obtained using denatured dsRNA preparations as template showed high sequence similarity to viruses of the family Partitiviridae. Computer-assisted analysis of a sequenced 676 bp fragment showed it to be part of an RdRp gene with high identity at the amino acid level with comparable gene fragments of different alphacryptoviruses, i.e Pepper cryptic virus 1 (PCV-1, 78%), Black raspberry cryptic virus (BRCV, 67%), Pyrus pyrifolia virus (PpV, 64%) and Beet cryptic virus 3 (BCV-3, 58%). In a phylogenetic tree constructed with partial RdRp amino acid sequences, the pittosporum virus grouped with species of the genus Alphacryptovirus and unassigned viruses of the family Partitiviridae. RT-PCR with specific primers designed based on the RdRp sequence detected the virus in 2 of 50 pittosporum plants, both showing chlorotic vein banding symptoms, differing from the vein yellowing induced by EMDV alone. The present results show that pittosporum hosts a putative alphacryptovirus for which the name of Pittosporum cryptic virus 1 (PiCV-1) is proposed.
41998353|Phytophthora is a genus of plant pathogens responsible for severe damage to crops, natural vegetation and forestry worldwide. Accurate detection, diagnosis and species identification is fundamental to disease management, clear scientific communication and the statutory measures to prevent pathogen spread and yet this often proves challenging. Many serious disease problems have emerged in recent years, often associated with previously undescribed Phytophthora species and damaging plants in both commercial production systems and natural ecosystems. Many advances in DNA-based molecular diagnostics and DNA sequencing have been made recently that increased our ability to accurately detect and characterise Phytophthoras. However, there is a continual need for improvement and an increasing interest in a broader monitoring of Phytophthora species in natural ecosystems to get a better feel for their distribution and impact through understanding their ecology. This review examines the technical advances in the field and the rationale for such studies on Phytophthora.
24331978|Apple stem pitting virus (ASPV), Apple stem grooving virus (ASGV), Apple chlorotic leaf spot virus (ACLSV) and Apple mosaic virus (ApMV) are common in apples and pears and the main targets of virus elimination from propagation material. The objective of this work was to design primers and probes for a real time RT-PCR protocol for detection of the four above viruses. FAM/TAMRA-labeled probes and primers were designed by searching for highly conserved nucleotide regions in the coat protein gene of the four viruses. Infection levels in analyzed apple samples were 92.6, 96.4, 100 and 88% for ASGV, ASPV, ACLSV and ApMV, respectively. In pears, all pre-existing ASPV infections were detected. Viral infections were confirmed in a selection of commercial cultivars of apples and pear scions, and quince rootstocks, demonstrating the sensitivity and reliability of the designed primers and probes. Real time RT-PCR using 5-labeled probes is suitable for checking sanitary quality as a routine test in certification programs.
23721587|Whiteflies and whitefly-borne viruses are major constraints to the production of tomato and sweet pepper both in field and greenhouses settings. Limited data exist about the epidemiological factors related to these pests and pathogens for greenhouse production in Costa Rica. The aim of this study was to determine the incidence of Tomato chlorosis virus (ToCV) and its vector Trialeurodes vaporariorum in tomato and sweet pepper grown in greenhouses in the Cartago province. Results showed that both vector and virus are widespread across all the greenhouses in the province. Detection of ToCV in several weeds shows its adaptation to this type of environment. Possible evidence for genetic differentiation between T. vaporariorum populations is presented.
23721583|Bacteria belonging to Pectobacterium and Dickeya spp. (previously known as pectinolytic Erwinia spp.) cause soft rot diseases in a great variety of crops worldwide, particularly in potato, tomato, maize, and ornamental plants and other hosts. Infections by these pathogens may lead to severe economic losses to the crops, partially due to the lack of effective detection/identification tools and incomplete knowledge of their behavior in the environment. Since 2005, an increase in blackleg and soft rot diseases of potato has been observed in Europe due to the appearance of the new genetic clade of Dickeya spp. provisionally named 'Dickeya solani'. This pathogen is more aggressive in most cases than bacteria of the Pectobacterium species and cause plant tissue maceration under a wide range of conditions. The present study provides a simple and reliable three-step PCR-based method for rapid differentiation of 'D. solani' isolates from other Dickeya spp. and Pectobacterium spp. Bacterial isolates are classified as Dickeya spp. on the basis of the PCR reaction with Dickeya spp. specific primers. Isolates identified positively as Dickeya spp. are tested by PCR for the presence of recA with the primers universal for bacteria of the former genus Erwinia. The PCR product is then digested with Xbal restriction endonuclease. The differentiation of 'D. solani' is based on the presence of a unique Xbal restriction site in the 'D. solani' recA gene that is absent in the recA sequences of other Dickeya species.
41998410|List of experimental studies that applied organic matter amendments for the control of population and/or disease caused by soilborne fungal and oomycete plant pathogens. Asterisks indicate the studies that assessed only the effecton pathogen populations. Studies are ordered for pathogen, organic matter type and reference, respectively.
41998210|Eight RAPD amplicons selected previously as specific for isolates belonging to the "flag shoot" or the "ascospore" biotypes of Erysiphe necator were purified, cloned and sequenced. Thirty-seven SCAR (Sequence Characterised Amplified Region) primers were designed on the obtained sequences and tested for their specificity. Two pairs (UnE-UnF and F6-F6a) were specific for E. necator and effectively distinguished the two biotypes. Both primer pairs were tested on 374 E. necator isolates (83 "flag shoot" and 291 "ascospore"), already characterized by RAPD analysis, confirming their specificity and corroborating previous results. The primers are now being used to assess the biological significance and epidemiological role of the two biotypes in E. necator populations.
24331953|Xylella fastidiosa has recently been identified in the Apulian province of Lecce (south-eastern Italy) in olive trees affected by a devastating disease denoted Olive Quick Decline Syndrome (OQDS), that appeared suddenly in 2010. Symptoms of OQDS consist of withering and desiccation of scattered terminal shoots, which rapidly expands to the rest of the canopy, and results in the collapse and death of the tree. The identification of X. fastidiosa in OQDS-affected trees represents the first confirmed detection of this bacterium in the European Union (EU), but its exact role in the aetiology of this disease is yet to be determined. Since X. fastidiosa is a regulated quarantine pathogen in the EU, upon request of the Apulian Plant Protection Service, surveys were initiated in order to delineate the contaminated area. To this effect, diagnostic protocols based on ELISA and conventional PCR for X. fastidiosa detection in olive samples were compared and validated via an interlaboratory ring-test in which three accredited laboratories, all located in Italy, participated. Both procedures proved to be equally effective but, due to the simplicity of sample preparation, ELISA was chosen for the large-scale X. fastidiosa monitoring programme now in progress.
41999037|Understanding the impact of environmental factors favouring natural niches of plant pathogens is a key component toward designing efficient management strategies. Rhizopus stolonifer (Ehrenb.:Fr.) Vuill. and Gilbertella persicaria (E.D. Eddy) Hesseltine are two economically important pathogens that are commonly associated in simultaneous infections of many stone and pome fruits. The ability of R. stolonifer and G. pesicaria to assimilate diverse carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) sources and the effect of pH and the interaction temperature/water potential () on their conidial germination and growth were investigated. The fungi were grown on a liquid medium containing D-glucose, sucrose, fructose, maltose, or raffinose as C sources and urea, NHNO, NaNO, glycine, or glutamine as N sources. The biomass production of R. stolonifer was the greatest when sucrose and fructose were used as C sources, respectively, whereas biomass production of G. persicaria was greater on fructose and glucose than on other sources. Glutamine and sodium nitrite (NaNO) used as N sources yielded the highest biomass for R. stolonifer and G. persicaria, respectively. Sporangiospore germination and mycelial growth of R. stolonifer and G. persicaria were optimal between pH 3 and 10 and were totally inhibited at pH < 2.5. The two fungi were affected by the interaction of temperature and . Both R. stolonifer and G. persicaria were sensitive to low temperatures (< 10C) and were completely inhibited at  levels of -17 and -18.3, respectively. The nutrients utilization, pH, and   temperature profiles for sporangiospore germination and mycelial growth were to some extent similar between the two species corroborating that R. stolonifer and G. persicaria occupy similar ecological niches. Identifying ecophysiological determinants of these commercially important pathogens will contribute to our understanding of their physiology and epidemiology and will aid in developing appropriate models for disease prediction.
41998634|The level of resistance of Mycosphaerella graminicola to sterol 14 -demethylation inhibitors (DMIs) is characterised by point and deletion mutations in the CYP51 gene that encodes sterol 14 -demethylase. Rapid and pre-symptomatic detection of these mutations is required for effective control by fungicides. In this study, an allele-specific real-time PCR method was developed. An additional mismatched nucleotide at the third position from the single nucleotide polymorphism at the 3-prime end of each allele-specific primer stops non-specific PCR amplification. Minor groove binding specific probes were designed to quantify general strains of M. graminicola and strains that contain isoleucine at position 381 of the CYP51 protein sequence. Specific amplification of the target alieles was reproducible. A high level of discrimination between genotypes using pure fungal DNA was confirmed in vivo, based on leaf samples collected from different wheat growing regions in France. A high level of I381V-genotypes (>70%) was found in all samples. The results showed that allele-specific real-time PCR allows pre-symptomatic and accurate quantitative detection of DMI-resistant genotypes of M. graminicola, with a shorter turnaround time compared to conventional methods. The simplicity and effectiveness provided by intentional mismatch primers offer a broad range of applications for laboratory and field analysis.
41998132|Cocona (Solanum sessiliflorum) is a native plant of the Amazon basin that is cultivated in Ecuador, Venezuela, Brazil and Peru. From cocona plants in the Peruvian highland jungle showing stunting, leaf deformation and necrotic spots a virus was recovered after mechanical inoculation exhibiting isometric particles approximately 30 nm in diameter. This virus was biologically, serologically and partly molecularly characterized. It was transmitted by mechanical inoculation to 44 of 49 species in six different botanical families. Symptoms were primarily localized infections that resembled those elicited by tombusviruses. The virus was found by immunodiffusion analysis to be serologically related to several definitive tombusvirus species. A reaction of identity was found with Pear latent virus (PeLV), a recently described tombusvirus from Italy. The coat protein genes of the cocona virus isolate and PeLV showed a high degree of identity, i.e. 94% at the nucleotide level and 96% at the amino acid level.
41998462|Since 2005, a disease similar to bacterial canker of stone fruit trees was observed in some areas of Kurdistan province, Iran. A total of 12 bacterial isolates were obtained from infected tissues of apricot and peach trees. According to biochemical, physiological and whole cell protein patterns, isolates were identified as Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae. Some molecular properties of the isolates were studied. Electrophoretic plasmid analysis revealed that isolates contained 1-3 plasmids with estimated mol. wt of 371.4, 93.1 and 16.5 kb. Mutant strains were produced using plasmid curing methods. These mutant strains were not mucoid on nutrient agar containing 5% sucrose. Compared with wild type strains, mutants were sensitive to ampicillin, and mutant strains were more actively motile than wild type strains. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to detect virB1 and virD4 genes. The predicted 1453 and 513 bp PCR products were obtained for virD4 and virB1 genes, respectively, when a 93.1 kb plasmid was used as template DNA.
41998644|In 2005-2007, vineyards affected by esca disease were surveyed in the provinces of Alicante and Valencia (south-east of Spain). The presence of resupinate, hymenochaetaceous basidiocarps was observed on the trunks of vines that displayed typical esca symptoms as well as in apparently healthy plants. Vines showing fruiting bodies represented 40% of the total esca-diseased plants and were randomly distributed in the several vineyards surveyed. Using classical and molecular identification methods, the fungus producing the observed basidiocarps was recognized as Inonotus hispidus, whose pathogenicity was tested by in vitro inoculation of healthy, vines with fresh inoculum of six different isolates. Although I. hispidus has been previously reported from Vitis spp., to our knowledge this is the first record of the presence of its fruiting bodies on esca-diseased vines in Spain.
24332214|Lethal yellowing (LY) is a fatal disease that affects coconut and other palm species in the Americas. Phytoplasmas associated with this disease belong to group 16SrIV. Reliable detection of group 16SrIV phytoplasmas is important for diagnostic purposes and to increase understanding of pathogen-plant-vector pathosystems. The present study describes the development of a TaqMan/ real-time PCR assay for detection and quantification of selected 16SrIV subgroups affecting palms in the Americas. The specificity of the assay was assessed on DNA extracts from LY-infected palms in the Americas, coconut lethal phytoplasma-associated diseases in Africa and other phytoplasma-infected plants. Successful amplification was obtained only with DNA extracts from palms infected by LY phytoplasmas that were sampled in the Americas, belonging to the 16SrIV group, subgroups A, D and E. No amplification was obtained from DNA of palms sampled in Africa and phytoplasma-infected plants of other 16Sr groups. The assay was compared with conventional nested-PCR on DNA extracts from 36 palms. The real-time PCR assay showed higher sensitivity as phytoplasmas were detected in several nested-PCR negative and in all the nestedPCR positive samples. The assay was also used to evaluate accumulation of LY phytoplasma DNA in different tissues of palms showing LY symptoms. The highest concentration was found in the trunk, followed in decreasing order by primary root apex, mature inflorescences -1 and -2, inflorescences -3 to -7, spear leaf, flag leaf and mature leaf. The present TaqMan/real-time PCR assay represents a new alternative for LY phytoplasmas detection and quantification, offering high specificity and improvements in sensitivity.
41998924|Re-emergence of Fusarium head blight (FHB) on wheat should be taken into account in the global management of cropped fields, especially with respect to fungicide application schemes, due to harmful toxin production. The aim of this study was to assess, in three experimental fields representative of the various topoclimatological zones of Luxembourg, the impact of timing of fungicide spray application on the prevalence and severity of FHB, the concentration of mycotoxins, and Fusarium strain pattern in winter wheat. It was found that fungicide treatments and the time of application had a significant impact on the amount of deoxynivalenol (DON) detected (P= 0.027, ANOVA). In our experimental design, the application of fungicides at 3 different times increased the amount of DON in winter wheat compared to two and single applications. The importance of the timing of fungicide application is discussed in relation to limiting toxin contamination in the field.
24579148|Fusarium langsethiae is an European species, while Fusarium sibiricum is mainly distributed in northern Asia. Morphological characters alone do not allow a clear separation of F. langsethiae from F. sibiricum. The long TG repeat in the ribosomal IGS region is the only DNA sequence that has been used to design the species-specific primer pair CNL 12/PulvIGSr for the identification of F. sibiricum isolates. Another way to identify F. sibiricum is to use a combination of F. sporotrichioides- and F. langsethiae-specific primer pairs. The aim of this study was to find new ways for identifying and discriminating F. langsethiae from F. sibiricum. The paper also reports the first record of F. sibiricum from Iran, outside northern Asia and Norway, and the first isolation of F. langsethiae, an European pathogen, from western Siberia. Thus, the distribution of F. sibiricum and F. langsethiae may be much larger in Eurasia than what is currently known.
23721751|Pectimorf is a non-traditional growth regulator produced in Cuba by partial enzymatic degradation of the cell wall of citrus fruit rinds. It is mainly composed of oligogalacturonides (OGs) and is currently used for in vitro micropropagation of different crops. Since OGs are known to elicit plant defence responses and are able to protect plants against fungal infection, we have investigated whether Pectimorf also has elicitor properties in Arabidopsis thaliana. The activity of Pectimorf was similar to that observed with similar doses of OGs in different bioassays (induction of gene expression, elicitation of oxidative burst, activation of MAP kinases). Furthermore, Pectimorf pre-treatments increased resistance of Arabidopsis leaves against infection by Botrytis cinerea. Pectimorf, as previously observed with OGs, also showed antagonistic effects with exogenous auxin. Taken together, these data indicate that Pectimorf is a potent elicitor of plant innate immunity and may be used as an inexpensive natural product to protect crops against diseases.
24579130|Analyses of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) produced by three Monilinia species (M. laxa, M. fructigena and M. fructicola) grown on potato dextrose agar (PDA) were done by head space solid phase micro extraction combined with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (HS-SPME-GS/MS). A total of 14 compounds of different chemical structure were identified, the most frequent of which were ethanol, dodecane and alpha-Muurolene. Specific VOCs were identified, which allowed the discrimination of the three Monilinia species. If coupled with the use of the electronic nose and upon validation under commercial conditions, the results of this study may have potential applications in postharvest for detecting and identifying diseases of stone and pome fruits, in relatively early stages of their development.
23721576|Species of Botryosphaeriaceae are important fungal pathogens of mango worldwide. A survey of 11 mango orchards located in the provinces of Catania, Messina, Palermo and Ragusa (Sicily, southern Italy), resulted in the isolation of a large number (76) of Neofusicoccum isolates associated with decline and dieback symptoms. Isolates were identified based on morphology and DNA sequence data analyses of the internal transcribed spacer region of the nrDNA and partial translation of the elongation factor 1-alpha gene regions. Two species of Neofusicoccum were identified, which included N. parvum and N. australe, the former of which was the dominant species. The high incidence in local orchards and the pathogenicity results indicate that N. parvum and N. australe are important pathogens of mango in Sicily where they may significantly limit mango production.
41997862|Studies of genetic variation in populations of plant pathogens have become very popular in the last decade, in part because of the availability of molecular genetic markers. Although there are numerous papers published on genetic variation, it is important to distinguish among the different types of questions that can be addressed at the population level with genetic markers. There are four broad applications of genetic variation in plant pathology: 1) detection, diagnosis and taxonomy, 2) systematics, 3) epidemiology, and 4) population structure. Each of these different applications has different motivations, and requires different types of sampling, genetic markers, and analyses. Questions concerning population genetics may be addressed within the contexts of epidemiology or population structure, but are clearly distinct from diagnosis and systematics.Population genetics is directed towards understanding the evolutionary processes affecting the genetic composition of populations; inferences are typically based on analyses of gene and genotype frequencies. To illustrate the analysis of population structure, studies of the population genetics of the chestnut blight fungus, Cryphonectria parastica, are summarized. The important lesson from studies of genetic variation is that each type of application has its own conceptual framework within which questions are asked. The most important advances in this discipline are likely to come from a combination of studies on genetic variation and the biology of the organisms being studied. Gli studi sulla variabilit genetica di organismi fitopatogeni hanno visto un apprezzabile incremento negli ultimi dieci anni, incremento in parte attribuibile alla disponibilit di marcatori genetici molecolari. Sebbene vi siano numerosi articoli pubblicati sulla variabilit gentica,  importante distinguere tra i diversi aspetti che possono essere indagad, a livello di popolazione, con l'impiego di marcatori genetici. In Patologa vgtale studi sulla variabilit gentica possono trovare applicazione in quattro settori diversi: 1) reperimento, diagnosi e tassonomia, 2) sistematica, 3) epidemiologia, 4) struttura della popolazione. Ciascuno di questi ha caratteristiche peculiari e richiede differenti tipi di campionamento, di marcatori genetici e di analisi. Prolemi concernenti la genetica di popolazioni possono essere affrontati nel contesto di studi epidemiologici o sulla struttura di popolazioni ma essi sono chiaramente diversi da quelli relativi alla diagnosi od alla sistematica. La genetica di popolazione  indirizzata verso la comprensione dei processi evolutivi che influenzano la composizione gentica di una popolazione e le deduzioni che si possono trarre sono tpicamente bsate sull'analisi dlie frequenze geniche e genotipiche. Allo scopo di illustrare l'analisi dlia struttura di una popolazione vengono riassunti gli studi di gentica di popolazione relativi a Cryphonectria parasitica, agente del cancro della corteccia del castagno. Gli studi sulla variabilit genetica hanno insegnato che ciascun settore di applicazione ha impostazioni concettuali sue proprie tenendo conto dlie quali possono essere affrontate le problematiche inerenti il settore stesso. I maggiori progressi in questa disciplina saranno presumibilmente ottenuti da ricerche che sapranno combinare aspetti di variabilita genetica e di biologia dell'organismo studiato.
41998035|In Argentina Fusarium head blight (FHB) caused primarily by Fusarium graminearum is an important disease of bread and durum wheat. The natural occurrence of F. graminearum and other Fusarium spp. in durum wheat seed harvested in the main cropping area was determined during the 1995-97 period. From varietal trials carried out in five locations, 192 seed samples of 7 cultivars and 17 lines were analyzed following the blotter test (ISTA rules). Seven Fusarium species were recovered, but F. graminearum was the only one isolated from all the samples. Differences in the cultivar performance among years and locations showed that the pressure of environmental conditions during anthesis would favours the disease expression.
24332216|Bacterial wilt of sweet pepper, caused by Ralstonia solanacearum (Rs), is an important disease in Brazil. The effectiveness of bergamot, blue gum, cinnamon, clary sage, copal, fennel, lemon, lemongrass, lemon-scented eucalyptus, mint, palmarosa and sweet orange essential oils was evaluated for disease control via biofumigation. Soil infested by Rs CGM-8 was biofumigated with all oils (0.14%, v:v) in the greenhouse, and with bergamot, sweet orange and palmarosa oils in the field for four days. Variables evaluated were: latency period (LP), incidence, bacterial wilt index (BWI), area under the disease progress curve (AUDPC), plant development, Rs population in the soil, soil characteristics and the in vitro growth of Rs. Palmarosa, bergamot and sweet orange oils increased LP (15%), reduced BWI (60%) and AUDPC (64.4%), in the greenhouse. In the field, only the palmarosa oil increased LP (38%), reduced BWI (36%) and AUDPC (38%), and increased the number of fruits per plant. Only greenhouse soils biofumigated with bergamot and sweet orange oils presented significant high sodium levels. The in vitro growth of Rs was reduced in 66.9% by palmarosa oil. These results indicate that palmarosa essential oil is a potential alternative for the management of bacterial wilt of sweet peppers.
41998222|Surveys were conducted in the traditional areas of apple, pear, and quince cultivation in Jordan to assess the phytosanitary status of these species. The presence of virus diseases and their identification was ascertained through symptom observation in the field, sap transmission to herbaceous hosts, and double antibody sandwich-enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (DAS-ELISA). A total of 1,565 samples was collected from 38 commercial orchards, a mother block, 12 nurseries, and a varietal collection. A total of 1,393 apple, 149 pear, and 23 quince were tested individually by DAS-ELISA for Apple chlorotic leaf spot virus (ACLSV), Apple mosaic virus (ApMV), Apple stem grooving virus (ASGV), and Tomato ringspot virus (ToRSV). All four viruses were identified in a large number of these samples; ToRSV was the most widespread and ASGV was the second most prevalent.
41997995|A tombusvirus was isolated from plants of statice (Goniolimon tataricum) showing malformation, mosaic and necrosis of the leaves and poor flowering. Electron microscopy of infected tissues revealed the presence of vesiculated structures derived from altered peroxisomes. In Northern blots four major RNA species were detected, corresponding to viral genomic, subgenomic and defective interfering (DI) RNAs. Both genomic and DI RNAs were cloned and sequenced, and shown to have structure and organization similar to those of viruses of the genus Tombusvirus. In agar gel diffusion tests, spurs were formed when the statice isolate was compared with the cherry strain but not with the BS3 strain of Tomato bushy stunt virus.
41998853|Melon (Cucumis melo L.) is a widely used fruit which suffers from postharvest decay resulting in large economic losses. In this work we investigated the biological control of melon postharvest diseases using Bacillus subtilis EXWB1, which we had previously isolated and identified from melon in lab experiments. We found that this bacterium excretes a bio-surfactant in Luria-Bertani broth (pH 5-8) that helps it to stick to the hydrophobic melon skin, and spreads at a speed of 125 m per h over the surface at room temperature and high humidity. During storage time we found that the peak of respiration of melon fruits increased on day 6, and was reduced by 26.1% and 71.9%, respectively in the presence of B. subtilis EXWB1 in inoculated and uninoculated treatments. The ethylene production peak was delayed by about 2 days and reduced by 72.3% and 61.6% on day 4. Growth of one of the main fungal pathogens of melon, Alternaria alternata, was limited around inoculated sites on the fruit surface, and necrotic lesions induced by this pathogen were significantly reduced by 77.2% after coinoculation with B. subtilis EXWB1. Treated fruits retained high levels of sugar and vitamin C, and low levels of organic acids, and maintained water content and turgidity at room temperature. Our findings provide an alternative and promising biological control agent, B. subtilis EXWB1, which can suppress postharvest diseases caused by A. alternata, and may effectively control postharvest physiological changes caused by fungal pathogens.
41997900|Seedlings of ten half-sib jarrah (Eucalyptus marginatd) families were stem-inoculated with either Phytophthora cinnamomi A, P. citricola or P. cryptogea A to determine their reaction to these pathogens. Longitudinal and tangential spread of lesions and their appearance were recorded over a period of 42 days and compared between families and between Phytophthora species. There was a continuous range in lesion length across families for each Phytophthora species. Most plants inoculated with P. citricola and P. cryptogea had longer lesions and faster rates of lesion development than those inoculated with P. cinnamomi (P < 0.05). There were no significant differences in tangential spread of lesions between families or between Phytophthora species. Resistance to P. cinnamomi (expressed as short lesion length) did not necessarily indicate resistance to the other Phytophthora species. Further research is needed to determine whether assessment of resistance after stem inoculation of jarrah seedlings with P. citricola and P. cryptogea correlates with field resistance, as has been shown with P. cinnamomi. Plantule di Eucalyptus marginata ottenute da dieci famiglie di semi, ciascuna prodotta da un sin glo albero soggetto ad impollinazione libera, son state inoculate alio stelo sia con Phytophthora cinnamomi A che con P. citricola P. cryptogea A al fine di determinare la loro reazione a questi patogeni. Sono stati eseguiti dei rilievi, durante un periodo di 42 giorni, sullo sviluppo longitudinale e tangenziale delle lesioni e sul loro aspetto comparando i dati sia tra le famiglie che tra le specie di Phytophthora.  stato osservato che esiste un range continuo nella lunghezza delle lesioni tra le famiglie per ciascuna specie di Phytophthora. La maggior parte delle piante inoculate con P. citricola e P. cryptogea ha mostrato lesioni piu lunghe ed una velocit di sviluppo delle lesioni superiore rispetto a quelle inoculate con P. cinnamomi (P < 0,05). Non sono state osservate differenze significative nello sviluppo tangenziale delle lesioni sia tra le famiglie che tra le specie di Phytophthora. La resistenza a P. cinnamomi (espressa corne lunghezza ridotta delle lesioni) non indica necessariamente una resistenza nei confronti delle altre specie di Phytophthora. Saranno necessarie ulteriori ricerche al fine di determinare se la valutazione dlia resistenza, dopo inoculazione allo stelo di plantule di Eucalyptus marginata con P. citricola e P. cryptogea,  correlata con una resistenza di campo come  stato dimostrato per P. cinnamomi.
41998945|Emerging prevalence of F. poae in fungal biota of small-grain cereals has been documented in many diverse geographic areas. We studied the phylogenetic relationships among 40 F. poae isolates from different geographic origins and hosts based on partial sequences of elongation factor-1 alpha (ef1), enniatin synthase (esyn1), intergenic spacer of rDNA (igs), RNA polymerase II (rpb2) and trichodiene synthase (tri5) data sets. Sequence alignments of five individual data sets showed low genetic variability within F. poae with limited development of clonal lineages. Evolutionary divergence varied between genes, with high phylogenetic incongruence between ef1, igs, rpb2 and genes involved in secondary metabolism (esyn1 and tri5). MLS (multilocus sequence analysis) bootstrap consensus tree inferred from the MP separated all 40 F. poae isolates into four well-supported subgroups, although there was no clear geographic or host type basis on this separation. Lack of correlation between subgroups of any individual data set and geographic origin of the isolates and host (wheat) suggests absence of geographic isolation between local populations of F. poae and high adaptative potential of this species to changing environmental conditions, hosts or substrates. The results of the present study may also suggest that recently reported emerging prevalence of F. poae in grain mycobiota is not associated with dramatic changes in the population structure of F. poae.
41998682|Chickpea (Cicer arietinum) plants of two types, kabuli and desi, showing phytoplasma disease-like symptoms were observed for the first time in Pakistan during 2005. The major symptoms were floral virescence, phyllody and extensive proliferation of the branches. Light microscopy of hand-cut sections of symptomatic stems treated with Dienes' stain showed blue areas in the phloem region of diseased plants but not in apparently normal ones. Phytoplasma-like pleomorphic bodies were observed in the sieve cells of symptomatic chickpea stems by transmission electron microscopy, but not in the sieve tubes of healthy plants. Amplification from diseased plants of a 16S rDNA fragment 1800 bp in size with phytoplasma primers P1 and P7, confirmed that they hosted a phytoplasma. RFLP profiles and complete sequencing of the R16F2n/R16R2 region showed that the associated phytoplasma had 100% sequence identity in this rDNA region to 16SrII-D subgroup phytoplasmas. Chickpea phyllody disease was transmitted from diseased to healthy chickpea plants by grafting and through the leafhopper Orosius orientalis. Sap inoculation trials were unsuccessful and transmission by Aphis craccivora, Myzus persicae, Empoasca devastans and an unidentified brown leafhopper failed to produce disease symptoms.
41998864|Fluorescent Pseudomonas spp. isolated from the roots of healthy tomato plants were screened for their antagonistic activities against Sclerotium rolfsii, Alternara alternata and Fusarium solani, three phytopathogenic fungi of tomato and pepper. They were tested for phosphate solubilization ability and production of siderophores, hydrolytic enzymes, indole 3-acetic acid and hydrogen cyanid. The isolates were also characterized based on biochemical (API 20NE test) and genotypic (ERIC-PCR fingerprinting) features. A Pseudomonas sp. strain denoted PCI2 was chosen as a potential candidate for controlling tomato damping-off caused by Sclerotium rolfsii. PCI2 was identified at the genus level with a 16S rDNA partial sequence analysis and its phylogenetic relationship with previously characterized Pseudomonas species was determined. PCI2 clustered with the P. futida species. Growth chamber studies resulted in statistically significant increases in plant stand (29%) as well as in root dry weight (58%). PCI2 was able to establish itself and survive in tomato rhizosphere after 40 days, following planting of bacterized seeds. PCI2 is a potential biological control agent that may contribute to the protection of tomato plants against damping-off caused by S. rolfsii.
23721527|The use of alternative control means to reduce water contamination and postharvest decay of fruit and vegetables is becoming increasingly important to enhance food safety and minimize chemical contamination of fresh produce. In the present investigation, the effects of electrolyzed salt solutions using thin-film diamondcoated electrodes on Penicillium spp. population of citrus fruit wash water and fruit decay were evaluated. Different organic and inorganic salts were tested. Electrolyzed water (EW) in combination with sodium bicarbonate (SBC) resulted the most effective treatment in inhibiting spore germination of Penicillium spp. and among the best in reducing Penicillium rot, with no deleterious effects on the fruits. Commercial trials conducted in packinghouses in Sicily (insular Italy) confirmed that the electrolyzed SBC solution was more effective than the electrolyzed tap water in reducing the population of Penicillium spp. Indeed, in the presence of SBC a 93% reduction of the pathogen population was observed 1 h after the beginning of the electrolysis process, whereas in the absence of the salt similar results were observed only after 7 h. In addition, rot incidence in fruit exposed to electrolyzed SBC solution was reduced by up to 100%, as compared to 70% in the absence of the salt. These results demonstrate that among the range of salts tested, the combination of electrolysis and SBC has a synergic effect and is a promising strategy for controlling postharvest Penicillium decay of citrus fruits.
23721568|A collection of accessions of Burkina Faso rice germplasm was evaluated for resistance using four Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) isolates: Ng122, Ng144, B27 and BF1. B27, an isolate from Benin was used first, followed by Ng122 and Ng144 (isolates from Niger), and BF1 an aggressive isolate from Burkina Faso was used last to assess the accessions status against RYMV. Fourteen-day-old plantlets were inoculated and symptoms scored fortnightly from 14 to 56 days post inoculation (dpi). Plant height of all accessions was recorded at 49 dpi with isolates Ng122 and Ng144. The Oryza sativa accessions of the collection were highly susceptible except one (BM24), which combined partial resistance and tolerance. Twenty one O. glaberrima accessions out of 48 were found resistant to Ng122 and Ng144. When these 21 accessions were subsequently screened with the aggressive RYMV strain BF1, eight of them displayed a delay in the appearance of RYMV symptoms while two showed resistance. The new sources of resistance identified in this study, could be exploited in breeding to control the spread of RYMV in Africa.
41998074|Different methods were used to store a collection of field isolates of B. cinerea. Five isolates each of the fungus were stored: (i) in silica gel at 4C, (ii) in sand at 4C, (iii) in potato dextrose agar slants at 4C, (iv) as dry spores in tubes at 20C, or (v) as spores in glycerol (20%) at 20C. Different characteristics were tested after 1, 2 and 4 years of storage. Viability was poor when spores were stored dried, and contamination was frequent when stored in potato dextrose agar. Linear growth rates of cultures stored for 4 years were similar to initial values, except for one isolate in sand (9% reduction) and for another in glycerol (14% reduction). Sclerotia size and sporulation were reduced after 4 years of storage, independently of the method used. Fungicide resistance to procymidone changed to sensitive in all the isolates, except for one isolate, after four years of storage, also regardless of the storage method used. Storage in sand at 4C or in glycerol at 20C were the best methods for preserving B. cinerea isolates.
41997990|A simple model estimating the seasonal pattern of air-borne ascospores of Venturia inaequalis was elaborated, by using spore trapping records collected during a 6-year period (1991-1996) in the Po Valley (North Italy). The model estimates the proportion of the season's ascospores trapped by using weather factors which occur after the first appearance of mature ascospores inside the pseudothecia. Temperature and leaf wetness are the driving variables included in the model, expressed as degrees (above 0C) accumulated daily in the hours when leaves are wet. The model is a non-linear regression that describes the relationship between degree-days and the proportion of the season's ascospores, expressed as a mean and its confidence intervals. The model was verified by comparison with its component data sets, and was validated with additional observations of the ascospore trappings made in 1997 and 1998. Validations showed that the model makes accurate estimates, which could be used in the warning systems for apple scab management, instead of records from spore traps.
24332024|During 20112013 various pome fruit tree orchards were inspected to study the fungi associated with trunk diseases in the Kerman and Fars provinces of Iran. Wood samples were collected from branches of apple, pear, quince and hawthorn trees showing yellowing, wilting, dieback, cankers and various internal wood discolorations. Six species of Phaeoacremonium namely, Pm. aleophilum, Pm. parasiticum, Pm. rubrigenum, Pm. scolyti, Pm. mortoniae and Pm. iranianum were identified based on morphology, culture characteristics and the partial sequences of the -tubulin gene (BT) data. Pm. aleophilum (16.1% of total isolates) and Pm. parasiticum (9.8% of total isolates) were the species most frequently isolated. We report Phaeoacremonium spp. on quince and hawthorn for the first time in the world. This is also the first report of isolation of Pm. parasiticum, Pm. iranianum and Pm. mortoniae from apple wood, while Pm. aleophilum, Pm. rubrigenum, Pm. scolyti and Pm. parasiticum are newly reported from pear trees. Tests were carreid out to determine the pathogenic role of these species on pome trees and grapevine. On grapevine shoots, Pm. aleophilum and Pm. mortoniae induced the longest and smallest lesions, respectively. On apple and pear shoots, the most aggressive species was Pm. iranianum while Pm. mortoniae was the least aggressive based on the length of vascular discoloration. On quince, the longest and smallest lesions were caused by Pm. iranianum and Pm. mortoniae, respectively, but the lesion lengths of Pm. mortoniae were also significantly different from the negative controls.
23721517|Citrus tristeza virus (CTV) exists as a group of distinct variants in citrus. Mild strain-induced cross protection as a strategy to control severe variants of CTV requires profound understanding of the influence of citrus cultivars on the composition of CTV isolates. In this study, 36 progenies of the severe CTV isolate CT33 and the protective isolate CT40 were obtained by grafting from Jincheng-Beibei 447 to five citrus cultivars. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) assay on coat protein gene (CPG) of the original and progeny isolates indicated that CPG/HinfI group composition of CT33 was modified from cultivar to cultivar through its transfer by grafting. Further analysis by real-time PCR showed that T36 genotype was a minor type of CTV in the plants. Although T36 genotype was suppressed markedly in the progenies of CT33 and CT40 on Yanxiwanlu ponkan and Guanxi-you pummelo, the relative expression level of T36 genotype could be restored gradually after the progenies were grafted back to JinchengBeibei 447. With the decrease of the relative expression levels of the T36 genotype, the progenies of CT33 showed weaker seedling yellows in the indicators. Furthermore, CTV isolates only produced mild symptoms on the indicators when T30 genotype was dominant.
41998970|The amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) technique was applied to 109 strains of pv. pruni and one strain of pv. juglandis of the species Xanthomonas arboricola and to five strains of other Xanthomonas species. Groups of 12 and 41 strains of pv. pruni were isolated at the same time from fruit lesions in two peach orchards in the province of Verona (Italy). The other strains of pv. pruni were from different geographic areas and/or host plants. The EcoRI/Msel and EOO/M02 pairs were used as restriction enzymes and selective amplification primers. Comparison of the AFLP profiles showed that the X. arboricola pv. pruni profile could be reliably distinguished from those of pv. juglandis and the other five species; 108 out of 109 strains of X. arboricola pv. pruni were included in the main cluster (SD = 0.93). This was divided into 3 subgroups: I (SD = 0.982; 73 strains); II (SD = 0.979; 32 strains); III (SD = 0.990; 3 strains). Another subgroup, IV, with just one strain clustered with the other 3 subgroups at SD = 0.89. Isolates from the same peach orchard fell within subgroups I and II, as did strains from other geographic areas or from different host plants. The technique used did not have sufficient resolution to distinguish homogeneous groups of pv. pruni of X. arboricola on the basis of locality, geographic area or host plant. La tcnica AFLP  stata applicata a 109 colture della patovar pruni e 1 coltura della pv. ajuglandis della specie di Xanthomonas arboricola e a 5 ceppi di altrettante specie del genere Xanthomonas. Gruppi di 12 e 41 colture della pv. pruni sono state isolate contemporneamente da maculature di frutti in due pescheti in provincia di Verona (Italia); le altre colture della pv. pruni avevano diversa origine geografica e/o pianta ospite. Le coppie EcoRI/Msel e EOO/M02 sono state usate rispettivamente come enzimi di restrizione e primer di amplificazione selettiva. La comparazione dei profili AFLP ha mostrato che la pv. pruni di X. arboricola ha un profilo assai riproducibile e distinguibile da quella della pv. juglandis e da quelli delle altre 5 specie; 108 su 109 colture di X. arboricola pv. pruni erano comprese in un gruppo principale (SD = 0,93) suddiviso in 4 sottogruppi: I (SD = 0,982; 73 colture); II (SD = 0,979; 32 colture; III (SD = 0,990; 3 colture). Un altro sottogruppo IV con un solo ceppo era associato agli altri tre sottogruppi per SD = 0,89. Isolati di uno stesso pescheto sono risultati compresi sia nel sottogruppo I che nel sottogruppo II alia pari di ceppi provenienti da aree geografiche diverse o da differenti piante ospite. La tecnica AFLP usata non ha mostrato un potere di risoluzione tale da distinguere nella patovar pruni di X. arboricola gruppi ornogenei per localit, area geogrfica o pianta ospite.
41998452|Three inoculation methods for screening olive germplasm for resistance to Verticillium dahliae Kleb, were compared: (i) dipping soil-free washed roots into inoculum (WRI); (ii) dipping root balls with soil into inoculum (RBI); (iii) direct introduction of the inoculum into a stem incision (SII). The effectiveness of the methods was compared in their capacity to differentiate levels of resistance/susceptibility to Verticillium wilt in olive germplasm. Genetically homogeneous clones of the olive cvs Frantoio, Coratina and Leccino, which have different degrees of resistance/susceptibility to wilt, were inoculated with one defoliating and two nondefoliating V. dahliae pathotypes. Results indicate that the three screening methods had different sensitivity in identifying variable levels of olive resistance to Verticillium wilt. Inoculation of washed roots (WRI) was the most drastic and may be used to identify higher levels of resistance (such as that of cv. Frantoio), but was not sensitive enough to detect lower levels of resistance. Inoculation of root balls with soil (RBI) was less destructive and allowed detection of lower resistance expression (such as that of cv. Coratina), not detected by WRI. Stem incision inoculation (SII) failed to discriminate between resistant (cvs Frantoio and Coratina) and susceptible (cv. Leccino) germplasm.
41998352|The potential impact of transgenic plums and grapevines expressing viral coat protein (CP) gene constructs on the diversity and dynamics of virus populations was assessed under open and confined conditions in the frame of a research program sponsored by the European Commission. Across all field trials conducted in different locations (France, Romania, and Spain) and environments (continental and Mediterranean), transgenic plums expressing the CP gene of Plum pox virus (PPV) and transgenic grapevines expressing the CP gene of Grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV) had no detectable effect on the emergence of recombinant PPV and GFLV species over eight-ten and three years, respectively. Also, no statistically significant difference was found in the number and type of aphids, including viruliferous individuals, and other arthropods that visited transgenic and nontransgenic plum trees. In addition, Apple chlorotic leaf spot virus, Prune dwarf virus, and Prunus necrotic ringspot virus did not influence the stability of the engineered resistance to PPV in co-infected transgenic plums over three dormancy periods. Further, under confined conditions, no recombinant virus was found to detectable level in transgenic grapevines expressing the CP gene of Grapevine virus A (GVA) or Grapevine virus (GVB) that were challenged with the homologous or heterologous virus, despite high accumulation of transgene transcripts. Also, translocation of transgene-derived products, i.e. protein, mRNAs and siRNAs, did not occur to detectable level from transgenic grapevine rootstocks expressing the GFLV CP gene to nontransgenic scions. Altogether, our transgenic plums and grapevines expressing viral genes had a neutral impact on virus populations and non-target organisms over extended time. These findings provide new insights into the environmental impact of transgenic perennial crops engineered for virus resistance. It is expected that they will assist national and international regulatory authorities in making scientifically based decisions for the release of virus-resistant transgenic crops.
24722543|Septoria tritici blotch (STB) caused by the fungus Zymoseptoria tritici (formerly known as Mycosphaerella graminicola) is currently the most important foliar disease of durum wheat (Triticum turgidum subsp. durum) in Tunisia, causing serious yield losses and affecting grain quality. Resistance breeding in durum wheat to STB can provide an effective, economic and environmentally-safe strategy to reduce yield losses. However, this is hampered by a lack of resistance sources, and a limited understanding of Z. tritici pathogenicity. Here, we report the identification of nine resistant accessions to STB upon field inoculation of 144 old local durum wheat accessions with a virulent isolate "TunBz-1". Crosses between the resistant accessions and evaluation of F progenies for their reaction to TunBz-1 led to the identification of four new resistant genes, associated with Azizi27, Agili37, Agili39 and Derbessi12 landrace accessions. Random distribution of the resistant accessions in an AFLP based-dendrogram of 123 old durum wheat accessions suggested independent resistance gene-evolution. Based on the identified resistance sources, the analysis of the virulence spectrum of 55 Z. tritici isolates collected from different durum wheat-growing regions in Tunisia showed a highly significant genotype-by-isolate interaction. Furthermore, pathotype variability among Z. tritici isolates was low as the isolates were classified into two groups (I and II) that showed differential reaction on the accession Azizi27. Our results show that the old local durum wheat germplasm might harbor novel resistance genes that can be deployed in durum wheat breeding programs.
41998585|Five bacterial strains (FC-6B, FC-7B, FC-8B, FC-9B and FC-24B) isolated from used rockwool soilless substrates were identified using 16S ribosomal DNA (16S rDNA) sequence analysis as belonging to the Pseudomonas genus. Seven glasshouse trials were conducted in order to evaluate the efficacy of these bacteria strains (Pseudomonas putida FC-6B, Pseudomonas sp. FC-7B, Pseudomonas putida FC-8B, Pseudomonas sp. FC-9B and Pseudomonas sp. FC-24B) together with Achromobacter sp. AM1 and Serratia sp. DM1 obtained from suppressive soil, against Fusarium wilt of tomato. Two commercial bioproducts, Trichoderma harzianum T22 (RootShield) and Pseudomonas chlororaphis MA 342 (Cedomon) were also evaluated. Different treatment strategies including soil application (10 and 10 cfu ml ) were adopted in different glasshouse trials (Trial I to VI) to test the efficacy of the bacterial strains against Fusarium wilt. Root dipping was used in Trial VII (10 and 10 cfu ml). The lowest disease incidence (3.3) was recorded with a single application of P. putida FC-6B at 10 cfu ml. Similar results were obtained with the same bacteria when the concentration was decreased to 10 cfu ml but an increasing number of applications was required. The highest plant biomass (50.3 g/plant) was recorded in the P. putida FC-8B treatment (Trial III). In conclusion, the current study showed the potential biocontrol activity of bacterial strains FC-6B, FC-7B, FC-8B, FC-9B and FC-24B isolated from re-used rockwool soilless substrates against Fusarium wilt disease, and the growth promoting activity of these strains on tomato plants.
41998161|Genetic engineering can be used to create plants with enhanced resistance to disease. Several strategies have been developed and tested, including expression of pathogen-derived sequences, the modification and overexpression of endogenous resistance genes, and the expression of heterologous resistance genes from diverse sources. Another promising approach is the expression of recombinant antibodies that bind to and neutralize essential components of the pathogen and therefore interfere with its infection cycle. The impact of this approach depends on appropriate target selection, careful antibody design, subcellular targeting of the recombinant antibodies and antibody accumulation levels and stability. This review describes the current status of antibody-based disease resistance in plants, focussing on optimization and the remaining obstacles to its widespread use.
41999038|Effective race-specific resistance genes (R-genes) against Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh) in barley determine spatial and temporal variation of the hypersensitive response (HR). This study investigated if different fast and slow acting HR, mediated by Mia R-genes in barley will influence the expression of nine commonly induced defense-response genes at time points that coincide with Bgh penetration and hyphal formation. Mlal resistance was characterized by a fast and significant increase in the death of single Bgh-attacked epidermal cells in response to Bgh isolate C15, whereas Mla3 resistance was characterized by a slow increase in mesophyll multiple cell death in response to Bgh isolate A6. The reciprocal interactions result in compatible interactions. Using such experimental set-up, we partitioned the source of variation in gene expression and found that three genes were affected in a Bgh isolate-dependent manner, and five genes were affected in a host-dependent manner, regardless of the compatibility of the interaction. The results from this study show that the differential expression of many Bgh-responsive defense genes in barley does not necessarily correlate with the spatial and temporal variations in HR, but can be significantly influenced by: (i) the low genetic variability in the near isogenic lines or (ii) differences in the aggressiveness of pathogenic isolates. However, among the nine genes, expression of BAX inhibitor-1 (BI-1), correlated strongly with the timing of cellular events leading to HR in an interaction-specific manner, suggesting that BI-1 could be used as a HR marker in barley.
23721528|The coat protein (CP) gene of Garlic common latent virus (GarCLV) was expressed in Escherichia coli strain BL21 expression system as a 40 kDa fusion protein with histidine tag (6His) at its N and C terminals. The purified protein reacted positively in Western blot with a commercial GarCLV polyclonal antiserum and hence, used as immunogen for production of polyclonal antisera in two New Zealand white rabbits. Antisera to GarCLV (titer 1:2000) detected the virus by direct antigen-coated ELISA in GarCLV positive garlic samples. Further, the specific reactivity of the antisera was confirmed through Western blotting and immunosorbent electron microscopy. Antisera developed were successfully utilized for detection of GarCLV in 46 out of 48 different garlic accessions. The immunoreagents developed will be useful for virus indexing in garlic tissue culture programs as well as in quarantine and/or certification programs.
41997903|In the period 1995-1997, in the Padua province of the Veneto region, bark cankers were observed on 15-20 year old walnut trees (Juglans regia L.) and young walnut trees in the nursery. On the older trees the cankers on the trunks and on the proximal part of the scaffold branches consisted of brownish areas that often produced drops of exudate. On young trees the cankers caused longitudinal grooves, often brownish and severe deformation of the trunks. Gram-negative bacteria isolated from both types of canker and purified were identified as Erwinia nigrifluens based on phenotypic traits (including fatty acid profiles) and pathogenicity. The symptoms caused on young trees were unusual for E. nigrifluens. This was the first report of E. nigrifluens in Italy. Nel periodo 1995-1997 cancri corticali di alberi di noce (Juglans regia L.) di 15-20 anni di et e di giovani astoni di vivaio sono stati osservati in provincia di Padova nella regione Vneto. Nei vecchi alberi i cancri su tronco e parte prossimale delle branche principali consistevano in aree brune da cui colavano spesso gocce di liquido. Sui giovani alberi i cancri causavano scanalature longitudinali, spesso brune e gravi deformazioni dei fusti Batteri gram-negativi isolati da entrambi i tipi di cancri e purificati sono stati identificati corne Erwinia nigrifluens per caratteri fenotipici (inclusi i profili degli acidi grassi) e patogenetici. I sintomi causati sui giovani alberi sono inusuali per E. nigrifluens. Per la prima volta volta  stata segnalata la presenza di E. nigrifluens in Italia.
41997928|Erwinia amylovora strains from the Mediterranean region including Italy, and from eastern Europe were assayed for their PFGE patterns after an Xbal digest of the genomic DNA. The strains from eastern Europe and the Mediterranean region were placed into the same group (Pt2), although a strain from Bulgaria and two strains from Israel carried an RFLP-pattern which distinguished them from the other strains in that regions. Strains from Austria and Czechia belonged to the central European type (Pt1), whereas strains from Italy could be divided into three groups, i.e. with patterns observed before for strains from northern France (Pt3), the Mediterranean region (Pt2), and central Europe (Pt1). Grouping of E. amylovora strains from northeastern Italy to strains from northern France was confirmed by PFGE analysis after Spel digests. With an increasing number of E. amylovora strains isolated in the Mediterranean region, their differentiation by PFGE could possibly give clues about the distribution of fire-blight in the surrounding European countries. I profili PFGE di ceppi di Erwinia amylovora, isolati nella regione mediterranea comprendente l'italia e l'Europa orientale, sono stati analizzati dopo digestione del DNA genomico con endonucleasi Xbal. Un ceppo di origine bulgara e due ceppi provenienti da Israele hanno evidenziato un profilo PFGE distinguibile da quello degli altri ceppi isolati nell'Europa orientale e nella regione mediterranea, collocati in vece nello stesso gruppo (tipo Pt2). I ceppi di origine Austriaca e Ceca hanno mostrato un profilo centro europeo (Pt1), mentre i ceppi isolati in Italia sono stati suddivisi in tre gruppi, con profili analoghi a quelli attribuiti a ceppi isolati nella Francia settentrionale (Pt3), nella regione mediterranea (Pt2) e nell'Europa centrale (Pt1). L'analisi PFGE dei prodotti di digestione con Spel ha confermato l'appartenenza alio stesso gruppo dei ceppi di E. amylovora isolati nell'Italia nord-orientale e nella Francia settentrionale. La differenziazione mediante PFGE di un maggior numero di ceppi di E. amylovora isolati nella regione mediterranea potrebbe verosimilmente fornire indicazioni sulla distribuzione del colpo di fuoco nei paesi europei limitrofi.
23721516|Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. dianthi (Fod), with its different physiological races, is responsible for a most devastating carnation disease worldwide. A new wilt disease of carnation cvs Nelson, Toldo and 99-0-81 that appeared in Colombia in 2007, had symptoms different from those usually observed elsewhere on Fod-infected plants. A fungus isolated from infected cultivars was erroneously identified as F. verticillioides on morphological bases. Thus, 10 Colombian fungal isolates were compared with the most widespread physiological races of Fusarium by a molecular approach and two of them were also compared for host susceptibility with four known Fod races. Results led to the conclusion that the Colombian pathogen under study is closely related to Fod. Furhermore, its isolates were identified as race 1, indicating that this race has spread out of the Mediterranean area, where it was confined until now.
41998028|Lettuce mosaic virus (LMV) can be very destructive on lettuce crops as, a very high proportion of infected plants may result from a low level of infected seeds. In addition, LMV isolates able to overcome the mol and mol resistance genes classically deployed by breeders to protect lettuce crops have now been reported from several countries. In order to gain an understanding of the variability present among LMV populations in Tunisia, nine LMV isolates from lettuce fields were submitted to biological and molecular analysis. Phenotypically, two isolates were able to overcome the resistance gene mol of lettuce cv. 'Mantilla'. At the molecular level, the RT-PCR technique, coupled with RFLP analysis or direct sequencing were used to study a short, hypervariable region of the LMV genome. Restriction patterns and sequence comparison with isolates representative of different pathotypes and/or geographic origins showed that Tunisian LMV isolates are related to other western European isolates, stressing the problem of exchanges of contaminated seed lots.
41998309|A survey was carried out in germplasm nurseries and commercial orchards from ten provinces in Turkey during 2003-2005. Samples were collected from trees showing European stone fruit yellows (ESFY) and Pear decline (PD) symptoms. A total of 270 stone fruit and six pear samples were tested by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP). Universal phytoplasma primers P1/P7 and R16F2n/R2 were used for one-step and nested PCR assays, respectively. Nested-PCR products were digested with RsaI, SspI and MseI restriction enzymes. Twentyeight of 270 samples including plum, apricot, peach and almond were infected by Candidatus Phytoplasma prunorum. Infection rate by the same phytoplasma species of germplasm nurseries containing mostly foreign cultivars was 54.8%, whereas it was only 3.2% in commercial orchards. Ca. Phytoplasma prunorum was detected for the first time in Antalya, Gaziantep, Iel, Isparta, and Yalova provinces in local apricot cultivars as well as Japanese plum, apricot, and almond cultivars imported from Japan. PCR and RFLP tests of pear samples collected from commercial orchards in the Bursa province showed that the local pear cultivar 'Deveci' was infected by Candidatus Phytoplasma pyri, which was also found in the pear psyllid Cacopsylla pyri L. To our knowledge, this is the first report of detection of Ca. Phytoplasma pyri in C. pyri in Turkey.
41998063|The effects of 10 strains of Fusarium solani on Meloidogyne javanica were tested in vitro and in controlled conditions. Culture filtrates of the strains varied with respect to parasitism on eggs and females of M. javanica and nematicidal activity in terms of juvenile mortality. Mortality in boiled culture filtrates was slightly lower than that caused by un-boiled filtrates, but substantial nematicidal activity was retained, pointing to the relative thermostability of the active principle(s) involved. Aqueous and ethyl acetate extracts of F. solani produced higher nematicidal activity than a hexane extract indicating that the active compound(s) were polar in nature. Conidial suspensions of F. solani strains Fs5, Fs9 and FslO used as soil drench significantly reduced nematode populations in soil and root-knot disease severity, resulting in enhanced growth of tomato plants. There was no significant difference among F. solani strains on shoot fresh weight. Strain Fs5 was frequently reisolated from surface sterilized tomato roots. When evaluated in a field test, strain Fs5, reduced M. javanica reproductive potential, promoting growth of tomato plants. However, root length and fresh root weights were slightly lower in Fs5-treated plants.
41998975|The yeast Metschnikowia pulcherrima (Pitt) M.W. Miller, isolate 320, showing antagonistic activity against Botrytis cinerea, causal agent of storage rot of table grapes, strawberry and kiwifruit, was transformed with the yeast-enhanced green fluorescent protein (yEGFP) gene, using plasmid pACT2.yEGFP and the lithium acetate protocol. Colonies expressing yEGFP were selected using an epifluorescence microscope. The antagonistic activity of five GFP transformants was evaluated on table grapes, cvs 'Matilde' and 'Italia', and compared to that of the M: pulcherrima 320 wild type. The activity of two transformants was indistinguishable from that of the parental strain, significantly reducing Botrytis storage rot; however, three transformants lost antagonistic activity completely. GFP-transformants and M. pulcherrima wild type showed the same growth rates in vitro. This appears to be the first report of M. pulcherrima transformation with the GFP gene. Metschnikowia pulcherrima (Pitt) M.W. Miller, isolato 320, attivo in postraccolta contro il marciume botritico dell'uva da tavola, della fragola e dell'actinidia,  stato trasformato con un gene per l'espressione di proteina fluorescente (GFP), utilizzando il plasmide pACT2. yEGFP ed il protocollo del litio acetato. Le colonie esprimenti GFP sono state selezionate mediante osservazione al microscopio a fluorescenza. L'attivit antagonista di cinque trasformanti  stata valutata su bacche di uva da tavola (cvs 'Matilde' e 'Italia') comparndola con quella dell'isolato originale di M. pulcherrima 320. Due ceppi dei trasformanti hanno mostrato una attivit antagonistica non diffrente da quella dell'isolato originale, fornendo significative riduzioni del marciume botritico; i restanti tre ceppi, invece, hanno completamente perso l'attivit antagonistica. La crescita in vito dei trasformanti  risultata non diffrente da quella del ceppo originario. Al presente, questa  la prima volta che viene riportata la trasformazione di M. pulcherrima con GFP.
41998775|Slow decline was observed in five mature and unmanaged hazelnut orchards in central Italy. Trees were trained into multi-branch bushes, and declining trees showed sparse crowns with chlorotic leaves and dead branches. Severely damaged trees died. Dead and declining branches were affected by a yellowish wood decay, especially at the base. Resupinate fruiting bodies, typical of Fomitiporia mediterranea or F. punctata, were observed on the dead branches. Vegetative Fomitiporia like isolates were also obtained from the decayed wood of declining/living branches. Thirty four fungal isolates, either derived from the fruiting bodies or the vegetative isolates, were identified as F. mediterranea by ITS sequencing, specific primer-based PCRs and RFLP. A reliable PCR-based detection method from decayed wood was developed. Based on the presence of fruiting bodies, the incidence of the fungus was 18% and 14% in orchards 1 and 4, respectively. However, based on F. mediterranea detection by PCR from decayed wood samples (26 trees), the incidence was 100% in orchard 1 and 99% in orchard 4. F. mediterranea was also found on wild hazelnut growing in forests located in the same area as the hazelnut orchards. Furthermore, the hymenomycetes Coniophora puteana, a known agent of wood decay, was found in the decayed wood of one declining tree. This is the first time F. mediterranea and C. puteana have been reported on hazelnut.
23721519|Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis can cause severe losses to tomato crops and new types of alternative control must be identified. Induced resistance is a potential method. Among resistance inducers, the mushrooms Lentinula edodes (Le) and Agaricus subrufescens (Abl) exhibit the potential to be used in plant disease control. The objectives of this study were: (i) evaluate the potential of these mushrooms and of acibenzolar-S-methyl (aSm) to control bacterial canker; (ii) study the mode of action of these materials by measuring defense-relate enzyme activity; (iii) partially purify biologically active molecules. The aqueous extracts from mushroom isolates, as well as aSm, did not inhibit bacterial growth in vitro. However, 10% (v/v) solutions of extracts from the isolates Le-96/17 and Abl-26, as well as aSm, reduced wilt in tomato plants under greenhouse conditions. Plants treated with aSm, Abl-26 and Le-96/17 showed an increase in peroxidase and chitinase. Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and polyphenol oxidase (PPO) activities increased with all treatments. Because isolate Le-96/17 induced the greatest wilt reduction, its aqueous extract was precipitated with ammonium sulfate. The fraction at 40-80% saturation was submitted to anion-exchange chromatography (AEC). The AEC fractions 3 and 4, the inducer aSm and the aqueous extract of Le-96/17 reduced the bacterial disease. The fractions 3 and 4, the 40-80% precipitate and the aqueous extract from Le-96/17 contained more than one protein band. In conclusion, the isolate Le-96/17 induced resistance to C. michiganensis in tomato and partial purification of the inducer molecules was obtained.
41997977|The effect of ultraviolet-C light (u. v.-C) at low doses on postharvest decay of strawberries caused by Botrytis cinerea and other pathogens was investigated. Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) activity and ethylene production, as influenced by ultraviolet-C irradiation, were also determined. Strawberries (cv. 'Pajaro') from plants that had been treated with chemicals against grey mould were irradiated with u.v.-C doses ranging from 0.25 to 4.00 kj m and inoculated with B. cinerea at different times (0, 12, 24 and 48 hours) after irradiation. To assess the effect of u.v.-C light on the naturally occurring postharvest decay, organically grown strawberries were also used. After treatment the strawberries were stored at 201 C or at 3 C. u.v.-C doses at 0.50 and 1.00 kJ m significantly reduced botrytis storage rot arising from both artificial inoculations and natural infections in comparison with the unirradiated control. The doses shown to reduce botrytis rot produced an increase in PAL activity 12 h after irradiation; this result indicates the activation of metabolic a pathway related to the biosynthesis of phenolic compounds, which are usually characterized by antifungal activity. In addition, u.v.-C irradiation caused an increase in ethylene production proportional to the doses applied, reaching the highest value 6 h after treatment. The overall results from these investigations indicate that treatment with low u.v.-C doses produces a reduction in postharvest decay of strawberries related to induced resistance mechanisms. Moreover, a germicidal effect of reducing external contaminating pathogens cannot be excluded.
41992427|Periwinkle plants showing severe chlorosis and littleleaf symptoms were observed in Crdoba (Argentina). These symptoms have previously been correlated with a phytoplasma infection based on electron microscopy, serology and PCR techniques. The aim of the present work was to characterize the Argentinian catharanthus little leaf phytoplasma (ACLL) at molecular level using PCR-RFLP. Using the universal phytoplasma primers P1/P7 and R16F2/R16R2, we amplified the 1.8 kb fragment extending from the 5'-end of the 16S rRNA gene to the 5'-region of the 23S rDNA, and a 1.2 kb fragment from the 16S rRNA gene. The specific aster yellows primers P1/AYint were also used and the expected amplified fragment of 1.5 kb was obtained. The P1/P7 and R16F2/R16R2 fragments were digested with 9 and 10 restriction endonucleases respectively. The RFLP analysis revealed, for most of the enzymes assayed, identical patterns to those of members of the aster yellows group (16SrI), subgroup B, except for Rsa I and Hae III, which generated profiles similar to those presented by phytoplasmas from subgroup C. These differences could be explained by sequence heterogeneity of the two rRNA operons that are present in all phytoplasmas. Confirmation of the ACLL phytoplasma in Argentina expands southwards the already wide geographical distribution and diversity of the 16SrI-B (Aster Yellows) group.
41997877|Among one hundred and sixty-four isolates of Phytophthora infestans collected during 1995-96 from different Italian regions, 27 strains of mating type A and 7 strains of Self were identified. All the A and Self isolates from potato and tomato plants were found in 1996. Su 164 isolati di Phytophthora infestans, raccolti durante il 1995 e 1996 da piante malate di patata e pomodoro di varie regioni italiane, son stati identificad 27 ceppi con compatibilit sessuale A e 7 ceppi Self. Tutti i ceppi A e Self, sia da patata che da pomodoro, sono stati trovati nel corso del 1996.
41998022|For the past decade, the attention given to genetic variation of pathogens by plant pathologists has increased dramatically, while interest in epidemiology appears to have declined. This increase in interest in genetic variation is clearly evident in the profusion of recent publications, and by conferences such as EFPP 2000, whose theme is biodiversity. Valuable advances in our understanding of plant diseases and their management can potentially be made by exploiting genetic variation. However, the bold  and sometimes simplistic -claims for the potential of these contributions to disease management have been too often unrealized, and therefore need to be evaluated more critically. The rapid increase in the popularity of this area has been made possible, in part, by the easy accessibility of genetic markers, as a result in advances in technology of molecular biology, and the perception that it is fashionable to use these techniques. Unfortunately, these developments have led to a method-oriented approach to research. Significant advancement in this field requires taking a problem-oriented approach, where the most appropriate methods are used to address the questions. Furthermore, we need a synthesis of population genetics and epidemiology (two disciplines that have developed separately), resulting in a population biology perspective of plant pathology. No simple formula can be applied to studying the population biology of plant pathogens that can effectively contribute to disease management. Instead, every pathosystem must be considered on a case-by-case basis, in both genetic and ecological contexts, with the questions unique to each system determining what research should be done. In this paper, I discuss a few selected examples in which population genetics and epidemiology have been integrated to provide greater insights into pathogen population biology and disease management.
41997892|A virus associated with chlorotic spots on cucumber fruits was mechanically trasmitted to a number of herbaceous hosts. Ultrastructural investigations showed cytopathic inclusions similar to those induced by nepovirus infection. Virions were spherical and contained two ss-RNA species of about 8300 and 7400 nucleotides. The viral coat protein migrated in SDS-PAGE as two bands of about 50 and 14 kDa. However, virus particles did not react, in immunodiffusion tests, with antisera to several known nepoviruses with somewhat similar properties. Un virus associato a macule clorotiche su frutti di cetriolo  stato isolato per trasmissione meccanica a diversi ospiti erbacei. Il virus presenta particelle sferiche a contorni angolari tipiche dei nepovirus, mentre indagini ultrastrutturali hanno evidenziato la formazione, nelle cellule infette, di inclusioni citopatologiche anch'esse simili a quelle indotte dai nepovirus. I virioni purificati contengono due ssRNA di circa 8300 e 7400 nucleotidi, mentre il capside virale migra in elettroforesi denaturante in forma di due protine di peso molecolare di circa 50 e 14 kDa. Il virus non ha, pero, reagito con gli antisieri a diversi nepovirus noti e con caratteristiche analoghe.
41998871|A total of 33 bacterial isolates from sweet cherry {Prunus avium L.), sour cherry (P. cerasus L.), plum (P. domestica L.), and hazelnut (Corylus avellana L.) showing disease symptoms in Poland and Italy were first identified phenotypically using conventional techniques. Sixteen isolates were classified as Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae (Pss), 12 as P. syringae pv. morsprunorum (Psm) race 1, and five as Psm race 2. Detection of toxin production, showed that out of 16 Pss strains, 11 possessed the syrB gene, whereas three strains of Psm race 1 had the cfl gene and three strains of Psm race 2 had the gene encoding yersiniabactin (irpl). Repetitive-sequence PCR (rep-PCR) using BOX and ERIC primer sets revealed three separate clusters that were consistent with the phenotypically identified pathovars and races. The only exception were two strains of Psm race 2 that did not possess irp1. In this case, both BOX and ERIC-PCR fingerprints showed that their patterns were more similar to those obtained from Pss strains. Twenty representative strains were also used for multilocus sequence typing (MLST). In particular, MLST of gyrB, gap A, gltA and rpoD genes allowed a clear allocation of the strains into three separate clusters corresponding to Pss and Psm race 1 and 2.
24332029|Several antagonist strains of Pseudomonas spp., including Pseudomonas putida, and Fusarium oxysporum were evaluated on seeds of lettuce (Lactuca sativa) cv. Crispilla Blanca as treatments against Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lactucae in comparison with standard chemical treatments and biological products available in commerce. Assessment of the efficacy of the seed treatments was done in vivo under controlled conditions in a glasshouse. Seed treatments with Pseudomonas strains showed in most cases a limited efficacy but were statistically comparable with those obtained by chemical treatments with Prochloraz and Thiram, in terms of infected plants and disease index. Seed treatments with Fusarium oxysporum strain MSA35 were slightly phytotoxic as they affected the germination rate of treated seeds. The efficacy of the tested seed treatments with biocontrol agents for controlling the pathogen was not totally satisfactory but amenable to improvements and combination with other strategies of seed sanitization.
41998220|An elongated virus with particles measuring 460 nm in length and tentatively named Caladium virus X (CalVX) was isolated from Caladium bicolor (fam. Araceae) co-infected with Dasheen mosaic virus. The effect of this double infection was to induce chlorotic and necrotic spots and rings. CalVX was easily transmitted by mechanical inoculation but not via seeds or by aphids. The only systemic experimental hosts detected were Nicotiana benthamiana and some araceous species. There were no positive reactions in serological tests using antisera to 17 potexviruses. CalVX capsid protein has a M r of 26,000. Electron microscopy of infected cells revealed aggregates of virus-like particles in the cytoplasm, and electron-dense crystalline inclusions in the cytoplasm and nucleus. Comparison of the sequence of 740 nucleotides encoding the putative C-terminal region of the replicase showed that CalVX was most similar (65.8% identity) to Cymbidium mosaic virus and phylogenetic analysis supported its classification in the genus Potexvirus. This is the first report of a natural infection of araceous plants by a potexvirus.
41997994|Pruning and artificial 'hailstone wounds' on pear shoots and needle wounds in fruitlets were contaminated every 6 hours, starting from a few seconds after injury, and up to 66 h with known inoculum doses of a virulent strain of Erwin  a amylovora. A single wound was made on each shoot and fruitlet. Cankers on shoots and brown areas on fruits caused by successful infection were observed, respectively, 20 and 8 days after contamination at 252C. The shoot wounds were progressively less competent for infection as the interval increased between wounding and contamination. The largest reduction in competence occurred in the first 24 h after wounding (from 80-85% successful infections to approximately 10-20%). The pear shoot pruning wounds were still competent after 48 h and up to 60 h, although less than 5% of inoculations were successful. Acropetal cankers developed above the 'hailstone wounds' between 35 and 66 h after wounding. Wounds on fruits kept in a damp chamber remained competent longer than those on young pear tree shoots kept at 50-90% relative humidity. The variation in competence in the pear shoot and fruitlet wounds is discussed and compared with other bacterial host-pathogen systems.
41998244|'Golden Delicious', 'Granny Smith' and 'Red Delicious' apple fruits were wounded at their equators to give one puncture wound (3 mm diameter x 3 mm deep) and one shallow-slice wound (4.0 mm diameter x 0.4 mm deep) on opposite sides of a fruit. Freshly-made wounds (0 day old) or wounds that were 1 day or 3 days old prior to inoculation were inoculated with 50 or 500 conidia per wound of Botrytis cinrea or Pnicillium expansum. After 7 days incubation at 22C, 1 day or 3 day-old puncture wounds had less decay severity and incidence from either fungus than 0 day-old puncture wounds. Conversely, 0 day-old slice wounds were more resistant to fungal decay, whereas 3 day-old wounds were less resistant. This wound-type effect was found with both inoculum densities and for all cultivars. It occurred in 'Golden Delicious' fruits after incubation for 30 days at 3C. This is the first report of wound type affecting the outcome of fungal infection in apple fruits. Understanding this effect may prove useful in devising a comprehensive theory of host resistance to fungal infection in apple fruit.
41998790|An unknown bacterium was isolated from cultivated oyster mushrooms grown in Korea, which caused a soft rot that developed more rapidly than that elicited by the brown blotch bacterium, Pseudomonas tolaasii at temperatures above 25C. From these lesions a bacterial strain (designated OM1) was isolated which, following inoculation of mushroom caps, yielded characteristic sunken water-soaked brown spots, which developed into a severe soft rot. In the early stages, the lesions were indistinguishable from those of bacterial brown blotch, well known to mushroom growers. Results of Gram stain and biochemical tests identified the new bacterial isolate as Burkholderia gladioli pv. agaricicola. This was confirmed by pathogenicity to oyster mushroom, physiological and biochemical properties, analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequences and the fatty acids profile. This is the first report of the isolation of B. gladioli pv. agaricicola from cultivated oyster mushroom in Korea.
24722462|Leifsonia (Clavibacter) xyli subsp. xyli (Lxx) is the etiological agent of ratoon stunting disease (RSD), one of the most important diseases affecting productivity of sugarcane crops. The lack of defined external symptoms in the plant is a challenge for the diagnosis of RSD. We compared sensitivity of three methods including conventional PCR, nested PCR and real-time PCR for detection of Lxx sugarcane fields of the Khuzestan province (Iran). Total genomic DNA of infected sugarcanes was extracted and various amounts of it used as template for three mentioned techniques. The results showed that conventional PCR lacks sufficient sensitivity to be used as a diagnostic tool for RSD. Nested PCR had acceptable sensitivity, however, this technique is time-consuming. Real-time PCR is the most efficient method but it is expensive and requires specialist for analyzing the data. Totally, each of these methods has its own advantages and disadvantages. Therefore, the election of these techniques for diagnosis depends on factors like disease severity, the goal and available facilities.
41998752|Recent phylogenetic analysis of xanthomonad and pseudomonad plant pathogens based on comparison of nucleotide sequences from protein coding loci have proved to reliably classify strains according to core-genome relatedness. Increasingly larger strain populations have been analysed from both pathogen groups, which has defined their diversity in terms of phylogroups, clades and sequevars. The level of discrimination from a single locus is sufficient to facilitate rapid and cost effective identification to species and subspecies level. Analysis of 56 pseudomonad pathogens including all the pathovar reference strains isolated from Prunus, hazel and walnut using the rpoD locus, has placed these pathogens within the phylogenetic structure defined previously using seven loci. The large majority of the strains grouped within phylogroups 1-3. Within Xanthomonas these pathogens are restricted to X. arboricola. The development of sequence reference data-bases to which isolates encountered in the diagnostic laboratory can be compared, will provide opportunities to improve risk assessment, diagnosis, monitoring and surveillance of these important pathogens.
41997927|Rhizomania, caused by the beet necrotic yellow vein virus (BNYVV), is a world-wide problem for sugar beet production. Although rhizomania was first detected in sugar beet in the northern Italian Po Valley, wild beet on the Adriatic coast near the Po estuary show no virus infection under natural conditions. Our aim was to examine whether this absence of virus infection is caused by endogenous wild beet resistance or by the saline soil conditions of coastal habitats. Greenhouse experiments were carried out with pot plants grown from coastal seed and with a BNYVV-susceptible sugar beet variety as control. The plants were grown in highly BNYVV infested soil. To simulate saline conditions, the pots were periodically irrigated with sea salt solutions of two different concentrations or with tap water as a control. The BNYVV levels in the plant were measured by ELISA. Without salt, a range of tolerances to BNYVV was observed in plants derived from different coastal populations. One population was highly virus resistant, two were more heterogeneous and three populations were highly susceptible. In the presence of salt the data showed a significant reduction of the number of infected plants. These results indicate that the absence of virus in wild beet populations is mainly due to the saline soil conditions in coastal habitats. This phenomenon will be important for the biosafety assessment of gene flow of BNYW resistance genes from transgenic sugar beet to wild beet populations in coastal habitats. La rizomania, causata dal virus dell'ingiallimento necrotico nervale della barbabietola (BNYVV),  ormai un problema di portata mondiale per la bieticoltura da zucchero. Bench la malattia sia stata originariamente segnalata nelle colture della valle del Po, le bietole selvatiche della costa adriatica nelle vicinanze della foce del fiume non sono apparentemente infette. Si  pertanto pensato di accertare se l'assenza d'infezione dipendesse da resistenza genetica intrnseca di queste popolazioni, owero dalle condizioni di salinit degli habitat costieri. Allo scopo, sono state condotte prove allevando in vaso in un terreno con un forte inoculo di BNYVV semenzali di bietola derivati da semi raccolti sulle coste. Come testimone  stata usata una variet di bietola altamente suscettibile al virus. Per riprodurre le condizioni di salinit, i vasi sono stati peridicamente irrigati con soluzioni acquose di sali marini a due diverse concentrazioni, mentre i testimoni venivano irrigati con acqua di fonte. La concentrazione virale nelle piante  stata stimata mediante ELISA. I semenzali di diverse popolazioni costiere di bietole selvatiche irrigati con acqua dolce hanno mostrato un livello di tolleranza differenziale a BNYW. Una popolazione  risultata altamente resistente, due hanno mostrato un comportamento intermedio, e tre si sono rivelate altamente suscettibili. L'irrigazione con acqua salata, invece, ha prodotto una notevole diminuzione del numero di piante infette. Questi risultati indicano che l'assenza di BNYW nelle popolazioni spontane di bietola degli habitat costieri  dovuta sostanzialmente pi aile condizioni di salinit ivi present che a fattori di resistenza. Di ci  importante tener conto negli accertamenti sulla diffusione naturale (gene flow) di geni di resistenza da piante transgeniche di barbabietola da zucchero alie popolazioni costiere di bietole selvatiche.
41998522|Field surveys were carried out in the major stone fruit growing areas of eastern Algeria to assess the sanitary status of stone fruits. A total of 454 samples from peach, apricot, almond, sweet and sour cherry, plum and myrobalan were tested by ELISA or RT-PCR for the presence of Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV), Prune dwarf virus (PDV), Apple mosaic virus (ApMV), Apple chlorotic leaf spot virus (ACLSV) Apricot latent virus (ApLV), Cherry virus A (CVA), Cherry green ring mottle virus (CGRMV), and Plum bark necrosis stem pitting-associated virus (PBNSPaV). The overall average infection level was 10.4%. The most frequent virus was PNRSV (56.8%), Mowed by PDV (27.2%) and ApMV (22.7%). The most infected species was cherry (21.9%) and the less almond (4.4%). ACLSV, ApLV, CVA, CGRMV and PBNSPaV were not detected. Of 531 samples tested for the presence of viroids by tissueprint hybridization, 28 (5.2%) were infected. Peach latent mosaic viroid (PLMVd) and Hop stunt viroid (HSVd) were detected in 15 and 13 samples, respectively. This is the first large-scale study on viruses and viroids of stone fruits in Algeria and reports for the first time the presence of HSVd in the country.
41998818|Soft rot is a major disease of calla lily (Zantedeschia spp.) and other important crops worldwide. In this report, the bacterial isolate ZT0505 proved to be a soft rot pathogen of calla lily growing around Kunming (subtropical China) and was identified as Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. The weight of macerated tuber tissue caused by inoculation of the isolate and incubation for 36 h at 22, 25, 28 and 32C, was 0.21, 0.62, 0.67, and 0.60 g/tuber, respectively. The extent of tuber maceration was significantly less (65.0-68.7%) at 22C than at 25-32C, while 28C yielded the highest amount of macerated tissue. The bacterium grew faster at 32C than at 22-28C. The highest pectate lyase (PL) activity of isolate ZT0505 was found at 28C, a value much higher than the 14-17C range at which P. carotovorum subsp. carotovorum strains from more temperate regions are usually found to have the highest PL activity. Temperature effect on PL activity tallied with that on tuber maceration. After 24 h incubation at pH 6.3, 7.0, 7.3, the weight of macerated tissue was 0.17, 0.61, 0.61 g/tuber, respectively. The extent of maceration increased when lengthening the incubation time. Tuber maceration at pH 6.3 was significantly less (54.9-72.1%) than at pH 7.0 and 7.3 after 24-36 h incubation. Bacterial growth at pH 6.3 was significant slower than at pH 7.0 and 7.3. A good correlation between PL activity and extent of tuber maceration at the various pHs was found only when PL activity assays were conducted at similar pHs.
41998162|Wheat cultivars with high-temperature resistance shortly exposed to 21C expressed resistance to stripe rust, Puccinia striiformis f.sp. tritici, after being inoculated with the virulent strain CY29. Observations on the ultrastructural interactions between wheat and the rust fungus demonstrated that marked changes took place in both the fungus and the host mesophyll cells in resistance expression. Hyphae of the fungus were inhibited, and organelles developed vacuoles and disintegrated or collapsed. Development of haustorial mother cells and haustoria was retarded, and these were malformed and necrotized. The extrahaustorial membrane was stained more deeply, wrinkled, and perforated. The extrahaustorial matrix was widened and was coated with large amounts of electron-dense material. Host cells produced defense structures and material related to infection as well as hypersensitive responses. Formation of cell wall appositions, collars or papillae, and encasements of haustoria were essentially observed. In the interaction of the same wheat cultivars with the stripe rust avirulent strain (CY29-mut3) at normal temperature (16C), the intracellular symptoms of incompatibility were similar to those of thermal induction. In the compatible interaction at 16C, the pathogen was normal and there were no signs of disorganization or necrosis of infected host cells.
24332213|HarpinPss (encoded by the hrpZ gene), a proteinaceous elicitor produced by Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae, induces cell death in plants through hypersensitive response (HR). With an aim to generate transgenic tobacco resistant to fungal diseases, hrpZ was expressed in a secretable form, tagged with the signal peptide (SP) of PR1a, under the constitutive 35S promoter (35S) or pathogen-inducible promoters (PIPs) like phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL), osmotin (OSM), and hypersensitive-related (HSR) promoters. The constitutive expression of the secretable form of hrpZ did not permit regeneration of transformed cells due to harpinPss-induced cell death. Transformants were recovered at a low frequency (2-6%) from leaf discs infected with Agrobacterium harbouring the SP-hrpZ driven by PIPs due to wound-induced leaky expression of harpinPss. The transgenic lines were confirmed by PCR using transgene-specific primers for SP-hrpZ. The expression of hrpZ under PIPs in transgenic lines was confirmed by Western blotting after challenging the leaves with Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. nicotianae. RT-PCR analysis also confirmed the expression of SP-hrpZ driven by PIPs in transgenic tobacco upon infection with F. oxysporum f. sp. nicotianae. The expression of harpinPss in these transgenic lines was accompanied by expression of defense-response genes such as PR1, PR2, PR3, HSR and HIN1. Transgenic tobacco plants showed enhanced resistance to F. oxysporum f. sp. nicotianae. Our findings suggest the potential use of an elicitor gene (hrpZ), driven by PIPs (PAL, OSM, and HSR) for the development of resistant plants.
41998278|A detailed account is given of the history, aetiology, biology, epidemiology, detection, geographical distribution, and control of huanglongbing (HLB), a destructive disease of citrus that represents a major threat to the world citrus industry, and is slowly invading new citrusgrowing areas. HLB, whose name in Chinese means "yellow dragon disease", was first reported from southern China in 1919 and is now known to occur in next to 40 different Asian, African, Oceanian, South and North American countries. The agent is a phloem-restricted, non cultured, Gram-negative bacterium causing crippling diseases denoted "greening" in South Africa, "mottle leaf" in the Philippines, "dieback" in India, "vein phloem degeneration" in Indonesia. The HLB bacterium belongs to the genus Candidatus Liberibacter, three species of which are currently known, Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus, occurring in Asian countries and, to a lesser extent, in Brazil and the USA (Florida), Candidatus Liberibacter africanus with its subspecies "capensis", recorded from African countries, and Candidatus Liberibacter americanus present in Brazil. The suggestion is that each liberibacter species has evolved in the continent after which it is named. HLB symptoms are virtually the same wherever the disease occurs. Infected trees show a blotchy mottle condition of the leaves that results in the development of yellow shoots, the early and very characteristic symptom of the disease. Trees are stunted, declining and bear a few, small-sized, and deformed (lop-sided) fruits, that are poorly coloured (greening) and with coloration starting at the peduncular end (colour inversion). HLB can be transmitted by grafting from citrus to citrus and by dodder to periwinkle. The psyllids Trioza erytreae and Diaphorina citri are natural vectors. Two different types of HLB are known: the heat-sensitive African form transmitted by T. erytreae, which develops at temperatures of 22-25C, and the heat-tolerant Asian form, transmitted by D. citri, which stands temperatures well above 30C. Although the HLB pathogen can be identified by electron microscopy, other laboratory methods are used for routine detection. ELISA with monoclonal antibodies is not recommended. Better systems are dot blot hybridization with a DNA probe, and various PCR formats (one-step, nested, multiplex) using species-specific primers based on 16S rRNA or rplKAJL-rpoBC operon sequences. Because no curative methods of HLB are available, control is preventive and largely based on inoculum elimination by removal of infected trees and chemical treatments against vectors. Strict quarantine measures must be implemented to impair further international spread of HLB agents and their vectors.
41999028|'Candidatus Phytoplasma prunorum' was detected for the first time in Tunisia in apricot trees that showed early leaf reddening in autumn, off-season growth in winter followed by dieback, and bore small and tasteless fruits. Phytoplasma was detected by nested PCR using the universal phytoplasma primer pairs R16mF2/R1 and R16F2n/R2. An amplification product of the expected size (1.2 kbp) was obtained from samples collected from symptomatic but not from symptomless apricot trees. Amplicons subjected to RFLP analysis after digestion with endonucleases Msel and Rsal, gave patterns similar to those reported for the European stone fruit yellows phytoplasma (ESFY, 16SrX-B). Identification was further confirmed by PCR using ESFY-specific primer pairs (ECA1/ECA2).
41998672|A virus with filamentous particles ca. 700 nm long, denoted Fig latent virus 1 (FLV-1) is widespread in Apulian (southern Italy) fig orchards, in trees showing or not mosaic symptoms and in symptomless seedlings. This virus was transmitted by sap inoculation to a very restricted range of herbaceous hosts without inducing apparent symptoms. It was successfully purified from root tissues of infected figs. A virus-specific antiserum raised in rabbits, proved useful for its detection in fig leaf dips by immunosorbent electron microscopy. The cytology of infected cells was little affected. Bundles of filamentous particles were observed in the cytoplasma of parenchyma cells of infected fig trees and seedlings. The viral genome is a single-stranded positive-sense RNA with an estimated size of ca. 8,000 nt, 6,620 of which have been sequenced, starting from the polyadenylated 3' terminus. Genomic RNA consists of four open reading frames encoding, in the 5'  3' direction, the replication-associated proteins (ORF 1), a 43 kDa putative movement protein (ORF 2), the 46 kDa coat protein (ORF 3), and a 12 kDa protein with nucleic acid binding properties. The viral genome structure and organization resembles that of members of the genus Trichovirus, family Flexiviridae and, indeed, FLV-1 clusters with trichoviruses in phylogenetic trees constructed with coat protein sequences. However, a distinct difference with all members of the genus rests with the size of the coat protein subunits (46 versus 22-27 kDa) and the presence of ORF 4, which is present only in three tentative species of this genus.
41998867|Different Prunus species from Italy, Serbia, Turkey and Egypt were assayed by one-step RT-PCR and nested PCR for the presence of Plum bark necrosis stem pittingassociated virus (PBNSPaV). This virus had a fairly high incidence and was monitored throughout the year by IC-RT-PCR and ELISA. It was detected during all seasons by both techniques but most easily in spring in the new flushes of vegetation. Six PBNSPaV isolates were characterized by partial sequencing of three genomic regions, e.g. HSP70, coat protein and ORF4. High nucleotide similarity was found between all isolates from different geographic and host origins, suggesting either a relatively recent origin or the presence of unidentified constraint on variation.
23721577|Different fungal species and the bacterium Pantoea ananatis (Pa) have been reported as etiological agents of Phaeosphaeria leaf spot (PLS) disease. This work aimed at using molecular identification of the fungi and bacteria occurring in PLS and its etiology. Genomic DNAs from (i) pool of each of the four stages of PLS lesions; (ii) bacteria and fungi isolated from lesions of natural PLS (NPLS) and artificial injuries (AI); (iii) fungi isolated from lesions obtained from plants inoculated with Pa in greenhouse (GH) were used in PCR with universal primers for bacteria and fungal rRNA genes, and species-specific primers for Pa. Bacterial amplicons were observed at all stages of lesions and fungal amplicons in stages 3 and 4. Bacterial amplicons of pooled NPLS lesions were from Pa while fungal amplicons were from Phaeosphaeria sp. and Phoma sp. Bacteria from NPLS, GH and AI lesions were identified as Pa, Pa and Bacillus subtilis, respectively, while the fungi were Epicoccum nigrum, Leptosphaeria sacchari, Cochliobolus geniculatus, Pithomyces chartarum, Alternaria alternata, A. ricini, Gibberella intricans, G. fujikuroi, Phaeosphaeria sp., P. avenaria, Phoma sp., Phyllosticta sp., Sarocladium strictum, Glomerella graminicola, and Cochliobolus heterostrophus. Symptoms of PLS decreased by 90% with the use of oxytetracycline in foliar treatment of maize plants in the field, and its addition to culture medium completely inhibited the growth of Pa. The results strongly show that Pa is the causal agent of PLS disease and different species of opportunistic fungi appear late in the necrotic stages of lesions caused by Pa.
24332038|Plum pox virus (PPV)-positive samples from one sweet (Prunus avium) and four sour cherry (P. cerasus) trees from three geographically distinct regions of Russia (Moscow, Samara and Volgograd) were analysed. The average genetic distance among the five Russian PPV-C isolates in the region spanning the 3terminal part of the nuclear inclusion b gene (NIb) and the hypervariable 5terminal part of the coat protein gene reached 1.6%. To widen the information on PPV-C diversity, the full-length genome sequence of an isolate (Volk143) was determined directly from the original host tissues. The analysis of the complete genome sequences showed a high identity of Volk143 and the previously characterised PPV-C isolates with only 1.4-1.8% divergence. Co-infection with the recently identified PPVCR strain was not observed, even though the PPV-CR is known to occur in the regions of origin of the isolates studied here. The present results unambiguously confirm the natural infection of sweet and sour cherry trees by PPV-C in different Russian regions and further contribute to our understanding of the poorly known PPV-C diversity.
41998358|The effects on chickpea (Cicer arietinum) of the phosphate-solubilizing microorganisms Aspergillus awamori, Pseudomonas aeruginosa (isolate Pa28) and Glomus intraradices in terms of growth, and content of chlorophyll, nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium and on the root-rot disease complex of chickpea caused by Meloidogyne incognita and Macrophomina phaseolina were evaluated. Application of these phosphate-solubilizing microorganisms alone and in combination increased plant growth, pod number, and chlorophyll, nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium contents, and reduced galling, nematode multiplication and root-rot index of chickpea. Pseudomonas aeruginosa reduced galling and nematode multiplication the most followed by A. awamori and G. intraradices. Combined inoculation of these microorganisms caused the greatest increase in plant growth and reduced the root-rot index more than individual inoculations. Pathogens adversely effected root colonization by G. intraradices. However, root colonization and root nodulation were increased when co-inoculated with P. aeruginosa and A. awamori whether in the presence or absence of pathogens.
41998166|Two hundred twenty seven isolates of Rhizoctonia spp. were obtained from roots and hypocotyls of bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) grown in Erzurum, Turkey. Of these, 111 Rhizoctonia solani were identified as belonging to seven anastomosis groups (AG): AG-2-1 (0.9%), AG-3 (2.7%), AG-4 (47.8%), AG-5 (36.9%), AG-9 (8.1%), AG-10 (0.9%) and AG-11 (2.7%); 116 binucleate Rhizoctonia belonged to four anastomosis groups: AG-A (1.7%), AG-F (4.3%), AG-G (7.8%), and AG-K (86.2%). In vitro pathogenicity tests on bean cultivars showed that the highest disease severities were caused by AG-5 (B-1) and AG-4 (B-227) isolates, whereas AGG (B-16, B-3) and AG-F (B-5) isolates were weakly pathogenic. On the other hand, the other anastomosis groups of R. solani (AG-2-1, AG-3, AG-9, AG-10 and AG-11), and binucleate Rhizoctonia (AG-A, and AG-K) were not pathogenic on the five tested bean cultivars. 'eker' was found to be the most resistant cultivar, and 'Terzibaba' was the most susceptible cultivar across all Rhizoctonia spp. tested. This is the first report of R. solani AG-2-1, AG-3, AG-9, AG-10, AG-11 and binucleate Rhizoctonia AG-F and AG-G on bean in Turkey.
41998336|Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) is a widespread and damaging rice pathogen in Africa. The presence, infectivity and transmissibility of RYMV in seeds of six wild host species were investigated. In serological analyses by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), each of four RYMV isolates used was detected in individual seeds of wild rice species (Oryza barthii and O. Iongistaminata) and the standard susceptible rice BG 90-2 (O. sativa). Virus detection in seeds of other host species (Dactyloctenium aegyptium, Eragrostis ciliaris, E. tenella and E. tremula) was unsuccessful in single seeds but positive reactions were obtained for extracts made from several seeds. RYMV was infectious in freshly-harvested seed extracts whatever the plant species or the virus isolate. However, most infectivity was lost in dried seeds, possibly due to virus inactivation following dehydration of the seeds. Despite the presence of RYMV in dry seeds, no evidence was obtained for transmission of the virus through seeds of rice or wild host species, whatever the plant species-virus isolate combination. RYMV is unlikely to be transmitted through seeds of its host species and, therefore, virus dissemination or epidemics of rice yellow mottle do not originate from infected seeds.
23721567|Light plays an important role in the induction of resistance responses in various plants against diseases. In this study, the inhibition was investigated of wildfire disease caused by Pseudomonas syringae pv. tabaci in Nicotiana benthamiana in response to irradiation with light emitting diodes (LEDs) To identify the effects of various wavelengths on the induction of defense responses, N. benthamiana plants were irradiated for three days with various LEDs (380, 440, 470, and 660 nm) before and after inoculation. Symptom development showed greater suppression in response to irradiation with blue (440 nm) and red (660 nm) light than fluorescent lights. Additionally, fewer bacterial cells were recovered from the lesions of LED-treated leaves than those of fluorescent light-treated leaves. Simple LED irradiation induced the expression of defense-related genes including catalase (CAT), chalcone synthase (CHS), gluthatione-S-transferase (GST), pathogenesis-related protein (PR Q), proteinase inhibitor II (PinII), and thaumatin-like protein (TLP). Taken together, these data suggest that irradiation by LEDs could inhibit wildfire development by inducing defense responses in N. benthamiana plants.
41998464|A strain of Cucumber mosaic virus naturally infecting hoary cress (Lepidium draba) in Shiraz, Iran (designated CMV-Ld), induces vein clearing and mosaic on the leaves of naturally infected plants. Datura metel, D. stramonium, Lens culinaris, Lycopersicon esculentum, Nicotiana rustica and N. tabacum "Turkish" showed line pattern after mechanical inoculation with the virus. These symptoms were different from those induced by a cucumber strain of CMV (CMV-Cu). CMV-Ld was serologically similar to the cucumber strain in gel immunodiffusion tests using homologous and heterologous antisera. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of purified virus preparation yielded a protein band with molecular weight of 25 kDa. Analysis of the nucleotide sequence of the coat protein (CP) gene showed that CMV-Ld, CMV-Cu and other CMV strains could be assigned to subgroups on the basis of EcoRI restriction site. The full length sequences of the CP gene of both strains showed that CMV-Ld and CMV-Cu belong to subgroups II and IA, respectively.
41999056|Agroinfiltration of Nicotiana benthamiana leaves with a construct expressing the coat protein of Cymbidium ringspot virus (CymRSV) resulted in the production of virus-like particles (VLPs) which showed a preferential localization within mitochondria with an apparently intact bounding membrane. VLPs were either non penetrated or penetrated by the negative stain. The former had the same outward aspect and size of wild type CymRSV and were assumed to encapsidate the CP messanger RNA, which was recovered from virus preparations purified from agroinfiltrated tissues. In addition, VLPs were shown to be able to encapsidate tombusviral satellite RNAs. Immunoblot analysis of dissociated VLPs showed that they were made up of a protein indistinguishable from the native CymRSV CP. A mitochondrial targeting signal was identified in the N-terminal region of CymRSV CP at amino acid (aa) position 10-27. The fusion protein CPMyc, containing the 10-aa Myc epitope fused to the CymRSV CP C-terminus, formed VLPs that were decorated by a Myc-specific antiserum.
41998953|Cercospora leaf spot of sweet pepper (Capsicum annuum) caused by Cercospora capsici is an important disease occurring in the tropics. Due to the lack of standard methods to quantify this disease in field conditions, the objective of this study was to determine the ideal sample size for Cercospora leaf spot quantification in the field. Disease severity was determined in eight commercial sweet pepper (cv. All Big) fields located in the Agreste region of Pernambuco state (northeast Brazil). In each field, two diagonals (X) were established in a 0.5 ha area. Twenty-five plants were evaluated along each diagonal with the aid of an empiric scale to consider different sampling rates (3, 6, 9, 12 leaves/plant). The spatial pattern of the disease was estimated using Lloyd's Index of Patchiness (LIP) and ideal sample sizes were calculated based on degrees of acceptable error (5, 10 and 20%). The spatial pattern was predominantly random and there was no correlation (P = 0.44) between the LIP values and sample size. Considering a sample of 3 leaves/plant with 10 and 20% rate of acceptable error, the mean ideal sample size was 103 and 26 plants, respectively, for each 0.5 ha of cultivated field.
41998439|Results of a six-year evaluation carried out in the Czech Republic (CR) for resistance of apricot cvs Harlayne and Betinka to six different strains and isolates of PPV are presented. Two-year-old trees of both cultivars were inoculated by chip budding with PPV-M (type strain), PPV-D (type strain), PPV-Rec (originally recovered in the CR as PPV-W), PPV-M (isolated in the CR from peach), PPV-D (isolated in the CR from Prunus insititia), and PPV-Rec (isolated in the CR from P. insititid). PPV susceptible apricot cvs Karola and Velkopavlovick were used as controls and were chip-bud inoculated with PPV strains. No symptoms appeared in the leaves and fruits of cv. Betinka during six years of observation following inoculation with PPV-D (type), PPV-D (P. insititia), PPV-Rec (PPV-W), PPV-M (peach) and PPV-Rec strains, and in two trees inoculated with PPV-M (type) strain. Likewise, ELISA did not detect the presence of PPV in the leaves of both cultivars. RT-PCR gave a slight positive reaction from the leaves of a symptomless tree of cv. Harlayne inoculated with PPV-Rec (PPV-W) and from leaves of a symptomless tree of cv. Betinka inoculated with PPV-D (P. insititia). The presence of PPV in these trees is under investigation. Mild diffuse rings and spots appeared occasionally in the leaves and fruits of one tree of cv. Betinka after inoculation of PPV-M (type). The presence of PPV was confirmed by ELISA and RT-PCR. The relative concentration of PPV-M (type) protein in the leaves of a tree of cv. Betinka determined by ELISA was low (2.5X10) in comparison with the control (cv. Karola, 1.95x10). Severe symptoms appeared in the leaves and fruits of susceptible control cvs Karola and Velkopavlovick. The presence of different PPV strains in control cultivars was confirmed by ELISA and RT-PCR. Thus, cvs Harlayne and Betinka displayed durable resistance to the six different strains and isolates of PPV over the six year trial.
41997939|Electrophoretic analysis of extracts from cortical tissues of olive trees of cvs 'Biancolilla' and 'Nostrana' from Sicily (southern Italy) showing bright chrome yellow discolourations of the leaves, consistently revealed a number of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) bands, the largest of which had a size (ca 15 kbp) similar to that of the full genomic dsRNA of some species of the genus Closterovirus. A segment of 611 nucleotides, showing sequence homology with the HSP70 homologue gene of Closteroviridae was amplified by RT-PCR from symptomatic trees of both cultivars, using degenerated primers designed on the conserved phosphate 1 and 2 motifs of the HSP70 homologue gene sequence. Computer-assisted phylogenetic analysis showed that the 611 nt HSP70 homologue sequence from olive differed from that of other members of the family Closteroviridae, suggesting that it probably belonged to an undescribed closterovirus, for which the tentative name olive leaf yellowing-associated virus (OLYaV) is proposed. A set of OLYaV-specific primers was designed which amplified a 383 nt fragment of the HSP70 homologue. RT-PCR assays with these primers detected OLYaV sequences in olive trees with leaf yellowing from some Italian regions (Calabria and Latium) and Jerusalem, and in individuals of an unidentified pseudococcid mealybug species and of the psyllid Euphyllura olivina that had fed on symptomatic cv. 'Biancolilla' trees. No amplification was obtained with extracts from controls (symptomless olives and apparently healthy olive seedlings) or from olive trees from other Italian regions (Sardinia, Tuscany) that showed somewhat differing yellowing symptoms. L'analisi elettroforetica di estratti da tessuti corticali di cv. "Biancolilla" e "Nostrana" di origine siciliana con vivaci ingiallimenti fogliari ha rivelato la costante presenza di bande di RNA bicatenari (dsRNA), la pi grande delle quali aveva dimensioni (ca 15 kbp) analoghe a quelle dei dsRNA dell'intero genoma di alcune specie del genere Closterovirus. L'uso di primers degenerati comprendenti i motivi fosfatici 1 e 2 della sequenza del gene HSP70 dei closterovirus ha consentito l'amplificazione mediante RT-PCR di un frammento di 611 nucleotidi da estratti di piante con sintomi di entrambe le cultivars. Il sequenziamento del frammento amplificato e l'analisi filogenetica comparativa con le sequenze note dei geni HSP70 di altri closterovirus ha dimostrato che la sequenza identificata in olivo differisce dalle altre, tanto da far concludere ehe essa appartenga ad un possibile nuovo membro del genere Closterovirus, per il quale si propone il nome di virus associato alTingiallimento fogliare dell'olivo (OLYaV). La RTPCR con primers OLYaV-specifici che amplificano un frammento di 383 nt, ha consentito l'identificazione della sequenza virale in olivi con vivaci ingiallimenti fogliari presenti in Calabria e Lazio ed a Gerusalemme, nonch in individui di una specie non identificata di cocciniglia pseucoccide e dello psillide Euphyllura olivina present su di una pianta infetta di cv. "Biancolilla". La sequenza virale non  stata identificata n nei testimoni (olivi asintomatici e semenzali apparentemente sani) n in piante di origine sarda e toscana con ingiallimenti fogliari che differivano da quelli delle altre regioni.
41998103|Isolates of Drechslern graminea, the causal agent of the barley leaf stripe disease, were obtained from phytopathological samples collected in 1998 from different regions of Syria and analyzed for differences in cultural characteristics and protein profiles as determined by a 10% sodium-dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Differences in mycelia growth and colour were noticed among isolates collected from different regions. On the other hand, protein polymorphisms (SDS-PAGE) were detected, and highly significant differences (P < 0.001) for band numbers were obtained among isolates. The protein profiles were highly repeatable, suggesting that the biochemical SDS-PAGE protein markers are suitable to detect variability among D. graminea isolates.
41998048|Electrophoretic analysis of cortical and leaf tissue extracts from apricot trees of cv. 'Tyrinthos' from Apulia (southern Italy) affected by stem pitting, contained multiple double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) species, the largest with an estimated size of 15 kbp. A segment of 590 nucleotides, showing sequence homology with the HSP70 homologue gene of members of the family Closteroviridae was amplified by RT-PCR from symptomatic trees using degenerated primers designed on the conserved phosphate 1 and 2 motifs of the HSP70 gene sequence. Computer-assisted analysis showed that the 590 nt fragment from Italian apricot trees had 97% sequence homology with Plum bark necrosis stem pittingassociated virus (PBNSPaV), a recently reported closterovirus infecting Black Beaut plum (Prunus saltana) in California. A set of primers that amplified a 290 nt virus-specific fragment was designed and a cRNA probe was generated. This riboprobe and RT-PCR assays with these primers detected PBNSPaV in diseased but not in healthy apricot trees.
41998847|The effects of chitosan and sixteen Paenibacillus strains against the wilt pathogen Ralstonia solanacearum were evaluated in vitro and under greenhouse conditions. Chitosan and two Paenibacillus strains, in particular Paenibacillus polymyxa MB02-1007, were found to have strong in vitro antibacterial activities against R. solanacearum. In addition, chitosan applied as soil drench or seed treatment significantly reduced wilt incidence by 72% and 48%, respectively while P. poly my xa MB02-1007 as a soil drench or a seed treatment significantly reduced wilt incidence by 82% and 88%. In general, regardless of the application method, plant growth parameters as well as the activities of chitinase and -1,3-glucanase in tomato plants were significantly increased by chitosan and P. poly my xa MB02-1007 as compared to the corresponding control, both in the absence and presence of R. solanacearum. The growth of tomatoes, however, was promoted by chitosan more as a soil drench than as a seed treatment, while P. polymyxa MB02-1007 as a seed treatment was more effective than as a soil drench. This is the first report on the use of chitosan for the control of tomato wilt and promotion of tomato plants. In conclusion, both chitosan and P. polymyxa MB02-1007 show promise for plant growth promotion and control of R. solanacearum in tomato. Combining chitosan and P. polymyxa may improve disease control, which should be examined in future studies.
41997891|Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of PCR-amplified ribosomal DNA was used to identify and classify phytoplasmas infecting vegetable, ornamental and forage crops in southern Italy. Some of the diseases examined were already known in this area but the pathogens had not been properly differentiated and classified. Diseases affecting French hydrangea and alfalfa were new to southern Italy. All the symptomatic plants tested with PCR amplification using phytoplasma-specific primers were positive. The restriction profiles obtained following separate digestion with ten restriction endonucleases showed that phytoplasmas infecting Brassica spp., lettuce, periwinkle, French hydrangea and tomato from Campania were genetically uniform and undistinguishable from the American reference strains AAY and SAY of the aster yellows group. All southern Italian aster yellows phytoplasmas examined could thus be considered as typical members of subgroup 16SrI-B. Members of this subgroup were not previously known to infect tomato. An organism in tomato plants from Basilicata was undistinguishable from the typical stolbur phytoplasma and caused symptoms similar to those of aster yellows-affected tomato from Campania. A phytoplasma in witches'-broom-diseased alfalfa was characterized for the first time in Europe; it proved to be a putative new member of the faba bean phyllody group. L'analisi del polimorfismo della lunghezza dei frammenti di restrizione del DNA ribosomale amplificato mediante PCR,  stata impiegata per identificare i fitoplasmi presenti in specie coltivate, ortensi, ornamentali e foraggere in Italia del Sud. Fitoplasmosi di alcune delle specie esaminate erano gi state segnalate in questa area, tuttavia, gli agenti causali non erano stati propriamente caratterizzati e differenziati. Nuove fitoplasmosi riscontrate sono state quelle in ortensia e erba medica. Mediante la reazione di amplificazione genica (PCR) e utilizzando iniziatori specifici per il DNA dei fitoplasmi, tutti i campioni estratti da piante sintomatiche hanno reagito positivamente. Il confronto dei profili di restrizione ottenuti impiegando dieci differenti endonucleasi ha evidenziato che i fitoplasmi presenti in brassicacee, lattuga, vinca, ortensia e pomodoro collezionato in Campania, sono geneticamente simili e indistinguibili tra di loro e dai due ceppi americani AAY e SAY del gruppo del giallume dell'astro usati come confronto. Data la similitudine con il ceppo SAY, tutti i fitoplasmi del gruppo del giallume dell'astro identificati durante la presente ricerca nell'Italia del Sud, sono da ritenere membri del sottogruppo 16SrI-B. Membri di tale sottogruppo non sono stati precedentemente segnalati in pomodoro. In piante di pomodoro prelevate in Basilicata  stato identificato un organismo indistinguibile dal fitoplasma stolbur usato come riferimento. Le piante esaminate mostravano gli stessi sintomi di quelle presenti in Campania e affette dal fitoplasma appartenente al gruppo del giallume dell'astro. Il fitoplasma identificato in piante di erba medica affette da scopazzi rappresenta un nuovo membro del gruppo della fillodia della fava. L'identificazione molecolare di fitoplasmi in erba medica non stata in precedenza determinata in Europa.
41998791|Eleven samples were randomly collected from cruciferous plants with green or yellow mosaic symptoms in different areas of the Sichuan province (southwest China). The virus recovered from all samples was recognized as a possible potyvirus by electron microscope observations (negative staining and ultrathin sections) and identified as Turnip mosaic virus (TuMV) by RT-PCR. The coat protein (CP) gene of these isolates was cloned and sequenced. Sequence comparisons showed that these isolates shared 97-100% identity among themselves at the nucleotide level, whereas the identity level with TuMV strains isolated from other parts of China was 89-99.2%. Phylogenetic analysis of the CP sequences revealed that Sichuan isolates clustered in the world-B group. The results also showed that TuMV is a common pathogen of various cruciferous crops in the Sichuan province.
41998995|Synthetic hexaploid wheats (SHW) are products of crosses involving tetraploid cultivars (Triticum turgidum, 2n=28, AABB) and diploid goat grass (Aegilops tauschii, 2n=14, DD), followed by chromosome doubling of F hybrids. They are genomically amphidiploids (2n=42, AABBDD), combining the genomes of their parents. SHW exhibit resistance to some biotic factors, mainly fungi and insects, and may serve as valuable resources in wheat breeding. They can be involved in backcrosses with elite bread wheat cultivars to produce lines with superior quality, disease resistance and yield. In this review, we summarize the published data for biotic stress resistance in synthetic wheats and the potential use of synthetic-derived backcrossed lines in bread and durum wheat breeding. The exotic genes, controlling important biological traits in SHW produced so far, should contribute to the development of new wheat varieties.
24332028|This study is aimed at investigating reactive oxygen species formation, lipid peroxidation, induction of antioxidant enzymes and cell wall strengthening as initial responses of eggplant to Ralstonia solanacearum infection. The oxidative burst triggered during the course of interaction may be an initial defense response of the host targeted against the invading bacterial pathogen. The concentration of HO in inoculated roots was 53 molg at 48 h post inoculation (hpi), which was about three times higher than in the control. The increase in O generation resulting from inoculation with R. solanacearum was evident prominently from 24 hpi, but was highest at 48 hpi. At 24 hpi, the increase in OH generation resulting from R. solanacearum inoculation was at 3.9 A/g/h. Lipid peroxidation was higher at later stage of eggplant-R. solanacearum interaction. The activities of the antioxidative enzymes, viz. superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), guaiacol peroxidase (GPX) and ascorbate peroxidase (APX) increased in response to pathogen inoculation. SOD activity was more than three times higher than in non-inoculated plants at 48 hpi. CAT activity showed a decrease after 30 hpi and finally it reached the level in control plants. The increase in activities of GPX and APX was significant in inoculated roots. The highest phenolic and lignin contents were determined at 54 hpi in the inoculated plants. However, the antioxidative system in the plant was rather weak and the rate of lipid peroxidation was higher. We conclude that the biochemical events favored R. solanacearum rather than the eggplant, making this host-pathogen interaction a compatible combination.
41998814|Genetic analyses of adult plant stripe rust resistance in Australian wheat cvs Kukri and Sunco were performed using Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici pathotype 134 E16A+ during 2003. Both cultivars showed the presence of three independent adult plant stripe rust resistance genes. Three types of responses were observed among monogenically segregating lines from both cvs Kukri and Sunco. Genotyping with the Lr34-linked marker csLV34 indicated the presence of the linked genes Lr34/Yr18 in cv. Sunco. The other two genes carried by cv. Sunco were YrCk and YrCk2. Based on pedigree analysis, cv. Kukri is expected to carry Yr29 and Yr30, but presence of loci different to these genes cannot be ruled out. The genetic independence of APR genes carried by cvs Kukri and Sunco was confirmed by segregation analysis of a F population derived from a Sunco/Kukri cross.
41998697|During spring and summer of 2007 and 2008, a number of onion fields in Emilia Romagna region (northern Italy) showed various virus-like symptoms. DAS-ELISA carried out in 2007 and early 2008 for Impatiens necrotic spot virus (INSV), Iris yellow spot virus (IYSV) and Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV) showed the occasional presence of TSWV, whereas a number of samples also reacted weakly with IYSV antiserum. In a number of TSWV-negative samples, electron microscopy of leaf extracts revealed the presence of tospovirus-like particles. Western blot analysis on the same set of samples gave positive results with antisera against Tomato fruit yellow ring virus (TFYRV) and IYSV, two serologically related virus species. Sequence analysis of RT-PCR fragments confirmed that the virus in the onion samples was IYSV with approximately 98% identity at the amino acid level with reported Serbian and Spanish sequences of the same virus. Phylogenetic analysis confirmed that the Italian IYSV isolates belong to a newly defined southern European clade. Our data suggest that IYSV is made up of a heterogeneous and serologically distinct group of isolates.
41998755|Walnut blight, caused by Xanthomonas arboricola pv. juglandis, is present in all walnut growing regions of Australia, and has been responsible for significant losses of walnut fruits in Tasmania. The pathogen has been isolated from buds just prior to bud-burst in Tasmania, and disease symptoms on fruit of introduced cultivars of Juglans regia are similar to those observed in other growing regions of the world. This review focuses on the approach taken to model disease progression and describes how these models can help interpret the efficacy of spray programs, identify key factors influencing epidemic development and build tools for supporting decisions about spray timing. Considerable differences in the temporal progression of disease incidence on cvs Franquette and Vina fruits were found between three growing years in Tasmania, with incidences near harvest ranging from 19 to 100%. Final disease incidence was correlated positively to the quantity of rainfall during the first 4 weeks after bud-burst. Disease incidence was then used for modelling these epidemics because incidence on half full-size diameter fruit accounted for 97 % of the variance in yield of Vina walnuts. The monomolecular growth model with K = 1 obtained a good fit for the ten epidemics analysed. In a dry year, two sprays of copper-based biocide (300 g/kg of copper hydroxide formulated with 150 g/kg mancozeb) applied one week apart from 5% terminal bud-burst provided commercially acceptable control whereas up to nine sprays in a wetter year failed to control this disease. It was concluded that copper-based biocides could be timed strategically and according to the slow rate of disease development in drier years.
24722461|Brazil is the largest producer of the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), a staple food for a large proportion of the Brazilian population and its main protein source. Bean anthracnose is a common and broadly distributed bean disease and can cause yield losses of up to 100%. Alterations in the proteome of common bean leaves as a response to challenge by Colletotrichum lindemuthianum were analyzed using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry. The cultivar AND 277 was inoculated with an incompatible race of C. lindemuthianum. In comparison with non-inoculated plants, we observed 34 proteins differentially accumulated in leaves collected 12, 24, and 48 h post inoculation. The protein spots obtained from 2DE gels were then analyzed by MALDITOF/TOF mass spectrometry. Seventeen proteins were identified by MS/MS fragmentation. Most of them corresponded to enzymes belonging to photosynthesis and carbon metabolism, antioxidant systems, genetic information processing, defense and stress response, chaperones and folding catalysts, and phenylpropanoid or flavonoid biosynthesis. Our findings indicate that these proteins are related to the common bean response to C. lindemuthianum.
41998860|We determined the antibacterial activity of clove oil against seven different genera of plant pathogenic bacteria including Gram-negative Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Erwinia carotovora pv. carotovora, Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae, Ralstonia solanacearum, and Xanthomonas campestris pv. pelargonii, as well as Gram-positive Rhodococcus fascians and Streptomyces spp. Both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria tested were sensitive to clove oil, with R. solanacearum being the most sensitive one. Greenhouse experiments were therefore conducted to determine the effect of clove oil as a pre-plant soil fumigant on bacterial wilt of tomato and geranium caused by R. solanacearum. Seven days after treating R. solanacearum-infestcd plant growth medium ("soil") with 5 ml of clove oil per kilogram of soil, populations of R. solanacearum were reduced to undetectable level, and none of the tomato and geranium plants transplanted into such soil developed wilt symptoms or harbored the bacterium. Our results suggest that clove oil has the potential to be an alternative control measure to combat bacterial wilt of tomato and geranium.
23721734|Eighteen seed samples of basil, belonging to the cultivars most frequently grown in the Piedmont area for pesto production and obtained from farms affected by the disease in Piedmont during the fall of 2010 as well as from experimental lines of basil, were assayed for the presence of Alternaria spp., the causal agent of leaf spot of basil. Isolations were carried out by disinfected and not disinfected seeds. All eighteen tested samples resulted contaminated by Alternaria spp. and the frequency of isolation of Alternaria spp. colonies was higher in the case of not disinfected seeds for all samples tested. In the case of seeds belonging to experimental lines of basil, the frequency of isolation of Alternaria spp. was 1.18% from not disinfected seeds, and 0.43% from disinfected seeds. In the case of seeds belonging to commercial varieties of basil, Alternaria spp. was isolated respectively from 7.29% and 2.62% of not disinfected and disinfected seeds. When twenty-eight isolates of Alternaria spp. obtained from seeds of experimental lines of basil under development were tested for their virulence, 22 were able to infect basil leaves. Twenty of them, obtained from disinfected and not disinfected seeds, showed a good level of virulence, infecting more than 30% of leaves. One hundred eighty one isolates of Alternaria spp. strains were obtained from seeds of commercial varieties, of which 149 from not disinfected seeds and 32 from disinfected seeds. Out of 149 strains obtained from not disinfected seeds, 102 were virulent and 47 were not virulent. Only two isolates of Alternaria spp. out of 32 obtained by disinfected seeds were not virulent when tested on basil. This work provides evidence that Alternaria spp. the causal agent of leaf spot of basil, is seed-transmitted, which suggests that seeds may be important in disseminating the pathogen.
23721538|A severe bacterial disease was observed in lettuce plants during surveys carried out in the province of Bari (Apulia, Italy). Symptoms were chlorosis and wilting of older leaves, water-soaked and dark green soft rot of the pith. Several bacterial isolates were obtained from the affected plants by isolations on semi-selective crystal violet pectate agar medium. Biochemical, nutritional, and pathogenicity tests identified them as Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. The nutritional profile obtained using the Biolog system and the 434 bp product amplifed by PCR using primers designed on P. carotovorum pectate lyase-encoding gene sequence further confirmed the identity of the isolates. Some epidemiological aspects of the pathogen and the main measures to prevent and control the disease are reported.
41998365|A double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) ca. 19 kb in size was recovered from a fig tree of Algerian origin (F3) showing chlorotic mottling of the leaves and clearing of the second and third veins. Filamentous closterovirus-like particles up to 2100 nm in length and with distinct cross banding were observed in leaf dips. Cytopathology of thin sectioned phloem cells was similar to that elicited by members of the family Closteroviridae. RTPCR assays with primers specific to the recently described Fig leaf mottle-associated virus (FLMaV) were negative. No virus was recovered by mechanical inoculation to herbaceous hosts. Using denatured F3 dsRNA preparations as template, a 625 bp cDNA fragment was amplified by RT-PCR using degenerate primers designed on the phosphate motifs 1 and 2 of the heat shock-protein 70 homologue (HSP70) of members of the family Closteroviridae. Sequence analysis demonstrated that the sequenced 625 bp fragment was part of a closteroviral HSP70 gene, with sequence identity to FLMaV of ca. 45% and 28% at the nucleotide and amino acid level, respectively. Comparison with the HSP70 amino acid sequences of other closteroviral species showed homologies of 48%, 37% or 36% with Little cherry virus 2 (LChV-2,) Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 1 (GLRaV-1) and Pineapple mealybug wilt-associated virus 2 (PMWaV-2), respectively. In a phylogenetic tree constructed with the amino acid sequences of the HSP70 genes of several members of the family Closteroviridae, isolate F3 clustered with members of the genus Ampelovirus. In RT-PCR assays with specific primers designed to match the F3 HSP70 sequence, 4 of 57 field-grown Italian figs trees yielded amplicons of the expected size, while Multiplex-PCR proved effective for the simultaneous detection of double infections by FLMaV and isolate F3. The different sizes of dsRNA and virus particle lengths of F3 and FLMaV, the low sequence homology of the F3 HSP70 gene with that of FLMaV, and the different phylogenetic affiliation constitute evidence that isolate F3 belongs to a virus species different from FLMaV, for which the name of Fig leaf mottle-associated virus 2 (FLMaV-2) is proposed.
24722539|Production of vegetables in southern France often relies on groups of greenhouses located in close vicinity. These crops are commonly affected by grey mould caused by Botrytis cinerea, a fungus known for its ability to produce abundant air-borne inoculum. Possible exchange of inoculum could affect the epidemics developing in neighbouring greenhouses. To test this hypothesis, grey mould incidence was assessed in four successive crops in six unheated polyethylene tunnels located in the Avignon area. On lettuce, the incidence was similar for a given harvest date in two tunnels where this crop was grown four times consecutively. In the four other tunnels, lettuce was grown in alternation with tomato. No grey mould developed on tomato and disease incidence was low on lettuce. One hundred and seventy four strains collected from lettuce in two tunnels were investigated for their genetic diversity, genetic structure and their mating type. Both known mating types of B. cinerea were observed in the tunnels but MAT1-1 was prevalent. The gene diversity of B. cinerea strains was similar in both tunnels. However haplotypic diversity and linkage disequilibrium were substantially higher in one tunnel. We hypothesize that this situation is related to differences in microclimatic conditions in the tunnels. It highlights a possible interest in individualizing disease management in the different tunnels of a given farm.
41998680|Downy mildew caused by Sclerospora graminicola (Sacc.) Shroet. is a major biotic constraint to pearl millet production in the semi-arid tropics. The pathogen is heterothallic and frequent recombination leads to genotypic diversity and evolution of new virulent populations. Identification of resistance to new virulent populations is a prerequisite for resistance breeding. Of 123 pearl millet germplasm accessions from 15 countries that were identified as resistant (10% incidence) at ICRISAT, Patancheru during 1990-93, only 21 remained resistant during 2006 under field screening indicating a temporal virulence change in Patancheru field population of S. graminicola. These resistant accessions when evaluated in the greenhouse against 12 diverse pathotypes, no accession showed resistance to all the 12 pathotypes. However, three accessions (IP 18295, P 1449-2 and YL 18) were resistant to 11 pathotypes, two (IP 18298 and IP 8289) to 10 pathotypes, three (IP 22396, YG 2 and YG 8) to 9 pathotypes and one (YM 16) to 8 pathotypes. Host resistance index (HRI), calculated from downy mildew incidence and latent period identified six accessions (IP 18295, -8289, P 1449-2, YG 2, -8 and YL 18) as best available resistance sources against multiple pathotypes of S. graminicola. The study showed temporal virulence change in S. graminicola population at Patancheru, emphasizing the need for closely monitoring both pathogen virulence and host resistance for effectively managing the disease through resistance breeding.
23721733|Symptoms of wilting were observed in Crassula ovata cvs Mini and Magical tree in northern Italy during summer 2010. Fourteen fungal isolates recovered from diseased tissues were analyzed by ITS sequences and identified as Fusarium oxysporum. For pathogenicity assays, roots of both cultivars plants were dipped into a conidial suspension. Inoculated plants showed typical symptoms of Fusarium wilt, confirming the virulence of all isolates. For phylogenetic analysis three genomic regions [endopolygalacturonase gene (pg5), exopolygalacturonase gene (pgx1) and Mat alpha (Mat 1-1)] were amplified by PCR, sequences were aligned with those of other formae speciales of Fusarium oxysporum from GenBank and used for constructing phylogenetic trees. Regardless of the sequenced region Crassula ovata isolates grouped together in a cluster clearly separated from other known formae speciales. Recently, a wilt disease of Cactaceae caused by F. oxysporum f. sp. opuntiarum has been reported from Italy, whose presence among the C. ovata isolates was checked by sequencing the elongation factor EF1. The occurrence of several gaps in the sequence alignment excluded the presence of F. oxysporum f. sp. opuntiarum. Based on the results of biological and molecular investigations, it seems plausible to conclude that the F. oxysporum infecting C. ovata plants represents a novel forma specialis, for which the name F. oxysporum f. sp. crassulae, f. sp. nov. is proposed.
41998974|Extracts from germinating seeds of two onion cultivars differing in susceptibility were fractionated by TLC for their content of antifungal compounds following inoculation with two Aspergillus niger isolates characterised by different degrees of virulence. Three antifungal fractions absorbing ultraviolet light were detected from healthy germinating seeds of the less susceptible cv. 'Rossa Savonese' whereas no fractions were observed from tissues of the more susceptible cv. 'Bianca Agostana'. Inoculation with both isolates resulted in the induction of several fungitoxic compounds. The antifungal profile of 'Rossa Savonese' appeared to be more complex, suggesting a possible causal relationship between antifungal compound profile and resistance. Detected onion fractions exerted antifungal activity against both isolates. Our results suggest a role of fluorescent compounds in resistance to A. niger during onion seed germination, when the tissues are particularly exposed to attack by seed-and soilborne pathogens.  stato verificato, mediante TLC, il profilo dei composti antifungini present nei semi germinanti di due variet di cipolla caratterizzate da diversa suscettibilit ad Aspergillus niger. Nei germinelli della cv. "Rossa Savonese" (meno suscettibile) sono stati osservati tre composti antifungini fluorescenti in luce ultravioletta che non erano presenti nella cv. "Bianca Agostana" (piu suscettibile). L'inoculazione con due isolati di A. niger ha indotto diversi composti con attivit fungitossica. Il profilo antifungino di "Rossa Savonese"  risultato essere pi complesso, indicando una possibile relazione tra composti antifungini e resistenza. I composti separati da semi di cipolla hanno presentato attivit inibitoria nei confronti di entrambi gli isolati. I risultati ottenuti indicano che questi composti possono avere un ruolo nella resistenza durante la fase di germinazione, allorch i tessuti sono particolarmente esposti al Potenziale attacco di patogeni.
41997874|Until now, the xylem-limited bacterium Xylella fastidiosa has been recorded only from the Americas, with the exception of a pear disease in Taiwan. Is this bacterium a potential threat to other continents and islands? Climate appears to play a major role in the geographic distribution of diseases caused by X. fastidiosa, but this differs with strain and host plant. Mild winters may be necessary for the long term persistence of X. fastidiosa within a climatic region, but the possible limiting effects of summer temperatures have not been explored. Potential vectors are widespread and often common in most parts of the world not currently affected by X. fastidiosa. An important feature to maintain endemic infections of the bacterium in temperate regions may be the occurrence of potential vectors that overwinter as adults. Previously unrecorded plant diseases in citrus and oleander, caused by X. fastidiosa, have rapidly spread, suggesting that vigilant phytosanitary measures outside the Americas should be maintained against the introduction of X. fastidiosa. Molecular detection methods such as the polymerase chain reaction for a wide spectrum of strains of X. fastidiosa are preferable to serological methods because of their sensitivity and reliability. Il batterio xilematico Xylella fastidiosa  stato sinora riscontrato, con l'eccezione di una malattia del pero a Taiwan, solamente nel continente americano. Il batterio costituisce una minaccia Potenziale per altri paesi? Le condizioni climatiche sembrano giocare un ruolo importante nella distribuzione geografica della malattia causata da X. fastidiosa, ma vi sono anche differenze a livello di ceppo e di pianta ospite. Nell'ambito di una determinata regione climatica possono essere necessari inverni miti per assicurare la persistenza a lungo termine di X. fastidiosa, tuttavia i possibili effetti limitanti delle temperature estive non sono stati ancora analizzati. I vettori potenziali sono diffusi e frequenti in gran parte delle regioni del globo non ancora interessate da X. fastidiosa. Un elemento importante, capace di mantenere le infezioni endemiche del batterio in regioni temperate, potrebbe essere rappresentato dalla presenza di vettori potenziali svernanti come adulti. Malattie, non riscontrate in precedenza su agrumi e su oleandro e causate da X. fastidiosa, si sono diffuse rapidamente, suggerendo come, al di fuori del continente americano, debbano essere mantenute misure fitosanitarie rigide al fine di impedire l'introduzione di X. fastidiosa. Metodi di determinazione molecolare, come la PCR nei confronti di un'ampia gamma di ceppi di X. fastidiosa, sono preferibili a quelli serologici in quanto pi sensibili e affidabili.
41998694|A phytoplasma associated with cotton virescence disease was identified in several cotton plants showing virescence, stunting, yellowing and reddening in the cotton-growing areas of Yanfolila and Kolondjeba, in the Bougouni Region (south west Mali). The agent was detected by PCR with phytoplasma universal primer pairs and identified as a 16SrII-C subgroup member by RFLP of PCR fragments separately digested with MseI, AluI, HhaI and HpaII restriction enzymes. The same phytoplasma was found in Sida cordifolia, a weed that can act as a reservoir. The spatial distribution of infected plants in a field was aggregated along the rows. A higher number of infected plants was present on the border rows, suggesting that primary infections are probably more important than secondary spread from cotton to cotton. The incidence of the disease in Mali cotton-growing areas fluctuates, but in some fields up to 50% of the plants were infected. We observed more infected plants in organic cotton. This can be due to the use of neem as insecticide, which is ineffective against leafhopper adults that spread the disease.
41998385|Barley yellow dwarf viruses (BYDVs) are economically important viruses that infect cereal crops worldwide, including wheat grown in China. These viruses include several members of the Luteoviridae and are transmitted only by aphids. In this study, BYDV isolates and their aphid vectors were collected from different regions of China and assayed. BYDV isolates from China were generally transmitted by more than one aphid species except for BYDV-RMV and a few BYDV-PAV. Seven vector transmission phenotypes (VTPs) were identified involving five serotypes; BYDV-GAV, BYDV-GPV and BYDV-PAV were predominant in China. Aphid clones differing in virus transmission abilities were occasionally observed for three laboratory-maintained species although they generally showed similar virus transmission profiles. Degenerate primers similar to Lui and Lu4 were designed to amplify coat protein gene fragments from all in the virus collection. Serotypes could be distinguished after cleavage of the resulting PCR products with HinfL. Sequence variations among Chinese BYDVs were also deduced from differences among their restriction patterns. To clarify this, intact coat protein genes of a few isolates were amplified with serotype-specific primers, cloned and sequenced. Similarity and genetic distance analyses confirmed that the three major Chinese BYDVs possess coat protein genes distinct from those of BYDV from other countries.
41998499|The development of the olive knot disease was studied taking into consideration the anatomical changes in the different parts of inoculated twig tissues, the genesis of knots and the defense reactions of the plant. At the inoculation site, bacterial inoculum invaded the cortical parenchyma, moving into the intercellular spaces and degrading the primary cell walls. The proliferation and advance of the pathogen into the different tissues of the twig was accompanied by the hyperplastic activity of parenchyma cells in affected tissues, resulting in the development of the knot. The knot was made up of hyperplastic cells, numerous cambia, and xylem elements of different origins. Cells with lignified walls surrounded bacterial cavities and the outer surface of the knots was surrounded with new periderm. At later stages of knot development, hyperplastic activities of new tissue masses exerted pressure on the periderm at the surface of the knot and induced fissures that cracked open to the outside exposing bacterial cavities.
41998412|Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis (CMM), the causal agent of bacterial canker of tomato, is a quarantine organism in many countries. In this study, a one-step method was developed for the detection of CMMs in symptomless tomato seeds directly using a TaqMan probe. The absolute sensitivity threshold was approximately 10 CFU/ml. In seeds the bacteria can be detected in 2 h without DNA extraction when the positive rate is higher than 1%. The method proved specific for CMM and did not react with 11 other plant pathogenic bacterial species or subspecies. Further validation steps using this method for routine detection of CMM are in progress.
41998877|A survey of the presence of Pear blister canker viroid (PBCVd) in pear trees in Turkey was carried out by tissue print hybridization. Four out of 74 trees (5.4%) from a pear germplasm collection tested positive and this result was confirmed by RT-PCR and sequencing. Molecular characterization of the Turkish PBCVd isolates from four different local pear cultivars, together with multiple sequence alignments and phylogenetic analyses including all PBCVd sequences reported previously, provided an insight in the sequence variability of this viroid and showed that: (i) a total of 98 polymorphic positions distributed throughout the molecule are present in PBCVd genomic RNA; (ii) some regions with presumed relevant functions are strictly preserved and, (iii) the geographic origin of the isolates and the host species apparently have a bearing on the sequence variability of the viroid. This study records the presence of PBCVd in Turkey and confirms that its geographic distribution has been underestimated, most likely because the majority of infected pear cultivars are symptomless.
24331970|Potato spindle tuber viroid (PSTVd) was the first species of the genus Pospiviroid detected in naturally infected symptomless ornamental plants (Solanum jasminoides) in 2006. Since then, other pospiviroid species were found in several naturally infected solanaceous ornamentals. The combination of latent infection, the widespread occurrence and the possibility of transmission to edible solanaceous crops (tomato and potato) has made the development of accurate and reliable molecular diagnostic detection methods a high priority. The aim of this study was the development of a genus-specific RT-PCR protocol, using universal pospiviroid primers, which would allow also a species-specific identification through restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis. The primers were designed to amplify the majority of the pospiviroid genome (ca. 80%) and the identification of each species using appropriate restriction endonuclease enzymes (AluI and Sau96I). The method was evaluated for specificity using healthy and/or non-target viroid-infected plants and for sensitivity using serial dilutions of total RNA extracted from plants infected by different pospiviroid species. The reliability of the method was successfully ascertained during a survey when numerous plants of the families Solanaceae and Asteraceae were assayed for single and mixed infection of pospiviroid species.
41999049|Field trials were conducted in commercial plots over two consecutive years in order to determine the effect of wild oat used as green manure and biocontrol agents, alone or combined, on potato yield, number of tubers and scab incidence. The biomass of green manure was added to the soil one and a half months before sowing. Potato seeds were dipped in liquid suspensions containing either Bacillus subtilis B-235 or Trichoderma harzianum Th-1, or a combination of both. Green manure was effective in promoting potato yield and reducing scab incidence. The combination of green manure and the liquid formulation of B-235 provided significantly improved results with a higher number of potato tubers and lower potato scab incidence. The combination of wild oat green manure and B-235 is thus a promising alternative to improve potato yield and reduce scab incidence.
41998426|Fluorescent colonies were obtained from surfacesterilized twigs of healthy wild trees of Cory lus avellana L. growing in central Italy. LOPAT, biochemical and pathogenicity tests, and 16S rDNA gene sequencing indicated that one endophytic isolate belonged to the Pseudomonas syringae species complex. This isolate incited hazelnut twig dieback only when inoculated at 1-2  10 CFU/ml per leaf scar. Lower doses did not induce symptoms. The isolate also caused necrosis in pear and lilac twigs, lemon fruits and bean pods. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an endophytic P. syringae strain obtained from wild C. avellana trees.
41998649|Grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV), Grapevine leaf roll associated virus 1, 2, and 3 (GLRaV-1,-2, and -3), Grapevine virus A (GVA) and Grapevine fleck virus (GFkV) were monitored monthly throughout a year in naturally infected field-grown vines by ELISA and RTPCR. The organs tested were: opening buds in September, tips or unfolded leaves in September and October, leaf petioles from October to April, completely expanded leaves from November to April, green phloem tissues from October to February and cortical scrapings from December to August. Phloem of lignified canes, when available, is the best source for all viruses tested, allowing 100% detection by ELISA and RT-PCR. This is the first study carried out in South America to establish the best plant material and sampling times to optimize grapevine virus detection by ELISA and RT-PCR.
23721581|Globe artichoke (Cynara scolymus L.) is a highly valuable vegetable crop characterized by a broad diversity of ecotypes that need preservation to avoid genetic erosion. This species is affected by many viruses which cause significant economic losses, thus virus-free planting material is essential for its sustainable production. Cryogenic techniques are one option for the long-term storage of germplasm (cryopreservation) and virus eradication (cryotherapy). In order to achieve these two objectives, vitrification was applied to artichoke ecotypes selected from several Italian regions. A protocol was established to obtain high regeneration rates of early ecotypes after liquid nitrogen treatment. Cryogenic treatment successfully eliminated Artichoke latent virus (ALV) from infected shoot tips with high frequency. Sanitized shoot tips regenerated plantlets that maintained their virus-free status over time and were micropropagated for successful transfer to the field.
24579137|An experiment was conducted under field conditions to assess the incidence of viral diseases in 20 accessions of sweet potato [Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.]. Using symptomatology, biological indexing, nitrocellulose membrane ELISA (NCM-ELISA) and PCR, the accessions were assessed for disease incidence and symptom severity. Symptom expression varied among the accessions with severity index ranging from 2.24 in UK/BNARI at eight weeks after planting (wap) to 3.63 in US029 at 12 wap. Mean disease incidence varied significantly among the accessions, ranging from 43.2% to 96.3%. Using NCM-ELISA, 85% of the sweet potato plants tested positive to Sweet potato feathery mottle virus (SPFMV), Sweet potato mild speckling virus (SPMSV, 55%), Sweet potato collusive virus (SPCV, 45%), Sweet potato chlorotic fleck virus (SPCFV, 30%), Sweet potato virus G (SPVG, 20%), Sweet potato mild mottle virus (SPMMV, 5%), Sweet potato chlorotic stunt virus (SPCSV, 1.67%) and Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV, 1.67%). PCR detected Sweet potato leaf curl virus (SPLCV) in accessions UK/BNARI and CRI054. Biological indexing resulted in characteristic symptoms, commonly vein-clearing with eventual death of plants grafted with scions mix-infected with SPCSV and SPFMV. This work provides the first detailed report on sweet potato virus diseases in Ghana correlating symptoms, grafting, serology as well as PCR. It emphasizes the importance of selecting resistant cultivars as planting materials and the enforcement of quarantine measures to minimise the introduction of viruses into Ghana and their subsequent spread.
41998580|Molecular analysis of the hflB gene ATP00464 of Candidatus Phytoplasma mali strains revealed sequence polymorphisms within this taxon. A 530 bp fragment from 42 accessions originating from apple proliferation-infected plants from Germany, Italy, and France was amplified with primers fHflB3-1/rHflB3. The variability of the amplimers was demonstrated by single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis that resulted in more than 20 different profiles. PCR fragments were sequenced to corroborate SSCP results. The nucleic acid homology within Ca. P. mali strains ranged from 94.2% to full identity, whereas the identity to the hflB gene of Candidatus Phytoplasma pyri and Candidatus Phytoplasma prunorum was at least 85.9% and 84.6% or higher, respectively. The homology on the protein level within Ca. P. mali was higher as a number of substitutions were silent mutations. The phylogenetic tree derived from the nucleic acid sequences revealed more than 20 different lineages and agreed with the SSCP typing. The molecular analysis of the hflB gene in combination with SSCP typing allowed high throughput analysis of samples and enabled differentiation of Ca. P. mali strains to a higher degree than published markers. The polymorphism of the hflB fragment predestine this gene as a molecular marker for tracking strains in epidemiological studies and characterizing, define and monitor inoculum strains used for resistance breeding projects.
41998206|A multiplex PCR method was developed to identify simultaneously either single or multiple infections with members of the Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV) complex. Several sets of species-specific primers, designed from sequenced genomes of TYLCV from the Mediterranean region (Sicily, Israel and Spain), were tested using plants infected with Egyptian and Tunisian isolates. The results show that this multiplex PCR is rapid, simple and a useful alternative to conventional tools such as PCR-RFLP or PCR-sequencing for typing virus isolates. Furthermore, this approach revealed evidence of recombination among Tunisian TYLCV genomes.
24722554|Smut teliospores were isolated from several species of infected grasses in the Sultanate of Oman. Pathogen identity was confirmed by nuclear ribosomal large subunit DNA sequencing and analysis and consequently three new national reports of smut pathogens of the genus Sporisorium isolated from sorghum (S. sorghi), sugarcane (S. scitamineum) and the native grass Dichanthium foveolatum (S. foveolati), are presented. Additionally the identification of the previously reported S. reilianum, from sorghum, is confirmed on the basis of nuclear rDNA sequence data. All four reports represent new records for the Arabian Peninsula region.
41998002|In three experimental trials carried out in north Italy the effectiveness of methyl bromide (MB) and metham sodium (MS) applied alone or, at half dosages, in combination with a 2 week period of soil solarization against Rhizoctonia solani, Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. basilici and Colletotrichum gloeosporioides under greenhouse conditions were evaluated on crops such as basil, bean and lettuce. MB, at 30 g m under virtually impermeable film confirmed its efficacy; covering the soil after the application of half dosage of MS with low density polyethylene films improved the efficacy of'the treatment, while reducing some of the negative features. The combination of soil solarization with any of the two tested fumigants at reduced dosage resulted in an effective control of the tested pathogens, permitting a reduction in the duration of solarization and application of the fumigants at half dosage. Such strategy proved effective also on subsequent crops.
41998363|In the summer of 2004 two bacterial strains were isolated from strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa) cv Camarosa propagation plants produced in Turkey. Symptoms including necrotic leaf spots and lesions along leaf margins were incited on primarily symptomless strawberry plants by keeping them in a growing chamber at 20C and 100% relative humidity. On the basis of biochemical, physiological, serological and PCR tests the bacteria isolated were identified as Xanthomonas arboricola pv. fragariae This is the first report on the bacterial leaf blight pathogen X. arboricola pv. fragariae of strawberry in Turkey.
24722467|An isolate of Tobacco etch virus (TEV-Shaanxi) induces systemic mosaic and necrotic lines or etching in N. Tabacum and is transmitted by M. persicae more efficiently than A. gossypii. The complete genome of TEV-Shaanxi consists of 9,494 nucleotides, excluding the 3' poly (A) tail. It contains a single large open reading frame (ORF) coding for a polyprotein of 3,054 amino acids, with an AUG start codon and a UGA stop codon. The polyprotein encodes 10 proteins (P1, HC-Pro, P3, 6K1, CI, 6K2, NIa-VPg, NIa-Pro, NIb and CP), whose putative cleavage sites were identified by comparison with sequences of other known potyviruses. The identities of the 10 proteins of TEV-Shaanxi with other members of the genus Potyvirus were 30.5-62.7% and 29.4-68.8% at the nucleotide and amino acid levels, respectively. A short internal open reading frame, PIPO, was also highly conserved. TEV isolates whose sequences are available cluster into two groups which correspond with their host of origin.
41998640|The antagonistic bacterium, Pantoea agglomerans HR, was evaluated for controlling citrus green mould caused by Penicillium digitatum Sacc. at 20C (room temperature) and 4C (cold storage). This isolate was also assessed in combination with dipping in 3% sodium bicarbonate solution at 24C and 45C on artificially inoculated Thomson navel oranges. Application of the antagonist alone reduced green mould by more than 75% at both temperatures, but was not as effective as Imazalil (more than 87% decay reduction). The antagonistic bacterium was completely tolerant to sodium bicarbonate up to a concentration of 3%. In addition, its efficacy for controlling green mould was improved at least by 5% and 11% when combined with 3% sodium bicarbonate at 24C and 45C, respectively.
41998668|RT-PCR and dot blot hybridization assays were successfully used for the detection of Olive latent virus 3 (OLV-3), a newly discovered olive-infecting virus belonging to the family Tymoviridae. To assess the geographical distribution of OLV-3, a total of 224 olive samples were collected from eight Mediterranean countries and tested by RT-PCR and dot blot hybridization. According to RT-PCR assay, OLV-3 was detected in all surveyed countries with an overall average infection of 30.4%, ranging from 17% (Portugal) to 56% (Turkey). In 12 of 68 samples (c. 20%) shown to be infected by RT-PCR, dot blot hybridization failed to detect the virus, possibly because of the low concentration of target RNA. Single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis of the viral RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) domain, conducted on the 68 PCR amplicons from infected trees of different geographical origin, yielded eleven heterogeneous patterns. Computerassisted analysis of the RdRp nucleotide sequences showed that the level of variability among the isolates ranged from 5% to 17%. In a tree constructed with RdRp nucleotide sequences, viral isolates grouped into three distinct clusters with no relation to their geographical origin. Even though preliminary, the results of the field survey indicate that OLV-3 ranks among the most widespread olive-infecting viruses in the Mediterranean basin.
41998290|Soil samples were collected in late spring 2005 from vineyards in 25 different locations of the Bekaa valley, the main grapevine-growing area of Lebanon, to investigate the presence of the longidorid nematode Xiphinema index Thorne & Allen, the vector of Grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV). Approximately 14% of the samples contained the nematode, which was found in all developmental stages except for males, which are very rare in this species. The density of the nematode population ranged from 8 to 45 specimens/500 ml of soil. The main morphological characteristics of taxonomic relevance in the Lebanese population of X. index are described, while selected morphometric parameters from a population of 18 specimens were compared with those reported in the literature. This is the first survey for the presence and distribution of X. index in Lebanon.
41998803|Huanglongbing (HLB) was first identified near Araraquara in the central region of So Paulo State (SPS), Brazil, in March 2004. As of November 2009, HLB was present in 242 of the 425 citrus-growing municipalities of SPS. In April 2009, the current total number of symptomatic trees was estimated to be ca. 2.0 million (ca. 0.87%) and 4 million trees had already been removed. The recommended measures for HLB management are based on two phytopathologically sound principles: (i) inoculum reduction by frequent removal of HLB-affected trees and (ii) control of psyllid vector populations by insecticide treatments. The goal of this management strategy is to prevent as many trees as possible from becoming infected with the HLB pathogen. After five or six years of HLB management, several SPS citrus farms have shared their results on HLB control. Here we present data from eighteen farms where the recommended measures have been applied since 2004 or 2005 in SPS, showing that HLB can be controlled. SPS is one of the first regions in the world where preventive control against Asian HLB has been carried out on a large scale under various conditions and found to be successful when the recommended measures were applied rigorously. However, only one-third of SPS citrus trees are under effective HLB-management and they are located on large farms, where HLB management is easier than on small farms. The majority of trees in small and medium-sized groves commonly do not benefit from HLB management. This is the reason that HLB incidence in SPS has increased in spite of HLB management. Many groves in which no HLB management is carried out have high proportions of HLB-affected trees and large populations of HLB-positive psyllid vectors. These groves are the major obstacle to HLB management in SPS. These severely affected groves endanger the very existence of the Brazilian citrus industry. When such groves are within a ca. 4km range from well-man-aged farms, their psyllids invariably invade and contaminate the latter farms. SPS has legal tools, which make possible the removal of contaminating groves, but the laws are not strictly enforced. Costs of HLB management vary considerably, but inspections range from $4 to 17 $US each per ha, and insecticide treatments from about $US 240 to > $1,000 per ha annually, depending on the products used, the means and frequency of application. HLB management as described here is only a short-term solution to keep the citrus industry alive and to buy time for long-term solutions, probably based on engineered citrus genotypes, to become available, hopefully, in five to ten years.
41999042|Genomospecie 8, sensu Gardan et al. (1999), includes Pseudomonas avellnete, P. syringae pv. theae and P. s. pv. actinidiae. To further characterize this genomospecies, 14 P. avellanae, three P. s. pv. theae and 18 P. s. pv. actinidiae strains were analysed by multilocus sequence typing (MLST) using gapA, gltA, gyrB and rpoD gene fragments. These strains were also checked for the presence/absence of 38 effector protein genes based on the corresponding sequences of P. syringae. pv. tomato DC3000 and P. syringae pv. phaseolicola 1448A. Nutritional tests and a comparison of the 16S rDNA gene sequences deposited at NCBI database were also done to detect possible differences. MLST analysis, based on 2.5 kb sequences, revealed that P. s. pv. theae and P. s. pv. actinidiae are more closely-related to one another than to P. avellanae. This technique clearly revealed that the P. s. pv. actinidiae strains causing the current severe epidemics in Italy are different from those of past outbreaks in Japan and central Italy. Nine effector protein genes were displayed by all strains of genomospecies 8. However, each pathogen of this genomospecies displays some distinctive effector protein genes. HopA1 and hopHl are unique to P. s. pv. actinidiae strains of the recent epidemics of bacterial canker on Actinidia chinensis and A. deliciosa in Italy. A triplet, in position 461-463 of the 16S rDNA gene, is different in P. s. pv. actinidiae, namely GAT, and in P. avellanae and P. s. pv. theae, namely ATC. Contrarily to P. s. pv. theae and P. s. pv. actinidiae, P. avellanae did not utilize sorbitol.
41998786|Tomato pith necrosis disease was observed on tomato plants grown in the AL-Kharj region of Saudi Arabia. Symptoms were yellowing and wilting of lower leaves, brown areas on stems and yellowish-brown discoloration of the pith. Three bacterial strains were isolated from the stems of tomato cv. Red Gold. These strains were identified as Pseudomonas corrugala based on morphological, physiological, biochemical, and pathogenicity tests, as well as Biolog analysis. Seven commercial tomato cultivars were evaluated for resistance to P. corrugata. Of these cultivars, Alambra was the only cultivar tested that was considered resistant, Antinea was partially resistant, Agora, Farah and JV15 were susceptible whereas Newton and Red Gold were highly susceptible. Chemical seed treatments were evaluated for efficacy of disinfestation of tomato seed that had been inoculated with P. corrugata. Bacteria were not detected when seeds were treated with 5% hydrogen peroxide for 5 or 15 min. Treatment of seed with 0.52% sodium hypochlorite for 5 and 15 min was relatively ineffective. When sodium hypochlorite was used at a 1% concentration for 15 min, the level of bacterial infestation was reduced by 92%. Hydrogen peroxide treatments at a 5% concentration reduced seed germination up to 11.4% compared with controls. However, no significant differences in seed germination were observed between control treatments (inoculated and non-inoculated seeds and non-treated seed) and any of the other chemical seed treatments when seeds were sown in sterilized soil in the greenhouse. Effective management strategies for pith necrosis caused by P. corrugata should include planting of a resistant cultivar, where feasible, and seed treatment with hydrogen peroxide (5% for 15 min) or sodium hypochlorite (1% for 15 min).
41998972|Groups of rabbits were immunized intramuscularly with either partially purified or denatured Iris Yellow Spot Virus (IYSV) nucleocapsid protein (NC) excised from SDS-polyacrylamide gels. Four injections were given at weekly intervals. Two weeks later, booster injections were given either with partially purified preparations of native virions or with denatured NC. Twelve days after the booster, rabbits were bled and the binding capacity of antisera was examined by decoration tests, Western blotting and ELISA. Diagnostic antibodies which could specifically bind to virus particles were obtained. Higher ELISA values were obtained when the booster injection contained partially purified IYSV, rather than denatured NC. Similar results were obtained with Potato Virus Y. Sono stati immunizzati conigli con quattro iniezioni intramuscolari settimanali della proteina nucleocapsidica del tospovirus della maculatura gialla deiriris (IYSV) parzialmente purificata o denaturata, seguite a due settimane da un'iniezione di richiamo con preparati parzialmente purificati di virus o con proteina nucleocapsidica denaturata. A dodici giorni di distanza i conigli sono stati salassati e Pefficacia degli antisieri  stata verificata con saggi di immunomicroscopia elettronica (decorazione), Western blot ed ELISA, dimostrando che gli anticorpi prodotti riconoscono specificamente le particelle virali. I pi elevati valori ELISA sono stati rilevati con antisieri in cui Pimmunizzazione di richiamo era stata effettuata con virus purificato pi che con proteina nucleocapsidica denaturata. Risultati analoghi sono stati ottenuti col virus Y della patata (PVY).
41998361|The planthopper Hyalesthes obsoletus, is the vector of grapevine bois noir disease, caused by stolbur phytoplasma. This hopper is widespread in Europe and the Middle East but it is not a grapevine specialist, and its host range is still controversial. This paper reports on the population dynamics, host range and infectivity of H. obsoletus in northwestern Italy. Field sampling of adults was done with yellow sticky traps and sweep nets on grapevines and in nettle beds, whereas nymphs were sought on nettle and bindweed roots. PCR and dot-blot analyses were used to detect stolbur phytoplasma. The life span of the planthopper was tested in the laboratory on broadbean, periwinkle, nettle and grapevine. Nymphs were found only on roots of Urtica dioica L., and many more adults were captured in nettle beds than on grapevine. Flight activity started in the middle of June and ended middle of September, with a flight peak at the end of July. In the laboratory, the longest life span was observed on nettle whereas broadbean and grapevine were not suitable for survival. Natural infectivity was 6-8% for nymphs and 9-50% for adults. These results confirm the strong links between H. obsoletus, Bois Noir, and U. dioica in northwestern Italy.
41998859|Verticillium longisporum is one of the most important pathogens of Brassicaceae. The goal of the present study was to characterize the development of V. longisporum (strain VL43) stress symptoms caused to Arabidopsis thaliana in relation to plant nutrition. Significant growth inhibition became apparent between 2 and 3 weeks after VL43 inoculation but was not accompanied by reduced leaf water content or wilting. The leaves of VL43-infected plants showed reduced chlorophyll content (-20%) but only marginal effects on photosynthetic electron transport of PS II (-2%) compared with controls. VL43-infection did not have negative effects on nutrient element concentration in leaf tissues during a five-week observation period. Measurements of fungal nutrient content in simulated xylem medium suggested that nutrient intake by VL43 was negligible compared to that of plant tissues. Therefore, growth retardation induced by VL43 infection is not a consequence of nutrient depletion.
23721532|In September 2009, in commercial greenhouse production of phalaenopsis orchid (Phalaenopsis lueddemanniana) in the Lodz region (Poland), atypical leaf spot symptoms were observed on about 15% of the plants. On 7-month-old leaves large, brown, sunken spots surrounded by yellow, water-soaked tissue, were observed. Gram-negative bacteria causing hypersensitivity reaction on tobacco, but not possessing pectolytic properties, were isolated from the brown spots. Sequence analysis of the 16S rDNA gene fragment, selected phenotypic characteristics and a pathogenicity tests on healthy phalaenopsis plants led to the conclusion that Acidovorax cattleyae is the causal agent of orchid brown spot in Poland. Analysis of genetic diversity of tested isolates by PCR-MP technique revealed only small differences between the studied isolates.
41998508|Mandarins and their hybrids are considered resistant to citrus leprosis. However, there are no studies addressing such resistance in the field under natural inoculation conditions. In this work we evaluated, through symptom analysis, the response to leprosis of 25 different genotypes of mandarins and hybrids from a ten-year-old orchard with a long history of the disease. We observed higher resistance levels among Citrus reticulata Blanco varieties and some of their hybrids, such as the Murcott tangor [C reticulata x C. sinensis (L.) Osbeck], which did not show any leprosis symptoms. C. deliciosa Tenore and C. clementina hort. ex Tanaka accessions and hybrids, such as Lee tangelo [(C clementina x (C. reticulata x C. paradisi Mac.)], were the most susceptible under natural conditions. However, even in those genotypes, most of the symptoms were observed in leaves and not in fruits, as often seen in sweet oranges (C. sinensis), considered the most susceptible species of citrus to leprosis. This suggests that even susceptible accessions of mandarins are likely to show some level of resistance when compared to sweet oranges.
41998409|The use of organic matter (OM) has been proposed, for both conventional and biological agriculture systems, to decrease the incidence of plant diseases caused by soilborne pathogens. In this work we review reports on the application of OM amendments, focusing on the suppressive capacity of different OM materials and the response of different soilborne pathogens. A total of 250 articles were analysed, with 2423 experimental case studies. The effect of OM amendments was found to be suppressive in 45% and non-significant in 35% of the cases. In 20% of the cases, a significant increase of disease incidence was observed. Compost was the most suppressive material, with more than 50% of cases showing effective disease control. The effect of crop residues was more variable: it was suppressive in 45% of the cases, but enhanced disease in 28%. Finally, significant disease suppression with peat was recorded only in 4% of the experiments. The ability of OM to suppress disease varied largely with different pathogens: it was observed in more than 50% of the cases for Verticilliurn, Thielaviopsis, Fusarium and Phytophthora. In contrast, effective control of Rhizoctonia solani was achieved only in 26% of the cases. From this review it emerged that OM amendments have great potential but, at the same time, present some inconsistencies in their application. More investigation on the mechanisms by which OM acts on disease suppression is needed to make the use of these materials more predictable.
23721573|In the present investigation, bacterial isolates from infected apricot trees grown in the vicinity of Erzurum (Turkey) were studied. A total of 104 bacterial isolates were obtained from diseased apricot samples and identified as Pseudomonas spp. Most of these strains (75 of 104) proved to belong to the genus Pseudomonas upon further identification. The results of the HR (hypersensitive reaction) and pathogenicity tests showed that 67 of the strains belonged to P. syringae pv. syringae, whereas the others were HR negative and non-pathogenic on apricot. Data of resistance studies suggested that none of the tested apricot cultivars were resistant to P. syringae pv. syringae. It was determined that the most susceptible cultivar was Hacihaliloglu and the tolerant cultivars were Sekerpare, Roxana and Hasanbey.
24332031|During 2010, black rot symptoms were observed in oilseed rape plants grown in a commercial plot in Serbia. Ten bacterial isolates obtained from diseased plants, and identified as Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris (Xcc) based on pathogenicity, physiological and biochemical tests, PTA-ELISA and 16S rDNA sequences analysis, were investigated in detail. Strains were characterized by comparing them by rep-PCR fingerprints using ERIC and (GTG) primers. The 16S rDNA sequences of strains TUr1 and TUr6 were deposited in GenBank under accession Nos. KF057196 and KF057197, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S regions showed high similarity level for oilseed rape representative strains and Xcc strains of different origin isolated from kale, cabbage and broccoli.
24722481|Prunus scoparia, a wild almond species, is scattered in vast regions of Iran often close to stone fruit growing areas. P. scoparia witches' broom (PSWB) disease was observed in several provinces in this country. Graft transmission experiments from affected trees to bitter almond, peach, nectarine and apricot resulted in the appearance of typical phytoplasma symptoms. Total DNA samples from witches' broom-affected trees reacted positively in PCR assays using phytoplasma-specific P1/P7 and R16F2n/R16R2 primer pairs. Sequence homology, RFLP and phylogenetic analyses showed that the phytoplasma associated with PSWB and transmitted to grafted plants belong to the subgroup B in the 16SrIX (pigeon pea witches' broom) group. Based on the susceptibility of stone fruits and the presence of potential vector, P. scoparia may serve as a natural reservoir of 'Candidatus Phytoplasma phoenicium' (almond witches' broom phytoplasma).
41998006|Twelve different apricot selections and six peach varieties naturally infected with Plum pox virus (PPV) groups D and M, respectively, were used to investigate the role of seeds in the epidemiology of the virus. All plants were PPV-positive in IC-RT-PCR and the isolates were characterized by restriction analysis of amplicons with Rsal restriction and analysis of coat protein migration in 15% SDS-polyacrylamide gel, followed by Western blotting. The presence of PPV was checked on fully ripe seeds, germinating seeds and seedlings. One half of the apricot seed stock was analyzed by ELISA and IC-RT-PCR, separating cotyledons, also containing the embryo, from seed coats. The virus, in both species, was mainly localized in seed coats, but cotyledons were also infected. Seeds of the other half of the stock were germinated and maintained in an insect-proof screenhouse for over 3-years (apricot seedlings) or over 6 months (peach seedlings). Seedlings never showed symptoms and were found PPV-negative by molecular assays. The conclusion was that seeds have no role in PPV-M and PPV-D epidemiology.
41998493|In Argentina, celery is grown in the outskirts of the principal cities in the provinces of Buenos Aires, Santa Fe, and Mendoza. Since the late 1990s, plants growing in La Plata (Buenos Aires) have shown rapid decline in commercial fields. Symptoms are delayed growth, yellowed leaves, discoloured vascular tissue and reduced root system. The objectives of this work were to determine the causal agent of the disease and to analyze the effects of inoculum levels on the disease. Fusarium oxysporum (Fo) was consistently isolated on potato-dextrose-agar (PDA). The "forma specialis" was identified by pathogenicity tests where each of seven selected strains of Fo on colonized rice that was dried and ground were mixed into soil. Initial Fusarium wilt symptoms were recorded 50 days after inoculation, and Fo was reisolated from affected roots, stems, crowns, and petioles suggesting that the pathogen is Fo f. sp. apii (Foa). In another assay different concentrations of inoculum (10 to 10 cfu per g of soil) were tested to determine the effects of Foa on the plants (cv. Golden Boy). Wilt severity, chlorosis, plant height, and dry weight were assessed weekly. Typical symptoms developed at all levels of inoculum. Disease severity increased when the inoculum density was increased. To our knowledge, this is the first report of Foa in Argentina. The possibility that the pathogen was introduced on imported seed during the last few years is discussed.
41997870|Transmission of grapevine virus A (GVA) by the pseudococcid mealybug Pseudococcus longispinus was studied. Phases of the transmission process (acquisition access time, retention, and inoculation access time) were checked by bioassays using Nicotiana clevelandii and RT-PCR. Virus was acquired either from infected N. clevelandii or from a purified preparation through a stretched parafilm membrane. Evidence was obtained that P. longispinus instars transmit GVA in a semi-persistent manner: they acquired GVA in as little as 15 min when feeding on N. clevelandii or 12 h when feeding on purified virus preparations through a membrane; they retained the virus for up to 48 h when fasting, but no longer than 15 h when allowed to feed on herbaceous hosts following serial transfers; they were able to transmit GVA to healthy plants with no latent period, after a 30 min feeding (the shortest inoculation access time tested). A preliminary survey of populations of different mealybug species collected in the vineyards of different Mediterranean countries showed that 77% contained GVA and 33% contained grapevine leaf roll-associated virus 3 (GLRaV-3). Many samples, including a population of the coccid mealybug Ceroplastes rusci from Tunisia, contained both viruses.  stato effettuato uno studio sulla trasmissione del virus A della vite (GVA) con la cocciniglia pseudoccide Pseudococcus longispinus. Le varie fasi del processo di trasmissione sono state controllate sia con biosaggi su Nicotiana clevelandii, che con amplificazione genica (RT-PCR). L'acquisizione del virus  awenuta o da piante infette di N. clevelandii o attraverso una membrana di parafilm stesa su di una microcamera contenente virus purificato. Si  dimostrato che le neanidi di P. longispinus trasmettono GVA in maniera semipersistente in quanto: (a) acquisiscono il virus con suzioni di 15 min da ospiti erbacei o di 12 h attraverso membrana; (b) ritengono il virus per 48 h quando sono tenute a digiuno dopo l'acquisizione ma per non pi di 15 h se vengono trasferite serialmente a ospiti sani su cui si alimentano; (c) sono in grado di inoculare il virus senza periodo di latenza entro 30 min dal contatto con Pospite. Un'indagine preliminare su popolazioni di cocciniglie di specie diverse raccolte in vigneti di differenti Paesi mediterranei ha dimostrato che il 77% dei campioni contenevano GVA e il 33% il closterovirus 3 associato all'accartocciamento fogliare dlia vite (GLRaV-3). Molti dei campioni esaminati contenevano entrambi i virus, inclusa una popolazione del coccide Ceroplastes rusci di origine tunisina.
41999041|Many plant pathogenic bacteria and fungi are known to infect olive trees, causing considerable crop losses. The present work deals with targeting some olive tree pathogens by ferrocene derivatives [1, 1-bis-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-2-ferrocenyl-but-1 -ene] (P1); (Z+E)-1-(p-aminophenyl)-1-phenyl-2-ferrocenyl-but-1-ene (P2); 2-ferrocenyl-1-(4-N-acetylaminophenyl)-l-phenyl-but-l-ene (P3); tamoxifen analogous hydroxyferrocifen (P4); 1,1-bis [4-(3-dimethylaminopropoxy) phenyl]-2-ferrocenyl-but-1-ene (P5); 1-[4-(3-dimethylamoniumpropoxy) phenyl]-1-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-2-ferrocenyl-but-l-ene citrate (P7) and 1, 1-bis[4-(3-dimethylaminiumpropoxy) phenyl]-2-ferrocenyl-but-1-ene citrate (P8)] and an organic compound 1-[4 -(3 -dimethylamoniumpropoxy ) phenyl]-1-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-2-phenyl-but-1-ene (P6), whose antimicrobial activity was tested in vitro against Pseudomonas savastanoi pv. savatanoi (the agent of olive knot), Agrobacterium tumefaciens (responsible for crown gall) and the fungus Fusarium solani (agent in nature of occasional root rot). Young olive plantlets inoculated with the three pathogens, developed symptoms when not treated with the ferrocene derivatives. These compounds efficiently inhibited the growth of these microorganisms in culture media and in inoculated plantlets which did not contract the corresponding diseases, especially when treated with P8. These findings shed light on the potential utilisation of ferrocene derivatives, analogues of hydroxytamoxifen, in curing microbe-mediated plant diseases.
41998424|Eighteen well-characterized Pseudomonas syringae pv. pisi strains, representative of the pathogen's seven races were investigated by fluorescent AFLP (fAFLP) fingerprinting and were clearly differentiated. Typing by fAFLP provided a distinct, differentiating profile for each of the strains. Cluster analysis of the data grouped the seven P. syringae pv. pisi races into two well-separated clusters, these showing a genetic similarity of 68%. Group I included all strains belonging to races 1, 3B, 4B, 5 and 7, and group II included the strains belonging to races 2, 4A, 6 and local strains of race 6. It was possible to distinguish strains of races 1 and 3B, 4A and 6, 1 and 5, as well as strains of races 3 and 6, indistinguishable by other previously used techniques. Analysis of the fAFLP electropherograms also allowed, in some cases, identification of group-specific and race-specific discriminative fragments.
41998130|Seven strains of Phytophthora nicotianae were isolated from pepper plants (Capsicum annuuni) showing collar and root rot in northwest Spain and were identified using standard taxonomic criteria. The pathogenic behaviour of the isolates was studied in Capsicum annuum under greenhouse and growth chamber conditions in comparison with that of Phytophthora capsici. Differences between isolates of the two species and great variation within the strains of P. nicotianae were observed. The genetic compatibility of these strains was studied and the importance of some taxonomic criteria was considered. P. capsici isolates were all Al while those of P. nicotianae had the A2 compatibility type. Criteria for distinguishing the two species are discussed.
41998453|Choke disease due to Epichlo typhina causes economic losses in fields of seed-producing orchardgrass, also known as cocksfoot (Dactylis glomerata). There are currently no means to prevent outbreaks and spread of the disease. In this study, we identified several key events of the biological cycle of the fungus, in particular how it enters plant tissues. Study of seeds of partially choked heads ruled out the vertical transmission of E. typhina in D. glomerata. The fungal mycelium that had colonised the seeds appeared not to be viable: it was not isolated from 360 seeds analysed that had 49% infection rate. Moreover, 280 seedlings and 488 young plants grown from these seeds were free from E. typhina. Ascospores, considered as propagules in horizontal transmission, were previously presumed to infect orchardgrass through cut stems at harvest or through stigmas of florets. E. typhina was not detected (by microscopic or histological analyses) in 332 cut stems that had been inoculated with ascospores. Our research indicates that ascospores (or conidia produced by ascospores) are more likely to infect young vegetative tillers. We assume that after ejection, ascospores fall on seed lemma and palea and enter seedling tissues after germination.
41998288|Aspergillus carbonarius (Bainier) Thom. and Aspergillus niger Van Tieghem are common fungal contaminants of several commodities, including grapes. A. carbonarius is the most important, if not the exclusive, responsible for wine contamination by ochratoxin A (OTA) in Mediterranean areas. Identification of A. carbonarius is made difficult by its high similarity with A. niger, the Aspergillus species most common on grapes, as well as with other species of the section Nigri of this genus. Hence, it requires deep knowledge of fungal taxonomy. A semi-selective medium based on Malt Extract Agar amended with appropriate antibiotics (chloramphenicol and chlortetracycline) and fungicides (dichloran and boscalid) was developed in order to speed up the quantitative detection of A. carbonarius in grapes and musts and improve risk assessment of OTA contamination in wine.
41999014|Bacterial canker of kiwifruit caused by Pseudomonas syringae pv. actinidiae (Psa) is seriously damaging Actinidia deliciosa and A. chinensis in central Italy. Since this severe outbreak of the disease may reflect on the trade of kiwifruit pollen and fruits, standardized protocols are needed for the extraction of the bacterium from different matrices and for its detection and identification. Current PCR detection of Psa is aspecific, as the amplified product has the same size as that of P. syringae pv. theae. To improve the specificity of molecular detection of Psa, a gene-sequence analysis was done to identify new specific DNA markers. This enabled us to develop a duplex-PCR that distinguishes Psa from P. syringae pv. theae and from other genetically related P. syringae pathovars. This method was also successfully applied to detect Psa directly in infected kiwifruit matrices such as leaves, wood, flowers and in experimentally contaminated pollen and fruits. We propose two protocols for Psa extraction and detection from pollen and fruits. These protocols can be used for epidemiological studies, to establish whether symptomless fruits or pollen can harbour Psa, and can help diagnostic laboratories in the analysis of these type of materials.
41997949|Soil solarization was carried out at three eucalyptus forest nurseries in Argentina in order to evaluate an alternative method for controlling damping-off of seedlings. The experiments were performed at forest nurseries, located in a temperate climate (province of Buenos Aires), infected with Fusarium (mainly F. oxysporum) and Pythium species, using single and double layers of transparent polyethylene film during summer months (January and February). Effectiveness of the treatments was evaluated using a biological assay enabling assessment of soil inoculum potential. Soil temperatures reached during solarization at the three nurseries were 44, 45 and 49C, respectively. The soilborne pathogens were controlled within 4 weeks using a single layer in one of the nurseries and using a double layer in the two others. Although the temperatures generated in the soil were not very high, the results suggest that the antagonistic microflora present in the native virgin soils in Argentina and or biological processes may have contributed to the control of these pathogens. La solarizzazione del terreno  stata eseguita in tre vivai di eucalipto in Argentina alio scopo di valutare un mtodo alternativo per il controllo della moria dei semenzali. Gli esperimenti sono stati condotti in vivai siti in una zona a clima temperato (provincia di Buenos Aires), in terreni infetti da specie di Fusarium (principalmente F. oxysporum) e Pythium, usando film di polietilene trasparente a singlo o doppio strato durante i mesi estivi (Gennaio e Febbraio). L'efficacia dei trattamenti  stata valutata usando un saggio biologico che permette la stima del Potenziale di inoculo del terreno. Le temperature del suolo raggiunte nei tre vivai sono state rispettivamente di 44, 45 e 49C. I patogeni tellurici sono stati controllati con quattro settimane di trattamenti usando un film a singlo strato in uno dei vivai ed uno a doppio strato negli altri due. Sebbene le temperature generate nel terreno non siano state molto alte, i risultati suggeriscono che la microflora antagonista presente nel terreno naturale argentino e/o i processi biologici possono aver contribuito al controllo di questi patogeni.
41998509|Tomato production in the Mediterranean region and elsewhere is under constant threat of the whitefly-transmitted begomoviruses that cause Tomato yellow leaf curl disease (TYLCD). Sequencing has indicated that the generic 'TYLCV' includes a large number of viruses and strains. We studied the distribution of the tomato yellow leaf curl disease-associated viruses in Egypt, Israel, Jordan and Lebanon. Two simple and reliable multiplex PCR protocols (mPCR) were developed that allowed the detection of Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV) and Tomato yellow leaf curl Sardinia virus (TYLCSV) species, in addition to Tomato yellow leaf curl virus-Mud (TYLCV-Mld) strain. PCR products were sequenced to confirm their identity. The fulllength genomes were also sequenced of TYLCV from Egypt, Jordan and Lebanon, TYLCV-Mld strain from Jordan and Lebanon, and Tomato yellow leaf curl Sardinia virus-Sicily from Israel. This is the first time that TYLCSV-Sic has been detected in Israel and Jordan, and the first report of TYLCV-Mld strain from Egypt and Lebanon.
24332022|During 2006 and 2007, 110 Streptomyces strains were isolated from potato tubers with various symptoms including erumpent, deep-pitted and superficial scab lesions from different regions of Fars and Hamedan provinces of Iran. The isolates were identified as Streptomyces scabies, S. acidiscabies, S. turgidiscabies, S. aureofaciens, S. reticuliscabies, S. griseus, S. europaeiscabies and S. stelliscabies using physiological, biochemical and morphological tests and were classified into six groups using the NTSYSpc version 2.02e software. The isolates were divided into nine clusters based on the numerical analysis of rep-PCR using Box primers. Clustering based on phenotypic features confirmed. In some cases, the clustering based on rep-PCR with Box primers. Rep-PCR DNA fingerprints of Streptomyces strains with BoxA1R primers were relatively unique, consistent, and reproducible. Our results show that Box-PCR is a very useful tool for a quick determination of strain identity.
41997988|Two monoclonal antibodies (MAbAC and MAb-TUV) raised against the sweet cherry isolate of Plum pox virus (PPV-SwC) were tested against homologous and heterologous PPV strains from different geographical origins. Both MAbs proved to be PPV-C (Cherry) strain-specific. They reacted in DASI-ELISA with PPVSwC and the sour cherry isolate of PPV (PPV-SoC) from Nicotiana benthamiana, but not with any of additional 44 PPV isolates tested belonging to the Dideron, Marcus and El Amar strains. The strain specificity of both MAbs was also assessed by Western blot and immuno electron microscopy. As indicated by competitive ELISA, the two MAbs are elicited by different epitopes.
23721584|Citrus wilsonii Tanaka is cold-resistant, rarely grown chance hybrid between Citrus ichangensis and Citrus grandis with a potential to be used as a rootstock in colder climates. In order to evaluate its reaction to Citrus tristeza virus (CTV), C. wilsonii seedlings were graft-inoculated with previously characterized CTV isolates monophyletic with respect to the p25 gene and clustering to phylogenetic groups Gp 1, Gp 2, Gp 3a, Gp 4, Gp 5 and Gp M. The evaluation of C. wilsonii symptoms and comparison with the reaction of standard citrus indicators infected with the same CTV isolates revealed that C. wilsonii infected with isolates Gp 2 and Gp 4 developed stem pitting (SP). This is in accordance with the SP-inducing potential of these CTV isolates in the standard sweet orange SP indicator. The obvious and numerous pits shown by C. wilsonii stems suggests that it reacts strongly to severe SP CTV isolates.
41998120|In 2001, a disease of melon characterized by yellowing of the leaves was observed in Sardinia (Italy) where it caused severe damage. Samples, collected from several melon crops, were positive in single step RT-PCR assays for Beet pseudoyellows virus (BPYV) when specific primers were used. An amplicon of the same size as that from BPYV controls (450 bp) was obtained from 14 out of 20 samples tested and had 98.4% nucleotide sequence identity with an authentic BPYV sequence. This is the first experimental evidence of a yellowing disease caused by BPYV in Italian melon crops.
41998785|Developing resistance to species of Fusarium in maize (Zea mays L.) is important to prevent field mycotoxin contamination. Isolates representative of natural conditions need to be identified to maximize selection responses. Sixty isolates belonging to Fusarium section Liseola collected from a major maize growing region in Argentina were tested for sexual compatibility with eight standard tester strains (A-H) of the Gibberella fujikuroi complex. A twenty-nine isolate sub-sample (MAT-A: 26, MAT-E: 2 and MAT-D: 1) was tested for in vitro production of fumonisins and for aggressiveness to two maize hybrids after silk inoculation. Mating population A (F. verticillioides) was the most prevalent species (90%) coexisting with MAT-D (F. proliferatum) and MAT-E (F. subglutinans). Fumonisin production varied from 0.4 to 2884 g g for MAT-A and from 0.3 to 0.6 g g for MAT-A. The only isolate from MATD produced undetectable levels. Most isolates showed mild aggressiveness but two uncommon highly aggressive strains (MAT-A and D) were also identified. No associations between fumonisin production and disease severity were observed. Differences in disease severity between moderately resistant and susceptible hybrids varied across years and isolates suggesting that responses to selection might depend on the isolate used to produce the inoculum. The use of isolate mixtures might reduce genotype-by-isolate interaction although it would hinder identification of resistance to specific strains.
24331964|Iris yellow spot virus (IYSV) is an emerging pathogen of onion and other Allium crops worldwide. This study focused on the incidence, epidemiology and yield effects of IYSV in bulb onion crops in Spain. Surveys were conducted from 2005 to 2009. Samplings were performed in 101 onion fields with 2,677 onion plants tested in total. Onion transplants, winter onion crops and potential alternative hosts were also sampled. IYSV infection showed a temporal pattern of spread, and the proportion of sites with IYSV-infected plants began to increase rapidly after August. Two early infected fields were detected, and were the only ones with severe economic losses (50-60% crop reduction) due to IYSV. In both cases, onions were grown from IYSV-infected transplants imported from another region. There was no evidence that weeds and volunteer onion can act as alternative host. The use of virus (and vector)-free transplants must play an important role in IYSV management strategies by delaying early-season infection of onion in Spain.
41998151|Cherry chlorotic rusty spot (CCRS), a disease found in southern Italy, is similar to Amasya cherry disease, described in 1970 in Turkey. The same set of doublestranded (ds) RNAs was found associated with both diseases. Light and electron microscopy showed the presence of a fungus-like organism in naturally infected Italian and Turkish cherry material. Attempts to culture, isolate and identify the fungus failed. Although the dsRNAs and the fungus were regularly associated with the diseases, the relationships between them are not yet clear. The possibility exists that the CCRS and Amasyaassociated dsRNAs could be genome components of a fungal virus.
41998020|Recombinant DNA techniques (GM technology) are being increasingly used to introduce pathogen-derived resistance (PDR) to plant viruses, whereby single viral genes are transgenically introduced into crop plants to induce resistance/tolerance to a specific pathogen. Some of the benefits of PDR-based GM technology are exemplified by the possibility of: (t) selecting the gene to be introduced, in function of the target pathogen and of the type of resistance mechanism wanted; (ii) breaking incompatibility barriers, thus overcoming one of the insurmountable stumbling blocks to genetic improvement via traditional breeding; (iii) pyramidizing single resistance to diverse disease agents and pests (viruses, fungi, bacteria, insects, nematodes) and combining it with superior qualitative and commercial traits; (iv) cropping under high disease pressure, thus reclaiming to high-value agricultural crops areas that had forcibly been abandoned because of recurrent destructive virus outbreaks (v) increasing yield and food quality of major crops under conditions of medium to high disease pressure. Nonetheless, the use of GM technology has raised a number of questions on its possible impact on the environment, agriculture, and human health, potential hazards being: (i) vector system acting as a plant pest; (ii) generation of new viruses or diseases through nucleic acid recombination/ressortment; (iii) modification of the epidemiological behaviour of viruses superinfecting transgenic hosts; (iv) modification of plant phenotype consequent to DNA insertion; (v) transgene transfer to wild relatives of the genetically manipulated crop plant; (vi) transfer of selectable marker genes to autochthonous microorganisms, primarily terrestrial bacteria and fungi; (vii) increase genetic erosion; (viii) toxicity of viral and non viral gene products; (ix) toxicity of selectable marker genes and their effects on antibiotic therapy. As critically discussed in the light of the available knowledge, several of above events are unlikely to occur, and those which are more likely to materialize do not represent anyhow an environmental hazard or a threat to human health. The conclusion is that PDR, if applied responsibly, is a powerful and safe means for combating insidious and destructive plant pathogens such as viruses, which cannot be controlled otherwise.
41999039|Greenhouse seedling rust tests of the 35 th International Bread Wheat Screening Nursery (IBWSN), distributed by the International Wheat and Maize Improvement Centre in 2002, demonstrated that 290 (58%) of the 500 entries likely carried the 1RS. 1BL translocation, and therefore the rust resistance genes Lr26, Yr9 and Sr31. A selection of 109 lines identified as carrying this translocation was postulated to carry the major seedling resistance genes Lr3a, Lr13, Lr16, Lr19, Lr23, Lr24 and Lr27+ Lr31 in addition to Lr26. The leaf rust seedling genes Lr13, Lr16 and Lr21+Lr31, were the most common seedling resistance genes in a selection of 100 lines lacking the 1RS. 1BL translocation. While no new sources of seedling resistance to leaf rust were found in this study, and virulence is known for all of the seedling genes identified, 46 lines were identified that dispayed moderately high to very high levels of adult plant resistence (APR) to leaf rust in the field over 2 years that could be very useful in developing new wheat cultivars with resistance to Puccinia triticina. Of these, 24 were shown to carry Lr34, and based on pedigree analysis, it is expected that the APR gene Lr46 is also present in at least some lines. Genetic studies are needed to characterize the APR in these lines to assess their full value as sources of new leaf rust resistance.
41998774|Virus-free accessions of peach, apricot, cherry and plum were graft-inoculated in 2004 with buds from a peach tree cv. Missour infected by Apricot latent virus (ApLV), then analysed by RT-PCR using a specific primer set. The expected DNA fragment of 200 bp in size was amplified from 33 different Prunus sources, thus extending the woody host range of ApLV to new cultivars of Prunus persica, P. avium, P. armeniaca and, for the first time, to European (P. domestica) and Japanese (P. salicina) plum cultivars. Several peach cultivars and apricot cv. Tirynthos were symptomatic. To determine the best source material for ApLV detection, RTPCR assays were carried out during the growing season. ApLV was homogeneously distributed in flowers, leaves, petioles, barks and fruits of peach and apricot but was detected only in the leaves of cherry and plum. The genetic variability of the ApLV coat protein gene from graft-inoculated hosts and comparable sequences from databases ranged between 63.5 and 100%.
41999051|Sharka, caused by Plum pox virus (PPV), is the most destructive viral disease of plum, apricot and peach. Although PPV is widespread in all fruit-growing areas of eastern European countries, and causes serious yield losses, little is known about its occurrence and distribution in Kosovo. Therefore, a survey was conducted in orchards and nurseries at 18 sites located in seven different districts to verify the presence of PPV and to determine the virus strains occurring in the country by serological and molecular tools (ELISA and PCR). Field observations and laboratory analysis disclosed a very high incidence of PPV in nurseries and orchards at all locations. Characterization of 26 isolates representative of all surveyed sites and Prunus species, revealed a predominance of PPV-Rec (23 out of 26), and a low incidence of PPV-M and PPV-D.
41998243|The sequences of the N-terminal 132 nucleotides of the coat protein genes of eleven Portuguese isolates of Zucchini yellow mosaic virus (ZYMV) were determined. The nucleotide sequence similarities among the eleven isolates suggested two groups, based on different codon usage for the amino acid residues in seven positions. Comparisons among the encoded amino acid sequences and those previously reported indicated that in this region the Portuguese isolates were identical to isolates from the USA (California), Germany, Italy and France. A monoclonal antibody was produced against a Portuguese isolate that recognized the epitope SGTQPT and cross-reacted with particles of other potyviruses.
41997937|Nine Aspergillus niger isolates differing in virulence were assayed for polygalacturonase (PG) content and isoenzyme pattern in spores, liquid cultures and inoculated onion seeds of cultivar 'Bianca Agostana'. The isolates differed in PG production quantitatively and in terms of isoenzyme pattern. Isolates An1 and An5, characterised by low PG production in liquid culture and low virulence, lacked detectable levels of three PG isoforms (PG3, PG4 and PG5). One acidic PG band (PG6) was detected only during growth in vitro by most of the isolates. Pectin lyase activity was not detected from spores, liquid cultures, or infected seeds. The ability of three isolates differing in virulence, An6, An7 and An14 to colonise five onion cultivars was also tested. The isolates differed in virulence and in quantitative and qualitative PG production. The results suggest that particular PGs from A. niger may contribute to virulence during onion seed colonisation. Nove isolati di Aspergillus niger, caratterizzati da diversa virulenza, sono stati saggiati per la loro capacit di esprimere poligalatturonasi (PG) nelle spore e di produrre l'enzima nel liquido colturale e nei semi di cipolla (cultivar "Bianca Agostana") inoculati artificialmente. Gli isolati hanno dimostrato di differire sia per la quantit di PG prodotta, sia per i profili isoenzimatici. Gli isolati An1 e An5, caratterizzati da una bassa produzione di PG, non hanno escreto nel liquido colturale quantit rilevabili di tre isoforme di PG (PG3, PG4, PG5). Una isoforma acidica (PG6)  stata rilasciata dalla maggior parte degli isolati unicamente in vitro. Per tutti gli isolati non  stata rilevata presenza di pectin liasi (PNL) nelle spore, nel liquido colturale e nei semi di cipolla infetti. Per i tre isolati, An6, An7 e An 14,  stata confrontata la capacita di colonizzare i semi di cinque cultivar di cipolla; questi isolati hanno dimostrato di possedere, accanto ad una differente virulenza, una diversa capacit di produzione quali/quantitativa di PG. I risultati evidenziano che particolari isoforme di PG prodotte da A. niger possono contribuire alla virulenza durante la colonizzazione dei semi di cipolla.
41998969|Infections of Xanthomonas arboricola pv. pruni (Xap) on peaches have become more important in northern Italy since the late '80s. Therefore, a three year (1993 to 1995) epidemiological study was conducted in two peach orchards affected by Xap in the district of Verona. Both disease onset and progress over time were considered. The incidence of affected leaves or fruits and disease severity were assessed in relation to meteorological data. Primary infections appeared on leaves between the end of May and the middle of July. The disease progressed with variable incidence and severity, the former ranging from very slight to more than 70% of leaves affected. Fruits were less severely affected. Rainfall played a predominant role in Xap infections. Primary infections were always established following at least 3 successive rainy days, with temperatures between 14 and 19C. Disease progress was closely correlated with the number of rainy days after disease onset. The use of the latter variable in a logistic regression model accounted for 85% of variability in disease incidence and for 96% of variability in disease severity. A more complex model, also considering the time of disease onset, increased accountable variability to 93% and 97%, respectively. Xanthomonas arboricola pv. pruni (Xap) ha assunto sviluppo epidemico nel Nord Italia a partire dalla fine degli anni '80, principalmente su pesco. Al fine di studiare alcuni aspetti epidemiologici della malattia, nel triennio 1993-1995, sono stati eseguiti sopralluoghi in due pescheti infetti siti in provincia di Verona, per rilevare la data di comparsa dei primi sintomi di Xap e la successiva evoluzione della malattia. Sono state determinate sia l'incidenza di foglie o frutti infetti che la gravita dei sintomi; inoltre sono state studiate le relazioni intercorrenti fra la malattia e le condizioni meteorologiche. Le prime infezioni sono comparse fra la fine di Maggio e la seconda decade di Luglio, sulle foglie. La malattia si  quindi sviluppata con incidenza e gravita variabili, passando da una presenza in tracce ad incidenze superiori al 70% delle foglie. I frutti hanno viceversa mostrato infezioni sempre contenute. La pioggia ha avuto un rulo preminente nello sviluppo delle infezioni di Xap. In tutti i casi, le infezioni primarie si sono verifcate dopo un periodo di almeno tre giorni consecutivi con pioggie, con temperature comprese fra 14 e 19C. Il successivo sviluppo delle pidmie  risultato strettamente correlato al numero di giorni piovosi: l'impiego di questa variabile in un modello di regressione logstica ha permesso di spiegare 1'85% della variabilit sperimentale nel caso dell'incidenza di malattia, ed il 96% nel caso della gravita. L'uso di un modello pi complesso, che tiene conto anche dell'epoca di comparsa delle infezioni primarle, ha aumentato la variabilit spiegata al 93% e 97% rispettivamente.
41998757|In recent years, a new disease of Persian (English) walnut (Juglans regia L.) causing premature fruit drop and important yield losses has been observed in orchards of Mediterranean walnut-growing regions. Characteristic disease symptoms consist of an apical necrosis originating at the stigmatic end of the hull. In early stages of fruit development, differentiation of "apical necrosis" from "blight", another walnut disease, requires a detailed observation of externally and internally affected tissues. Different approaches have been used to characterize disease symptoms in affected walnut-growing areas and to identify the causal agents and predisposing factors. Recent studies indicate that the bacterium Xanthomonas arboricola pv. juglandis is the microorganism most frequently associated with apical necrosis and may produce the initial infections in young nuts. Fusarium spp. and Alternaria spp. seem also to be involved in the induction of apical necrosis, causing secondary infections, or growing as saprophytes on bacterial-infected tissues, thus enhancing disease symptoms and severity. Nutritional problems and soil characteristics could be partially related to apical necrosis, in addition to microbial infection. Many aspects of apical necrosis are, however, still unknown and management strategies cannot be defined, so the disease is not readily controlled. Etiological and epidemiological studies on apical necrosis are discussed in this review in order to integrate information and contribute to a better understanding of the disease and its predisposing factors.
41992424|Grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV) is responsible for fan-leaf degeneration, which is one of the most severe virus diseases of grapevines worldwide. GFLV causes substantial crop losses, reduces fruit quality and shortens the longevity of grapevines in the vineyard. GFLV is transmitted specifically from grapevine to grapevine by the ectoparasitic nematode Xiphinema index, and belongs to the genus Nepovirus in the family Comoviridae. Since the discovery of the nematode vector in the late 1950's and the identification of GFLV as the agent responsible for fanleaf degeneration in the early 1960's, a wealth of information has been accumulated on its transmission, biological properties and serological characteristics, as well as on the structure and expression of the GFLV genome. Although dissemination of the virus through propagation material has been drastically reduced over the past two decades by implementing rigorous certification schemes and establishing quarantine facilities, effective strategies are still needed to control GFLV in naturally infected vineyards. Recently, significant progress has been made on the elucidation of the function(s) of most GFLV proteins, in particular those involved in critical steps of the virus multiplication cycle, including RNA replication, cell-to-cell movement, and transmission by X. index. New insights have also been gained into the population structure and genomic variability among isolates from naturally infected vineyards, which have opened new avenues for designing alternative strategies to control this destructive virus. This review article offers a comprehensive overview of the most significant advances made over the past 15 years on GFLV and discusses novel control strategies for one of the major threats to the grapevine industry worldwide.
41999044|Ramularia collo-cygni (Rcc) infects spring and winter barley causing Ramularia leaf spot (RLS). During 2009 and 2010, contrasting years for the natural occurrence of RLS in the Czech Republic, infestation intensity was assessed with field experiments at two locations in relation to Ramularia contamination of seeds. A real time PCR assay was designed to quantify the pathogen in barley tissues. PCR primers and a TaqMan probe were designed to target Rcc-specific DNA sequence. The method was optimized using pure fungal DNA and plasmid standard dilutions. After washing, kernels were dissected into lemma, pericarp, testa, endosperm and embryo which were individually tested by real time PCR for quantifying Rcc, whereas the presence of other potential seed-borne pathogens was checked by standard PCR. The level of seed contamination was not the main factor influencing symptom expression. In 2009, seeds with low Rcc contamination were planted in two locations in both of which severe RLS infection had occured. In 2010, seeds with higher Rcc contamination were planted, but the extent of RLS symptoms on the leaves was much lower. Rcc occurred at higher rates in kernels from the 2009 crop, when RLS was severe. Ramularia DNA was highest in the lemma, and occurred in lower amounts in the pericarp and embryo. It was also found in the water used for washing the kernels. The results showed that Rcc does not penetrate through the testa into the endosperm.
41999021|A total of 28 representative Pseudomonas syringae pv. actinidiae strains isolated from all Italian regions (Emilia-Romagna, Latium, Piedmont, Veneto) where outbreaks of bacterial canker of kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa) and yellow kiwifruit (A. chinensis) were observed in 2008-2010, were assessed using repetitive-sequence PCR (rep-PCR) with ERIC and BOX primer sets and multilocus sequence typing (MLST) using gap A, git A, gyrB and rpoD genes. The 2.3 kb sequences obtained from MLST were analyzed by means of mathematicalstatistical tests to infer the gene polymorphism and the genetic structure of the strains. Both primer sets used in rep-PCR indicated an overall identity among all 28 Ps. pv. actinidiae strains irrespective of the host plant and cultivar from where they were isolated, as well as of the region or year of isolation. In addition, MLST revealed a low gene polymorphism. A clonal structure and neutral selection were inferred for the P. s. pv. actinidiae strains currently causing severe epidemics on A. chinensis and A. deliciosa in Italy. This indicates that they originated, most probably, from a single or very few introductions of latently infected kiwifruit propagative material, even though the possibility cannot be ruled out that cells of the pathogen already present in Italy may have mutated.
41998780|The partial genome sequence of a putative new closterovirus with particles ca. 2000 nm long, denoted Fig mild mottle-associated virus (FMMaV), was determined. The 6,290 nt long sequence encompasses seven open reading frames (ORFs), i.e. an incomplete ORF1b encoding the putative RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a 25 kDa protein with unknown functions, a 6 kDa protein with putative nucleotide-binding properties, the 63 kDa homologue of the heat-shock protein 70 (HSP70h), a 64 kDa protein, the minor coat protein (CPm) of 26 kDa in size, and the incomplete coat protein (CP). The genome organization of FMMaV is the same as that of members of the genus Closterovirus. This taxonomic position was confirmed by comparative analyses of the RdRp, HSP70h and CPm amino acid sequences which clustered FMMaV in a clade comprising members of the genus Closterovirus in phylogenetic trees constructed with these sequences. Comparison with Fig leaf mottle-associated virus 1 (FLMaV-1), the other putative fig-infecting closterovirus currently known, showed ca. 30% divergence in the HSP70h gene at the amino acid level. In a preliminary survey carried out in southern Italian fig orchards, FMMaV was detected in three different cultivars.
41998245|A total of 70 weed samples from 31 plant species belonging to 16 families (Apiaceae, Araceae, Araliaceae, Asteraceae, Campanulaceae, Convolvulaceae, Dryopteridaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Geraniaceae, Lamiaceae, Plantaginaceae, Ranuncubceae, Rosaceae, Rubiaceae, Scrophulariaceae and Urticaceae) were collected in orchards of hazelnut (Corylus avellana L.) in Samsun and Ordu provinces of Turkey and tested by DAS-ELISA and biological assay methods. Samples belonging to Scandix sp., Artemisia vulgaris L., Campanula sp., Gaieopsis sp., Salvia verbenaca L., Prunella sp., Clematis vitaiba L. and Rubus canescens L. were found to be infected by Apple mosaic virus (Ap-MV). This is the first report of ApMV infection of these plants under natural conditions. The epidemiology of ApMV in hazebut orchards is discussed.
41998357|Binding to tobacco cells of oliogochitosan labeled with the fluorophore 2-aminoacidone (2-AMAC) was investigated using laser scanning confocal microscopy (LSCM). Production of NO in epidermal tobacco cells treated with oligochitosan was investigated by epidermal strip bioassay and LSCM, using the cell-permeable fluorophore diaminofluorescein diacetate (DAF-2D). Binding of the labeled oligochitosan to cell walls and membranes of tobacco cells was directly observed by LSCM. Binding antagonist assays showed that unlabeled oligsaccharides apart from oligochitosn did not inhibit the observed binding of labeled oligochitosan to cell walls and membranes. Treatment of epidermal tobacco cells with oligochitosan resulted in a strong increase of intracellular NO. Oligochitosan and the NO donor SNP induced a defense reaction against Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV), increased PAL activity and elevated PAL mRNA level. Co-treatment of oligochitosan and NO (scavenger CPTIO) blocked the inducing resistance indicating that the defense response induced by oligochitosan was connected with the NO pathway.
41998136|Pyrenochaeta lycopersici, the causal agent of corky root, is one the most important pathogens on tomato plants and other vegetable crops in protected and field crops all over the world. The present study was aimed at evaluating the effectiveness of an in vitro test in which culture filtrates of P. lycopersici and tomato seedlings were used for selecting tolerant plants. The method allowed assessment of plant response to the disease and quick screening for tolerance. The rapid appearance of symptoms on seedling rootlets suggests that P. lycopersici may release toxic compounds into the liquid medium during its growth.
23721530|Linden (Tilia platyphyllos var. laciniata) trees growing in Kaunas Botanical Garden and in the parks of Verkiu (Vilnius) and Belvederis estates in Lithuania exhibit laciniated, deformed leaves and yellowing of the veins. These trees had been planted in the parks, for the beauty of their "cut-out-elongated leaves", as a new variety of linden. However, use of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), primed by phytoplasma universal primer pairs to amplify 16S rRNA gene sequences, followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis, revealed that these linden trees were infected by phytoplasma strains belonging to subgroup 16SrI-B and to a new subgroup designated 16SrI-V, in the 'Candidatus Phytoplasma asteris' species of wall-less bacteria. The strains were further characterized by ribosomal protein gene sequence analysis. The experimental results have rekindled discussion of the possibility that a prized cultivar displaying unusual morphotype might be an invalid taxon. Is linden with laciniate-leaved branches a valid taxon (botanical variety), or simply a plant that has abnormal leaf morphotype caused by infection with a tiny wall-less bacterium?
41999011|Leaf spot caused by Alternaria alternata is a prevalent disease of Withania somnifera, a high value medicinal plant. The severity of infection is closely related with the progression of the disease. In the present work, various biochemical parameters such as free proline, total chlorophyll, total protein, lipid peroxidation, ion leakage and the activity of some antioxidant enzymes were analyzed to assess the post infectional changes associated with infection. As disease progressed, a decrease of chlorophyll and total protein content was observed. The lowest level of total chlorophyll (16 fold decrease) was observed when the severity of infection was at its peak. A significant increase in free proline content, lipid peroxidation and ion leakage was also observed. Antioxidant enzymes behaved in a differential way. Catalase, ascorbate peroxidase, guaiacol peroxidase and superoxide dismutase specific activities showed a significant increase concomitantly with disease progression. By contrast, glutathione reductase and monodehydroascorbate reductase decreased significantly (2.5 and 6.5 folds, respectively) as disease progressed. Besides Superoxide dismutase, the other antioxidant enzymes analysed did not have a significant correlation with the number of spots/cm leaf area. Although the present study suggests a complex pattern of post infectional changes, the information obtained is useful for a better understanding of host pathogen interaction.
41998127|"Brittle leaf disease of date palms", known in southern Tunisia since the 1960s, has assumed epidemic proportions from 1986 on. The symptoms are associated with manganese deficiency and the presence of a small double stranded RNA of host origin. Even though no pathogen has yet been found, some observations do not fit a purely abiotic cause of the disease. In particular, affected trees seem to cluster into foci, and mineral analyses show no significant differences between the soils of affected and unaffected trees. Further work is required to understand the etiology of the disease.
41998518|A duplex RT-PCR was standardized for the simultaneous detection of Onion yellow dwarf virus (OYDV) and Garlic latent virus (GarLV), a synonym for the recognized species Shallot latent virus (SLV) in garlic, which allowed the successful identification of both viruses in cloves and leaves. The titre of OYDV was higher both in leaves and bulbs compared with SLV. In the leaves, OYDV was detected up to an RNA dilution of 10 while SLV could be detected up to an RNA dilution of 10. Duplex RT-PCR detected both viruses in ten commercial garlic cultivars. The procedure is costeffective and sensitive and will be highly useful in quarantine and certification programmes.
41998933|Intact plants and in vitro cultures of four pea (Pisum sativum) cultivars (Adept, Herold, Komet, Menhir) that vary in their degree of susceptibility/resistance to Fusarium solani were inoculated with this pathogen or treated with its culture filtrates to compare their reaction patterns at the phenotypic, histological and biochemical level. Changes in activity of three peroxidase forms, cytosolic, membrane-and ion-bound, and in peroxidase isozymes were studied in detail. In addition, the length and weight of roots of regenerating plantlets in expiant cultures as well as symptom expression in intact plants were assessed. In planta, screening of the four pea cultivars revealed the highest degree of resistance in cv. Adept, and the highest level of susceptibility in cv. Menhir both to F. solani and its metabolites. Regarding in vitro cultures, the microfiltrated filtrates had stronger inhibitive effect than the autoclaved ones. In terms of peroxidase activity, the only significant difference among cultivars was found in its ionic form, for the most resistant cv. Adept versus the most sensitive cv. Menhir. Minor changes in activity of cytosolic peroxidase were noted in planta and in vitro, while the membrane-and ion-bound peroxidase significantly decreased in expiants. The aim of our study was to compare reaction of pea plants and explants and to verify whether the application of fungal filtrates is able to mimic the F. solani pathogenesis. Several responses of expiants to filtrates were found to be analogous to the plant reaction to pathogen infection both at morphological and physiological levels. These can be utilized in an early in vitro screening for plant tissue resistance to F. solani.
23721589|In a survey of apple virus diseases in China, typical symptoms of Apple dimple fruit viroid (ADFVD) infections were observed. The presence of ADFVD in samples of symptomatic fruits and symptomless leaves from different apple trees was confirmed by RT-PCR, sequencing and dot blot hybridization. Sequence alignment and RNA structure analysis showed that, compared with isolates and variants reported in Italy, there were two nucleotide variations and an alteration of the secondary structure in the ADFVd variants we isolated. Phylogenetic analysis revealed the four variants from China clustered in a group separate from previously reported isolates and variants from Italy and Japan. This is the first report of the identification and molecular characterization of ADFVd in China.
41998872|Isometric virus particles with a diameter of approximately 30 nm were observed in the Wielkopolska region of Poland in greenhouse-grown tomato plants with necrotic foliar symptoms. The viral genome consisted of a single-stranded RNA molecule. RT-PCR with random hexamer primers and sequencing of DNA products revealed 91% identity to Olive latent virus 1 (OLV-1). Further RT-PCR with virus-specific primers confirmed the presence of OLV-1 in symptomatic plants. The host range and the sequence of the coat protein gene of the new OLV-1 isolate, designated CM1, was determined. Differences were observed in biological and genetic traits between the Polish isolate CM1 and other OLV-1 isolates. To our knowledge, this is the first report of OLV-1 in tomato plants.
41998256|The category of Candidatus was introduced to allow unambiguous reference to organisms that could not be cultivated in vitro. In plant pathology, a major impact of this novel taxonomic concept was to enable the classification of the diverse group of organisms, morphologically similar to the mycoplasmas, known by the trivial name of phytoplasmas. These plant pathogens were originally named according to the disease they caused. Later, extensive sequence analysis of the ribosomal RNA genes allowed the development of an evolutionbased classification and the grouping of the phytoplasmas into phylogenetically distinct clades. Unfortunately, the phytopathological and the phylogenetic classification did not match and had striking contradictions. With the adoption of the category Candidatus, the description of the genus 'Ca. Phytoplasma' and several 'Ca. Phytoplasma' species, the scientific community is now attempting to provide a classification that takes into account both the phylogenetic and the biological/ecological characteristics of the organisms. Here we provide an outline of the characteristics and composition of the genus 'Ca. Phytoplasma'.
23721743|The occurrence of crown gall disease in Tunisian vineyards was investigated. Crown gall symptoms were detected in several vineyards in the northern and central regions of the country but with low incidence (9.72%). Different Agrobacterium species were isolated and characterized. Morphological characterization, molecular assays and pathogenicity tests were conducted to identify Agrobacterium isolates. A set of 380 isolates with morphologically Agrobacterium-like colonies on MG medium was obtained from different parts of diseased vines and rhizospheric soils. Eighty out of them were chosen for detailed study in comparison with Agrobacterium reference strains obtained from the French CFBP collection. Biovars 1, 2 and 3 were first distinguished on the three semi-selective media 1A, 2E and 3AN respectively. Further, the isolates were differentiated by BOX-PCR analysis. It revealed that 11 Tunisian isolates could be identified as A. tumefaciens and four as A. vitis. The assignment of six A. tumefaciens strains to genomic species was achieved using the housekeeping gene recA. Results confirmed those of the BOX-PCR analysis and showed 99% similarity of three strains with the A. tumefaciens G4 strain (CFBP7128) and a comparable similarity (99%) of two strains was recorded with the A. tumefaciens G4 strain (CFBP7126). A non pathogenic strain was identified as A. tumefaciens G7 with 98% similarity to CFBP 7129. Two strains were confirmed to belong to the A. vitis by analysis of their 16S genes. The virulence and tumourigenicity of these Tunisian isolates were analyzed by vir-PCR and pathogenicity tests on carrot disks and indicator plants. The study revealed a relatively low percentage of highly tumourigenic isolates in Tunisia. Only 16% of the 300 isolates tested on carrot disks proved to be highly tumourigenic (++) and to form typical tumours around the cambium of carrot slices, whereas 36%, induced not clearly discernible tumours (+). The rest of the strains (48%) were negative (-). Of the 80 isolates tested on indicator plants, only two elicited tumours on tomato and tobacco plants. The vir-PCR test of 10 strains revealed the pathogenicity of five of them.
41997924|Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of leaf discs of N. benthamiana and N. occidentalis with constructs containing the coat protein (CP) genes of grapevine virus A (GVA) or grapevine virus A (GVB), produced several lines of transgenic plants. Some of the transformant lines (GVAcp+ and GVBcp+) growing on a selective kanamycin-containing medium were assayed in R generation for the expression of transgenic mRNAs and coat proteins. Some of the plants that hybridized specific digoxigenin-labeled riboprobes to both viruses, contained detectable amounts of viral CP as shown by Western blot analysis, whereas others did not. The behaviour of R seedlings following challenge inoculation with homologous viruses at a concentration of 1 g ml was monitored by TAS-ELISA up to 18 days post inoculation. Various levels of resistance to both viruses were observed, as expressed by reduction of virus accumulation. Some of the GVAcp-i-lines also showed a 3-4 day delay in symptom appearance. Piante transgeniche di N. benthamiana e N. occidentalis sono state prodotte tramite la trasformazione genetica di dischi fogliari, mediata da Agrobacterium tumefaciens, con costrutti contenenti le protine capsidiche, rispettivamente, di GVA e GVB. Alcune delle linee trasformate selezionate su kanamicina sono state saggiate, nella generazione R, per la espressione in vivo dell'RNA trascritto dal transgene e la produzione di proteina capsidica. I semenzali delle linee che ibridavano le specifiche ribosonde marcate con digoxigenina potevano esprimere oppure no quantit di proteina transgenica individuabile in Western blot. La risposta alla inoculazione di sfida, effettuata sui semenzali della generazione R con virus omologo alla concentrazione di 1 g ml,  stata seguita con il saggio ELISA fino al 18 giorno successivo alla inoculazione.  stato osservato un grado variabile di resistenza alla infezione virale fra le linee poich, nella maggior parte di esse, una sostanziale riduzione della accumulazione di virus corrispondeva ad una diversa percentuale di espressione dei sintomi.
41998183|The presence and colonisation step of apple proliferation phytoplasma in recovered, symptomatic and never symptomatic apple trees were studied. Using serological and molecular techniques, it was demonstrated that recovered plants maintain infectivity in their roots while they lose phytoplasmas from shoots and leaves; in contrast, apple proliferation symptomatic trees are completely colonised. Several plants that showed no apple proliferation symptoms during twelve years of observation were found to be infected in their roots. Graft transmission experiments with apple proliferation phytoplasma, using both roots and buds collected from donor recovered and symptomatic trees, confirmed the results obtained by the analyses. The graft-inoculated plants did not recover and symptom severity was not influenced by the source of inoculum. To determine the health status of the apple trees as regards apple proliferation the roots must be tested.
41998387|Symptoms of virus and viroid infections have been observed during the last ten years in stone fruit crops, however, no relative incidences of virus and viroid diseases have been reported on stone fruit crops in western Anatolia, Turkey. Large-scale surveys were conducted from June to August between the years 2004 and 2006 in the main stone fruit growing orchards and mother blocks of western Anatolia to determine the seven most important virus and two important viroid affecting Prunus species. The results of serological (ELISA) and molecular (PCR and tissue-printing molecular hybridization) tests demonstrated the occurrence of Plum pox virus (PPV), Prune dwarf virus (PDV), Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV), Apple chlorotic leaf spot virus (ACLSV), Apple mosaic virus (ApMV), Apricot latent virus (ApLV), Plum bark necrosis stem pitting-associated virus (PBNSPaV), Peach latent mosaic viroid (PLMVd), and Hop stunt viroid (HSVd) in tested 1732 specimens of stone fruits. The overall infection level with these graft-transmissible agents was 30%. The results showed that PDV is predominant in stone fruit crops. To our knowledge, PBNSPaV was reported for the first time in western Anatolia. The results obtained in this study illustrate a need for certification or clean stock program to prevent the occurrence and the spread of graft transmissible agents in western Anatolia.
23721537|The main areas of field-grown cucurbit production in Panama were surveyed for the occurrence and distribution of viruses in the growing seasons of 2006 and 2008. Notably, in 2006 only Melon necrotic spot virus (MNSV) was detected, while Papaya ringspot virus (PRSV) was the most frequent in 2008 in terms of number of fields and samples analysed, followed by Zucchini yellow mosaic virus (ZYMV), Watermelon mosaic virus (WMV) and MNSV. Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV), Squash mosaic virus (SqMV), Cucumber green mottle mosaic virus (CGMMV), Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV), Cucumber leaf spot virus (CLSV), Cucurbit yellow stunting disorder virus (CYSDV), Cucurbit aphid-borne yellows virus (CABYV), Beet pseudo-yellows virus (BPYV), Beet yellows virus (BYV), and Cucumber vein yellowing virus (CVYV) were not detected. Single and double (PRSV+WMV; PRSV+ZYMV; ZYMV+MNSV) infections were detected in 60% and 40% of the samples tested, respectively. The occurrence and distribution of each virus varied according to the province and cucurbit species.
24331974|The fungal feeding nematode Aphelenchus avenae (APH) feeds on different species of fungi including Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. vasinfectum (FOV) that causes wilt in cotton. The objective of this study was to assess the interactions of FOV and APH on Bt cotton and its isogenic counterpart (isoline) under greenhouse conditions. The treatments consisted of three levels, where Bt cotton, isoline and HART 89M were inoculated with: (i) APH alone; (ii) FOV alone and (iii) APH+FOV. Vascular discoloration, plant height, number of nodes, number of bolls, fresh shoot and root weight were recorded 180 days after planting (dap). Foliar symptoms were recorded throughout the growing season, and ELISA was used to determine the presence of Bt protein in soil and roots at 180 dap. Whereas no Bt protein was detected in roots and soil of HART 89M and isoline, it was found in Bt cotton. The isoline was more susceptible to FOV and APH + FOV than Bt cotton and HART 89M. FOV and APH + FOV caused a reduction in plant height, number of nodes, number of bolls, fresh shoot and root weight but the decrease was greater in the FOV treatment. There was also a higher reduction of growth parameters in the FOV treatment than in APH. The number of nematodes in the APH + FOV treatment of Bt cotton and isoline were not significantly different. The isoline was more susceptible than HART 89M to FOV.
41997989|Proteins inhibiting fungal endo-polygalacturonase (PGIP) are constitutively expressed and localized on cell walls of most plant species. Induction of pgip transcripts following pathogen infection would demonstrate a role of PGIP in active plant defence mechanisms. We investigated pgip expression in hypocotyls of soybean seedlings (cvs 'Sapporo' and 'Kure') infected with the fungal pathogens Diaporthe phaseolorum var. caulivora, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum and an avirulent (race 1) and virulent (race 20) races of Phytophthora sojae. Two pgip transcripts were transiently expressed in all types of interaction with similar timing and maximum accumulation at 16-24 h after infection. However, soybean seedlings of both cvs infected with the virulent race 20 of P. sojae showed higher levels of pgip expression than seedlings infected with the avirulent race 1. A delay of pgip accumulation was observed when plants were inoculated with zoospores in place of mycelium of P. sojae. The presence of endo-polygalacturonase (endo-PG) in infected tissue was monitored both by immunological detection and by determining PG activity. PG was detected only in soybean seedlings infected with S. sclerotiorum and not in those infected with D. phaseolorum var. caulivora or P. sojae. The apparent inability in vivo of the virulent and avirulent races of P. sojae to produce PG suggests that PG-PGIP interaction is not required for the resistance response of soybean against this pathogen.
41999003|In summer 2008, symptoms resembling those of a virus disease, i.e. chlorotic veins, deformation of the leaves and fruits, albinism and browning, were observed in chile pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) fields at Yurcuaro (Michoacn, Mxico). However, ELISA tests were negative for the viruses most commonly associated with this crop. Based on these results, and knowing that in the state of Sinaloa (Mxico), Candidatus Liberibacter solanacearum (Ca.L.s.) was detected in chile plants showing shortened internodes, apical chlorosis and symptoms similar to those of "yellow psillid" in potato, it was thought that the symptoms of chile in Yurcuaro could be induced by this bacterium. In this study the etiology of the variegation of chile was determinated. Symptomatic plants were collected in the Yurcuaro region in order to detect in leaves and seeds the possible causal agent by PCR and transmission electron microscopy, and to transmit the pathogen by grafting, Bactericera cockerelli, and through seed. In leaf tissue and seed of affected plants, Ca L.s. was detected by PCR, using primers OA2 and OI2c. The bacterium was also detected in thin sectioned phloem cells of affected leaves. Disease symptoms were reproduced in plants grafted with infected tissue and in those exposed to adults of B. cockerelli collected from diseased plants. The evidence obtained indicates that the variegation of chile pepper in Yurcuaro is induced by Ca.L.s.
41997904|The release of active oxygen (AO) species as a consequence of lipoxygenase (LOX) activity was observed in callus cell-free homogenates of two melon cvs, 'Retato degli Ortolani' and 'Jerac', respectively susceptible and resistant to Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. melonis race 0, treated with hyphal wall components (HWCs) of race 0 and race 1,2. LOX activity and generation were found in 'Jerac' homogenates combined with HWCs of race 0 or with arachidonic and linoleic fatty acids, but not in compatible combinations between 'Jerac' with race 1,2 or between 'Retato' and each of the races. LOX activity and HO production were promoted on soybean LOX by the elicitor of race 0 only. It is suggested that the relative content of LOX in the plant and unsaturated fatty acids in the fungus could play a role in some melon-F. oxysporum f.sp. melonis incompatible combinations. In omogenati acellulari di callo di due cultivar di melone, "Retato degli Ortolani" e "Jerac", rispettivamente suscettibile e resistente a Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. melonis razza 0, elicitati con estratti di parete (HWCs) di F. oxysporum f.sp. melonis, razza 0 e razza 1,2,  stato osservato il rilascio di specie attive dell'ossigeno Attivit lipossigenasica (LOX) e generazione di sono state riscontrate nell'omogenato di "Jerac" trattato con HWCs della razza 0 o con gli acidi grassi arachidonico e linoleico, ma non nelle combinazioni compatibili tra la cv. "Jerac" e la razza 1,2 e tra la cv. "Retato" ed entrambe le razze. Attivit LOX e produzione di HO sono state promosse in LOX di soia solo da HWCs della razza 0. Si suggerisce che il contenuto in LOX della pianta e in acidi grassi del fungo giochino un rulo in alcune combinazioni incompatibili Fusarium-melone.
41998882|The interactions network for Integrated Pest Management (IPM) consists of five major elements: crop plants (species and cultivars), pest populations, environment (climate, soil, habitat), consumers and economy. Of special importance in this context is the economypest population interaction with aspects such as the implementation and cost-benefit relationship of pest control strategies. The challenges for crop protection in targeted IPM addresses aspects such as globalisation, climate change, reinforced plant protection policies, consumer demands for safe food and reduction of risks to human health and environment. It has become increasingly difficult for growers to control crop diseases. Genetic resistance of crop plants towards diseases has been in many cases short-lived and GMOs have only limited success for disease control and acceptability. With more intensive cropping, new diseases, new races and more aggressive pathotypes of diseases may arise. All these changes require chemical control measures to prevent economic disaster, since reliance on genetic resistance, biological control and cultural techniques have been insufficient. Intensive use of chemical control measures has in turn led to its own challenges, including resistance to pesticides. The sustainable use of pesticides to prolong their effectiveness and usefulness to growers is key, and the implementation of resistance management strategies an essential part of this.
41998593|New Mexico onion fields face reduced plant stand due to killing of seedlings for autumn-sown crop due to Fusarium basal rot (FBR). The goal of this study was to screen FBR-resistant and FBR-susceptible seedlings of onion entries using multiple Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cepae (FOC) isolates collected from onion production fields in New Mexico. Twenty seeds from eight onion entries each were placed on a moist paper towel inside a Petri plate with a 1 cm piece of mycelial plug from one FOC isolate. A total of 136 combinations of FOC isolates and onion entries were evaluated at 25C for 20 days for two years and disease incidence was calculated. An analysis of variation demonstrated a significant interaction between FOC isolate and onion entry for FBR incidence. Onion entries 'NuMex Chaco' and 'NuMex Crispy' produced the greatest spread in FBR incidence values for the FOC isolates tested. FOC isolate 'CSC 515' was the best FOC isolate for future screenings based upon its high mean and variation of FBR incidence.
41998767|Downy mildew caused by Plasmopara viticola is one of the most serious diseases affecting grapevine worldwide, and can significantly affect crop quality and quantity. In organic viticulture, downy mildew control is mainly based on copper compounds, which are toxic to organisms in the soil. For this reason, restrictions concerning the maximum amount of copper that organic growers can apply per hectare have been enacted in several countries. We have developed a warning model and a decision-making procedure to help organic grapevine growers optimize their use of copper against downy mildew. This system is based on treating vines with a variable rate of copper when there is an immediate risk of infection and the vegetation is not sufficiently protected by previous treatments. In 2007, the warning model and the decision-making procedure were tested in two vineyards in northern Italy and compared with the local common practice and an untreated control. The treatment timings and copper application rates recommended by the system resulted in control of downy mildew equivalent to that associated with the common practice, but with a considerable reduction in the total amount of copper applied.
41998389|In 2005 a survey was conducted in the main citrusgrowing areas of Epirus. Commercial groves and nurseries were inspected for symptoms of virus and viruslike diseases and a total of 123 samples were collected. Molecular hybridisation was used to test for Citrus tristeza virus (CTV), Citrus psorosis virus (CPsV), Citrus infectious variegation virus (CW), Citrus exocortis viroid (CEVd) and Hop stunt viroid (HSVd). Although the results are from a low number of samples, they give a significant insight into the sanitary conditions of the Greek citrus industry, disclosing the presence of CTV mild strains in the North-western area.
41997866|A strain of potato M carlavirus (PVM-To) was isolated in Apulia (Southern Italy) from tomato plants, in which it was always found in mixed infections with cucumber mosaic cucumovirus (CMV) or potato Y potyvirus (PVY). PVM-To alone induced no symptoms in tomato but aggravated the symptoms induced by PVY. The sequence of the 3' end of PVM-To RNA showed the presence of two putative ORFs sharing 97 and 91% aminoacid sequence identity, respectively, with the 34K (coat) and 12K (putative nucleotide-binding) proteins of PVM. This appears to be the first record of natural infections of PVM in tomato. Infezioni di un isolato del virus M della patata (PVM-To) sono state riscontrate per la prima volta in natura su piante di pomodoro coltivate in Puglia. Su questa specie l'infezione di PVM-To  asintomatica. II virus, tuttavia,  sempre stato trovato in infezioni miste sia con CMV che con ceppi comuni di PVY, dei quali ultimi aggrava notevolmente la sintomatologia. La determinazione della sequenza nucleotidica del termine 3' dell'RNA virale ha mostrato la presenza di due griglie di lettura (ORF) con il 97 e 9 1% di omologia di sequenza con le sequenze aminoacidiche delle protine 34K (proteina capsidica) e 12K (proteina con affinit per i nucleotidi) di PVM.
41998982|Several detection methods were compared, as a guide for the development of the most efficient diagnostic tools for the broad specificity or, specific identification of Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 2 (GLRaV-2) variants. To this aim, comparative trials were carried out using a group of distinctive GLRaV-2 variants, the GLRaV-2-RG strain and a new strain, called GLRaV-2-BD. ELISA detected all GLRaV-2 isolates when the tested samples contained a sufficiently high concentration of the antigen. RT-PCR was more sensitive than ELISA, but did not recognise all the GLRaV-2 sequence variants under investigation. New primer pairs were therefore designed, some of which allowed the simultaneous detection of all isolates, while others were specific to each variant. The universal primer pairs for GLRaV-2, together with RFLP analysis, allowed a rapid identification and characterisation of GLRaV-2 variants with divergent sequences.
41999013|Host range, plaque morphology, thermal inactivation point, genome size and restriction fragment patterns of ten bacteriophage isolates originating from soil, pepper seed and irrigation water collected from five localities in Serbia were studied. The bacteriophage isolates were selected based on their specificity to Xanthomonas euvesicatoria, causal agent of bacterial spot of pepper. The phages had similar plaque morphology, except for two isolates producing a plaque-surrounding halo in culture of X. euvesicatoria strain KFB 189. Four phage isolates were inactivated at 70C and six at 71C. All phages had genome size of approximately 22 kb and were differentiated into four types by their EcoRI and BamHI restriction fragment patterns. Examination of two phages by transmission electron microscopy classified them as A1 morphotype members of the Myoviridae family, order Caudovirales. Although specific to X. euvesicatoria, the phages were differentiated into three groups based on their ability to lyse 59 strains of this bacterium. Adsorption rates and one-step growth curves were determined for each group representative phage isolates.
41997955|A new cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) subgroup based on recent sequence data has been proposed by Palukaitis and Zaitlin (1997) to distinguish between some strains in the former subgroup I. The three subgroups are tentatively named IA, IB and II. Here we describe a simple and rapid procedure based on the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) followed by enzymatic digestion (RFLP) to identify and classify CMV isolates accurately into the three subgroups. Two specific primers that target CMV RNA-2, amplify a DNA fragment of approximately 650 bp which yields three different restriction patterns after digestion with MluI. Each pattern proved specific for CMV strains of each subgroup. This method proved innovative in differentiating CMV strains in subgroups IA, IB and II rather than only in subgroups I and II and may provide a simple way to investigate the dynamics of CMV populations in nature. Gli isolati del virus del mosaico del cetriolo (CMV) vengono distinti in due sottogruppi denominati I e II in base alle caratteristiche sierologiche e biomolecolari. Tuttavia, il sempre maggiore numero di ceppi virali sequenziati ha messo in evidenza che all'interno del sottogruppo I alcuni ceppi differiscono per piu del 7% della loro sequenza nucleotidica da altri dello stesso sottogruppo. Su questa base, Palukaitis e Zaitlin (1997) hanno proposto di suddividere i ceppi del sottogruppo I in IA e IB. Questa ipotesi ha trovato conferma nei risultati di una recente analisi filogenetica (L. Barbarossa, C. La Nave e D. Gallitelli, manoscritto in preparazione). Qui viene descritto un mtodo rpido per assegnare correttamente gli isolati di CMV ad uno dei tre sottogruppi proposti. Impiegando due primers specifici in una reazione di RT-PCR, il metodo prevede l'amplificazione di un frammento di DNA di circa 650 bp dall'RNA-2 del virus che, a seguito di digestione con MluI, produce profili di restrizione caratteristici per i ceppi allocati in ciascuno dei tre sottogruppi. Nei confronti di metodi descritti in precedenza, quello proposto in questa sede risulta innovativo in quanto permette la differenziazione fra ceppi dei sottogruppi IA, IB e II e non soltanto fra quelli dei sottogruppi I e II; per questo motivo, esso pu anche risultare utile per monitorare la dinamica delle popolazioni di CMV in natura.
41998554|In spring 2008, in a nursery located in the Como province (Lombardy, northern Italy) leaf blight symptoms were observed on potted box plants (Buxus sempervirens 'Suffruticosa') followed by a sudden and severe defoliation. Diseased plants, had been imported from a Belgian nursery. These symptoms were suggestive of box blight, a new disease of the genus Buxus. The causal agent was isolated and identified through morphological, cultural and molecular characters as Cylindrocladium buxicola. C. buxicola was reported as a pathogen of the genus Buxus in the 1990s in the UK and New Zealand, and since then has spread throughout northern Europe. To our knowledge this is the first report of C. buxicola in Italy.
41998371|Field symptoms of hazelnut (Corylus avellana L.) decline include the presence of pale foliage as well as rapid wilting of leaves and twigs. Representative strains of Pseudomonas avellanae, the causal agent of this disease, were assessed for the possible presence of DNA sequences identical to the phaseolotoxin argK-tox gene cluster of P. syringae pv. phaseolicola and P. s. pv. actinidiae. Different primers all enabling the detection of PCR products corresponding to different regions of tox or argK genes were used. Cloning and sequencing of PCR products showed that P. avellanae strains have in their genomes DNA sequences identical to the tox gene cluster of P. s. pv. phaseolicola and P. s. pv. actinidiae: a total of about 1,131 bp out of 6,000 bp. Presence of the argK gene was not detected. A possible relationship between presence of the tox gene sequences and the wilting and yellowing symptoms is discussed.
41998058|It has now been nearly 40 years since the first observations by Klement (Klement, 1963) that resistance to bacterial plant pathogens was correlated with a rapid necrotic response induced in artificially inoculated tissue. This response, subsequently termed the hypersensitive response (HR) (Klement et al, 1964), was initially defined as a rapid necrosis observed within 24 h after inoculation of the tissue with a potentially pathogenic, but incompatible, bacterial strain. The response appeared to be part of a syndrome that resulted in localized plant cell death, bacterial localization and bacteriostasis. Two types of incompatible interactions have been identified that are associated with the elicitation of the HR (Klement, 1982). Inoculation of a pathogen of one plant species into another plant species elicited the HR associated with nonhost resistance. The HR could also be elicited when a virulent strain pathogenic to one plant species was introduced into resistant cultivars of that same plant species (race-specific resistance). Although originally controversial, it is now clear that the defense responses associated with hypersensitivity are a primary line of defense to many pathogens, particularly biotrophic pathogens (Goodman and Novacky, 1994; Hutcheson, 1998; Dangl and Jones, 2001; Lam et al, 2001). The response appears to involve protein-mediated recognition of pathogen-derived proteins to initiate several defense responses, including programmed cell death. Cells responding hypersensitively, in turn, signal adjacent cells to accumulate antimicrobial compounds and to initiate the hormonal signaling process associated with systemic acquired resistance. What is most remarkable is that the molecular events occurring during hypersensitivity appear to be very similar to the initiation of innate cellular immunity in mammals and insects (Hutcheson, 1998; Collmer et al, 2000; Staskawicz et al., 2001). Thus, hypersensitivity may represent an ancient form of cellular defense used by eukaryotes in general. For purposes of brevity and simplicity, the discussion below emphasizes the studies on the HR elicited by Pseudomonas syringae strains.
24579141|During visiting different greenhouses in Mahalat (Markazi province, Iran) in 2012-2013, bacterial soft rot symptoms were observed on Opuntia and Haworthia spp. These consisted of small brown to black water-soaked lesions that increased in size with time, heavily damaging the affected plants. After evaluation of the pectolytic activity on a medium containing polygalacturonic acid using two indicators, 17 bacterial isolates were selected and identified as Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum based on phenotypic features and specific PCR amplification using two sets of primers. All tested isolates were pathogenic and caused the same type of symptoms upon artificial inoculation. A hypersensitive reaction was induced in tobacco leaves infiltrated with bacterial suspensions. In a phylogenetic tree constructed with sequences of the housekeeping genes recA and pmrA based on individual and combined data sets the Iranian isolates clustered together with Pc subsp. carotovorum ATCC15713, in two subgroups with high statistical support. Those from Opuntia sp. were in the same cluster separated from the Haworthia strains by strong bootstrap values, indicating that the two selected genes could identify Pectobacterium at the subspecies level and monitor the diversity of Pcc subspecies.
41998822|Onions (Allium cepa L.) grown for seed production in the Kaunas region of Lithuania exhibited mild yellowing of leaves and stems, stunting, phyllody, and proliferation of flowers. RFLP and sequence analysis of PCR-amplified 16S rRNA, ribosomal protein (rp), and secY genes revealed the presence of phytoplasmas belonging to subgroups 16SrI-A (rpI-A) and 16SrI-L (rpl-B, secYI-B). The results indicated that phytoplasma strains in subgroup 16SrI-A (rpI-A) have potential to damage onions in Europe, as well as in North America, and for the first time demonstrated onion as a host for subgroup 16SrI-L. Subgroup 16SrI-L was distinguished based on a composite Hinfi RFLP pattern of 16S rDNA that revealed the presence of two sequence heterogeneous rRNA operons in this subgroup, thus showing the significance of composite RFLP patterns for phytoplasma identification and classification. A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the first base of one Hinfi recognition site (5'-GANTC-3') marked the divergence of major phylogenetic branches, supporting the concept that SNPs provide powerful molecular markers of phytoplasma evolution.
41998051|A reverse transcription nested polymerase chain reaction (RT-n-PCR) was developed and applied to the detection of Arabis mosaic virus (ArMV), Cherry leaf roll virus (CLRV), Olive latent virus-1 (OLV-1), Olive latent virus-2 (OLV-2), Olive latent ringspot virus (OLRSV) and Strawberry latent ringspot virus (SLRV) in naturally infected olive cuttings. The method was more sensitive and reliable than conventional RT-PCR. This increased sensitivity allowed virus detection in samples that were negative to the first round of RT-PCR amplification. Coupled with simple sample preparation from cortical scrapings of olive cuttings, this protocol should be useful in routine testing for olive viruses.
41997978|A search for resistance to Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) within the genus Lycopersicon was made. Resistance to CMV isolates from eastern Spain were found in accessions of the species L. hirsutum (2 accessions), L. chmielewskii (1 accession), L. pimpinellifolium (1 accession) and L. esculentum (3 accessions). When these accessions were assayed against Fny-CMV, a strain more severe than the Spanish field isolates tested before, only L. chmielewskii CHM-47 was resistant; L. hirsutum HIR-25 showed mild symptoms and some plants were not infected. All the other accessions were susceptible, indicating that their resistance was strainspecific. Tolerance to the systemic necrosis induced by Ix-satRNA was not found in nine assayed accessions of L. hirsutum, L. peruvianum, L. pimpinellifolium and L. esculentum. In resistant plants of L. chmielewskii CHM -47 and L. hirsutum HIR-25 no accumulation of either Fny-CMV or LS-CMV was detected by ELISA in inoculated or upper leaves. Nevertheless, when scions of these plants were graft-inoculated with Fny-CMV they became infected. This indicates that the resistance factors in these accessions do not interfere with replication or cell-to-cell movement but, possibly with earlier stages of virus infection.
41998142|Cassava mosaic disease (CMD) caused by cassava begomoviruses is the major constraint to cassava production in Africa. To gain an overview of the identities and distribution of viruses causing the disease, 230 leaf samples and 185 hardwood stem cuttings from major cassava growing countries in sub-Sahara Africa were collected and analyzed. Symptoms of diseases caused by different begomoviruses in cassava were indistinguishable, however, the most distinct and outstanding feature of Uganda variant cassava mosaic virus (UgV) infections was the huge reduction in tuber formation by the infected plants. Symptoms in Nicotiana benthamiana plants infected with an ACMV isolate from Kenya, ACMV-KE, could be distinguished from those induced by an ACMV isolate from Nigeria, ACMV-NG, as the former induced bright yellow blotches on the leaves of infected plants. N. benthamiana plants doubly infected with ACMV and UgV developed the severest symptoms. Serological and molecular analysis of the samples revealed that all three cassava begomoviruses were found in Western Kenya. All samples from the coastal province were infected with EACMV only and no other begomovirus was found in this area. Analysis of samples from other countries showed that ACMV was the only virus found in West Africa, except for EACMV in a few samples from Nigeria, Cameroon and Guinea. UgV was detected in samples from Uganda and Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). The movement of this virus and how it possibly displaces ACMV in cassava is discussed.
24332209|In 2008 and 2009, 66 isolates of Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae were obtained from infected alfalfa leaf tissues collected from various locations of the Kurdistan province of Iran. These strains, together with the Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae reference strain were tested for the presence of the syrP gene and were also phenotypically characterized. According to phenotypic properties, 87% and 13% of the strains belonged to LOPAT group 1a and 1b, respectively. Genetic diversity of all strains was assessed by repetitive sequence-based polymerase chain reaction (rep-PCR) using REP (repetitive extragenic palindromic), ERIC (enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus) and BOX primer sets. Cluster analysis of rep-PCR revealed three groups at a similarity level of 50%. Group 1 of rep-PCR including all strains belongs to LOPAT group 1a, whereas group 2 and 3 comprise strains of LOPAT group 1a and 1b. A specific band corresponding to syrP gene was produced by 84% of the strains belonging to LOPAT group 1a. Strains belonging to LOPAT group 1b produced only non-specific bands.
41998217|Many viruses that infect plants or animals are positive strand RNA viruses; they are classified in 20 families and 88 genera. Because the genes that are involved in replication are essentially conserved among viruses in the genera, these viruses can also be grouped into three large supergroups or superfamilies, although these groupings have no taxonomic connotation. Given the basic similarities among members of each of these supergroups, research data can be compared for understanding the basic mechanisms involved in virus genome replication and, in particular, how the host cell contributes to this process. The use of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae was a breakthrough in these types of studies because systems were developed that have allowed replication in yeast cells of some (+)RNA plant (bromoviruses and tombusviruses) and animal (nodaviruses) viruses. Using yeast cells, many advances have been made in the comprehension of the virus-host interactions that lead to the formation of functional replication complexes and of the involvement in the process of several host genes.
24579127|This paper summarizes the current knowledge of phytoplasma diseases of forest and landscape trees and shrubs, with special reference to molecular and taxonomic aspects of the associated phytoplasmas in the light of the plethora of data generated over the last years. Phytoplasma diseases of such kind of trees and shrubs are of considerable economic and ecological significance throughout the world, either because of the local impact or of their widespread distribution. However, information is still missing on many aspects of some of these diseases, including insect vectors, phytoplasma-vector relationships, phytoplasma-host plant interactions, strain virulence, strain interference, host tolerance, host range, and impact of the infections on the growth and yield of affected plants. In some instances, phytoplasma-infected forest and landscape trees and shrubs can serve as reservoirs of phytoplasmas affecting agricultural crops. Latent phytoplasma infections in some forest and landscape trees and shrubs are common.
41998386|Since 2004, containerized nursery stocks of rosemary and lavender have been affected by a collar and root rot problem in Valencia (Spain). Nurseries had about 70% of affected plants showing lack of vigour, wilt and dieback symptoms. Phytophthora sp. was isolated consistently from symptomatic plants, and eighteen isolates were obtained, ten from lavender and eight from rosemary. The species was identified as P. nicotianae based on morphological and physiological features. Some isolates were identified as atypical representatives of P. nicotianae. Identification of the isolates was confirmed by the sequence of the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region. Both morphological characters and DNA analysis supported the species identification for all the isolates. Pathogenicity tests were carried out and Koch's postulates were fulfilled.
41998886|Plant diseases are considered an important biotic constraint, which leads to significant crop losses worldwide. Integrated disease management (IDM), which combines biological, cultural, physical and chemical control strategies in a holistic way rather than using a single component strategy proved to be more effective and sustainable. In practice and in the majority of cropping systems today, emphasis is still being placed on a single technology. Nevertheless, the use of IDM strategy is gaining momentum, but in developing countries it often lacks the enabling environment for its successful implementation. Success requires appropriate policies in place that cover a wide range of themes such as plant protection, private sector investment, trade and export, food safety, land use, education and awareness, and agriculture extension. Wide adoption of IDM practices is a pre-requisite for achieving impact at the country level. Experience over the last few decades clearly showed that adoption and support for using participatory approaches help farmers improve their overall field management, including disease management, reducing costs and improving production efficiency. In this paper we will shed light on all the elements that require attention to achieve successful IDM adoption at the national level in developing countries.
41998512|A consistently different phenotype was observed in Nicotiana benthamiana and Nicotiana tabacum cv. White Burley plants infected by the Brazilian Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV) isolate Br20 and the two Italian isolates p272 and p105/43.14. Based on the phenotype of experimentally obtained reassortants carrying the small (S) genomic segment of p272 or p105/43.14 and the medium (M) and large (L) segments of Br20, we concluded that the small segment of Br20 is required for eliciting lethal necrosis in N. benthamiana and local necrotic lesions in N. tabacum. To evaluate whether the Br20 nucleocapsid (N) or the non structural (NSs) protein encoded by the S segment were able to cause the distinctive symptoms, either alone or in combination, the three allelic variants (Br20, p272 and p105/43.14) of each gene were transiently expressed in planta through agroinfiltration. All the alleles of the N and NSs proteins accumulated abundantly in infiltrated N. benthamiana and N. tabacum leaves. No specific necrotic reaction was observed in any of the single or combined agro-infiltrations of the Br20 alleles, suggesting that the S-encoded proteins of isolate Br20 are not sufficient to elicit the specific symptomatic response and that the co-involvement of other regions of the genome might be necessary.
41998533|A unified approach to naming bacteria ensures accurate communication among scientists, regulators and the public. Rules for nomenclature, set out in the International Code of Nomenclature of Bacteria (ICNB), ensure that proposals for new names and combinations follow a logical and standardized progression that maintains the integrity of the established-nomenclature while facilitating changes based on scientific mquiry into relationships among organisms. However, these Rules only apply to ranks at the level of subspecies and above and not to lower taxonomic ranks. The pathovar is one infraspecific rank that is widely used in the classification and nomenclature of plant pathogenic bacteria and is often included in legislation to provide statutory control of bacterial plant pathogens. Thus, phytobacteriologists must rely on two discontinuous but, complimentary systems: the Rules set forth in ICNB for naming down to subspecies level, and the Standards in the International Standards for Naming Pathovars of Plant Pathogenic Bacteria to name pathovars. A framework for determining the priority of names is provided by the Approved Lists of Bacterial Names, which gives genus, species and subspecies names and their corresponding type strains, and subsequent lists of validly published names appearing in the International Journal of Systematic and Evolutionary Microbiology. For pathovar names priority is based on the date of valid publication of legitimate names. A list of pathovar names and pathotype strains is maintained by the Committee on the Taxonomy of Plant Pathogenic Bacteria of the International Society of Plant Pathology. To help researchers avoid common pitfalls encountered when developing nomenclature for novel classification systems, this manuscript clarifies several key Rules and Standards. It aims to promote best practice, in that names developed to conform to the ICNB should also consider precedents set by previous nomenclatural designations as per the International Standards for Naming Pathovars of Plant Pathogenic Bacteria, thus ensuring continuity across the nomenclature of all phytopathogenic bacteria.
41992428|The volatile metabolites from the headspace gas of apple fruits, cvs Cortland and Empire, inoculated with water or four different fungi, Botrytis cinerea Pers., Penicillium expansum Link, Mucor piriformis Fischer and Monilinia sp, were profiled using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). A total of 1081 different peaks were detected. The number of compounds that occurred in abundance  10 and relatively consistently in 6 replicates over 3 incubation periods was 34 and 36, in Cortland and Empire, respectively. Of the consistent metabolites in Cortland, 19 were specific to one or more diseases/inoculations, including five that were unique to apples inoculated with different pathogens. In Empire, 15 compounds were specific to one or more diseases/inoculations, including 3 that were unique to single pathogens. In Cortland, dimethyl ether and propanal were specific to Penicillium, while acetic acid methyl ester and styrene were common only to B. cinrea and Monilinia. Similarly, in Empire the compounds 3,4-dimethyl-1-hexene, butanoic acid-2-methyl-pentyl ester, and 2-methyl propyl hexanoate were common only to B. cinerea, M. piriformis and Monilinia, respectively. A factor analysis, considering 29 relatively consistent metabolites for both cultivars, discriminated all the disease/inoculations. The disease/inoculation discriminatory metabolites or groups of these metabolites based on factor models could be used for the early detection of apple diseases in storage. However, for commercial application of the system scale-up studies and validation under practical condition is required.
41998596|The full-length 16S rRNA gene region of a new "Candidatus Liberibacter" strain was PCR-amplified from tubers of potato plants showing zebra chip (ZC) disease symptoms and also from the potato psyllid [Bactericera (= Paratrioza) cockerelli Sulc], the presumptive vector of the ZC disease causal agent. Sequences of the amplicons from ZC diseased potato and potato psyllids were 100% identical but differed from "Ca. L. asiaticus" (Las) and "Ca. L. africanus" (Laf) by 4% and from "Ca. L. americanus" (Lam) by 6.0-6.3%. Neighbor-joining analysis placed the ZC disease-associated sequences in a monophyletic clade consisting of all known "Ca. Liberibacter" spp., positioned in the tree basal to a node shared exclusively by Las and Laf but proximal to a node shared by Lam and all other "Ca. Liberibacter" spp. Here we present evidence for the association between a new "Candidatus Liberibacter" strain and ZC disease in field samples. The relationship of this Liberibacter to the other Liberibacter bacteria detected in psyllids, potato and other solanaceous crops as well as in citrus remains to be determined.
24722463|Blackleg, caused by the Leptosphaeria maculans/L. biglobosa, is one of the most damaging diseases of Brassica spp. Isolates of L. maculans and L. biglobosa were recovered from oilseed rape, cabbage and broccoli in Lithuania. All isolates from cabbage were identified as L. biglobosa, while both fungal species were detected on broccoli and oilseed rape. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis was used to assess the genetic diversity among 68 isolates of L. maculans and L. biglobosa. Cluster analysis divided isolates into two groups of L. maculans and L. biglobosa species. Analysis of molecular variance attributed 57.9% of molecular variance to differences among isolates within the population of L. maculans and 26.6% within the population of L. biglobosa. This is the first study that demonstrates the coexistence of both Leptosphaeria species on B. oleracea in Lithuania. Analysis of molecular variance showed that the populations of Leptosphaeria spp from different host plants were genetically differentiated.
41998936|The influence of the organic compounds tryptic soy broth, cellulose, glucose and chitosan on cucumber damping-off caused by Pythium aphanidermatum and biocontrol efficacy of the biocontrol agents (BCAs) Paenibacillus macerans and P. polymyxa were examined in a seedling emergence bioassay. Results showed that the organic compounds differentially affected both pathogen and BCAs. Tryptic soy broth, glucose and chitosan increased Pythium damping-off of cucumber, compared to the control treatment without organic compounds, whereas cellulose had no effect. Both Paenibacillus species had biocontrol effects against Pythium damping-off compared with the corresponding treatments with P. aphanidermatum alone, but the biocontrol efficacy depended on the type of organic compounds added. Both BCAs counteracted damping-off in treatments with TSB and chitosan. However, P. polymyxa counteracted damping-off in combination with either glucose amendment or without organic compound amendment, while P. macerans increased damping-off in combination with either cellulose amendment or without organic compound amendment. Dampingoff did not correlate with Pythium biomass estimated by ELISA, nor with background microbial communities as examined using biomarker fatty acids.
23721574|Extraction of high quality DNA and RNA from soil is a most challenging step to identify soil organisms due to the presence of a variety of inhibitors and microbial nucleases. In this study, we have developed a simple extraction method for simultaneous purification of DNA and RNA from soil. The isolated nucleic acids were of high quality allowing for sensitive detection of the oomycete Polymyxa betae and Beet necrotic yellow vein virus (BNYVV) by nested-PCR. The vector and BNYVV were detected in all infested soils but only the vector was detected in some apparently non-infested soils or fallow fields. The method may help in the management of sugar beet rhizomania.
41998630|Citrus tristeza virus isolate YC (CTV-YC), a stem pitting-inducing strain, was graft-transmitted to seedlings of Mexican lime [Citrus aurantifolia (Christm.) Swingle], Pineapple sweet orange [C. sinensis (L.) Osbeck] and Arizona Etrog citron 861-SI (C. medica L.). Nodal stem segments from CTV-YC-infected and healthy seedlings of the three species were used as explants for regeneration in vitro. CTV presence reduced significantly the proliferation rate, the vigour and the rooting capacity of regenerated shoots. The most severe effect was observed on Etrog citron, whose regeneration ratio, shoot proliferation and root formation were inhibited to a great extent. CTV infection affected also the survival of transplanted plantlets. In vitro shoot cultures from CTV-infected expiants of sweet orange and Mexican lime were successfully sub-cultured for up to 20-24 months, whereas those from infected Etrog usually survived less than 7 months. CTV could be detected in all sub-cultures, but its titer decreased with time.
41998427|During a search for the causal agent of symptoms of mealybug wilt in Cuban pineapple plants, Pineapple mealybug wilt-associated virus 2 (PMWaV-2) was detected. A reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test was developed to amplify seven ORFs using primers designed on the RNA sequence of a Hawaiian isolate of PMWaV-2. Cuban and the Hawaiian PMWaV-2 isolates shared high sequence homology. Yeast two-hybrid assays showed the homodimeric nature of the 20 kDa protein (p20) and the 22 kDa protein (p22), but not of the 34 kDa coat protein (CP). This is the first report of protein-protein interactions between isolated PMWaV-2 proteins.
23721739|Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata subsp. unguiculata) plants showing mosaic, and other viruslike symptoms, were noticed in May 2009 in a field located in the Alahsa Governorate (eastern Saudi Arabia). Systemic infections were observed on mechanically inoculated V. unguiculata subsp. unguiculata, V. unguiculata subsp. sesquipedalis, and Nicotiana benthamiana plants, while local infections developed on inoculated leaves of Chenopodium quinoa, C. amaranticolor, and N. occidentalis. Latent infections were detected in inoculated Ocimum basilicum and Cajanus cajan. DAS-ELISA from the above plants gave positive reactions with Cowpea aphid-borne mosaic virus (CABMV) antibodies. The virus was transmitted by Aphis craccivora Koch. in a non-persistent manner and by infected cowpea seeds at a rate of ca. 5%. Electron microscopic examination of leaf-dip preparations from symptomatic cowpea leaves revealed flexuous particles, 75012 nm. The virus was also identified molecularly by dot-blot hybridization and RT-PCR assays. The coat protein gene of each of the Saudi virus isolates was partially sequenced and compared with those of 18 CABMV strains from different countries. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the Saudi virus isolates are virtually identical and had the highest nucleotide sequence identity (93.5%) with two CABMV strains from Morocco and one strain from Nigeria, and the lowest identity with two strains from Zimbabwe and a strain from Brazil. The partial nucleotide sequence of only one of these Saudi isolates was deposited in the GenBank under the accession number JQ638520 to represent all other isolates. This is the first report of the presence of CABMV in Saudi Arabia whose strain is denoted CABMV-SA.
41998227|Containers used for transport and warehouse storage of potatoes may be contaminated by Ralstonia solanacearum Yabuucki et al and become sources of inoculum and the means of spreading infection over short, medium and long distances. The materials of which the containers are made could be an important factor influencing the survival of contaminating bacteria. This paper describes the study of survival of R. solanacearum in cold storage at 4C on poplar and oak wood, on high-density polyethylene and on jute sack fabric. Survival was quantitatively assessed on concentrates obtained by washing samples of contaminated materials and centrifuging the washing liquids. The plate count was performed on two semi-selective media, Kelman's and SMSA. Contamination survived on oak for approximately 4 days and on poplar for 17 days. On high density polyethylene survival was zero after 2 days. On jute fabric, the number of surviving bacteria had dropped considerably after 24 hours, but subsequent decrease was moderate and the population was only zero after 78 days.
41998667|The development of plant virology as a science is, almost totally, a 20th century phenomenon. Early papers on plant viruses emphasize pathogenicity and ultra-filterability and report transmission by leafhopper and aphid vectors, and from soil or through seed. Successive advances were largely driven by access to new techniques. For example, biochemical approaches, and local-lesion and serological assays, led to purification and crystallization of virus particles, and their identification as nucleoproteins; electron microscopy and X-ray crystallography revealed their detailed structure. Biological tests revealed mite, nematode, chytrid and plasmodiophorid vectors. Viroids were discovered. Proof of the infectivity of viral RNA and DNA, followed by sequencing of complete viral genomes, allowed their genes and control elements to be defined. Although some viral genomes were monopartite and others multipartite, each typically encoded proteins involved in replication, movement within the plant, particle structure and, commonly, transmission by vectors. The processes involved in vector transmission, viral replication, disease induction and resistance, and the role of gene silencing, were then studied intensively. Genetic variability was analyzed and short-term evolution explored. A soundlybased virus taxonomy was devised and now includes over 70 plant virus genera containing some 800 species. Virus ecological and epidemiological research established patterns of virus spread and aided the development of control measures. These include schemes for producing virus-tested stocks of vegetatively propagated plants, quarantine regulations, application of vectorcontrolling chemicals to crops and use of virus-resistant cultivars that contain conventional or man-made resistance genes. These and other changes in agricultural practices have resulted in substantial increases in crop yields and food security. Since about 1950, results of research on viruses infecting the whole spectrum of host taxa have been integrated to constitute virology, with plant virology contributing many seminal discoveries. The biological phase of plant virology has progressed to molecular biological and molecular genetic phases, and plant viruses have become tools in molecular biology, cell biology and biotechnology.
41998645|Seventyfive monoconidial isolates of Magnaporthe grisea species complex were obtained from rice and some grasses from north Iran during 1997-2005. Thirtyfive isolates were from rice and 40 from crabgrass, foxtail millet, barnyard millet, and some unknown weeds. All these isolates and eight standard mating type tester isolates were analyzed with complementation tests using nitrate non-utilizing (nit) mutants to determine vegetative compatibility groups (VCGs) and genetic relationship between the two groups of isolates. All rice isolates were grouped into four VCGs designated as VCG1, VCG2, VCG3, and VCG4. VCG3 was the most common group and included 14 isolates, whereas the isolates obtained from grasses belonged to three different multimember VCGs, denoted VCG5, VCG6, and VCG7. VCG5 included 29 isolates out of 40 and other two multimember VCGs contained four isolates each. Results showed that although Magnaporthe populations infecting rice and gramineae weeds share a common ancestry, no vegetative compatibility was observed between them. This study also indicated that there is no correlation between field isolates and standard mating type isolates. Thus, determination of VCGs is a useful mean for characterizing genetic diversity within and among all Magnaporthe species from different hosts.
41998425|Field surveys were carried out to assess the sanitary status of stone fruits in Egypt. A total of 716 samples was tested by ELISA for Prunus necrotic ring spot virus (PNRSV), Plum pox virus (PPV), Prune dwarf virus (PDV), Apple chlorotic leaf spot virus (ACLSV) and Apple mosaic virus (ApMV). The viruses most frequently detected were PNRSV (57%) and PPV (41%); PDV and ACLSV were found in 3% of samples and ApMV was not detected. Plum bark necrosis stem pitting-associated virus (PBNSPaV) and Apricot latent virus (ApLV) were detected for the first time in Egypt by using RT-PCR. Of 693 samples tested by tissue-imprint hybridization (TIH), 101 (15%) were found to be infected by either Peach latent mosaic viroid (PLMVd) or Hop stunt viroid (HSVd).
41999010|The aim of this survey was to identify viruses infecting spinach (Spinacia oleracea L.) in the most important spinach-producing areas in Greece. A total of 1074 spinach samples were collected from eleven districts belonging to the prefectures of Thessaloniki, Chalkidiki and Imathia in northern Greece, and Evia in central Greece. Samples were tested by ELISA, mechanical inoculation onto indicator plants and immunoelectron microscopy. Beet western yellows virus (BWYV), Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) and Turnip mosaic virus (TuMV) were identified in 13.5%, 7% and 5.4% of samples, respectively, infected samples being detected in all regions examined. This is the first record of CMV and TuMV infecting spinach in Greece, and the first report of BWYV occurrence in any crop nationwide. Surveys were also conducted to assess the potential reservoir hosts of BWYV, CMV and TuMV in weeds collected from spinach fields. All three viruses were detected among 125 samples tested by ELISA. TuMV prevailed as it occurred in 14.4% of all weed samples.
41998824|Thirty-two strains of Pectobacterium carotovorum ssp. (Pec) were isolated from Chinese cabbage and other vegetables. These strains were subject to morphological observation, biochemical and physiological identification as well as 16S rDNA sequence analysis. All strains except D4, Z1-2, Z2-1, Z2-2 and Z3-2 manifested the same PCR patterns as indicated by amplifying 16S-23S rDNA ITS and ITS-RFLP. The phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rDNA sequences indicated that these five strains that clustered with Pec strain PCI and close to P. betavasculorum and P. wasabiae were distinct from other strains in the Pec groups. However, the whole-cell fatty acid analysis and the biochemical and physiological characteristics suggested that these five strains could still be identified as Pec. In conclusion, our results suggest that these five strains are probably from a new evolutionary taxonomy o Pectobacterium carotovorum ssp.
41998582|Cochliobolus sativus, the causal agent of barley spot blotch disease, is an economically important fungus with a worldwide distribution. The heterogeneity within the nuclear rDNA [internal transcribed spacers (ITS)] of C. sativus isolates was studied using the amplified fragments through inter-retrotransposon amplified polymorphism (IRAP). A total of 173 scorable DNA bands were obtained from 7 primer pairs, and 20 of these (11.5%) were polymorphic. A neighbour-joining diagram, based on Nei's genetic distances, showed that isolates formed three phylogenetic groups, and did not fall into clusters specific to geographical origin or colour of the isolate, which suggests a regional dispersal of C. sativus. The information obtained from this study is crucial for studying genetic variation in this fungus; in addition, IRAP-ITS markers can illustrate other types of polymorphism which can help to clarify the genetic structure of C. sativus isolates.
41998157|The fitness cost of benzothiadiazole (BTH)-induced resistance in bean has been investigated both in terms of seed quality and production, and by examining some physiological parameters, such as photosynthesis and ethylene induction and emission. Although BTH treatment induced 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) oxidase gene transcription, no ethylene emission was detected, unless leaves were detached, thus stimulating senescence. Efficiency of photosystem II was not affected by BTH treatment, nor was seed quality, the electrophoretic patterns of seed proteins extracted from BTH-treated and untreated plant being very similar. Only seed production was slightly lower in BTH-treated plants, due to the lower number of pods per plant; however this difference was not significant. All these data, taken together, indicate that BTH-induced resistance in bean does not incur appreciable fitness costs. Moreover, ACC oxidase gene expression, without ethylene emission, suggests a sort of "ethylene priming" induced by BTH. Thus, BTH and ethylene signalling pathways seem to act synergistically in the establishment of systemic acquired resistance.
41998331|Nine oleander accessions were evaluated for resistance to Pseudomonas savastanoi pv. nerii, causal agent of the oleander knot disease. None of the accessions was resistant when tested with three bacterial strains of different virulence, but they varied significantly in the severity of symptoms induced by these strains. The most susceptible accessions "Dark Salmon" (dark salmon flower) showed deformation of stems, leaves and seed pods and secondary knots on aerial parts, whereas the least susceptible one "White" (white flower), inoculated with the least virulent strain, showed neither localized knots at the inoculation point nor secondary symptoms. In this study an in vitro test, based on prick inoculation of leaf segments, was optimised for use in pathogenicity tests or as an in vitro resistance screening test.
41998968|Methyl bromide (MB) is the major soil fumigant in use worldwide and is highly effective in controlling a variety of soilborne pests, especially in intensive crops. However, due to its role in the depletion of the ozone layer, international agreement has been reached calling for its reduced consumption and complete phasing out by the year 2005 in developed countries. Hence there is a need to develop means of immediately reducing its dosage and consumption and to find alternatives to replace it. One way of reducing MB dosages without reducing its effectiveness in pest control can be achieved by using plastic sheets which are less impermeable to MB, thus delaying its escape to the atmosphere. Reduced dosages can also be achieved by improving technology of application and combining MB with other methods of control. Many potential and existing nonchemical and chemical alternatives to MB are available, but none can totally replace MB under all circumstances. Since MB affects a wide spectrum of pest control, integrated pest management (IPM) approach is called for. IPM aims at integrating all available, effective and environmentally acceptable methods of management, using them only when necessary while considering the environmental, social, economic and legal requirements with every alternative. Combing methods of control has many advantages and frequently results in improved control. Knowledge regarding the alternatives that will be developed has to be disseminated and transferred, and to this end, education and extension tools need to be further developed, in order to ascertain that the new alternatives are appropriately introduced for farmer's use. Il bromuro di metile (MB)  il fumigante maggiormente usato nel mondo ed  altamente efficace nel controllo di molti patogeni del suolo, specialmente di colture intensive. A causa dei suoi effetti negativi sullo strato di ozono, sono stati raggiunti accordi internazionali per ridurne immediatamente il consumo che dovr cessare, nei paesi sviluppati, entro il 2005. Esiste, quindi, la ncessita di sviluppare metodi che ne riducano il dosaggio e di trovare valide alternative. Un modo per ridurre i dosaggi di MB senza diminuirne l'efficacia prevede l'impiego di fogli di plstica, meno permeabili, che ne riducono la dispersione nell'atmosfera. Dosaggi ridotti possono essere raggiunti migliorando le tecnologie di applicazione e combinando 1'MB con altri metodi di difesa. Esistono moite efficaci alternative, chimiche e non chimiche, ma nessuna di esse pu sostituire 1'MB in ogni situazione. Dato che 1'MB agisce su un vasto spettro di patogeni, una valida alternativa potrebbe essere l'approccio integrate alla difesa delle colture (IPM). L'IPM prevede l'integrazione di metodi diversi di difesa, efficaci ed ambientalmente accettabili, intervenendo solo se necessario e tenendo nella debita considerazione gli aspetti ambientali, sociali e legali. L'integrazione di diversi metodi di difesa ha molti vantaggi e frequentemente fornisce ottimi risultati. La conoscenza relativa alle alternative ehe potranno essere sviluppate deve essere diffusa e, per questo scopo, sar necessario sviluppare ulteriori strumenti di educazione e divulgazione al fine di garantir che le nuove stratgie siano appropriatamente introdotte nella buona pratica agrcola da parte degli agricoltori.
41998788|Surveys in grapevine nurseries and in vineyards of Apulia (southern Italy) detected a white bark and wood rot on grapevine propagation material and on standing vines. Mycological analysis and experimental inoculations showed the causal agent to be a Collybia sp. This finding suggests that growers should pay more attention with the sanitary status of grapevine propagation materials.
41998805|Analysis of DNAs from leaves and buds of several sweet cherry trees (Prunus avium) in two different Italian regions with different climates, has revealed the presence of Taphrina wiesneri, in all samples analyzed. The presence of other fungi was only occasional. The presence of T. wiesneri was shown by sequencing segments of rDNA genes amplified by PCR. Analysis of genes coding for the elongation factor-1 (EF1-) and RNA-polymerase II subunit 1 (RPB1), confirmed the result. The T. wiesneri sequences were variants of those reported in data bases. T. wiesneri was not detected in buds of walnut, apricot and sour cherry growing close to the analysed sweet cherry trees. Determination of the relative numbers of T. wiesneri and sweet cherry genomes in samples prepared from the same buds of 4 different trees all gave similar values indicating massive presence of the fungus. However, in situ hybridization experiments on bud sections using a T. wiesneri-specific 18S rDNA probe and stains for fungi, labelled structures not clearly representing hyphae.
41998650|A multiplex PCR assay for the simultaneous detection of three bacterial seed-borne pathogens of tomato was developed. Published primers: (i) CMM-5-CMM-6 for Clavibacter michiganensis pv. michiganensis; (ii) primer 1-primer 2 for Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato; (iii) RST2-RST3 for Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. vesicatoria, were used in the assay. Annealing temperatures were determined by gradient PCR individually for each pathogen and primer concentration ratios were investigated. Sensitivity assays were carried out and compared with single PCR. Temperature of 591C was optimal for annealing. Optimal primer concentrations were determined as 0.36 Mol 1 for C. m. michiganensis, 0.30 Mol 1 for X. a. vesicatoria, and 0.12 Mol 1 for P. s. tomato. Sensitivity assays showed that 3 CFU in 50 1 sterile distilled water, derived from pure cultures of C. m. michiganensis, P. s. tomato and X. a. vesicatoria could reliably be detected by multiplex PCR when applied to pure cultures. The detection limit was determined to be ca. 10 times lower than that of single PCR. Multiplex PCR provided less labor and rapid results for the detection of bacterial pathogens of tomato, but the sensitivity of detection was reduced. Thus, the sensitivity of this technique should be assayed prior to its use in place of single PCR.
41998855|Alternaria brassicae and A. brassicicola are the major leaf pathogens on Brassicaceae throughout the world. Here we report a spatio-temporal survey of naturally occurring isolates of these fungi in the Brazilian neotropics. Both fungi were able to induce similar symptoms in common hosts. The fungus A. brassicicola was more frequently isolated (187/322), being prevalent on the Brassica oleracea complex, whereas A. brassicae was prevalent on the B. rapa complex and weed species. Several new hosts and/or new geographical locations of occurrence in Brazil are reported. The presence of host-specificity in A. brassicae isolates was also investigated with cross-inoculation assays. A representative set of Brassicaceae accessions was inoculated with A. brassicae isolates obtained from distinct combinations of host and geographic origin. No host-specificity was observed for all isolates cross-infected all accessions. The present work is the most extensive survey of these fungal species conducted in the neotropics. Comprehensive information about these pathogens will have epidemiological implications, being useful for implementing effective disease management strategies.
41998670|A dynamic model for Plasmopara viticola primary infections was evaluated by comparing model predictions with disease onset in: (i) 100 vineyards of northern, southern and insular Italy (1995 to 2007); (ii) 42 groups of potted grapevine plants exposed to inoculum (2006 to 2008). The model simulates the development of any oospore cohort during the primary inoculum season, including oospore germination, production and survival of sporangia, release, survival and dispersal of zoospores, and infection and incubation. The model showed high sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy both in vineyards and in potted plants. The true positive and negative proportions were TPP=0.99 and TNP=0.87, respectively. Because of a certain proportion of false positive predictions (FPP=0.13), confidence in prediction of non-infections was higher than in prediction of infections. These wrong predictions occurred early in the season or when oospore inoculum was low, or were triggered by isolated weak rain events. In only one case (a group of potted plants) there was infection when infection was not predicted (FNP=0.005). The model can be considered an accurate and robust predictor of P. viticola oospore infections and could be used to reduce or improve the timing of fungicide sprays.
41998829|After the implementation of a Citrus Variety Improvement Program in Spain, citrus cultivars free of virus and virus-like pathogens became available and cover today more than 70% of the citrus-growing regions of the country. In addition, because of the need to control tristeza, the main rootstock used in commercial plantings in Spain is Carrizo citrange. In spite of these developments, low performing orchards can still be found in certain areas in which tree vigor and fruit production are poor. Infection with viroids may have deleterious effects on the productivity of citrus species grafted on the viroid sensitive Carrizo citrange. Viroid infected trees were indeed found in low performing orchards of 'Clemenules' and 'Afourer/Nadorcor' clementines and 'Ortanique' tangor trees all grafted on Carrizo citrange. Bark scaling symptoms in the Carrizo citrange rootstock were always associated with CEVd infection but CBLVd, HSVd and CDVd were also consistently detected. The presence of viroid-infected and viroid-free trees in these orchards is discussed.
41998862|Symptoms of vein yellows were observed on the leaves of the domestic pear cultivar, Pyrus pyrifolia var. Hengshen, in central Taiwan. A virus with filamentous particles ca 12800 nm in size (isolate VY1) was recovered from one symptomatic leaf and established in Chenopodium quinoa. VY1 was confirmed to cause pear vein yellows by back inoculation. Sequence analysis of the cloned coat protein (CP) gene of VY1 revealed 80.5-86.7% amino acid identity with comparable genes of 19 reported Apple stem pitting virus (ASPV) isolates. A conserved region of 220 amino acids was identified at the C terminal of the CP genes of these 20 viral isolates (3'-CP region). Three German isolates, two Polish pear and apple isolates as well as 13 other ASPV isolates were divided into four groups, A, B, C and D, respectively. Isolates included in each of the groups A, B, or C shared 97.3-100% amino acid identity in the CP gene. Sequence comparisons of CP genes at the inter-group level, showed 74.8-91.2% and 79.4-93.7% nucleotide and amino acid identity, respectively. However, when the nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the 660 nt 3'-CP conserved regions were compared, sequence identity values rose to 81.1-95.5% and 91.8-99.1%, respectively. Using 3'-CP conserved regions for nucleotide and amino acid sequence identity comparison among ASPV isolates provides better demarcating criteria for the taxonomy of ASPV. This is the first report of ASPV causing pear a disease in Taiwan.
41998812|We studied bacterial isolates 15M and 16M from calla lily tubers showing soft rot in commercial plantations in Poland. Colony morphology differed from that of known agents of bacterial soft rot of this plant. The use of Microgen Bacillus ID system allowed to identify both isolates as Paenibacillus polymyxa. This was confirmed by sequence analysis of 16S rRNA gene fragments. The isolates showed pectolytic activity on crystal violet pectate medium and on potato tubers. They caused strong soft rot on calla tubers and leaf petioles already 48 h after inoculation. Re-isolation of bacteria from rotted tissue confirmed their identity with those used for inoculation. This is the first report that P. polymyxa can cause soft rot on calla lily.
41998310|A double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) ca. 19 Kbp in size was obtained from tissue extracts of a fig plant {Ficus carica) with chlorotic mottling and vein clearing of the leaves. Leaf dips showed the presence of filamentous closterovirus-like particles with distinct cross banding and a length of about 1800 nm. No virus was recovered by mechanical inoculation to herbaceous hosts. However, virus aggregates were plentiful in thin-sectioned companion cells and differentiating sieve tubes of symptomatic leaves. Using denatured dsRNA preparations as template, a 620 bp cDNA fragment was amplified by RT-PCR using degenerate primers designed on the phosphate motifs 1 and 2 of the heat shock-protein 70 homologue (HSP70h) of members of the family Closteroviridae. Computer-assisted analysis of the sequenced 620 bp fragment showed it to be part of a closteroviral HSP70h gene having identity at the amino acid level with the comparable gene of different closteroviral species ranging from 34% to 48%. In a phylogenetic tree constructed with the amino acid sequences of part of the HSP70h of several members of the family Closteroviridae, the fig virus grouped with species of the genus Closterovirus. RT-PCR with specific primers designed on the HSP70h sequence detected the virus in 36 of 57 field-grown trees, most of which had mosaic symptoms. The present results show that fig hosts a putative closterovirus species for which the name of Fig leaf mottle-associated virus (FLMaV) is proposed.
24332222|The carrot psyllid Trioza apicalis Frster (Hemiptera: Triozidae) is a serious insect pest of carrot (Daucus carota L.) in northern Europe, where it can cause up to 100% crop loss. Although it was long believed that T. apicalis causes damage to carrot by injection of toxins into the plant, it was recently established that this psyllid is a vector of the new bacterium "Candidatus Liberibacter solanacearum", which severely damages carrot crops. This bacterium is also known to severely affect solanaceous crops and is the causal agent of zebra chip, a new and economically important disease of potato in North and Central America and New Zealand. Symptoms in psyllid-affected carrots include leaf curling, yellowish and purplish discoloration of the leaves, stunted growth of both leaves and roots, and proliferation of secondary roots. These plant symptoms resemble those caused by leafhopper-transmitted phytoplasmas and Spiroplasma citri in carrots. Using PCR assays, a survey of "Ca. L. solanacearum" in carrot crops in Norway determined that the bacterium is widespread in several counties in southeastern and eastern Norway, where most of the carrot crops are grown. Liberibacter infection rate ranged from 33.3 to 100% in carrot plants and from 21.2 to 56.3% in T. apicalis. No phytoplasmas or spiroplasmas were detected in carrot or psyllid samples by PCR. Information from this research will help carrot producers reduce damage caused by "Ca. L. solanacearum" to carrot crops by vigorously monitoring and controlling T. apicalis, its insect vector.
41998552|In European populations of the grapevine powdery mildew fungus Erysiphe necator (formerly Uncinula necator), two genetic groups (A and B or I and III) have been described, but the hypothesized association of them with distinct subpopulations showing different overwintering forms, i.e. quiescent mycelium in buds and cleistothecia, is still debated. A group-specific SCAR primer pair (UnE-UnF) was used for studying extensively the distribution of the two groups of isolates in populations of the pathogen present in 32 vineyards located in southern Italy. In 27 vineyards all the sampled isolates belonged to one of the two groups, while in 5 vineyards both groups were detected. In these cases, group A was generally prevailing until June, while group prevailed from July to October, with only one exception. Observations carried out on representative isolates of the two groups showed no differences in colony growth and germination of conidia at different temperatures and intergroup fertility in sexual crosses.
41992432|A new variant of Apple scar skin viroid (ASSVd) was isolated from Chinese pear with fruit crinkling symptoms. The pear fruit crinkle variant of ASSVd is 333 nucleotides in length and shows 95% identity with ASSVd prototype. It also shows 92% and 98% identity with the viroid variants associated with pear rusty skin disease in China and pear fruit dimple disease in Japan, respectively. This viroid was detected in all fruit crinkle-diseased samples examined. Pear blister canker viroid (PBCVd) was detected in less than 20% of the same diseased samples. The Chinese variant of PBCVd is 315 nucleotides in length and shows 97% identity with PBCVd prototype.
41998377|A PCR-based procedure has been developed to detect Agrobacterium tumefaciens in chrysanthemum and peach plants that had been inoculated in the roots but were symptomless. The procedure was simple and rapid, and discriminated tumorigenic from non-tumorigenic forms of Agrobacterium. It was highly sensitive since the target sequence was detected in spiked samples containing only 105 cfu/g fresh tissue of Agrobacterium. The PCR protocol detected the bacteria in the stems of both plant species while bacteria were not always detected by dilution plating, the current method for detecting A. tumefaciens in plants. The protocol needs further studies using naturally infected plant material, but once tested and validated might be used in laboratories that certify plant propagation material. It could then also be suitable for ecological and epidemiological studies on crown gall. In our work some evidence was obtained that A. tumefaciens may be translocated to the stem of root-inoculated peach plants.
41998570|Control of grapevine virus and phytoplasma diseases is currently based on prophylactic measures and cultural practices. Certification programs aim to avoid the introduction of diseased grapevines into healthy vineyards, and cultural practices aim to reduce the populations of virus vectors to limit virus spread. These approaches however are of limited effectiveness. Additionally, there is no host resistance to viruses in grapevine identified so far. Genetic engineering provides new approaches to develop pathogen-resistant grapevines. Transgenic grapevines expressing virus-derived genes that can confer resistance have been obtained in several laboratories. The viral coat protein gene has been the most commonly used to engineer resistance. More recently, new approaches based on gene silencing, specifically triggering plant defence mechanisms, have opened new ways to engineer pathogen resistance in grapevines. The possibilities, benefits and advantages, but also the risks involved with the introduction of transgenic grapevines in the field, as well as their acceptability, are discussed in this review.
41998950|The serological and genetic variability of Plum pox virus (PPV) isolates from transgenic plum trees expressing the PPV coat protein gene and conventional plums was analyzed. PPV isolates were characterized serologically by TAS-ELISA using PPV-D and PPV-M specific monoclonal antibodies and by molecular typing across three genomic regions as well as RFLP analysis of the 3' terminus of the CP gene. PCR products spanning the (Cter)CP and (Cter)NIb-(Nter) CP regions were sequenced. Sequence information revealed no significant difference between serological and molecular features of PPV isolates from transgenic and conventional plums that were growing together in experimental orchards for 6-8 years. These results show that transgenic plums do not promote the emergence of new PPV variants under field conditions.
41998545|Virus-like symptoms were observed in February 2005 on Double Wave petunias (Petunia  hybrida Hort. Vilm.-Andr.) grown in a greenhouse in northeastern Mississippi. Electron microscope observations of leaf dips from symptomatic plants showed the presence of rodshaped virus-like particles. Infected petunia samples reacted weakly with an immunostrip test to Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV), but not in ELISA using a polyclonal anti-TMV-c commercial kit. The dsRNA patterns from four infected petunias were identical and resembled those of tobamoviruses although they differed slightly in size from the replicative forms of TMV extracted from infected tobacco plants. Purified dsRNAs were used for random-primer cloning of the viral genome. A partial sequence of the viral 3' end showed that the virus is a strain of Turnip vein-clearing virus (TVCV, reported also as Tobacco mosaic virus-crucifer strain) sharing 96% common nucleotides and 98% identical amino acids. To the best of our knowledge, TVCV has not been reported previously either from petunias or from Mississippi in general.
24332207|Tan spot is a destructive foliar disease of wheat caused by the fungal pathogen Pyrenophora tritici-repentis. Recently, tan spot has become a serious problem in the northern parts of Iran, where it causes severe yield losses. The objective of this study was to identify the physiological races of P. tritici-repentis in Iran, and to test isolates from this country for the presence of the toxin-encoding genes ToxA and ToxB. In total, 184 isolates were collected from two provinces, Golestan and Mazandaran, near the Caspian Sea. The virulence of 48 of these isolates was evaluated on four differential wheat genotypes. Race 1 was predominant and represented 90% of the tested isolates, while the remaining 10% were classified as race 2. No other races were identified. ToxA- and ToxB-specific primers were used in a PCR-based analysis to detect the presence of these genes in the Iranian isolates. The ToxA gene was amplified from all of the isolates evaluated, while no amplicon was obtained from any of the isolates with the ToxB-specific primers. The presence of ToxA and absence of ToxB is consistent with the race designation of the isolates. The ToxA sequence from 10 isolates selected, based on geographical origin, was found to be identical, and also shared 100% identity with other ToxA sequences from P. tritici-repentis in GenBank. This is the first study of the race structure of P. tritici-repentis in Iran.
23721529|An extensive survey in okra fields was carried out in September-October 2010 and in April-May 2011 and plants were found to be infected by a virus disease. Okra (Abelmoschus esculentus) is commonly known in India as bhendi. The effect of virus on some plant characteristics was determined. There was significant variation in the above and below ground components between diseased and healthy plants. Diseased plant height was reduced by 24%, the number of fruits by 32%, fruit length by 31%, stem girth by 16%, root length by 50% and fruit malformation was also observed in diseased plants. Bhendi yellow vein mosaic virus (BYVMV) was identified in 86% of all affected samples by a locally produced BYVMV antiserum in DAS-ELISA assays. Transmission studies revealed that the whitefly Bemisia tabaci is associated with the disease. Disease incidence also varied in different growing seasons. The reduction in yield components incurred by virus infection emphasizes its damaging potential on currently grown okra cultivars in western India.
41998952|Yield of Chinese cabbage (Brassica pekinensis) may be limited by the occurrence of the soft rot caused by pectinolytic bacteria. Thirty-nine bacterial isolates associated with soft rot in Chinese cabbage, obtained from northeastern Brazil, were identified as Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum (Pcc) based on biochemical tests and URP-PCR. The variability of all isolates was assessed with reference to disease components, i.e. incubation period (IP), initial severity (ISEV), final severity (FSEV) and area under the disease progress curve (AUDPC), sensitivity to 12 antibiotics and the banding pattern of REP, ERIC and BOX in Rep-PCR. Based on IP, ISEV, FSEV and AUDPC, the isolates were distributed in six similarity groups after cluster analysis. There was significant correlation (P<0.05) between IP and ISEV. Based on the sensitivity to antibiotics, Pcc isolates were distributed in 14 groups. Significant correlations between sensitivity to gentamicin and IP (r = -0.41), as well as between sensitivity to clindamycin and FSEV (r = -0.45) were detected. There was high genetic variability among the 39 isolates based on the molecular markers. A total of 32 similarity groups were formed. No significant correlations were found between the linkage distances of molecular markers and either the disease components or antibiotic sensitivity. Overall, there was high variability in populations of Pcc affecting Chinese cabbage in north-eastern Brazil.
41998467|Genetic diversity among Fusarium verticillioides isolates was analyzed using vegetative compatibility groups (VCGs). Forty-four isolates of F. verticilliodes from stalks and seeds were recovered in maize-producing areas in Iran during 2004-2005. Chlorate-resistant nitrate non-utilizing (nit) mutants were recovered from selected isolates of F. verticillioides and used in complementation (heterokaryon) tests. Vegetative compatibility tests by pairing nit mutants identified 25 VCGs among 44 isolates. Twenty-one isolates belonged to single-member VCGs and the remaining 23 isolates belonged to four multimember VCGs. VCG1 was the largest group and included 17 isolates, whereas the other three multimember VCGs contained two isolates each. It is concluded that natural populations of F. verticillioides in Iran are genetically highly divergent and include isolates representing a potential risk for disease development.
41998595|Three Burkholderia gladioli strains (DISTEF), recovered from Strelitzia reginae, were biochemically and genomically characterized and evaluated as potential candidates for post harvest biocontrol of fungal rots in citrus and apple fruits. Cell and cell-free culture filtrates inhibited in vitro, to a different extent, the growth of Rhodotorula pilimanae, Penicillium digitatum, Penicillium expansum, Botrytis cinrea, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus ochraceus and Alternaria alternata. Conidial germination was also inhibited in liquid culture assays by bacterial cells, culture filtrates and concentrated culture filtrates. All strains completely inhibited or significantly reduced the incidence and severity of diseases caused by P. digitatum and P. expansum to orange, lemon and apple fruits after 4 days incubation at 20C. B. gladioli strain DISTEF-G completely inhibited P. digitatum and P. expansum growth after 9 days incubation. A partial control of green and blue mould was obtained on citrus and apple wounds inoculated with culture filtrates. FAFLP analysis showed clear separation of DISTEF strains of B. gladioli from type strains of B. gladioli and B. cepacia. The results suggest that B. gladioli DISTEF-G would be an interesting microorganism for use as a biocontrol agent.
41998146|The plant defence activator acibenzolar-S-methyl (Bion) was assayed on tomato seedlings for its ability to induce multicomponent defence response against Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis (Cmm). Pretreatment of plants with ASM reduced the severity of the disease as well as the growth of the bacteria in planta. In ASM-treated plants, reduction in disease severity (up to 75%) was correlated with the suppression of bacterial growth (up to 68.2%) during the time course of infection. In plants treated with ASM, activities of antioxidant enzymes such as Superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) were estimated as markers of resistance. The results indicated that ASM treatment led to enhanced activities of SOD and GST in tomato leaves. A slightly increase in SOD and GST activities was also found in Cmm-infected leaves. However, the increase in enzyme activities occurred much more rapidly and was more strongly enhanced in Cmm-infected leaves that were previously treated with ASM. The involvement of both enzymes in ASM mediated resistance in tomato is discussed.
41998584|Lethal yellowing (LY) is the most devastating phytoplasma disease affecting coconut palm (Cocos nucifera) in the Americas. Based on symptoms, different pathogenicity models and factors have been proposed, including hormone unbalance and changes in endogenous cytokinins content. Symptomatology and PCR were used to determine LY phytoplasma presence in coconut palms from Yucatan, Mexico. To determine Z-type and iP-type endogenous cytokinin content, young leaf and primary and secondary root meristem tissue were analyzed by HPLC-ELISA. The content of six cytokinins, three of the Z-type (Z, Z9G, ZR) and three of the iP-type (iP, iP9G and iPR) were determined in nine palms, three of which were healthy, three were in disease stage 2; and three in stage 6. Both cytokinin types decreased drastically compared with healthy controls in stage-2 leaf tissue: 13.3-fold in Z; 11 in Z9G; 17.8 in ZR; 17.7 in iP; 382 in iP9G; and 17.5 in iPR. Decreases in stage-6 leaf tissue were more pronounced, so that Z9G, ZR, iP and iP9G were not detected. Z-type cytokinins decreased also in primary root meristem from affected palms at both stages (346 fold in Z; 3.9 in Z9G; and 6 in ZR), but iP9G increased 7 times in stage-2 tissue and iPR increased 26.45 times in stage-6 tissue. In stage-2, secondary root meristem tissue, Z increased 20.78 times, iP increased 4 times and iPR 14 times. Lethal yellowing clearly affects endogenous Z-type and iP-type cytokinin levels in coconut palm, which may lead to some of the symptoms associated with this disease.
41998364|Serious losses occur in cultivated (Eruca vesicario) and wild (Diplotaxis tenuifolid) rocket varieties infected by Eusarium oxysporum f.sp. raphani in north-western Italy. Forty-four varieties of cultivated and wild rocket were chosen for resistance tests carried out under glass from June 2004 to June 2005, for the evaluation of resistance to Fusarium wilt. Roots of 30-day-old plants were inoculated by dipping in a conidial suspension (10 CFU/ml) of the pathogen. Three trials were conducted using as inoculum strain Fus Rue 9A isolated from a wild rocket variety and strain Fus Rue 13/03, isolated from cultivated rocket; both were strains of Eusarium oxysporum f.sp. raphani. Fus Rue 9A was found to be the more virulent, and the majority of rocket varieties were susceptible or highly susceptible to it. Some rocket varieties showed resistance to Fus Rue 13/03. In an overall disease index evaluation, varieties 7/02, 2/03, 5/03, 6/03, 7/03, 11/03, 12/03, 20/03, 24/03, 6/04, and 13/04 were at least partially resistant. The data obtained indicate that only a few of the rocket varieties available in Italy are resistant to Fusarium wilt. Moreover, differences in the host range of the two strains of F. oxysporum f.sp. raphani used suggest the presence of different races of the pathogen.
41998455|Phytophthora blight or crown blight of peppers, caused by Phytophthora capsici Leonian, is one of the most important diseases of pepper in the eastern Mediterranean region of Turkey. The possibility to reduce disease severity using phosphate-solubilizing bacteria was investigated in growth room and field experiments. The pepper plants, inoculated with the pathogen after pre-inoculation with three phosphate-solubilizing strains o Bacillus megaterium employed alone or in combination, were monitored for growth parameters and disease severity. Inoculation with the selected strains significantly reduced disease severity in field experiments and two strains increased the yield by 36.2 and 47.7% compared to untreated controls. Bacteria were identified by fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) profiling.
41998472|The presence of Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRSV), Prune dwarf virus (PDV) and Apple mosaic virus (ApMV) was monitored throughout 2005 in stone fruit trees by ELISA and tissue printing hybridization. The highest detection rate for all three viruses was obtained in winter with both techniques. Detection was reliable also in spring and early summer, except for ApMV. However, neither technique was able to identify successfully all infected samples in one season. Overall, ELISA was more successful for PNRSV and PDV detection and tissue-printing hybridization for ApMV.
24722459|The effect of cruciferous plant residues (milled seeds of mustard and rapeseed meals) on the colonization of onion (Allium cepa L.) seedling roots by Pantoea ananatis was investigated. These materials incorporated into a peat medium at a dosage of 0.5% (w/v) decreased the colonization of onion seedlings by the pathogenic bacterium. These materials showed also a positive effect on the growth of onion seedlings, increasing fresh plant weight by three to fivefolds. Moreover, the total microorganism population was higher in the peat medium additioned with plant materials than in the control. An increase in the total number of bacteria and actinomycetes was observed, which may have caused a higher suppressiveness of the peat medium towards P. ananatis. On the other hand, the biological active compounds released from crucifers may have inhibited the growth of the bacterium.
23721591|The citrus industry in Iran is based on graft propagation of local and imported cultivars on a limited number of rootstocks such as sour orange, Mexican lime and Bakraee, a local natural hybrid. Infection of the available cultivars with graft-transmissible agents, viroids in particular, may have deleterious effects on the productivity of citrus and, more importantly, limits the choice of rootstocks. Rootstocks other than sour orange and Mexican lime will be needed as a consequence of the introduction and spread of Citrus tristeza virus (CTV) in the country. In the present study, two cv. Sanguinello sweet orange and two cv. Duncan grapefruit trees were selected on the basis of the bark scaling symptoms observed on the trifoliate orange and Troyer citrange rootstocks. Analysis by sPAGE and Northern blot hybridization of nucleic acid preparations of Etrog citrons graft-inoculated with these sources revealed the presence of several viroids: Citrus exocortis viroid (CEVd) and Hop stunt viroid (HSVd), the causal agents of exocortis and cachexia, respectively, as well as Citrus bent leaf viroid (CBLVd), Citrus dwarfing viroid (CDVd) and Citrus bark cracking viroid (CBCVd). These viroids were sequenced and compared with the corresponding reference sequences. To extend these results, samples from different citrus cultivars were collected in the two main citrus growing regions and analyzed for viroids. Of the 49 samples tested, 22 were viroid-positive, witnessing the occurrence of cultivars infected with CEVd, HSVd, CBLVd, CDVd, or CBCVd as mixed infections in the surveyed regions. One sample was also co-infected with the newly described Citrus viroid V (CVd-V).
41997890|Field incidence data of scald (caused by Rhynchosporium secalis) observed at tillering during three barley growing seasons (1990-1992) in Buenos Aires province, were evaluated with respect to environmental influences. The strongest associations between disease incidence and meteorological variables were obtained throughout the period starting on August 10th and ending when 480 degree-days (base temperature: 0C) had been accumulated. After a selection process, the best regression equation was found to be: PI% = -43.5436 + 3.7556 PF + 0.1273 DDMINT, where PF is the precipitation frequency and DDMINT is the total degree days resulting from the daily accumulation of the differences between 10C and minimum temperatures lower than 10C. Both meteorological variables accounted for 83% of the total variance in the disease incidence. This finally selected model was used to make a spatial risk analysis regarding the disease in the Argentine Pampas region. The study showed that severe barley scald epidemics are more likely to occur in the southern part of the region. L'incidenza in campo della rincosporiosi dell'orzo (causata da Rhyncosporium secalis) rilevata a fine accestimento per tre stagioni consecutive (1990-1992) in provincia di Buenos Aires  stata valutata in rapporto a fattori ambientali. La migliore associazione tra l'incidenza della malattia e le variabili meteorologiche era ottenuta a partire dal 10 di Agosto e fino a quando non erano accumulati 480 gradi-giorno (temperatura base: 0C). La migliore equazione di regressione, tra le varie valutate,  stata: PI%=-43.5436 + 3.7556 PF+0.1273 DDMINT, dove PF  la frequenza delle precipitazioni e DDMINT  il totale dei gradi-giorno risultante dalla accumulazione giornaliera delle differenze tra 10C e la temperatura minima pi bassa di 10C. Ambedue queste variabili metereologiche spiegavano 1'83 % della varianza totale delTincidenza della malattia. Questo modello  stato usato per effettuare l'analisi del rischio associato alia malattia nella regione delle Pampas Argentine. Questo studio mostra che epidemie di rincosporiosi sono pi probabili nella parte meridionale della regione.
41997910|The genetic variability of the fungus Mycosphaerella hrassicicola was tested using RAPD markers. We analysed 28 isolates with 17 RAPD primers, generating 176 markers among which we identified 114 polymorphic bands. The cluster analysis revealed the existence of two groups of isolates, one heterogeneous (group II) and the other extremely homogeneous (group I). Most of the isolates in group I exhibited twice as many fragments as the isolates of the heterogeneous group. This difference in fragment number could be due to either diploidy, aneuploidy, heterocaryosis or DNA content. Twenty isolates were in group I thirteen of which had been isolated in Brittany in 1992. Some are probably identical. This suggests that the ringspot epidemic in 1992 was mostly due to group I isolates. Two isolates originating from Brittany behaved as intermediates of both groups. They had the sum of fragments found in both groups. This result suggests that sexual recombinants may occur in the homothallic fungus M. brassicicola. No relationships were observed between the genotypes of the isolates and their pathogenicity, host specificity or geographic origin. La variabilit gentica del fungo Mycosphaerella hrassicicola  stata saggiata mediante l'uso di marker RAPD. Sono stati analizzati 28 isolati con 17 primer RAPD che hanno originato 176 marker tra i quali sono state identifcate 114 bande polimorfiche. L'analisi cluster ha mostrato l'esistenza di due gruppi di isolati, uno eterogeneo (gruppo II) e l'altro estremamente omogeneo (gruppo I). Molti degli isolati apppartenenti al gruppo I hanno mostrato un numero di frammenti doppio rispetto a quello degli isolati del gruppo eterogeneo. Questa differenza nel numero di frammenti potrebbe essere dovuta a diploidia, ad aneuploidia, ad eterocariosi o al contenuto di DNA. 20 isolati appartenevano al gruppo l e 13 di questi sono stati isolati in Bretagna nel 1992; alcuni di essi sono probabilmente identici. Questo suggerisce che l'epidemia di maculatura anulare verificatasi nel 1992 era per la maggior parte causata da isolati appartenenti al gruppo I. Due isolati provenienti dalla Bretagna hanno evidenziato un comportamento intermedio rispetto ai due gruppi mostrando di possedere la somma dei frammenti trovata in entrambi i gruppi. Questo risultato suggerisce come possano esistere ricombinanti sessuali nel fungo omotallico M. brassicicola. Non  stata osservata alcuna correlazione tra il genotipo degli isolati e la loro patogenicit, specificit d'ospite od origine geogrfica.
41999031|"Mal secco", an Italian name meaning "dry disease", is a severe tracheomycotic disease of citrus caused by the mitosporic fungus Phoma tracheiphila (Petri) Kantsch. et Gik. It appeared in 1894 in two Aegean Greek islands, from which it spread almost to the whole Mediterranean basin and the Black Sea. Due to its high susceptibility, lemon is the most damaged citrus species. Disease damage consists of substantial reduction of the quality and quantity of the crop, mainly due to the difficulties of controlling the disease and the replacement of susceptible valuable cultivars by others which are less vulnerable, but have low productivity and scarce fruit quality. Control of mal secco disease has relied on a number of diverse chemical and nonchemical strategies, but is still faced with efficacy problems. Host resistance remains a most desirable goal, but it will not be ultimately achieved until the genetic basis of resistance to P. tracheiphila are not fully elucidated. The present paper reviews the different aspects of citrus mal secco as studied worldwide over almost a century of research, from the first appeareance of the disease in Italy (1918) to date. Milestones and pitfalls about the symptomatology, aetiology, host-parasite relationship, diagnosis, epidemiology, and control are discussed in a historical perspective, emphasizing the advancements in knowledge. Finally, some issues and challenges are highlighted that need to be more comprehensively addressed prior to deployment of effective disease control measures.
23721570|This study encompassed 137 cultures of Diplodia mutila isolated from necrotic tissue of 3- to 20-year-old trees of Fraxinus excelsior with decline symptoms, originating from three geographic regions of Poland differing by climatic conditions. Fungus identification was conducted on the basis of morphological traits of cultures and confirmed by analysis of ribosomal DNA sequences. The structure and genetic variation of D. mutila populations was determined with the use of RAMS markers. Neighbor Joining analysis of ITS sequences of the examined isolates showed the greatest similarity to sequences of D. mutila isolated from F. excelsior and deposited in GenBank. Intra-population variation expressed by Dice coefficient and Shannon index was high and increased along with the shifting of a population's location from mild climate (northern Poland) to more severe climate, characteristic for upland and mountainous areas (southern Poland). The smallest genetic distance was shown by pairs of populations close to one another, inside individual regions. AMOVA showed great share (91%) of genetic variation inside a population, whereas variation was very small between populations (6.4%) and regions (2.6%). Principal component analysis showed grouping of fungus populations in accordance with their geographic location.
41998807|Six isolates of Bacillus spp. (BM1, BM2, BM3, BM4, BM5 and BM6) were evaluated to determine their antagonistic activity towards Fusarium moniliforme in maize seeds. A preliminary survey detected F. moniliforme (Giberella fujikuroi) in all subsamples of maize seeds apparently free from disease. The fungus incidence in the seeds ranged from 26.7% to 61.4%. All Bacillus spp. isolates suppressed the growth of F. moniliforme in vitro and in maize seed trials. The highest disease control in seeds was given by isolate BM2 (79.6%) and the lowest by isolate BM5 (54.2%). In soil trials, the reduction in diseased plants ranged from 65% to 78% and no significant differences (p0,05) were observed among Bacillus spp. isolates in controlling the pathogen. All Bacillus spp. isolates produced chitinase, but isolates BM2 and BM3 had the highest chitinase activity. These results indicate that Bacillus spp. isolates have antagonist activity towards F. moniliforme and have a potential to be used as a biocontrol agent. The possible role of chitinase secreted by Bacillus spp. isolates in the suppression of the fungal infection is discussed.
41998500|The population structure and genotypic diversity of 100 Pyrenophora tritici-repentis isolates originating mainly from the Czech Republic, but also from the Slovak Republic, Russia, Canada, the USA and Argentina, were studied with molecular markers. As an outgroup, eight isolates of Pyrenophora teres f. teres and 7 isolates of P. teres f. maculata were added into the analysis. A total of 115 single monosporic cultures were subjected to molecular marker analysis using the amplified fragment length polymorphism technique (AFLP). When both species of Pyrenophora were analysed with 21 AFLP primer combinations, 664 polymorphic bands were detected. Considering only P. tritici-repentis isolates, 335 polymorphic bands were detected, which corresponds to an average of 16.0 bands per primer combination. UPGMA cluster analysis based on genetic distances clearly distinguished between P. teres and P. tritici-repentis isolates. Isolates of race 4 and isolates collected from non-wheat host plants grouped into two clusters distinct from a main cluster formed by the rest of P tritici-repentis isolates. Analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) showed that 98.1% of genetic variance occurred within local populations and 1.9% was found among populations. The occurrence of sexual reproduction and longdistance dispersal of inoculum could contribute to the occurrence of genetic variability independently of race structure or geographic origin.
41998511|Beet pseudo-yellows virus (BPYV) was previously found to be associated with severe yellowing and chlorosis in field-grown cucurbits in Costa Rica. To determine the prevalence and molecular variability of BPYV in Costa Rica, leaf samples were collected in 2004 and 2005 from symptomatic cucurbit plants growing in geographically distinct cucurbit-growing regions, and weedy plants growing adjacent to production fields. The samples were tested for the presence of BPYV using RT-PCR with virus-specific primers and nucleic acid hybridization probes specific for genes encoding the BPYV minor coat protein, heat shock protein, and polymerase protein. Several isolates were also amplified using primers spanning an insertion region in RNA1 to examine isolate variability. Our results revealed that (1) BPYV in cucurbits is currently limited to an isolated region of the country, (2) genetic variation in the genes examined among the isolates is very low, and (3) BPYV is present in wild cucurbit and other plant species growing adjacent to production fields containing BPYV-positive cucurbits.
41998341|Damping-off disease, caused by Pythium aphanidermatum is a major constraint in the greenhouse crop sector in Oman. Current commercial management practice relies almost exclusively on excessive chemical fungicide inputs. Under commercial conditions solarization and biofumigation (solarization following organic amendment of soil) both reduced P. aphanidermatum inoculum levels in soil relative to untreated controls. Both treatments also reduced the level of damping-off disease in greenhouse seedlings. Biofumigation and solarization both enhanced crop growth as measured by stem height and stem diameter. Effects on pathogen population levels, disease incidence and plant growth were greater during summer growing seasons than during the winter.
41998059|To develop strategies integrated with or alternative to chemicals for controlling pests, weeds and pathogens of vegetables, solarization and semi-solarization were tested in four consecutive years against Verticillium dahliae Kleb, on eggplants and weeds under plastic in the Po Valley, Piedmont, Italy. The temperature required for V. dahliae inactivation as a function of exposure time, and the number of days needed for effective solarization were also investigated. Treatment at 38-45C for various periods were lethal to V. dahliae microsclerotia. The time to attain LD90 was 21, 97, 275, and 324 h respectively at 45, 42, 40, and 38C. Temperatures and times required to kill 90% of the propagules were significantly correlated (R= -0.9437), with a regression curve in which lethal temperature was a natural log function of exposure time. Compared with the control, semi-solarization and solarization increased the soil temperature by 8.1-10.7C and 14.4-16.8C respectively, at 25 cm depth. The laboratory tests suggested that in Piedmont the effective mulching period may be shorter than 45 days. Semi-solarization and solarization reduced Verticillium wilt severity by 35-48% and 89-98%, but their effectiveness was lowered by subsequent deep tillage. Eggplant yield was consistently higher in solarized than in control soil, and intermediate in semisolarized soil. Solarization reduced weeds by 97%, whereas semi-solarization had little or only moderate herbicidal effect.
41998064|The effectiveness of agroinoculation techniques for causing systemic infection by TYLCV in different wild and cultivated Lycopersicon was determined. Rubagroinoculation of leaves, increased the effectiveness of sap-transmission reported previously, but resulted in an erratic and mild infection that did not discriminate among genotypes with different resistance levels. Stem agroinoculation was more effective, and 100% was obtained in the susceptible control. It can be used in breeding programmes as complementary to inoculation using Bemisia tabaci. Both techniques of inoculation provide a precise characterization of the resistance mechanisms in each genotype. Partial resistance to the virus along with resistance to the vector were found in L. hirsutum LA 1777 and L. pimpinellifolium hirsute INRA. The highest levels of virus resistance were observed in three L. chilense accessions (LA 1969, LA 1938, LA 1932). Resistance derived from LA 1932 remained after its introgression into cultivated tomato, giving breeding lines that were highly resistant to TYLCV.
24722470|Stagonospora nodorum blotch (SNB) is a fungal disease of wheat caused by Stagonospora nodorum. The fungus attacks epigeous parts of the plant causing direct damage to kernel with heavy yield losses. This study aimed at evaluating the effect of S. nodorum infection on the electrophoretic protein pattern of durum wheat kernels. The protein pattern of kernels harvested from plants artificially infected in the field and of kernels inoculated in vitro, was defined by SDS-PAGE. Starting from this experimental set, two sub-samples were analysed, the first without further manipulation, the second after an incubation at different time intervals on water agar plates. The results did not disclose any change in the protein pattern of the first sub-sample of kernels whereas a profound alteration of their protein profile occurred after incubation. This result would suggest that albeit the pathogen has the ability to degrade host proteins is unable to express the same ability during field infection.
41998078|Isolates of Cochliobolus sativus (Ito and Kurib) Drechsl. ex Dast. [anamorph, Bipolaris sorokiniana (Sacc. in Sorok.)] that cause common root rot (CRR) symptoms on barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) were collected in 1998 and 1999 from fields in different regions of Syria. Their virulence spectra were determined using 11 barley cultivars. Cultivars exhibited a continuous range of response from very susceptible to moderately resistant but none was immune from the disease. A cluster analysis indicated that the isolates exhibited distinct differential virulence patterns with three groups. Mean disease rating of 4.37 was the separation point between avirulent and virulent reactions. Isolate CRR16 had the highest mean virulence with lowest variance across all cultivars; and thus it was proposed to be considered as a physiological race. To incorporate adequate levels of resistance into future barley cultivars, disease evaluations should be made with Cochliobolus sativus isolates that express the full spectrum of virulence found in Syria.
41998226|A procedure was developed for detecting viroids in citrus cuttings collected in the field and forced to sprout in a growth chamber. Leaves collected 15 days or one month after sprouting were tested in comparison with leaf and bark samples from field-grown source plants. Tests were made by using RT-PCR with primers specific for Citrus exocortis viroid (CEVd), the citrus strain of Hop stunt viroid (HpSVd-cit), Citrus bent leaf viroid (CBLVd), Citrus viroid III (CVd-III), or Citrus viroid IV (CVd-IV). Whereas no evidence was obtained for the presence of CBLVd and CVd-IV were not found whereas HpSVd-cit, CEVd, and CVd-III were detected consistently in forced cuttings even when no positive amplification was obtained from field samples. This method may be a useful in the laboratory detection of citrus viroids.
41998280|The diversity patterns of 30 isolates of the fungal pathogen Macrophomina phaseolina, 15 from Mexico and 15 from other countries were analyzed based on morphological characteristics, pathogenicity on bean seeds and presence or absence of endoglucanase genes. The anastomosis frequencies among all isolates were determined under in vitro conditions and finally, two endoglucanases (egl1 and egl2) were investigated by Southern analysis. No relationship between microsclerotia size and pathogenicity was found. The most aggressive isolates on bean seeds were from Mexico, although they exhibited the lowest microsclerotia sizes and growth rate on in vitro conditions. A low frequency (less than 24%) of successful anastomosis among M. phaseolina isolates was found, while egl1 and egl2 were detected in 29 and 20 isolates, respectively. The results obtained indicate a different virulence between Mexican and non-Mexican isolates, but no clear differences between isolates were found when they were compared based on anastomosis capability or presence/absence of endoglucanase genes. Thus, we suggest that pathogenic specialization of M. phaseolina is related to the geographic origin of the isolates, whereas specialization could not be explained by analyses of pathogenicity genes or anastomosis frequencies.
41999001|Argentinian catharanthus little leaf phytoplasma (ACLL) was found naturally infecting Daucus carota L. (carrot), Catharanthus roseus (LG Don) (periwinkle) and wild Matricaria chamomilla L. (chamomile). All infected plants showed symptoms of yellowing, little leaf and internodes shortening. Flower scape distortion, malformations of umbels and roots were observed in infected carrots and witchesbroom in chamomile. Only periwinkles showed virescence and phyllody. On the basis of RFLP analyses of partial 16S rDNA, ribosomal protein rpl22 and tuf (EF-Tu) genes, ACLL phytoplasma was classified in group 16SrI ('Ca. Phytoplasma asteris'), new subgroup 16SrI-S (rr-rp) tuf-H. All ACLL phytoplasma strains have 16S rRNA interoperon sequence heterogeneity as shown by PCR-RFLP and nucleotide sequence analyses. Phylogenetic analysis using 16S rDNA sequences clustered ACLL phytoplasma strains into a new phylogenetic lineage within group 16SrI.
41998794|Sheath disease of rice is one of the major constraints of rice production in Myanmar. Forty-four isolates of Rhizoctonia solani, 30 isolates of R. oryzae and 29 isolates of R. oryzae-sativae were recoverd from diseased samples collected from three different regions of Myanmar namely, Mandalay, Pyinmana and Hmawbe. Repetitive-element Polymerase Chain Reaction (Rep-PCR) was conducted using the BOXA1R and ERIC2 primers separately and a combined dendrogram was constructed for the isolates on the basis of the different fingerprint patterns generated by each primer. Two types of R. solani AG1, two types of R. oryzae and three types of R. oryzae-sativae were differentiated by rep-PCR amongst the analyzed isolates. The results indicate the presence of genetically diverse populations of R. solani, R. oryzae and R. oryzae-sativae in Myanmar.
41999022|Cherry chlorotic rusty spot (CCRS) is a disease of unknown etiology affecting sweet and sour cherry in Southern Italy. CCRS has constantly been associated with the presence of an unidentified fungus, double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) from mycoviruses of the genera Chrysovirus, Partitivirus and Totivirus and two small circular RNAs (cscRNAs) that may be satellite RNAs of one of the mycoviruses. The similarity of CCRS and Cherry leaf scorch (CLS), a disease caused by the perithecial ascomycete Apiognomonia erythrostoma, is discussed in the light of symptomatology, fungal fructifications, nucleotide sequence analysis of fungal genes, including the 18S rDNA amplified by PCR from infected leaves, and isolated my celia. Comparison of my co viral dsRNAs isolated from plants affected by both diseases further supports the view that CCRS and CLS are closely related. This is the first report showing the presence of CCRSlike my co viral dsRNAs in CLS-infected cherry trees from Spain, indicating that CCRS-associated mycoviruses are more widely spread than though before.
41999036|Pseudomonas corrugata and P. mediterranea are two closely related bacterial species both causal agents of tomato pith necrosis. To screen tomato planting material reliably, a quantitative real-time PCR assay was developed, to detect and/or discriminate both bacterial pathogens in a single tube. So, two species-specific primer/probe sets were designed on the sequences of two DNA fragments amplified by a previously reported specific PCR protocol. TaqMan real-time PCR assays were developed for individual (simplex PCR) and simultaneous (duplex PCR) amplifications. The assays were performed with the SmartCycler TD II System (Cepheid) and the fluorescence from both FAM and Texas Red channels were recorded at the annealing step. Specificity was tested with an extended range of P. corrugata and P. mediterranea strains, with other Pseudomonas spp. and with a number of tomato bacterial pathogens. The detection limit was approximately 10 cells per reaction for both bacteria, and quantification was linear over a six-log range. The duplex real-time PCR assay was validated on tomato plants artificially inoculated by pricking the stem with a strain of each species either separately or together.
41998105|A tombusvirus first isolated in 1991 in Apulia (southern Italy) from pear trees (Pyrus communis L.) showing reduced growth, reddish discolourations and premature shedding of the leaves, was again recovered from symptomatic plants and characterized. Agarose gel analysis of extracts from systemically infected Nicotiana benthamiana plants showed the presence of two major and one minor RNA species with a size compatible with that of genomic RNA and of monomeric and dimeric defective interfering (DI) RNAs of tombusviruses. RNA was extracted from purified virus particles. All these RNA species were cloned, sequenced and shown to have a typical tombusviral structural organization. The most prominent cytopathological feature of N. benthamiana infected cells was the presence of peroxisome-derived multivesicular bodies. In immunodiffusion tests this virus proved to be serologically related with some tombusviruses, the closest being Grapevine Algerian latent virus (GALV), but showed wide molecular differences with all sequenced members of the genus. This virus was successfully transmitted to pear seedlings and rooted cuttings that were still symptomless five months after inoculation. Thus, it was given the provisional name of Pear latent virus (PLV).
41998102|A fragment of the NSM gene of naturally occurring Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV) isolates recovered in Apulia (southern Italy) from different cultivated and wild plant species was amplified by RT-PCR. The resulting 670 bp amplicon was cloned, sequenced and compared with available NSM sequences of other tospoviruses. The primary nucleotide sequence was 94.3 to 100% identical in all the Apulian TSWV isolates and had a 94-99% identity with TSWV-BR01, TSWV-L3, TSWV-JP, TSWV-A and TSWV-D. With other tospoviruses, sequence identity was in the range of 81-83% with Tomato chlorotic spot virus and Chrysanthemum stem necrosis virus and, 74-79% with Groundnut ring spot virus, Zucchini lethal chlorosis virus and Impatiens necrotic spot virus, 53-55% with Iris yellow spot virus, Peanut hud necrosis virus and Watermelon silver mottle virus. The phylogenetic tree showed three primary branches departing from the bulk of all NSM sequences; all the TSWV sequences clustered in two subgroups, denoted -like and D-like, clearly distinct from the other tospoviruses. The inclusion in a group of any of the Apulian isolates of TSWV was apparently not determined by the year, the place or the host from which they were recovered. The -like isolates clustered with TSWV-A, an isolate that was able to overcome host and pathogen-mediated resistance in tomato whereas the remaining six isolates clustered with TSWV-D, an isolate that did not overcome these forms of resistance. A simple and rapid procedure based on RT-PCR followed by enzymatic digestion was developed to identify isolates of the two subgroups.
23721593|Heat therapy, meristem tip culture in vitro and a combination of both techniques were used for obtaining fig (Ficus carica) plants free from some viruses associated with fig mosaic, a disease with a worldwide distribution. Source plants were two field-grown adult fig accessions from a germplasm repository of the University of Bari (Italy) that showed severe and mild symptoms of mosaic, respectively, and two symptomless fig seedlings grown under screen. Adult plants were infected by Fig mosaic virus (FMV), Fig latent virus 1 (FLV-1) and Fig badnavirus 1 (FBV-1). Seedlings were infected by FLV-1 and FBV-1. Progeny of explants subjected to meristem tip culture were still infected by FMV (93.8% elimination). This virus, however, was eradicated (100% sanitation) by shoot tip culture combined with heat therapy, or n vitro heat therapy. High sanitation rates from FLV-1 (81 to 100%) were also registered with all sanitation procedures employed, such as in vitro heat therapy alone (two cycles) or combined with tissue culture. By contrast, the DNA virus FBV-1 resisted all attempts of elimination, a behaviour that confirms indirectly its hypothesized integration in the fig genome.
41998141|Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV) is a serious threat to both horticultural and ornamental crops. Three fresh-market tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) lines were transformed with the nucleoprotein gene of TSWV by Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Primary transformants for each line were analysed for transgene integration and expression. Results showed that inserted transgenic DNA was often rearranged. Progeny of selected primary transformants were obtained by self-pollination and tested for resistance to TSWV. One completely resistant line was identified having a single integration locus with multiple rearranged transgene copies and a true-to-type phenotype. It will be further tested for possible inclusion in breeding programs.
41998024|Current seed health testing is based on standardised methods described by International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) working sheets. Some of these tests are slow, insensitive and labour intensive. Molecular diagnostics offers the potential for sensitive and specific detection of pathogens and for detection of more than one pathogen in a single test by multiplex PCR and/or the use of fluorescent probes or primers. These methods are also suitable for automation and are thus more time and cost-effective than conventional methods. There are a multitude of primer sets designed from sequence characterised amplified regions (SCARS) and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequence data that have been published and developed for identifying plant pathogens. However, only a limited number of these have been developed into seed health tests. This may be partly due to technical difficulties, cost of PCR license and royalties as well as the time and organisation needed for test standardisation. In the near future it is anticipated that improved tests developed from current PCR/probe systems, and from future DNA chip technology, will help to reduce the amount of prophylactic seed treatment and improve management of seed-borne disease.
41998087|The present studies were undertaken to investigate the interaction of the bacterial antagonists Bacillus cereus X16 and B. thuringiensis 55T with Fusarium roseum var. sambucinum, the causal agent of potato dry rot. On wounded potato tubers, both bacilli effectively suppressed the development of Fusarium dry rot. Nevertheless, confrontation of the fungal pathogen with the antagonists on nutrient agar revealed that B. cereus XI6, induced a strong visible inhibition zone but B. thuringiensis 55T did not. Light microscopy of the interaction regions after confrontation with B. cereus X16 on nutrient agar generally showed apparently intact fungal cells with densely stained protoplasm, indicating that the inhibition was due to stasis rather than toxicity. By contrast, in presence of B. thuringiensis, Fusarium cells appeared markedly damaged, with partial to complete cell wall disintegration and disorganization and generally complete loss of protoplasm. These observations suggest that, contrary to our expectations, antibiotic and chitinolytic activities of B. thuringiensis 55T may be highly significant in the parasitism of the pathogen. Confrontation in liquid medium revealed that both bacteria completely inhibited the germination of Fusarium macroconidia and resulted in their destruction. This suggests that, to produce their fungitoxic and hydrolytic effects, the two bacteria should make intimate contact with Fusarium cells.
41998782|Twenty-four improved and local genotypes of cassava (Manihot esculenta) from Togo were screened under controlled conditions for resistance to cassava bacterial blight by stem-inoculation with four highly virulent Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. manihotis strains from different African origins. The local genotypes Nakoko and Tomal59 were most susceptible to the four strains, while most other genotypes, including the reference genotype Ben86052, with susceptible reaction to at least two strains, were resistant to at least one strain. Six genotypes showed a resistant reaction to the four strains, the local genotype Gbazkout and the improved CVTM4 from the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) being the most resistant. Six groups of genotypes with differential reactions to the strains were identified, which allowed the strains to be defined as pathotypes.
41998133|Polygalacturonase, produced by Botrytis fabae in infected faba bean pods, was separated by isoelectric focusing and tested as possible elicitor of the phytoalexins wyerone acid and wyerone. The isoenzyme profile was characterised by multiple forms within a restricted range of isoelectric points (pI). These were indicated as very acidic, acidic and basic. Using liquid isoelectric focusing, polygalacturonase isoenzymes were separated into four different isoenzyme pools. These pools, tested at a range of concentrations, acted as an elicitor of wyerone acid and wyerone in endocarp pod tissues, the former being more prevalent. The level of phytoalexin accumulation varied depending on the enzymatic pool tested. Time course analysis revealed that phytoalexins accumulated at higher levels when lower enzyme doses were used. Each pool of isoenzymes was found to produce dark-brownish lesions similar to those observed from tissues inoculated with the pathogen. The possible dual role of polygalacturonase isoenzymes from B. fabae as putative pathogenicity determinants or defence responses elicitors during broad bean colonisation is discussed.
41998808|In recent years a postharvest disease of kiwifruit caused by Cadophora luteo-olivacea, characterized by a pitting of the skin appearing after 3 or more months of storage, has been reported in most Italian packinghouses. This work reports the disease occurrence in northern Italy over a period of five years and the effects of commercial storage practices and kiwifruit dry matter or mineral composition on disease development. Throughout the experiments, C. luteo-olivacea was identified based on morphology and sequencing the ribosomal region ITS1-5.8S-ITS2. Monitoring of seven packinghouses in 2001-2003, showed that skin pitting occurred when controlled atmosphere (CA) composed of 2% O and 4.5% CO was established within 8 to 12 days from the beginning of storage, while, when CA was established within 25 or more days, C. luteo-olivacea was absent. In 2002, the kiwifruit of 19 orchards were monitored during storage in which CA was established within 8 to 12 days. Before storage, the dry matter (DM), nitrogen, calcium and magnesium content were measured. DM was inversely related to the incidence of C. luteo-olivacea (R = 0.5269) and the nitrogen content was directly related to skin pitting (R = 0.5015). During 2004-2005 and 2005-2006 different batches of kiwifruit, healthy or infected by C. luteo-olivacea, were analysed at the end of their storage. The disease incidence was significantly associated with dry matter (Pearson's correlation coefficient: -0.853) and nitrogen content (0.815). A significantly lower calcium content was registered in some infected compared to healthy batches in 2004-2005. Batches with predisposing factors, such as low DM and high nitrogen content, should be more carefully managed, reducing storage life and avoiding an excessively fast and stressing CA establishment.
41998751|The evolution of the processes of classification, identification and nomenclature of Pseudomonas syringae are described. Originally referring to a pathogenic species of lilac, in the revision of bacterial names in 1980, P. syringae came to represent more than 40 host specific pathogenic populations, as pathovars. DNA-DNA hybridization studies and recent multilocus sequence analyses (MLSA) indicate a 'P. syringae complex' that now encompasses up to ten Pseudomonas species and 60 pathovars of P. syringae. A re-evaluation of the complex using poly-phasic approaches could see the revision of these species and the distribution of pathovars in a number of species or genomospecies. Alternative classifications and nomenclature of these taxa is discussed.
41997948|Results are given of a preliminary research aimed at the molecular investigation of dryness of horse chestnut leaves incited by Guignardia aesculi and environmental pollution. Modifications due to pathology and physiological disorders are characterized. Leaves showing pathologies or a physiological disorder compared to sound leaves were investigated by FTIR Spectroscopy. The spectra showed a weakening of the aromatic domain bands (1650-1500 cm) and intensity inversion of two bands of this domain (1650, 1610 cm) passing from the sound leaves to those affected with a physiological disorder. Moreover in the spectrum of these leaves, the 1300 cm band disappears, the carbonylic esteric band (1730 cm) decreases while the band at 1400 cm 1 is enhanced probably because of partial hydrolysis of the esteric groups. These bands could be a spectroscopic marker of the disease. The results show that FTIR spectroscopy is a promising technique helping to unravel the processes involving the biological macromolecules of plant tissues. Sono riportati i risultati di una indagine a livello molecolare su foglie di ippocastano affette da seccume indotto da awersit fungine ed ambientali e sulla caratterizzazione delle modificazioni patologiche rispetto a quelle fisiologiche. Sono state esaminate foglie affette da seccume dovuto a Guignardia aesculi e da fisiopatia in confronto con foglie sane mediante spettroscopia vibrazionale FTIR. L'analisi comparata degli spettri evidenzia: diminuzione progressiva delle bande del dominio aromatico (1650-1500 cm) passando dalle foglie sane a quelle con patologa fungina e a quelle con fisiopatia; inversione dell'intensit delle bande principali del domino aromatico (1650-1610 cm) passando dalle foglie sane a quelle con fisiopatia, indice di variazioni nella composizione dei gruppi costituenti di questo dominio; scomparsa, nello spettro delle foglie con fisiopatia, di una banda debole a 1300 cm presente invece nello spettro delle foglie sane ed in quelle con patologa; diminuzione dell'intensit della banda carbonilica dei gruppi esterei (1730 cm) nelle foglie con fisiopatie e contemporneo aumento di una banda a 1400 cm, probabilmente per idrolisi parziale dei gruppi esterei. I risultati mostrano che la spettroscopia FTIR pu fornire informazioni utili per la comprensione dei processi biochimici inerenti le macromolecole dei tessuti vegetali.
23721531|In the present study the suppressive capability was assessed of four commercial peat-based growing media against Rhizoctonia solani on Lepidium sativum. For all organic media, 12 parameters were measured including phytotoxicity, enzymatic activities (glucanase, N-acetylglucosaminidase, chitobiosidase, endochitinase and hydrolysis of fluorescein diacetate), microbiological (culturable bacteria, pseudomonads and fungi) and chemical features (pH, EC and total protein). Three out of all media showed a significant disease suppression, while one was very conducive to disease development. Autoclaving growing media largely decreased or eliminated disease suppressiveness, suggesting that microbes play a vital role. In vitro tests showed a reduction in pathogen suppression when filter-sterilized extracts from the growing media were used. Moreover, disease suppressiveness were positively correlated with EC, supporing the hypothesis of a possible role of physical, other than biological factors, in R. solani control. Our results demonstrate that some peat-based growing media could be useful for the control of soil-borne pathogens.
41998461|Walnut orchards of the Lake Van basin (Turkey) were surveyed from June to October 2006 to determine the incidence of viral infections. ELISA and RT-PCR were used to investigate the presence of Cherry leaf roll virus (CLRV) and Plum pox virus (PPV), testing a total of 870 samples collected from traditional seed-grown plantations. Whereas no PPV was detected in any of the samples, CLRV was found for the first time in the surveyed locations with an average incidence of 12.9%. Two viral isolates from Edremit were mechanically transmitted to Chenopodium amaranticolor in which they caused local chlorotic spots followed by development of small leaves and apical necrosis. A 366 bp DNA fragment was amplified by RT-PCR from the noncoding region of RNA-2 of both viral isolates and sequenced. Isolate Edremit-2 was 93-98% identical to the comparable sequences of other isolates for which information is available, whereas isolate Edremit-1 had a lower sequence identity (53-46%). The size of the coat protein subunits of both viral isolates was 52.4 kDa as determined by electrophoresis.
41997941|Thirty-seven strains of Pseudomonas avellanae from northern Greece, northern Italy and two different areas of central Italy were assessed for some morphological and physiological properties. Whole-cell protein profile analysis was performed by means of UPGMA. The occurrence and induction of transparent colonies of P. avellanae sometimes observed on nutrient sucrose agar (NSA) isolation plates, is described. P. avellanae strains showed variability in morphological characteristics, gelatin liquefaction and maximum temperature of growth. Cluster analysis of whole-cell protein profiles indicated that strains from northern Italy differ from those from northern Greece and central Italy and that strains from the provinces of Viterbo and Rome clustered in the same group. All strains were negative in icenucleation activity and accumulation of poly--hydroxybutyrate, and positive in production acid from sucrose. All strains were copper-sensitive. The production of fluorescent pigments on media was influenced by subculture on NSA, and strains from Italy lost this feature after a number of transfers. The existence of populations of the pathogen seems possible. Transparent colonies of P. avellanae were also frequently obtained by incubation for three days at supraoptimal growth temperature, by adding 7% sucrose to the nutrient agar and by subculturing 30 day-old colonies on NSA. Such P. avellanae colony variants were encapsulated and did not induce hypersensitivity in tobacco leaves. Trentasette ceppi di Pseudomonas avellanae ottenuti da quattro differenti aree geografiche (Grecia settentrionale, Italia settentrionale e due differenti aree dell'Italia centrale) sono stati saggiati per alcune caratteristiche morfologiche, biochimiche e fisiologiche. L'analisi dei profili delle proteine cellulari totali  stata effettuata mediante UPGMA. Inoltre, vengono descritte la comparsa, l'ottenimento e le principali caratteristiche di colonie trasparenti di P. avellanae, talvolta osservate sulle piastre d'isolamento (NSA). I ceppi di P. avellanae hanno mostrato variabilit nelle caratteristiche morfologiche, nella capacit di liquefare la gelatina e nella temperatura massima di crescita. La comparazione degli elettroforetogrammi ha evidenziato che i ceppi dell'Italia settentrionale formano un gruppo separato dagli altri e che i ceppi della provincia di Viterbo e Roma erano compresi in un altro. Tutti i ceppi risultavano negativi nell'attivit di nucleazione del ghiaccio, nell'accumulazione di poli--idrossibutirrato e nella produzione di acidit da saccarosio. I ceppi erano sensibili al rame. La produzione di pigmento fluorescente risultava influenzata dal numero di trapianti su NSA e i ceppi isolati in Italia divenivano non fluorescenti dopo alcuni trapianti. L'esistenza di popolazioni del patogeno sembra possibile. Colonie trasparenti sono state ottenute frequentemente mediante incubazione delle colture per tre giorni ad una temperatura di crescita sopraottimale, mediante aggiunta del 7% di saccarosio all'agar nutritivo e dopo trasferimento su NSA di colonie di oltre 30 giorni. Tali varianti di P. avellanae risultavano capsulati e non inducevano ipersensibilit in foglie di tabacco.
41998769|Sooty blotch and flyspeck (SBFS) is a late season disease complex of apple and pear caused by epiphytic fungi that blemish the fruit surface, resulting in economic losses in humid regions worldwide. The SBFS disease complex includes more than 60 species of fungi in eastern North America, but species in many other parts of the world have not been identified. From August to October 2007, SBFS-infested apple fruits were collected from 14 orchards in central and southern Serbia and Montenegro. Colony morphology and sequences of the internally transcribed spacer (ITS) regions were assessed for 92 SBFS isolates and compared to previously identified species. From the four SBFS genera that were found in Serbia and Montenegro - Pseudocercosporella, Schizothyrium, Peltaster and Pseudocercospora - five putative species were identified. Most (72 of 92) isolates were Pseudocercosporella spp. All of these species have also been isolated from infested apples and described in North America or Germany.
41998307|The bacterial pathogens Erwinia carotovora subsp. atroseptica, E. carotovora subsp. carotovora and E. chrysanthemi are responsible for soft rot diseases, affecting plants in the field and/or in storage. Thirty-one strains from Portugal and elsewhere were characterised by classical, fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) and molecular methods (MSP-PCR and BOX-PCR). Ten strains were identified as E. carotovora subsp. atroseptica, 10 as E. carotovora subsp. carotovora, and 11 as E. chrysanthemi by classical methods. Strains of E.c. subsp. carotovora and E. chrysanthemi were phenotypically, chemotaxonomically, and genetically highly variable. E. c. subsp. atroseptica strains isolated from Portuguese fields had low molecular variability, but FAME analysis revealed high phenotypic variability. Fatty acid profiles of the Portuguese strains were compared with 27 E. c. subsp. atroseptica profiles obtained from the Dutch Plant Protection Service (PD) collection. The Portuguese E. c. subsp. atroseptica strains clustered separately from PD E. c. subsp. atroseptica strains. However, the clusters are not distant enough for Portuguese strains to be included in separate subspecies. Therefore, these Portuguese E. carotovora subsp. atroseptica strains may constitute an ecotype occurring in Portugal.
41998625|A dot-blot hybridization protocol using digoxigenin-labelled riboprobes was finalized for the detection of Citrus psorosis virus (CPsV) and Citrus variegation virus (CW). Both viruses were readily identified in different organs of screenhouse-grown and, throughout a 9-month period, in-field-grown citrus plants. With CPsV, strong hybridization signals were obtained by dot blot hybridization from flowers (ovaries) and young leaves and, with CVV, from young leaves and shoots. In tissues prints, CPsV was satisfactorily detected from ovaries and CVV from petioles, ovaries, young leaves and tender shoots. The sensitivity threshold of the assay was determined to be 15 pg of in vitro transcripts for both CPsV and CVV, allowing detection of both viruses even when their titres decreased in plant tissues and ELISA tests failed.
24722549|A sub-lethal dose (50M) of cadmium chloride (CdCl) pre-treatment protected wheat (Triticum aestivum, cv. Sonalika) seedlings against Fusarium oxysporum by antagonizing oxidative stress developed during infection. A reduced level of HO content was observed in case of co-stressed (50 M CdCl pre-treatment followed by Fusarium oxysporum infection) tissues as compared with healthy phenotypes. An elevated concentration of SA as well as DPPH, ABTS free radical scavenging activity was observed in costressed tissues as compared with Fusarium-infected seedlings. In contrast, lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation in co-stressed tissues were comparatively lower when compared with Fusarium-infected seedlings. However, total phenolic and chlorophyll contents were observed to be marginal in Fusarium-infected tissues as compared with co-stressed, untreated control and Cd pre-treated seedlings. Thus, a comparative biochemical assay with relation to the oxidative stress in infected, uninfected and co-stressed tissues suggest the protective nature of a low dose (50 M) of Cd against Fusarium infection in wheat. Hence, a Cd pre-treatment offered resistance to wheat directly and/or indirectly by reducing the oxidative stress developed during Fusarium infection.
41998932|All multicellular organisms suffer from microbial pathogen attacks. Recognition of pathogens is the prerequisite and the first step to trigger defence reactions against them. Therefore, plasma membrane-localized receptors play a major role in detecting pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMP) or endogenous signals released after attack, so called danger-associated molecular patterns (DAMP). The present review will address perception systems used by plants to perceive pathogen attack and initiate efficient defence responses.
41997871|Some molecular properties of two recently described new viruses, Ourmia melon virus (OuMV) and Epirus cherry virus (EpCV), which show similar morphology, have been compared. Both viruses possess three singlestranded RNA species; OuMV RNAs have estimated Mr of about 0.91, 0.35 and 0.32  10, those of EpCV have estimated Mr of 0.89, 0.34 and 0.31  10 respectively. In Northern blot experiments cDNA against OuMV RNAs did not hybridize with EpCV RNAs. Particles of EpCV and OuMV each contain a single coat protein, with estimated Mr of 21 and 25.2 kDa respectively. In immunoblots OuMV and EpCV antisera each reacted with homologous and heterologous antigens. Translation of genomic RNAs in wheat germ extracts or rabbit reticulocyte lysates yielded several polypeptides with M r up to 90 kDa (EpCV) or 92 kDa (OuMV). In the case of OuMV RNAs, one of the translation products was identified, by size and serological reaction, as the coat protein. EpCV and OuMV are distinct viruses, but share a number of properties, and should be considered the first two representatives of a new virus genus. Alcune caratteristiche molecolari di due virus recentemente descritti, Ourmia melon virus (OuMV), ed Epirus cherry virus (EpCV), sono state messe a confronto. Entrambi i virus posseggono tre specie di RNA a singolo filamento, di massa molecolare stimata pari a circa 0,89, 0,34 e 0,31  10 nel caso di EpCV e circa 0,91, 0,35 e 0,32  10 nel caso di OuMV. Un cDNA ottenuto da RNA di OuMV non ha reagito con RNA di EpCV in Northern blot. Le protine del capsidio, estratte dalle particelle virali purifcate, hanno una massa stimata di 21 kDa e 25,2 kDa rispettivamente. In Western blot gli antisieri contro i due virus hanno reagito con entrambe le protine capsidiche. La traduzione in vitro degli RNA in estratti di germe di grano e in lisati di reticulociti di coniglio ha prodotto polipeptidi di massa apparente fino a 90 kDa (EpCV) o 92 kDa (OuMV). Nel caso di OuMV uno dei prodotti di traduzione  stato identificato corne la proteina capsidica, sulla base dlia massa e dlia reazione sierologica. Si conclude che EpCV e OuMV sono virus distinti, ma condividono alcune caratteristiche e possono essere considerad i primi due rappresentanti di un nuovo genere di virus.
24722480|Xylella fastidiosa (Xf) is a xylem-inhabiting, vector-transmitted bacterium and the agent of a variety of diseases in a broad range of plant hosts. A destructive Xf outbreak has recently emerged in some olive groves of the province of Lecce (south-eastern Italy), caused by a strain (called CoDiRO from the Italian for Rapid desiccation complex of olive) of Xf subsp. pauca, a pathogen known to infect coffee and citrus in South America. Taking into account that this is the first confirmed record of the presence of Xf in the European Union (EU) territory and fairing its possible spread from the affected site, the EU has issued the Commission Implementing Decision L 45/29-31 (February 24, 2014), which prohibits the transfer from the province of Lecce of all plant genera and species not listed in the Annex I of the cited Decision. A survey was therefore initiated to verify the health status of a number of ornamental and forestry plants growing mostly in nurseries, but also in public and private gardens, which are or can be naturally exposed to high inoculum pressure. Samples collected from 207 conifers, 105 members of the family Arecaceae, Musaceae and Cycadaceae, and 208 succulent plants (totalling 520) were comparatively examined by serological (DAS-ELISA) and molecular (PCR) methods. None of the tested plant species proved to be infected, providing a strong indication that they may not be susceptible to field infection by the Xf subsp. pauca strain currently present in the province of Lecce.
41997876|Tomato crops in Apulia (southern Italy) with a chlorotic/necrotic disease named necrotic yellows were found to be infected by a strain of alfalfa mosaic virus (AMV), referred to as AMV-Da. AMV-Da alone was responsible for the symptoms, although other viruses were often present as well. AMV-Da was distinct from other AMV isolates recently recorded in Italy. In particular, it was recognised by only one out of the four monoclonals routinely used for AMV identification and it did not give rise to any type of virus particle aggregation in cells of tobacco plants. The sequence of AMVDa coat protein (CP) was deduced and compared with that of the AMV strains 425 and YSMV. The deduced amino acid homology was 96% with AMV-425 and 98% with YSMV. A striking difference from YSMV was the presence of the codon Gln-29 in the AMV-Da CP; this does not occur in strains that induce necrotic responses in inoculated leaves of Samsun NN tobacco. Viene segnalata la presenza di un ceppo necrogenico del virus del mosaico dell'erba medica (AMV) in colture di pomodoro da industria in Puglia. Lo studio di caratterizzazione sinora condotto permette di considerare il virus isolato corne un nuovo ceppo di AMV (AMV-Da) e di identificarlo come agente di una malattia del pomodoro denominata giallume necrotico. Nei confronti di altri isolati italiani del virus, i caratteri distintivi di AMV-Da possono essere sintetizzati in: a) affinit sierologica con uno solo dei quattro anticorpi monoclonali normalmente impiegati nella diagnosi di AMV; b) assenza di aggregati di particelle virali ed in particolare di quelle del tipo 2a o 3 nelle cellule di piante infette.  stata determinata la sequenza nucleotidica della proteina capsidica di AMV-Da che  risultata assai simile (98%) a quella dei ceppi 425 e YSMV di AMV, anche a livello amminoacidico (96% con AMV-425 e 98% con YSMV). particularmente interessante  risultata la presenza di un diffrente residuo amminoacidico in posizione 29 della proteina capsidica di AMV-Da (glutamina) e YSMV (arginina), nonostante entrambi i ceppi inducano lesioni locali necrotiche su tabacco Samsun NN. Nel caso di YSMV, la capacita di indurre necrosi localizzata  stata infatti correlata specificamente con la presenza di un residuo di arginina e non di glutamina in posizione 29. La diffusione del ceppo necrogenico di AMV, spesso in infezione mista con altri virus, sembra tendere ad un costante aumento nelle colture pugliesi di pomodoro, ma i suoi serbatoi naturali sono tuttora ignoti.
41998976|Citrus Psorosis Virus (CPsV) can be detected by ELISA, but current protocols use polyclonal antisera. The availability of these antisera is limited, and new production is hampered by difficulties met with purification of the virus. Several specific monoclonal antibodies were recently produced, and we report how those have been successfully utilized for the development of an all-monoclonal antibody-based ELISA kit. Il virus della psorosi degli agrumi (CPsV)  rilevabile mediante ELISA, ma i protocolli attualmente in uso necessitano dell'impiego di antisieri policlonali, disponibili in quantit limitata. La produzione di nuovi antisieri  inoltre ostacolata dalla difficolt a purificare il virus. Vista la disponibilit di numerosi anticorpi monoclonali specifici recentemente prodotti, questi son stati utilizzati con successo per la messa a punto di un protocollo ELISA senza l'impiego di antisieri policlonali.
23721758|Beet necrotic yellow vein virus (BNYVV) was shown to occur in sugar beets in three of six regions surveyed in Lithuania. Characterizing the coat protein (CP) and p25 genes by RT-PCR and sequencing showed the presence of A and B types of BNYVV isolates. The p25 protein of Lithuanian BNYVV isolates contained a distinct amino acid tetrad (residues 67-70) with AYHR associated with a B type isolate and AHHG with two A type isolates. These sequence features were consistent with phylogenetic grouping of isolates based on CP and p25 gene sequences. This is the first characterization of BNYVV isolates in Lithuania.
41999046|Carrot psyllid (Trioza apicalis Frster) causes considerable damage to carrot (Daucus carota L.) in many parts of Europe. It was recently established that the new bacterium "Candidatus Liberibacter solanacearum" is associated with carrot psyllid and plants affected by this insect. No other pathogens have so far been associated with T. apicalis-affected carrots, despite symptoms resembling those caused by phytoplasmas and spiroplasmas. Potential association of these pathogens with symptomatic carrots was investigated. Carrot samples and psyllids were collected in southern Finland and tested for phytoplasmas, spiroplasmas, and liberibacter by PCR. Liberibacter was detected in 55, 31.3, and 80% of asymptomatic samples, plants with leaf curling only, and plants with both leaf curling and discoloration, respectively. Liberibacter was also detected in 70% of the carrot psyllid samples. Only aster yellows phytoplasma (16SrI-A) was detected in 20% of carrot samples showing both leaf curling and discoloration. No phytoplasma was detected in the carrot psyllid samples. Mixed infection of both phytoplasma and liberibacter was detected in 20% of symptomatic plants. No spiroplasma was detected in plants or insects. To our knowledge, this is the first report of aster yellows phytoplasma in carrot in Finland and mixed infection of liberibacter and phytoplasma in carrot.
23721757|Electron microscope observation of leaf dips from a mulberry (Morus alba) tree from Lebanon showing leaf mottling and vein yellowing disclosed the presence of bacilliform particles ca. 15030 nm in size, resembling those of members of the genus Badnavirus. BLAST analysis of the sequence of a DOP-PCR clone (810 bp) generated from DNA extracts from partially purified particle preparation disclosed a 67% (nucleotide) and 63% (amino acid) identity with the reverse transcriptase/RNase H gene (ORF3) of the badnavirus Cacao swollen shoot virus (CSSV). In a phylogenetic tree constructed with the amino acid sequence obtained, the putative mulberry badnavirus clustered close to CSSV and Citrus mosaic virus (CiMV) in a branch comprising also Fig badnavirus 1 (FBV-1) and Dioscorea bacilliform virus (DBALV). PCR analyses showed that the virus occurs with high infection rates in Lebanon (7 out of 13 trees examined), Turkey (2 out of 3) and Italy (29 out of 39). However, except for one, all PCR-positive trees were symptomless. Thus, since there is no clear-cut association of the virus in question with a specific disease, we propose for it the provisional name of Mulberry badnavirus 1 (MBV-1).
41998883|An updated short account is given of the nature and practice of biological control. It includes data on key mechanisms of biocontrol agents (bca's) being studied, relationships between bca's and plants being investigated and commercialization prospects in modern world agriculture. Based on the voluminous literature on biological control research and application, successful cases are selected and directions that might lead to the development of more effective bca's against plant diseases are discussed. The broad adoptions of organic farming as an additional agricultural practice to conventional agriculture and IPM have both increased research and application of bca's already commercially available. However, extensive applications require further developments and greater understanding of the complex interactions among plants, bca's and the environment. Additionally fast and more efficient procedures compared to fungicide registration approaches will facilitate bca's commercial application.
24332221|Barley yellow mosaic virus (BaYMV) and Barley mild mosaic virus (BMMV) are two closely related bymoviruses causing significant yield losses to barley in Europe and East Asia. In the present study we detected both viruses and Soil-borne wheat mosaic virus (SBWMV) by DASELISA from field samples collected in Iranian provinces. Moreover, we obtained and sequenced a 971 bp long fragment that included the coat protein coding region of eight Iranian isolates of BaYMV. Phylogenetic analysis of BaYMV coat protein nucleotide sequences previously published shows a separation of Asian and European isolates into two main groups. Surprisingly, Iranian isolates formed a minor cluster within the European group. Alignment of coat protein amino acid sequences confirmed that Iranian BaYMV isolates were more similar to European than to Asian isolates. Further studies are necessary to characterize the molecular and, in particular, the biological properties of Iranian BaYMV isolates in order to evaluate and limit losses on cereal production in the country
41998996|Several strains of Pseudomonas savastanoi pv. savastanoi, causal agent of galls or knots on leaves, twigs, and stems of various plant species, were isolated from infected olive (Olea sp.), oleander (Nerium oleander), jasmine (Jasminium officinale), fontanesia (Fontanesia phillyreoides) and myrtle (Myrtus communis) plants growing in Adana, Antalya, Bursa, Canakkale, Hatay, Izmir, Mersin, Mugla, Samsun and Tekirdag provinces of Turkey. Among the strains initially tested, 33 of them from different hosts were selected for further analyses. The strains were Gram-, oxidase-, pectolytic activity-, levan-, and arginine dihydrolase negative, showed fluorescence on King's B and PVF-1 media and induced hypersensitive reaction on tobacco leaves. Three products 464 bp, 684 bp and 1064 bp in size were amplified by PCR. Fatty acid methyl ester profiles confirmed the identity of tested strains as P. savastanoi pv. savastanoi. Based on cluster analysis of fatty acids, the strains were divided into two different groups. No correlation was found, however, between host plant and geographical origin of the strains under study. Olive, oleander, jasmine, fontanesia and myrtle plants were used to determine pathogenicity of the strains, which were generally most virulent when inoculated to the original host. This is the first detailed study showing that P. savastanoi pv. savastanoi can cause knot disease on the new oleaceous host Fontanesia phillyreoides.
41998546|The occurrence of viruliferous onion thrips (Thrips tabaci) outside lisianthus greenhouses was examined from 2003 to 2005. Adults were captured using blue sticky traps placed outside the greenhouses, and viruliferous individuals were identified using DAS-ELISA. While T. tabaci appeared from April to July, viruliferous individuals were mainly detected from the end of May to the middle of June. Leaf necrosis caused by Iris yellow spot virus (IYSV) developed soon after the massive appearance of viruliferous T. tabaci in the field. The disease appeared simultaneously in June on lisianthus plants at different growth stages. These results suggest that the infection source of IYSV is located outside the greenhouses. Surveys conducted in an onion field near the lisianthus greenhouses showed that viruliferous T. tabaci dispersed after harvesting of onions, suggesting that IYSV-infected onion plants are the inoculum sources in this area.
41998514|Pathogenic variability of 15 different isolates of Phytophthora nicotianae was determined following inoculation of six pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) varieties at the seedling stage. Cvs Beldi, Baker and D'hirat were susceptible, whilst Baklouti and Nabeul II showed a significant interaction variety x isolate, and the Mexican landrace Criollo de Morales 334 was strongly resistant to all isolates. Results clustered the 15 P. nicotianae isolates into four pathogenic groups. The first included the weakly virulent isolate Pnt317, which was able to attack only cvs Beldi and Baker. Isolate Pnt341 constituted the second group which was more pathogenic than the first, being able to attack also cv. D'hirat. Isolates Pnt314, Pnt323 and Pnt326 formed the third group, characterized by a high pathogenic power on cvs Beldi, Baker, D'hirat and Nabeul II. The fourth group, which comprised the widest isolate range was the most pathogenic since it attacked all the local varieties but not CM 334. To improve varietal resistance to P. nicotianae, pepper breeders in the Mediterranean region should take into account the pathogenic variability determined in this study.
41998204|Phytophthora cactorum (Lebert et Cohn) Schreter is an important plant pathogen that can cause serious damage in agricultural and ornamental crops as well as in a wide range of forest species. The identification of this pathogen, based on morphological and physiological characters, is time consuming, labour-intensive and requires specialised staff to be correctly performed. Recently, PCR-based methods have partially resolved these problems, but the primers used cross react with Phytophthora idaei. To. prevent any such reaction the use of a new pair of primers (PC1/PC2) with improved specificity, derived from a specific Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) generated fragment, is proposed. The PC1/PC2 primers, used in a simple PCR protocol, gave a single amplification product of approximately 450 bp; a good degree of specificity, with absence of cross reactions with Phytophthora pseudotsugae and P. idaei; sensitivity down to 6 pg of P. cactorum DNA extracted from pure mycelium; no reactions with the DNA of the host plants tested (downy oak, pear and walnut trees, potato, strawberry, tomato and pea plants). The detection of P. cactorum in infected tissues of pear and walnut trees, potato, strawberry, tomato and pea plants was also confirmed. The specificity, sensitivity and robustness of the PC1/PC2 primers together with the possibility of their use in a rapid, simple and reliable diagnostic method are discussed.
41998635|Twenty-seven soil samples were collected from the onion (Allium cepa L.) fields of Tekirdag province, Turkey. These samples were investigated for the sensitivity of Aspergillus niger V. Tieghem (AN) and Fusarium oxysporum Schlechtend.: Fr. f. sp. cepae (H. N. Hans.) W. C. Snyder H. N. Hans (FOC), known as the causal agents of black mould and basal rot of onion, respectively, to soil fungistasis. Fungistasis was evaluated using two methods: inhibition of pathogen spore germination by volatile compounds from the soil and determination of the antagonistic fungal population of soil samples. Volatile compounds in twelve of the soil samples strongly (>70%). inhibited spore germination of only AN. Inhibition rates of volatile compounds were not correlated with physical and chemical characters of the soils. Fungi isolated from soil samples were evaluated for their antagonism to both pathogens using dual cultures. The population of species causing over 70% inhibition of radial growth on pathogens was calculated in soil samples. The presence of both volatile compounds inhibiting spore germination of AN and populations of fungi antagonistic for AN and FOC were observed in six of the soil samples. The possible effects of two fungistatic mechanisms in soils on disease development by these pathogens are discussed.
41998458|Phenolic compounds were measured in leaf tissues of apple cvs Jonagold and Golden Delicious, healthy and infected by Venturia inaequalis. Leaves were sampled from May to September 2005 and analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography. Hydroxycinnamic acids detected were chlorogenic, caffeic, ferulic and p-coumaric. In addition, the presence was ascertained of the dihydrochalcone phloridzin and the flavonoids epicatechin, catechin, rutin and quercitrin. Total phenolics were determined with the Folin-Ciocalteu method. Infection by V. inequalis caused an accumulation of phenolic compounds in infected leaves with a 1.4 to 6.2-fold increase of flavonols, a 2 to 6-fold increase of chlorogenic acid and a 1.4 to 2.4-fold increase of the Folin-Ciocalteu values.
41998209|The distribution of the Tomato yellow leaf curl virus complex was investigated in five locations in Jordan. Hybridization results of samples collected in 2002 showed that Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV) occurred in all surveyed areas, while the incidence of Tomato yellow leaf curl Sardinia virus (TYLCSV) was restricted to Al-Mafraq and the central Jordan Valley. Both virus species could be detected in all areas surveyed in 2003. Using specific PCR primers, TYLCV, TYLCSV and TYLCV-Mild (TYLCV-Mld) could be detected in symptomatic tomato plants. Alignment analysis of the amplified-PCR fragments showed that the sequence of the intergenic region (IR) of TYLCSV from Jordan (TYLCSV-Jo1) shared high sequence homology with TYLCSV-ES[1] and TYLCSV-ES[2] from Spain. In addition, TYLCV-Jo1 had sequence identity of 95% and 93% with TYLCV-[Alm] and TYLCV-[DO], respectively.
24331976|Tomato yellow leaf curl virus disease (TYLCVD) is the main limiting factor for tomato production in the Mediterranean Basin, and particularly in Tunisia where climatic and crop production conditions, as well as the occurrence of many weeds, provide suitable conditions for the presence and spread of TYLCVD all year round. In Tunisia, epidemics in tomato-growing regions have been associated with two begomoviruses: Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV) and Tomato yellow leaf curl Sardinia virus (TYLCSV) but the presence of recombinants between them has never been investigated. A large-scale survey was conducted on leaves sampled from late-season tomato crops exhibiting severe curling symptoms, from beans, and from nine nearby weed species in the South and Sahel regions of Tunisia to investigate: (i) the natural occurrence of the TYLCV and TYLCSV species; (ii) the presence of the two recombinant types, RecA and RecB, derived from these species. Identification of TYLCV and TYLCSV was based on a multiplex PCR with primers generating a typical pattern on gels (750 bp and 366 bp fragments, respectively). Recombinants were identified by simplex PCR, which amplified the intergenic region, the most common recombination site described for begomoviruses, and sequencing. The occurrence of TYLCSV and TYLCV was confirmed in both Tunisian regions. Their co-existence was shown on tomato and in new weed species. This is the first time that recombinants between TYLCV and TYLCSV species showing 93% to 95% nucleotide identity with tomato yellow leaf curl recombinant viruses, are reported in Tunisia in tomato and black nightshade.
24722537|Bacterial wilt of sweet pepper, caused by Ralstonia solanacearum (Rs) race 1, is a limiting disease in northern and northeastern Brazil. The present study evaluated the effect of silicon (Si) on the disease in the sweet pepper cv. Enterprise, which was grown in a substrate containing 0.00, 0.25, 0.50, 1.50, or 3.00 g SiO kg and was subsequently transplanted into soil infested with Rs CGM-8. The following variables were evaluated: latency period (LP); incidence; bacterial wilt index (BWI); area under the disease progress curve (AUDPC); biomass; accumulation of Ca, Mg, and Si; total protein and enzymatic activity; chemical characteristics of the substrate; and in vitro bacterial growth. A dose of 2.95 g Si kg substrate increased the LP (33.6%) and reduced the BWI (98%) and AUDPC (93.7%); this treatment also increased Ca levels in the shoots and reduced Mg levels in the shoots and the roots. Supplementation with various doses of Si yielded maximum increases in the shoot fresh biomass (121.8%), the root fresh biomass (83.6%), and the shoot dry biomass (84.9%); increased the concentrations of total protein, catalase, ascorbate peroxidase, and chitinase; caused the accumulation of Si in the shoots and substrate; increased the pH, Na, and K; and decreased P in the substrate. The putative mechanisms of action of Si included a direct effect on colonization of the pathogen, an indirect effect on the plant development, increased Ca absorption, and signaled for the production of plant defence enzymes. Therefore, the production of sweet pepper seedlings in a substrate containing calcium silicate (2.95 g SiO kg) could be utilized as an alternative cultivation practice for the management of bacterial wilt disease. More research is needed to elucidate the exact mechanisms of silicon and its effects on latent infections and on bacterial cells and population.
41998575|In this study, growth and efficacy of two biological control agents, Pseudomonas fluorescens P-35 and Bacillus subtilis B-3, were evaluated in combinations of two carbon (sucrose and molasses) and two nitrogen (urea and yeast extract) sources to optimize control of Botrytis cinerea on apple. Nutrient broth was used as control. Results indicated that the medium containing molasses and yeast extract (MY) in a 1:1 w/w ratio supported rapid growth and high cell yields in both strains. The biocontrol efficacy of P-35 grown in MY was higher than when grown in the other media, and the percentage of decayed fruits was 38.6% as compared to the control (100%), after ten days incubation. P-35 also showed good biocontrol efficacy in MY after 20 days. Nutrient broth resulted in poor biocontrol efficacy for B-3 after ten days, as compared with the other media. For both strains molasses were a good carbon source in combination with yeast extract, but antagonist growth was decreased when molasses were complemented with urea. The results obtained could provide a reliable basis for mass multiplication of biocontrol agents in fermentation processes.
24579129|Proteins from non-host higher plants are known to induce systemic resistance in plants against virus infections in susceptible plants. CAP-34 is one such known protein with molecular mass 34 kDa, isolated from Clerodendrum aculeatum. CAP-34 was also shown to be acting against Papaya ringspot virus (PRSV) in papaya by imposing a possible check on PRSV replication. Since the induced resistance was systemic, efforts were made to identify host components that could be involved in it. In the process, a virus inhibitory activity was observed concomitantly with the development of resistance. This paper reports the time-course of virus inhibitory activity, purification to electrophoretic homogeneity of a proteinaceous virus inhibitory agent (VIA), and the determination of some of its biochemical characteristics. Called CP-VIA-34, on the basis of the host it was isolated from (Carica papaya), and the determined molecular mass (34 kDa), this VIA was found to be a basic protein that inactivated Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) ex vivo when bioassayed on Nicotiana tabacum cv Samsun NN. CP-VIA-34 was thermostable and resistant to proteinase K. It did not exhibit protease (tested separately on BSA, and purified TMV), DNase and RNase activities. The paper discusses the characteristics of the CP-VIA-34, and its relevance in relation to some other known plant defence proteins such as the ribosome-inactivating proteins, inhibitor of virus replication, antiviral factor, and the PR-proteins.
41998579|Climatic conditions and soil management rank among the most important factors influencing the infection of winter wheat by eyespot and other stem-base diseases. Records of the climatic conditions (temperature, precipitation, and air humidity) over a 14-year period, 1994-2007, were used to develop a prediction model for eyespot infection using multiple regression. Since the most critical factor affecting eyespot is precipitation, graded watering (0, 10 and 20 liters of water) was tested at various timings of application in small-plot experiments in 2005-2007 in order to determine the severity of stem base infection by eyespot. In addition, in 2006 and 2007, the effect of soil management (tillage 22 cm, 15 cm, and no-till) on wheat infection by eyespot and other stem-base pathogens was measured using molecular diagnosis. The climatic model developed is statistically significant, showing that the most important factor affecting eyespot infection in wheat is the number of days with rainfall above 3 mm through October to April. Experimental watering did not significantly affect the severity of infection. Soil management had only a limited effect on the incidence of stem-base diseases. F. avenaceum was more prevalent in the variant with tillage 22 cm in the year 2007.
41998236|Leaves were collected during 2003 from trees displaying symptoms of vein necrosis, necrotic rusty mottle, necrotic leaf or marked fruit in surveys of sweet cherry [Prunus avium (L.) L. cv Bing] orchards in California. Samples were also taken from trees with leaf necrotic lesion (P. serrulata Lindl. cv Kwanzan) and leaf chlorotic spots (P avium x P. pseudocerasus cv Colt) from virus disease indexing blocks of Prunus. All of the diseased, but none of the healthy, collections yielded high molecular weight double stranded RNA bands following tissue extraction, purification and electrophoreses in acrylamide gel. Positive amplification in reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), with two sets of degenerate primers, was used to detect viruses in the families Flexiviridae and Closteroviridae. Sequence analyses of the RT-PCR products identified Cherry virus A (CVA), Cherry necrotic rusty mottle virus (CNRMV), Cherry green ring mottle virus (CGRMV), Little cherry virus 1 (LChV-1) and Plum bark necrosis and stem pitting associated virus (PBNSPaV). This is the first report of the occurrence of the viruses CVA, CNRMV and LChV-1 in California.
41998828|A survey was conducted to determine the incidence of Beet necrotic yellow vein virus (BNYVV), Beet soilborne virus (BSBV) and Beet virus Q (BVQ) and their vector Polymyxa betae in sugar beet fields in central and northern Turkey. A total of 510 soil samples were collected in 2004 and 2005. Three detection techniques were used: ELISA for BNYVV and BSBV, RT-PCR for BVQ and direct staining of bait plant root tissues for P. betae cystosori. Bait plant tests and ELISA showed that 54.3% of the soils contained viruliferous P. betae cystosori. BSBV single infections were the most prevalent (23.7%) followed by double infection with BNYVV (23.1%), and single infection of BNYVV (7.5%). It was also found that 31.4% of the roots were infested with aviruliferous P. betae cystosori while 14.3% of the roots did not contain any cystosori. Forty five samples were selected on the basis of their geographical locations and tested for the presence of BVQ by RT-PCR. However, BVQ was not detected in any sugar beet samples tested.
41998510|Erysiphe necator overwinters as mycelium or conidia in dormant buds and/or as cleistothecia, but the importance of the two forms as sources of primary inoculum varies in different viticultural areas. The present study summarizes the observations made over 2001-2003, in 29 vineyards of southern Italy, on the occurrence and frequency of the two overwintering forms. Flag shoots were found in one-third of the vineyards, with a frequency highly variable between year and vineyard, being more frequent in vineyards for wine-grape than for table-grape production. An average of 20% flag shoots were present on the same vine and arm as the previous year, and 75 % of them originated from the three proximal buds of the canes. Cleistothecia were found in 46% of monitored vineyards, in the leaves and bark, but not in the soil. In spring there were between 3 and 856 cleistothecia/g of leaf tissue with a viability of 7%, whereas in the bark between 2 and 464 overwintering cleistothecia/g of bark were found, with an average viability of 14%.
41997950|A foliar spray of -aminoisobutyric acid (AIB) reduced the number, size and sporulation of powdery mildew colonies on wheat seedlings. Application of AIB one day before or after inoculation reduced severity of powdery mildew to a similar extent. Protection effectiveness depended on the concentration applied and time intervals between treatment and inoculation. Only concentrations higher than 50 mmol l effectively protected seedlings. Microscopy investigations revealed no inhibition of conidial germination and penetration of the epidermal cells, but the development of haustoria was strongly affected.  C-AIB was taken up rapidly by the primary leaf, translocated into the whole plant and accumulated in the newly developed shoot tissue. Quantitative data indicated that 39% of C-AIB applied remained on the surface of the treated primary leaf and 45% was retained by the plant tissue one day after treatment. The effectiveness of AIB in wheat against powdery mildew was associated with its concentration in the tissue. Thin layer Chromatographie separation of the radioactive plant extracts revealed slow metabolism of AIB. A direct fungistatic effect on the fungus and alterations of plant metabolism caused by AIB are suggested as probable mechanisms of disease control. Uno Spray fogliare di acido -aminoisobutirrico (AIB) ha ridotto numero, dimensioni e sporulazione di colonie dell'oidio su piantine di frumento. Parallelamente l'applicazione di AIB un giorno prima oppure dopo l'inoculazione ha ridotto la severit dell'infezione. L'efficacia della protezione  risultata dipendente dalla concentrazione applicata e dal tempo intercorso fra trattamento e inoculazione. Soltanto concentrazioni superiori a 50 mmol l si sono dimostrate efficaci per proteggere le piantine. Gli studi al microscopio non hanno rivelato inibizione della germinazione dei conidi n della penetrazione delle cellule epidermiche; lo sviluppo degli austori  risultato invece fortemente influenzato. C-AIB viene assorbito rapidamente dalle foglie primarle, trasportato neirintera planta ed accumulato nei tessuti di recente sviluppo. I dati quantitativi indicano che il 39% della dose applicata di C-AIB rimane sulla superficie delle foglie primarle trattate, e che 24 ore dopo il trattamento il 45%  ancora presente nei tessuti. L'efficacia di AIB contro oidio nei frumento risulta associata con la sua concentrazione relativa nei tessuto. La cromatografia su strato sottile degli estratti radioattivi della pianta evidenzia un lento metabolismo dell'AIB. Appare ipotizzabile che Feffetto fungistatico diretto sul fungo e le alterazioni a carico del metabolismo della pianta causate dall'AIB siano i probabili meccanismi di controllo della malattia.
41999002|In the past 4 years, the emergence of Fusarium head blight (FHB) of irrigated barley in the Northern Cape Province (NCP) became a concern to the malting and brewing industries, and the food and feed companies in South Africa. This motivated an epidemiological survey whereby 320 single-spored Fusarium isolates were obtained from diseased barley kernels collected in the NCP over 2 consecutive crop years (2008-2009) on two barley cultivars (potential malting varieties) at several locations. A multiplex PCR using previously published species-specific primers was utilized to simultaneously detect the most frequently encountered species of the FHB complex, including Fusarium graminearum, F. culmorum, F. avenaceum and F. poae. For isolates that could not be identified using PCR, further characterization was performed through sequence analyses. Fusarium graminearum (91.9%) was the dominant species, while F. boothii (6.25%), one of the species within the F. graminearum species complex, F. equiseti (1.25%) and F. poae (0.6%) were isolated far less frequently. Within the F. graminearum species complex, most of the isolates (99.7%) belonged to the 15-ADON chemotype. A real-time PCR assay based on SYBR Green technology was used to accurately quantify F. graminearum in barley samples. This is the first report on Fusarium species and their mycotoxin profiles associated with FHB of barley in South Africa.
41998700|Cymbidium, a commonly grown orchid of the Eastern Himalayas of India, suffers from huge crop losses due to an epidemic of pseudobulb rot since 1995. The disease is caused by the synergistic activity of three pathogens, Fusarium oxysporum, Mucor hiemalis f. sp. hiemalis and Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. A rhizosphere bacterium, identified as a fluorescent Pseudomonas, named BRL-1, showed both in vitro and in vivo antagonistic activity against these pathogens. Our results show that antimicrobial activity of the isolate might be linked with the production of siderophores, proteases, chitinases and indole acetic acid (IAA). A talc-based formulation of the antagonist did not only protect Cymbidium plants from the disease but improved also its growth.
41998781|Macrophomina phaseolina is a destructive pathogen causing charcoal rot of cowpea and other crops in the semi-arid areas of the Sahel (north-west Africa). Chemical management is not feasible in conditions of subsistence farming, and the plurivorous nature of the fungus limits the effectiveness of some cultural methods. This study aimed at identifying the effects of composting on the survival of M. phaseolina and of soil application of compost alone or in combination with the biocontrol agent Clonostachys rosea on inoculum density of M. phaseolina and on cowpea production. Inside the compost heap with diseased cowpea residues, the temperature reached 52 to 60C and completely destroyed M. phaseolina microsclerotia. Addition of compost to planting holes significantly suppressed charcoal rot disease. Among the doses tested 6 tonnes of compost alone or supplemented with 50 kg NPK ha resulted in 28-45% lower Area-Undef-the-Disease-Progress-Curves (AUDPC) and 43-66% higher cowpea production. The addition of compost combined with C. rosea in the planting holes reduced the AUDPC up to 4-fold and increased the grain yield 2-5-fold. The best treatment was a mixture of two C. rosea isolates and the compost.
23721586|Narcissus latent virus (NLV), a member of the genus Macluravirus, is common in many commercially important narcissus cultivars worldwide. In this study, the nucleotide sequence of the complete coat protein (CP) gene of 14 NLV isolates recovered from naturally infected narcissus plants was determined and compared with three other NLV isolates for which sequence information is available. Multiple alignments showed sequence identities ranging from 77.2 to 79.1% and 77.9 to 81.2% at the nucleotide and deduced amino acid levels, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis based on CP gene sequences confirmed a high variability of NLV isolates and showed that they form two distinct groups. Further analyses suggested a negative selection as the major force generating genetic variability of NLV capsid protein, however, codon 41 was under positive selection. This study provides new insights into the genetic variability of NLV CP gene.
24332217|Six essential plant micronutrients, copper (Cu), iron (Fe), zinc (ZN), manganese (MN), molybdenum (Mo) and boron (B) salt compounds, were investigated for their potential antibacterial activity against a group of 32 Xanthomonas citri subsp. citri (Xcc) isolates, as representative of the Iranian population of bacterial of citrus canker disease agents, and the sensitivity patterns of the isolates were characterized. For all tested compounds, a significant antibacterial activity against representative Xcc strains was determined. Bacterial growth was severely inhibited by Cu, Fe, Zn, Mn and Mo at 1/2 MIC, MIC and MBC concentrations, whereas B had only a moderate to slight impact. Among the salt compounds, Zn had the lowest MIC (0.6-1.25 mM) and MBC (2.5 mM). The highest MIC and MBC values were obtained for Mo at the dose of 30-40 mM and 40-50 mM, respectively. The results showed that 62.5% of the tested bacterial isolates were less susceptible to Fe, Zn, Mn and Mo and more susceptible to Cu and B. Nevertheless, only 37.5% of them showed a high degree of susceptibility to most of the compounds.
41998777|A survey was conducted in the major pome fruit growing districts of Greece to assess the incidence of Apple stem pitting virus (ASPV) and Apple chlorotic leaf spot virus (ACLSV) using RT-PCR assays amplifying part of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) and the coat protein genes of the viruses, respectively. ASPV was predominant in apple (91.8%) and pear (51.3%) and was detected in almost all the cultivars and rootstocks tested. It was also found for the first time in the Japanese pear (Pyrus serotina). The incidence of ACLSV in apples was also high (65.7%) and mixed infections with both viruses were frequently encountered. In pear, ACLSV incidence was lower (20.7%). This is the first extensive survey conducted in Greece for monitoring ACLSV and ASPV using molecular assays. Nucleotide sequencing of different apple and pear ASPV and ACLSV isolates and comparative analysis with already published homologous genomic regions revealed a significant level of variation up to 29% and 22% for the RdRp and the CP genes, respectively. However, high identity rates were found among isolates of both viruses from different geographical origins. Our results show the high impact of the use of infected plant material in the dissemination of ASPV and ACLSV and illustrate the need to implement programs for the production of certified pome fruit propagating material in Greece, in order to prevent further spread of the viruses.
41998962|Ralstonia solanacearum was isolated from wilting coleus plants (Coleus forskohlii) in six commercial nurseries around Bangalore (south India). Colonies of all isolates were irregular with smooth margins, slimy dull white with pink to red centre on SMSA medium, Gramnegative, non-capsulated and non-spore forming. Bacterial identity was confirmed by PCR with species-specific 16S rDNA-based primers OLI1+ Y2 and DAS-ELISA. The isolates could infect tomato, potato, and ginger, but failed to infect mulberry and banana. Six isolates were identified as race 1, based on pathogenicity tests, and as biovar 3, based on carbohydrate utilization.
23721745|The present investigation was carried out in a free-air CO2 enrichment (FACE) facility to assess the effect of elevated CO2 on the incidence and severity of three foliar diseases of Brassica juncea cv. Pusa Tarak. Exposure of plants to elevated concentration of CO2 (550 ppm) revealed lower incidence and severity of Alternaria blight caused by Alternaria brassicae and downy mildew caused by Hyaloperonospora brassicae, while white rust infection caused by Albugo candida increased. Leaves of mustard plants grown under elevated CO2 had a higher amount of epicuticular wax which, together with higher concentration of total phenols and phenylalanine ammonia lyase activity, may have increased the ability of mustard plants to resist infection by A. brassicae and H. brassicae. Mustard plants grown under elevated CO2 showed a decrease in stomatal density and pore size, and consequently also in stomatal conductance. This might explain the decrease in disease index of downy mildew caused by the stomata-invading pathogen H. brassicae. There was no change in leaf protein concentration, whereas sugars were three times as concentrated in plants grown under high vs. ambient CO2. There was an increase in the concentration of total glucosinolates (GSs) under FACE in plants grown under elevated CO2, but a decrease in their diversity. Namely, the aliphatic GS gluconapin was more abundant in plants grown under high CO2, while three out of eight different GSs found in the leaves of plants grown under ambient CO2 could not be detected. Higher sugar availability and lower GSs diversity may account for the higher incidence and severity of white rust caused by the obligate biotroph A. candida.
41998674|A TaqMan real-time PCR assay was developed to detect Pseudomonas avellanae, the causal agent of bacterial canker and decline of hazelnut (Corylus avellana L.). The real-time primers and probe were designed within the 16S rRNA gene of the pathogen after a comparison with other related species and pathovars. The assay detected DNA from a panel of P. avellanae strains obtained from different geographic areas. The other bacterial pathogens inciting diseases to hazelnut, P. syringae pv. coryli, P. s. pv. syringae and Xanthomonas arboricola pv. corylina, did not react in the assay. Only P. s. pv. actinidiae, isolated from kiwifruit and yellow kiwifruit in Italy, cross-reacted. The assay detected the pathogen when inoculated in low numbers (80 cells) in a leaf scar up until nine days after inoculation. The addition of bovine serum albumin was essential to prevent inhibition by compounds released from the hazelnut tissue. This assay could be useful for monitoring the presence of P. avellanae either in orchards or nurseries. Screening for germplasm resistance could also benefit from this technique.
41998885|It is widely agreed that integrated pest and disease management (IPDM) is the most sustainable approach for reducing crop yield losses due to arthropod pests and diseases, an aim shared by both agricultural entomology and plant pathology. IPDM combines several control methods in the most compatible way, taking into account the entire agroecosystem, other related ecosystems and the general interest of society. Implementation of IPDM systems needs R& D in Plant pathology and Agricultural entomology to be mutually connected and to progress with a common objective. This goal is analysed through the scientific and more general literature produced by plant pathologists and agricultural entomologists in recent decades. The term 'integrated' has been adopted to a greater extent by agricultural entomologists although it is increasingly used by plant pathologists. When the R&D on the most relevant control methods for IPDM is examined, plant pathologists focus on crop plant resistance whereas agricultural entomologists are more active in biological control, though the differences tend to diminish in recent years. Surprisingly, cultural control is rarely mentioned in either of the two disciplines. A comparison of the references to innovative tools for IPDM shows a relatively low adoption by plant pathologists and agricultural entomologists with the exception of biotechnological tools, which are more widely used by the former than the latter. Economic threshold is a little used expression in plant pathology publications. Finally, references to nanotechnology in plant pathology and agricultural entomology publications are still few but significant considering the novelty of this field in science and technology development.
41998135|Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis and mating type distribution were used to investigate the population biology of the phytopathogenic fungus Uncinula necator (Schw.) Burr., the causal agent of powdery mildew of grapevine. It is known that the fungus has two overwintering strategies, mycelium and conidia in dormant buds or cleistothecia, but their relative importance in disease epidemiology is still undetermined. Recently, the existence has been hypothesized of two genetically separated biotypes in U. necator that would be related with its overwintering modes: a biotype overwintering as conidia and mycelium in buds would infect shoots and leaves early in the season; the other biotype would overwinter as cleistothecia and infect bunches. RAPD analysis was carried out on 374 isolates of U. necator collected in Southern Italy. Statistical analysis of variation clustered the isolates into two major groups according to the time in the season when they were sampled in vineyards, confirming the existence of two different biotypes into the fungal species. Similar proportions of the two mating types were found in the pathogen's populations, as well as into each biotype, even in single vineyards. Therefore, the two mating types of the fungus are not separated either in space or time. Sexual crosses between isolates belonging to the two biotypes were fertile and yielded viable ascospore progeny. These results suggest that meiotic recombination can be an important source of genetic variation in U. necator and cleistothecia can play an important role in its overwintering.
41997913|The detectability and biodiversity of 44 isolates of cucumber mosaic virus (CMV), one isolate of peanut stunt virus (PSV) and one of tomato aspermy virus (TAV), all cucumoviruses, were compared by RT-PCR, variants of ELISA using polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies (Pabs and Mabs) and host plant reactions. The comparisons were made during a Ringtest on zucchini viruses held at the Istituto di Fitovirologia Applicata, CNR, Torino, Italy, in October 1996 in the framework of the European Union action COST-823 New technologies to improve phytodiagnosis. The isolates originated from 9 European countries, America, Asia and Australia and their natural hosts were mainly cucurbits. Some of the isolates had been characterized previously. RT-PCR with primers specific for CMV RNA 3 followed by digestion with Mspl allowed the classification of 19 isolates within subgroup I (S-I) and 13 in subgroup II (S-II). Three distinct and different S-I-like patterns were found for 8 isolates, while 3 isolates displayed a new pattern called S nonI-nonII. PSV, TAV and one isolate were not amplified with this primer set. Three RNA 2-based sets of primers, specific for S-I, SII or both, substantiated the above results. In DAS ELISA Pabs produced against S-I detected most of CMV isolates, but not PSV and TAV, whereas Pabs produced against S-II isolates detected mainly those. In ACP ELISA, two Pabs detected all the cucumoviruses tested. In TAS ELISA, 7 Mabs reacted with most of the isolates and none of them reacted with PSV and TAV. Two Mabs were specific for S-I and two for S-II, confirming the PCR results. The isolates induced symptoms of different severity after inoculation to zucchini, Nicotiana benthamiana, N. clevelandii, N. glutinosa, N. tabacum and Chenopodium quinoa but no correlation was found with subgroup type. Seven S-I isolates and one S-II isolate gave systemic infection on C. quinoa. All the isolates were deposited at the Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen, Germany, and are available for research purposes. La tecnica della RT-PCR, varianti ELISA che prevedevano l'utilizzo di anticorpi monoclonali e policlonali, e la reazione su piante ospiti, sono state utilizzate per comparare la rilevabilit e la biodiversit di 44 isolati di cucumber mosaic (CMV), uno di peanut stunt (PSV) e uno di tomato aspermy (TAV) cucumovirus. La comparazione  stata effettuata nel corso di un Ringtest denominato "Zucchini Viruses", effettuato nell'ottobre 1996 presso l'Istituto di Fitovirologia Applicata e organizzato dall'azione COST 823 "Nuove tecnologie per migliorare la fitodiagnosi" dell'Unione Europea. Gli isolati provenivano da 9 nazioni europee, America, Asia e Australia e le piante ospiti originali erano prevalentemente cueurbitaeee. Alcuni isolati erano stati caratterizzati precedentemente. RT-PCR effettuata con primers speeifici per l'RNA 3 di CMV e digestione del segmento amplificato con Mspl ha permesso di classificare 19 isolati come sottogruppo I (S-I) e 13 come sottogruppo II (S-II); otto isolati hanno mostrato un quadro elettroforetico diverso ma riconducibile a quello del S-I, mentre 3 isolati hanno mostrato un quadro elettroforetico completamente diverso, denominato nonl-nonll. Gli isolati di PSV e TAV e un ulteriore isolato non sono stati amplificati correttamente con quest a coppia di primers. Tre coppie di primers basati sulla sequenza dell'RNA 2 di CMV e specifici per il S-I, S-II o entrambi hanno fornito risultati in accordo con i precedenti. In DAS ELISA gli antisieri prodotti contro isolati del S-I hanno rilevato la maggior parte degli isolati di CMV ma non PSV e TAV, mentre quelli prodotti contro isolati del S-II hanno rilevato prevalentemente i virus membri dello stesso sottogruppo. In ACP-ELISA due antisieri policlonali prodotti contro CMV hanno rilevato tutti i cucumovirus saggiati. In TAS ELISA nessuno degli anticorpi monoclonali prodotto contro CMV ha reagito con PSV e TAV; 7 di loro hanno reagito con la maggior parte degli isolati mentre 2 sono risultati specifici per gli isolati del S-I e 2 per gli isolati del S-II, confermando i risultati ottenuti con la PCR. Gli isolati hanno indotto sintomi di diversa gravita in zucchino, Nicotiana benthamiana, N. glutinosa, N. tabacum e Chenopodium quinoa e non hanno mostrato alcuna correlazione con la loro suddivisione nei due sottogruppi. Sette isolati del S-I e uno del S-II hanno prodotto infezione sistemica in C. quinoa. Tutti gli isolati sono stati depositati presso la Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen, Germany, e sono disponibili per uso ricerca.
24332155|Even though Citrus huanglongbing (HLB), caused by Candidatus Liberibacter spp., is not yet present in the Mediterranean basin, this devastating disease is threatening the very survival of citrus in most parts of the world. In the framework of an international course on "Emerging and Quarantine Diseases of Mediterranean Fruit and Vegetable Crops", the participants were asked to hold group discussions to define measures for prevention and management of HLB in the Mediterranean Region. Following an introduction on the present situation of HLB in the world and emphasizing the facts that: (i) the African citrus psyllid, Trioza erytrae, is already present in the Canary and Madeira islands and threatens the western Mediterranean area and (ii) Asian HLB, with Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus and the Asian citrus psyllid, Diaphorina citri, are present in Iran and the Arabian Peninsula and threaten the eastern Mediterranean area, a general discussion defined: (i) measures for prevention, including awareness, monitoring and surveillance, pest risk analysis, the establishment of quarantine measures, and practicing PCR detection methods for liberibacters in citrus and psyllids; (ii) action plans taking into consideration the presence of insect vectors and/or HLB-like symptoms; and (iii) future actions that must include the development of genetically modified citrus cultivars resistant to the causal liberibacter agents or to infection by the psyllid vectors. As management of HLB would be difficult in the Mediterranean area, in particular because of the small size of most citrus orchards, all efforts should be concentrated towards preventing HLB entrance and spread in the area.
41998629|Cercosporin is a perylenequinone pigment produced by fungi in the genus Cercospora which under light generates reactive oxygen species causing membrane damage and mortality of living cells. Our objectives were to demonstrate that fungal lacease, a lignolytic copper-containing enzyme, can degrade cercosporin and reduce cercosporin toxicity toward living cells. Cercosporin from Cercospora beticola and Cercospora hayi was treated with lacease from basidiomycete fungi (Pleurotus ostreatus and Trametes versicolor) in the dark and under constant light. Under these conditions the absorbance of the cercosporin decreased at 220, 279 and 295-500 nm within 10 min of reaction with lacease from either P. ostreatus or T. versicolor, indicating that basidiomycete lacease can induce changes in UV-visible spectra of cercosporin. The LIVE/DEAD Bac Light VIABILITY kit and fluorescent microscopy showed more viable E. coli cells after incubation under light with cercosporin and lacease than with cercosporin alone. Lesions were apparent on sugar beet leaves exposed to cercosporin under light after 48 h, but leaves exposed to cercosporin and lacease showed visibly less damage. These data suggest that lacease from basidiomycete fungi can decrease the toxic effect of cercosporin toward microorganisms and plant tissue.
41998846|The names of all plant pathogenic bacteria which have been effectively and validly published in terms of the International Code of Nomenclature of Bacteria and the Standards for Naming Pathovars are listed to provide an authoritative register of names for use by authors, journal editors and others who require access to currently correct nomenclature. Included are species, subspecies and pathovar names and details of type and pathotype strains reported from 1980 to 2007. An explanation of how to use this list is provided. In recent years the taxonomy of plant pathogenic bacteria has been extensively revised. For some taxa there are several valid synonyms. Unless otherwise stated, the most recently published name is used in this list as the reference name (in bold italic) to which all other synonyms are referred. This does not mean that the reference name is always to be preferred. A synonym, i.e., a previously published name for the same organism, may rep-resent a classification considered by individual scientists or groups to give a more coherent taxonomy and may be used. This list is presented by the International Society of Plant Pathology Committee on the Taxonomy of Plant Pathogenic Bacteria, Carolee T. Bull Convener.
41998856|The present study was undertaken to evaluate the diversity of Phytophthora infestans isolates collected between 1996 and 2006 from potato-growing regions of India. Thirty-two genotypes were distinguished among 70 isolates characterized using mating type, metalaxyl resistance, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplotypes and microsatellite markers. The mating type analysis revealed that the Al mating type prevailed (90%) in the subtropical Indo-Gangetic plains, whereas the A2 mating type was dominant (93%) in temperate highland regions. All 11 isolates collected before 2000 were metalaxyl sensitive, whereas all 28 isolates from after 2004 were metalaxyl tolerant. Before 2002, the Ib mtDNA haplotype was seen in all 26 isolates, but a shift was observed from 2004 to 2006 after which the la mtDNA haplotype was found to have replaced the Ib haplotype everywhere except in the north eastern hills of India. Microsatellite analysis revealed that isolates from the north Himalayan hills after 2000 were distinct from the all the others. Little divergence was observed among earlier isolates from the same region along with earlier isolates from the north Indian plains and the 2005 isolates from the north-eastern hills. The highest variability was observed in regions with high pathogen build-up and where frequency of exchange of planting materials was relatively high. The results of this study indicate a drift in the pathogen population in the first half of the present decade throughout India.
41998283|A quick, simple and efficient procedure for detecting Xylella fastidiosa in potential insect vectors is described. The procedure employs a commercially available DNeasy tissue kit for the extraction of high-quality DNA from the insect, followed by one-step polymerase chain reaction amplification using previously published oligonucleotide primers specific to X. fastidiosa. The procedure does not require the use of phenol, chloroform or alcohol for the precipitation of nucleic acids. Also it does not need additional purification or enrichment steps, and can be completed in less than a day. The procedure was used successfully in detecting X. fastidiosa in two potentially important leafhopper species, Graphocephala versuta and G. coccinea, and in a treehopper species Entilia concisa, collected from a nursery where bacterial leaf scorch disease caused by X. fastidiosa occurs.
23721579|Plum pox virus (PPV) has been observed in Turkey since 1968, but was not widespread except in apricot and plum trees in home gardens and ornamental parks in restricted areas. Susceptibility of six different Prunus rootstocks to strain PPV-T was assessed under natural inoculum pressure in the Izmir-Aegean region during 2010-2011. Aphid populations were monitored from the first week of April to the middle of June by the sticky-plant method one year after the rootstock plantation was established. Aphids collected from different rootstocks were tested individually by squash real-time RT-PCR and all rootstocks were regularly tested by DASI-ELISA. The largest aphid populations were observed at the end of May and the most abundant aphid species as averages over the two years were Myzus persicae (20.15%), Hyalopterus pruni (18.64%), Aphis craccivora (9.04%) and Aphis gossypii (8.36%). In 2011, the highest percentage of viruliferous aphids was found in M. persicae (34.78%), followed by H. pruni (32.50%), Macrosiphum euphorbiae (25.00%), A. gossypii (23.80%), A. spiraecola (12.50%) and A. craccivora (10.00%). Of the six Prunus rootstocks tested, only Nemaguard and Myrobalan 29C were infected by PPV-T, infection rate in 2010 being 6.0% (Nemaguard) and 4.0% (Myrobalan 29C). The infection rate increased to 16.0% for Nemaguard and 14.0% for Myrobalan 29C in 2011. However, the other rootstocks, Prunus marianna GF8.1, Docera6, GF677 and Garnem tested negative for PPV-T throughout 2011. PPV isolates obtained from naturally infected apricot trees (inoculum source) and from infected rootstocks in the experimental plot were characterized as PPV-T and had more than 99.5% nucleotide sequence identity.
24331979|The genetic diversity and phylogenetic relationships of Sweet potato feathery mottle virus (SPFMV) and Sweet potato virus G (SPVG), two major sweet potato viruses in Sichuan, the largest sweet potato producing area of China, were analyzed. A total of 18 virus isolates, including 12 SPFMV isolates and six SPVG isolates, were obtained from different fields and characterized by RT-PCR and sequencing. Sequence alignments revealed 77.3%-99.8% and 85.4%-99.6% nucleotide identities for the coat protein gene of SPFMV and SPVG, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis divided SPFMV isolates into groups RC, O and C, and SPGV isolates into groups CH and CH2. The information presented in this study is useful for the development of engineered resistance to local virus strains in sweet potato.
41997980|Virus diseases are the major cause of economic losses in commercial cucurbit production in Lebanon. Besides mosaic inducing viruses, which have been noted for several years, greenhouse-grown cucumber and melon were often observed with severe yellowing symptoms that started as interveinal mottle on the older leaves and developed into severe yellowing symptoms as the leaves became older. The incidence, in fall crops reached up to 100% in several locations along the Lebanese coast. The presence of Cucurbit yellow stunting disorder Crinivirus (CYSDV) was confirmed by the following tests: transmission by Bemisia tabaci to cucumber, melon and squash but not to lettuce or to Physalis floridana; presence in infected plants of two dsRNAs of about 8 and 9 kbp similar to those reported for criniviruses; observation of a few flexuous particles in leaf dip preparations; cytological alterations observed in infected plants, typical for Crinivirus and Closterovirus infections; and amplification by RT-PCR, using CYSDV-specific primers, of a DNA fragment that showed 99% nucleotide sequence identity with that of a CYSDV isolate from Spain. This is the first report of CYSDV in Lebanon.
41999023|In many European countries different species of symptomless ornamental plants were found to be infected by pospiviroids, including Potato spindle tuber viroid (PSTVd), a quarantine pathogen. In order to investigate the pospiviroid status of ornamental plants in Italy, a survey was carried out in 2009 and 2010. A total of 111 ornamental plants belonging to nine different solanaceous genera were analyzed. Forty-eight plants were found infected by three pospiviroids. PSTVd was identified in Solarium jasminoides and for the first time in Cestrum spp., Citrus exocortis viroid was found for the first time in Lycianthes rantonnetii and Cestrum spp. and Tomato apical stunt viroid in S. jasminoides. The latter represents the first record of this viroid in Italy. All the pospiviroid isolates detected were characterized molecularly.
41998004|Amplification of ribosomal phytoplasma DNA by direct or nested PCR and stolbur-specific primers, followed by restriction length polymorphism analysis were used to detect and identify stolbur phytoplasmas in symptomatic alfalfa, celery, field bindweed, grapevine, olive and tomato plant samples from different regions of Italy. Alfalfa appears to be a new host for this phytoplasma. All isolates showed RFLP patterns indistinguishable from one another and from the one of the Serbian reference isolate from pepper. In Southern hybridization experiments, EcoBI and Hindlll restricted DNAs from stolbur-infected herbaceous hosts hybridized with two riboprobes from random-cloned chromosomal DNA fragments of a Sardinian stolbur isolate from tomato, yielding more or less complex patterns. None of the probes hybridized with DNAs from stolbur-unrelated phytoplasma infected or healthy plants or olives known to harbour stolbur phytoplasma. With one of the probes, two types of molecular hybridization profiles were detected among stolbur-infected samples. Based on the nucleotide sequence of this probe, a new non-ribosomal primer pair was designed. These primers amplified a stolbur-specific fragment of 720 bp from stolbur-infected samples, but not from symptomatic olives, healthy plants or plants infected with unrelated phytoplasmas. To verify whether absence of amplified fragments in gels was due to lack of priming or to undetectably low amplification of stolbur DNA, negative PCR products were tested in hybridization assays with the primers parental probe. Positive hybridization signals were obtained with such samples but not with products from healthy DNAs or negative PCR controls. The same probe was also used to detect stolbur DNA on membranes printed with tissues from field-infected tomato plants or from glasshouse-maintaned stolbur-infected periwinkles or young asymptomatic tomato seedlings grafted with infected field material.
24332027|This study was conducted to investigate for the first time the genetic variability among Hungarian isolates of P. teres f. teres, the causal agent of the net form of net blotch of barley. A total of 68 monoconidial isolates were tested for mating type (MAT) and RAPD profiles using a MAT-specific PCR assay and 30 random decamer primers, respectively. Isolates were derived from symptomatic leaves of barley sampled in commercial fields and experimental plots of four geographical regions from 2006-2010. In total, 29 MAT1 and 39 MAT2 cultures were identified. Both mating types were found on different spatial scales, i.e. the same leaf, the same field or geographical region, and across several years, indicating the potential for sexual reproduction. Of the 188 distinct RAPD bands 171 were polymorphic. All isolates exhibited unique RAPD patterns. UPGMA clustering revealed four main isolate groups, but no general correlation between clusters and mating type or geographical origin of the isolates was detected. Nei's gene diversity analysis showed that genetic diversity within sampling units accounted for most of the total genetic diversity, while that between sampling units represented a small proportion of the total diversity. Genetic differentiation was not observed between MAT1 and MAT2 isolates. Although a low level of allelic differentiation was obtained according to field type (commercial vs. experimental) and geographical origin of the isolates, both UPGMA clustering of multilocus RAPD haplotypes and Nei's gene diversity analysis supported the view that seasonal changes had the greatest effect on the genetic divergence of isolates.
24332020|Bacterial canker (Xanthomonas campestris pv. viticola) (Xcv) is the most important disease of grapevine in northeast of Brazil. The survival of Xcv2Rif was evaluated from 0 to 42 h following the dipping of the harvest shears in a pathogen suspension. An in vitro test of Xcv sensitivity to sanitizing agents and initial tests on shears were performed with dodecyl dimethyl ammonium chloride (1,140 ppm), benzalkonium chloride (245 ppm), sodium dichloroisocyanurate (16.2 ppm), sodium hypochlorite (20,000 ppm), calcium hypochlorite (130 ppm), calcium oxychloride (97,500 ppm) and chlorine dioxide (41 ppm). The ability of dodecyl dimethyl ammonium chloride (1,140 ppm) and sodium hypochlorite (20,000 ppm) to disinfect shears was tested with 50 sequential cuts on vine leaves. The maintenance of the efficacy of the sanitizing agents was tested between 0 and 8 h following solution preparation. The ability of five sanitizing agents to disinfect Xcv-contaminated water was also tested. Xcv survived for 24 on harvest shears. Sodium hypochlorite and dodecyl dimethyl ammonium chloride presented the largest growth inhibition zones to four Xcv isolates and were 100% effective in disinfecting contaminated harvest shears. These two sanitizing agents maintained their efficacy for 8 h. Xcv was spread by contaminated harvest shears until the 24th cut, in average. Water disinfection was successfully achieved with dodecyl dimethyl ammonium chloride (570 ppm), sodium hypochlorite (5,000 ppm) and benzalkonium chloride (122.5 ppm).
41998586|Declining cv. Pinot noir clone 23 plants on 3309 Couderc rootstock were observed in different vineyards in California exhibiting severe stunting, solid red leaves and rootstocks with stem necrosis-distortion. High molecular weight dsRNA of ca. 8.7 kbp was extracted from symptomatic vines, used as a template for cDNA libraries construction and sequencing and identified as a new strain of Grapevine rupestris stem pitting-associated virus designated as Pinot noir strain (GRSPaV-PN). Molecular characterization of GRSPaV-PN genome revealed that the complete nucleotide sequence was composed of 8,724 nt, excluding the poly-A tail. This strain shared nucleotide identity of 76% to 78% with other GRSPaV sequences present in the GenBank. Its genome organization included six open reading frames where its replicase gene had 76% and 85% nucleotide and deduced amino acid identities, respectively, to other GRSPaV sequences. The coat protein gene was the most conserved with nucleotide and amino acid identities of 81-88% and 91.8-95%, respectively. Limited field survey revealed that GRSPaV-PN was present mainly in Pinot noir clone 23. However, the causal nature of GRSPaV-PN and 3309C stem necrosis-distortion is not known.
41998080|Dispersal of Fusarium macroconidia was studied using a volumetric spore sampler that sampled air in winter wheat crops, with a natural Fusarium inoculum. The spore sampler was operated over a 3-week period around wheat flowering, between 1994 and 1997; in these years head blight ranged from traces to about 100% of spikes affected. The numbers of spores per m air were counted and related to the meteorological conditions. An association was found between rainfall and peaks of the macroconidia sampled from the air. In particular, no or a very few conidia were sampled from the air before rainfall, but their number progressively increased during rainfall; in the presence of high humidity, conidia continued to be sampled at high densities for some hours after rain had ceased and they usually reached their peak under these conditions. Finally, density of the airborne conidia rapidly decreased when relative humidity dropped. Two regression equations were found, which accounted for the effect of meteorological conditions on the number of airborne macroconidia, in rainy (at least 0.2 mm rain) and non rainy days. These equations produced an accurate estimate of the dynamics of airborne conidia over the sampling season; they included average air temperature, amount and intensity of rainfall on the preceding day, and number of hours with high relative humidity (> 80%). In the first equation, an empirical weight accounting for the pattern of airborne conidia over a sequence of rainy days was also included.
41999054|The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of incorporation of neem (Azadirachta indica) leaves into the soil for controlling bacterial wilt of tomato caused by Ralstonia solanacearum. The experiment was conducted in a greenhouse of the State University of Maranho (Brazil). Dry and fresh neem leaves were incorporated in the soil in different amounts (0, 20, 40, 60, 80 and 100 g) and kept in it for different periods of time (0, 15, 30, 45 and 60 days). After each of these periods, seedlings inoculated with R. solanacearum were transplanted in the amended soil. Results showed positive effects in the disease control by incorporating neem leaves, with a reduction of wilting symptoms up to 100% with dry leaves and 78% with fresh leaves.
41998948|The expression analysis of the four polygalacturonase-inhibiting protein (Pgip) genes composing the bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) Pgip family showed a pattern of transcriptional variation in young leaves, hypocotyls, roots and pods with Pvpgip1 not expressed, Pvpgip2 expressed in all organs, Pvpgip3 and Pvpgip4 poorly expressed in roots. We compared also transcript accumulation of the four Pvpgip genes during infection of bean plants with the fungal pathogens Botrytis cinerea, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum and Colletotrichum lindemuthianum. qRT-PCR analyses showed that the transcript level of Pvpgip1, Pvpgip2 and Pvpgip3 increases significantly following fungal infection, whereas Pvpgip4 remains unchanged. The level of induction was different between the three genes, Pvpgip2 exhibiting the strongest transcript accumulation. The induction pattern was similar in the pathosystems bean-S. sclerotiorum, bean-B. cinerea, and in the compatible interaction bean-C. lindemuthianum, with a maximum of transcript accumulation in the late stage of infection. Instead, in the incompatible interaction bean-C lindemuthianum, Pvpgip1, Pvpgip2 and Pvpgip3 showed an early and transient transcript accumulation, with Pvpgip2 exhibiting an earlier and higher induction. These results extend previous analyses of the whole Pvpgip transcript and provide additional evidences of the relevant role of PvPGIP2 in plant defence.
41998366|Five oases affected by "brittle leaf disease", or "maladie des feuilles cassantes" (MFC) of date palms, and one healthy oasis were chosen in the southern part of Tunisia for mineral analyses of leaflets from adult and juvenile palms, as well as of the soils surrounding the palm trees. In the MFC-affected oases, the following trees were selected: apparently healthy trees (AH), and trees with mild (DS1), moderate (DS2), and severe (DS3) symptoms. Healthy trees (H) were selected in the healthy oasis. Groups of three trees of each category were selected, and the soils from the three trees of each group were mixed. Manganese was the only element for which significant differences were seen between adult leaflets from healthy trees and those from MFC-affected trees. The adult leaflets from the healthy trees (H) had the highest Mn content whereas leaflets from the symptomatic trees DS1, DS2, and DS3 had the lowest Mn contents with values significantly smaller than those for leaflets from H and AH trees. Most trees were growing in soils with a content of exchangeable Mn of around 3 mg/kg or lower, regardless of their disease status. However, the trees of one MFC-affected oasis were growing in soils with a content of exchangeable Mn of around 4.5 mg/kg or higher, regardless of their disease status. From these observations, it is inferred that MFC is apparently not related to the content of exchangeable Mn in the soils of the oases studied, but is inversely correlated with the Mn content in the leaves. The soils of the oases studied were alkaline, with conditions that favour formation of insoluble Mn compounds and therefore render the element unavailable to palm trees. Leaflets from MFC-affected palm trees have been shown to contain MFC-specific RNAs (MFC-RNAs). Dot-blot hybridization analysis, using a bifunctional DNA probe that detects the MFC-RNAs, gave positive signals with all preparations from adult symptomatic leaflets collected from DS trees in the affected oases. Some AH trees also gave positive signals, confirming that these symptomless trees are only apparently healthy. No hybridization signals were observed with preparations from symptomless leaflets collected healthy oasis (H) or from the Germplasm Bank of Degache where the disease has never been observed.
41998873|Sugar beet plants with typical rhizomania symptoms were collected from the five major cultivation zones of Greece. The presence of Beet necrotic yellow vein virus (BNYW), the primary causal agent of the disease, was ascertained by DAS-ELISA in 38 out of 40 fields surveyed and the positive samples were subsequently examined for the presence of other soil-borne viruses which are frequently associated with rhizomania, using a multiplex RT-PCR assay targeting BNYW, Beet soilhome virus (BSBV) and Beet virus Q (BVQ). The occurrence of BSBV and BVQ was confirmed in 9 and 23 rhizomania-infected fields, respectively. In contrast to surveys conducted in other countries, the presence of BVQ prevailed throughout Greece in dual infections with BNYW, whereas BSBV was restricted to rhizomaniainfected fields from only two sugarbeet cultivation areas. Nine of the samples tested were infected with all three viruses. BSBV was always found in triple infections. To our knowledge, this is the first report of BSBV and BVQ in Greece. The future assessment of the impact of each of these viruses on sugarbeet could prove significant for breeding objectives in terms of achieving a more durable resistance to the rhizomania syndrome.
23721575|A promoter was cloned from Ustilaginoidea virens, a rice false smut fungus. A U. virens mutant library was constructed using a promoter-trapping vector harboring the enhanced green fluorescent protein (egfp) as reporter. Six transformants emitting green fluorescence were screened from 6,500 transformants. One transformant, A880-1, which grew slower and generated more conidia, was chosen for further studies. The insertion of T-DNA in A880-1 was validated by PCR, and the copy number was defined by Southern blot analysis. High-efficiency thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR (hi-TAIL PCR) yielded a 2,038 bp long sequence cloned from genome DNA of A880-1, this sequence being upstream of egfp in T-DNA. The 1,045 bp long upstream region of egfp was used for analysis. This sequence consisted of a CAAT-box, a TATA-box, three TATA-box-like structures, and four other potential eukaryotic regulator elements. This promoter, designated as puv880 (GenBank accession No. KC355189), was the first promoter isolated from U. virens. Four different constructs carrying different 5' deletions of this promoter, along with the downstream egfp sequence, were obtained and transformed into Magnaporthe oryzae strain Guy11 through PEG-mediated transformation to identify the smallest functional promoter region of puv880. All constructs exhibited promoter activity, and the smallest deletion was no more than 444 bp in size. Compared with the wild-type strain 70-22, the growth of A880-1 was slower and produced more conidia at the terminal of hyphae on minimal medium. Studying puv880 can facilitate the understanding of the conidiation and mycelium growth of U. virens.
41998497|Rice grain discolouration has a complex etiology and cannot be diagnosed prior to harvest. In Italy, the disease was thought to be associated with fungal infections, however several studies contradicted this hypothesis. We report the distribution of grain discolouration, the most susceptible Italian rice varieties, and the effects of epidemics of brown spot, induced by Cochliobolus miyabeanus, and abiotic factors, such as incidence of grains with open glumes, chemical treatments, nitrogen fertilization, and time of sowing, on disease incidence over three years. Among 39 heavily diseased rice lots, the early cvs Selenio and Loto were the most susceptible. We did not find any significant correlation between incidence of grain discolouration and incidence of brown spot. In contrast, incidence of discoloured grains was weakly correlated with incidence of grains with open glumes (r = 0.521 P = 0.001), while incidence of brown spot was better correlated with incidence of grains with sealed glumes (r = 0.570, P < 0.001) than to incidence of grains with open glumes (r = 0.355, P = 0.026). On susceptible cv. Selenio, percent of grains with open glumes varied among years, but increased significantly from milk dough stage to fully ripe maturation of kernels (P < 0.001). The highest percent of grains with open glumes was found for late-sown rice. However, late sowing reduced significantly (P < 0.001) the incidence of grain discolouration, whereas chemical and fungicide treatments had no significant effect. We speculate that grain discolouration may have a bacterial rather than a fungal aetiology.
23721756|Citrus tristeza virus (CTV), one of the most serious pathogens affecting Rutaceae species, causes considerable economic losses to citrus production worldwide. While mild pathotypes have been known for many years in Jamaica, decline outbreaks were only recently recognized after the introduction of the vector Toxoptera citricidus in 1993. In this study, coat protein (CP) gene sequences of isolates from four major citrus-growing regions in Jamaica were obtained and their molecular diversity compared with reference CTV genotypes from other regions. CP sequences from Jamaican isolates showed identities between 90 to 100% at the nucleotide level and shared similar identities with comparable sequences reported for other Jamaican isolates in 2009 and 2010. Phylogenetic analysis revealed segregation into five of seven lineages. One third of the Jamaican isolates clustered with Florida-T30 and Spain-T385 genotypes, with 99 to 100% identity within the lineage. The remaining isolates grouped closely with Florida T36-like genotypes or with the grapefruit and orange stem pitting B249 from Venezuela and the New Zealand CTV-resistance breaking genotypes. Identities among these groups ranged between 91 and 99%. The detection of genetic variants and potential recombination events involving parents from different lineages provide further evidence of the diversity among Jamaican CTV isolates.
41998418|Fifty-six isolates of Pyrenophora graminea, the causal agent of barley leaf stripe disease, were collected from different sites in Syria and analyzed using restriction digestion of PCR-amplified internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of ribosomal DNA. A total of 594 bands were scored of which 453 (76.3%) were polymorphic. The fingerprints generated from the six restriction digestions of the nrDNA ITS region showed high levels of intraspecific variation within the P. graminea population. A neighbour-joining diagram, based on Nei's genetic distances, showed that isolates formed two phylogenetic groups, and did not fall into clusters or clades specific to the origin or colour of the isolate, which suggests a regional dispersal of P. graminea. The molecular parameter used in this study provides crucial information for studying genetic variation in P. gramnea and provides important information for future selection of isolates to develop durable barley leaf stripe resistance.
24332035|The complete genomic sequences of Watermelon mosaic virus (WMV) of a Chinese isolate (WMV-CHN) and a Shaanxi isolate (WMV-Shaanxi) were each determined from 10 overlapping fragments. Excluding the poly(A) tail, the genomes of the two isolates were 10,037 and 10,046 nucleotides in length and contained one single open reading frame of 9,651 and 9,657 nucleotides, respectively. The identity frequencies between the two complete genomes were 96.5% at the nt level and 98.5% at the amino acid level. The two complete genomic sequences shared 89.7-94.8% identity with other characterized WMV isolates at the nucleotide level and 94.6 to 97.1% at the amino acid level.
41998168|Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) is a naturally occurring virus that infects several crops in Brazil, although its economic and epidemiological impact has not been fully characterized. Samples of different host plant species from different regions of Brazil, including passion-fruit, sweet-pepper, black-pepper, Peperomia, melon, squash, tomato, pea, water-cress, zingiber, banana and Commelina sp., showing foliar symptoms of mosaic, deformations and chlorotic ringspots that resemble those induced by CMV, were collected for biological, serological and molecular analysis. DAS-ELISA, RT-PCR/RFLP, sequencing and phylogenetic analysis were used to characterize the isolates. Nicotiana glutinosa plants, that showed foliar mosaic after inoculation with extracts from the samples collected, were submitted to DAS-ELISA and total RNA extraction. RT-PCR, with specific primers for the 3' end of RNA 3 and part of the coat protein gene, yielded 486-499 base pair DNA fragments that were characterized by RFLP. ELISA and RT-PCR/RFLP results showed the isolates belong to CMV subgroup I. These results were confirmed by the sequences of the RT-PCR products, which were 92 to 99% identical to those of subgroup I CMV isolates. The multiple sequence alignment of the nucleotides and the translated amino acid sequences of these and other CMV strains, and phylogenetic analyses revealed three distinct clusters. Most of the Brazilian CMV isolates were closely related among themselves and clustered with other CMV subgroup IA isolates. One CMV isolate clustered together with CMV subgroup IB isolates. These results indicate the prevalence of the CMV subgroup I in Brazil.
41998494|The fungus Rhynchosporium secalis is the causal agent of barley scald disease. Sixty-three isolates of diverse geographical origin within Syria were analyzed for pathogenicity and variability of genomic DNA through random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. The isolates were highly variable and 18 unique haplotypes were identified. A neighbour-joining diagram, based on Nei's genetic distances, showed that isolates formed three phylogenetic groups, and did not fall into clusters linked with geographical origin or pathogenicity, which suggests a regional dispersal of the fungus. However, most isolates with different pathogenicity levels were in the same clusters. The information obtained from this study is crucial for studying genetic variation in R. secalis and is important for future selection of isolates to develop durable barley scald resistance.
41998092|Apple scar skin viroid (ASSVd), Pear blister canker viroid (PBCVd), and Apple dimple fruit viroid (ADFVd) are widely distributed and economically important pome fruit viroids, all belonging to genus Apscaviroid. For a rapid and efficient detection method of these viroids, we have developed a one-tube RT-PCR protocol that amplifies simultaneously ASSVd, PBCVd and ADFVd from their respective hosts. Multiple alignment and comparison of the nucleotide sequences of ASSVd, PBCVd and ADFVd allowed us to select a conserved region and design a primer pair for their polyvalent amplification in a single RT-PCR reaction. These newly designed primers amplify a specific DNA fragment which contains a major portion of each viroid: ASSVd 267 bp, PBCVd 261 bp and ADFVd 252 bp. The development of this RT-PCR protocol enabled us to identify different isolates of the three viroids and to evaluate their distribution in cultivated and wild pome fruit germplasm.
41998820|Ralstonia solanacearum race 3 biovar 2 (phylotype II) is the causal agent of bacterial wilt of tomato, the most destructive bacterial disease of this crop in Ethiopia for which no effective control measures are available. In this study, the effects of amending topsoil with three different levels (1, 5 and 10%) of cocopeat, farmyard manure (FYM) compost and green compost, and two levels of bacterial inoculations were tested on infection of tomato by R. solanacearum compared to non-inoculated treatments. Non-amended topsoil with and without R. solanacearum were included as control treatments. Survival of and infection by R. solanacearum and yield-associated agronomic responses were used for evaluation along with physico-chemical and biological characteristics of amended soils. Amendments resulted in changes in physico-chemical properties (such as electrical conductivity, organic matter content, total carbon, dissolved organic carbon, NH, NO) and microbial activity of the amended soil and the effects were found to be higher at the higher rate of application. Effects on disease suppression and survival of the pathogen in the soil differed depending on amendment type and application rate. Higher disease severity was recorded in soil amended with 10% green compost compared to the control treatment. Complete suppression of R. solanacearum was observed in pots amended with 5 and 10% farm yard manure (FYM), 1% green compost and 10% cocopeat. Absence of disease at the highest rate of FYM was supported by a lower number of culturable R. solanacearum bacteria recovered from rhizosphere soil two months post-inoculation in soil amended with 10% FYM. Soil amended with 10% FYM gave higher root and above-ground dry weight. Moreover, FYM added to topsoil at 5 and 10% gave significantly higher above-ground fresh weight. This study indicated that amending topsoil with different types and rates of amendment can suppress bacterial wilt severity and pathogen survival in the soil. Amendments also enhanced tomato yield, the higher rates of amendments being the most effective except green compost at 10% which gave a 27% lower yield compared with the higher rate of FYM. Among the amendments tested, FYM at 5 or 10% would be an interesting option to manage R. solanacearum in the major tomato-growing regions of Ethiopia. However, the mechanisms of disease suppression at higher rates of FYM need to be investigated.
41998218|Nine Tunisian isolates of Potato lea/roll virus (PLRV) were collected from potato plants (cv Spunta) with similar secondary leaf roll symptoms. These PLRV isolates were readily transmitted by Myzus persicae (Sulzer) from potato plants to Physalis floridana test plants inducing symptoms of differing severities. In order to investigate the genetic variability between the PLRV isolates, the ORF0 regions of the Tunisian PLRV isolates were sequenced and compared with that of a French isolate (Fr5) that induces mild symptoms and 24 ORF0 PLRV sequences available in Genbank. The Tunisian isolates could be classified in two of the three groupings of the phylogenetic tree obtained. A tentative correlation between symptom expression in P. floridana and specific changes in the ORF0 sequences is discussed.
41998312|Two non mechanically transmissible viruses with filamentous closterovirus-like particles were extracted and partially characterized from leafroll-affected grapevine accessions of cv Koussan from Turkey (Y253) and cv Koudsi from Israel (Y252), both from the reference collection of grapevine viruses and virus-like diseases at the Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique (INRA) in Colmar, France. These viruses, denoted Y253-TK and Y252-IL, were independently investigated in France (INRA-Colmar) and Italy (DPPMA). Y253-TK did not react in DAS-ELISA or RT-PCR assays that would have detected any of the Grapevine leafroll-associated viruses (GLRaVs) described so far; Y252-IL did give weak and inconsistent positive reactions in IEM only with an antiserum to strain LR106 of Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 4 (GLRaV-4). A polyclonal antiserum to isolate Y252-IL decorated the homologous particles and, those of Y253-TK and, at lower dilution, particles of isolate GLRaV-4 LR106. A segment of the heat shock protein p70 homologue (HSP70h) gene, was amplified by RT-PCR of RNA from denatured purified particles of Y253-TK by using a set of degenerate primers. The 183 amino acid polypeptide deduced from the 549 bp HSP70h gene fragment showed a high degree of identity with the cognate genes of GLRaV-4 (95%), GLRaV-5 (91%), GLRaV-6 (84%), and GLRaV-9 (90%), but low identity with those of other GLRaVs (33-35%). The HSP70h of isolates Y252-IL and LR106 showed 95% amino acid identity. The coat protein sequence of isolates Y253-TK showed 99 and 94% amino acid identity with those of isolates Y252-IL and LR106, respectively, with changes concentrated in the N-terminus, a feature that might have a bearing on the reaction with their heterologous antisera. Based on serological and molecular data, it was concluded that Y253-TK and Y252-IL are distinct, though similar, isolates of GLRaV-4. In two independent surveys in which 110 and 320 grapevine accessions from germplasm collections at Colmar and Bari, respectively, were examined by DAS-ELISA, the antisera As-Y253-TK and As-Y252-IL cross-reacted with the homologous and heterologous viruses. Whereas As-Y253-TK did not react with any of the other accessions from the French collection tested, As-Y252-IL recognized a virus present in a total of eight grapevine accessions from the Mediterranean area, grown in the Italian germplasm collection.
41998207|We have used a one-step RT-PCR protocol to detect and identify each of the eight viruses most commonly found in olive trees namely: Arabis mosaic virus (Ar-MV), Cherry leaf roll virus (CLRV), Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV), Olive leaf yellowing associated virus (OLYaV), Olive latent ring spot virus (OLRSV), Olive latent virus-1 (OLV-1), Olive latent virusa (OLV-2), and Strawberry latent ring spot virus (SLRSV). We have assayed 345 samples collected from olive fields in Italian areas in which national and local olive tree cultivars and selections are grown. The average percentage virus infection of olive trees was 32.8%. Among the eight viruses assayed, only OLYaV (20.9%), SLRSV (7.8%) and CLRV (4.9%) were detected. The most common virus was OLYaV, which was found at a high percentage in southern Italy. SLRSV was the main virus in central Italy whereas CLRV was detected in five samples from Latium, Umbra and Sicily and in all analyzed trees from Abruzzo.
41998572|Esca is a devastating disease of grapevines involving xylem-inhabiting fungi. Among these, Phaeomoniella chlamydospora and Phaeoacremonium aleophilum are considered as the causal agents. We show that they present different structural features and act on plant cells by very different mechanisms. Their sensitivity to temperature differed, with optimum growth rates for P. chlamydospora at 25C, and for P. aleophilum at 30C. Low temperatures (5C) applied over a long period (40 days) did not affect the viability of either fungus, whereas high temperatures (35C for P. chlamydospora and 40C for P. aleophilum) rapidly suppressed their growth. Alkaline pH, which reduced mycelial growth, increased the formation of conidia in P. chlamydospora, whereas the same effect was observed for acidic pH in P. aleophilum. Unlike P. chlamydospora, P. aleophilum penetrated the lignified walls in host xylem cells degrading the hemicellulose, cellulose and lignin components. However, the deleterious effect of these two fungi cannot explain all the observed wood-degrading processes occurring during esca disease. These agents may facilitate the access of opportunistic saprophytes whose mode of action should now be investigated.
23721585|Potato (Solanum tuberosum subsp. tuberosum) alterations characterized by severe necrosis of vascular rings and adjacent flesh were observed in potato cv. Vivaldi in Emilia Romagna (northern Italy). The presence of Eggplant mottled dwarf virus (EMDV) was demonstrated in diseased plants by bioassays, electron microscopy, serology and RT-PCR. Symptoms similar to those observed in cv. Vivaldi were observed in other potato cultivars and areas of central and southern Italy. This is the first report of natural occurrence of EMDV in potato in Italy.
41998960|A diagrammatic scale for the evaluation of anthracnose severity on sweet-pepper fruits, intended for epidemiological field studies was developed. One hundred symptomatic fruits were collected, photographed, and the images were digitally processed to quantify the percentage diseased area of one half of the fruit surface. Anthracnose symptoms ranged from apparently sound, healthy fruits, to fruits displaying more than 90% diseased area. Fruits were separated into nine classes, from class 0 (0% diseased area, sound fruits) to class 8 (81% or more diseased area), roughly following Horsfall and Barratt (1945) midpoint values. Validation was done with additional images of naturally-infected fruits, collected from a grower's field, presented to 12 raters, half of them experienced and the other half relatively inexperienced. Evaluators' subjective ratings, with and without use of the scale, were compared statistically to the actual severity values (calculated by Quant R software) by linear regression analysis, and the variance of absolute errors. The t-test was applied to check the null hypotheses of linear coefficient = 0 and angular coefficient b = 1. Use of the scale consistently improved accuracy and precision of all raters, bringing scores close to the real severity values. In addition, the scale proved easy to use in field experiments, allowing sequential evaluations in the same plots and fruits, as needed in temporal dynamic studies, and avoiding destructive sampling of infected fruit.
41992433|Flavescence dore (FD) of grapevine is a serious disease caused by phytoplasmas. Currently available protocols for phytoplasma detection in grapevine are complex and time consuming. This work reports the results of a real-time PCR assay (TaqMan) for detecting phytoplasmas in grapevines affected by FD. We obtained specific detection in samples from seven FD-affected grapevines. This method gave no signal with phytoplasmas associated with another grapevine disease (Bois noir) or with eleven reference phytoplasma strains grown in periwinkle. We propose Real-time PCR as an alternative and rapid method for the detection of phytoplasmas in grapevine.
23721525|Maize white spot disease (MWSD) has become most important in Brazil. With this study the susceptible maize hybrid DAS657 was artificially inoculated under greenhouse conditions with the bacterium Pantoea ananatis and the fungus Phaeosphaeria maydis, the two most likely candidate etiological agents of MWSD. Plants inoculated with P. ananatis reproduced the symptoms typical of MWSD, while several attempts to fulfill Koch's postulates with P. maydis failed. The epidemiological variables associated with maize resistance to MWSD was assessed with eight simple hybrids, one double hybrid, one triple hybrid and five inbred lines evaluated in two trials in a randomized block design with three replicates in two planting times. The area under disease progress curve (AUDPC) and disease severity at the end of the epidemic (Ymax) were the epidemiological variables that better differentiated maize genotypes resistant to MWSD. One inbred line and three simple hybrids were highly resistant. Two inbred lines were identified as new sources of resistance and may be used in maize breeding programs.
41998335|To increase our understanding of the mechanisms of insect-transmission of begomoviruses we studied the distribution of coat protein (CP) and DNA of Tomato yellow leaf curl Sardinia virus (TYLCSV) in its insect vector (Bemisia tabaci), and in tomato plants (Lycopersicon esculentum). The study was extended to other begomoviruses and a potential overwintering host plant for TYLCSV, black nightshade (Solanum nigrum). Immunogold labelling (IGL) showed that a polyclonal antiserum against the coat protein of African cassava mosaic virus (ACMV) (ACMV-CP-As) cross-absorbed with healthy plant and insect tissue, cross-reacted specifically with both homologous (ACMV, non-transmissible isolate), and heterologous [(TYLCSV and Asystasia golden mosaic virus, (AGMV)] viruses. ACMV-CP-As revealed that TYLCSV is located in mature and immature sieve elements, the nuclei of the companion cells, and the cytoplasm of the phloem parenchyma cells of L. esculentum and S. nigrum, with a similar pattern of distribution in both species. In situ DNA-hybridization (ISH) using a specific TYLCSV-DNA-probe showed that the TYLCSV-DNA occurred mainly in the vascular tissues of stems and roots of S. nigrum. In some leaves the infection spread to the palisade parenchyma, confirming that the DNA of the virus is not phloem-restricted in this host. IGL of viruliferous B. tabaci detected both TYLCSV and AGMV in cells of the filter chamber, whereas the non-transmissible isolate of ACMV was detected only in the lumen of the insect gut. No labelling was obtained in non-viruliferous individuals of B. tabaci. The antiserum labelled, for the first time, the primary glands of the salivary gland system of TYLCSV-viruliferous B. tabaci, suggesting that the circulative pathway of TYLCSV can be completed as intact virions.
41998492|Plants have developed numerous approaches to resist infection by viruses. On the other hand, in many instances viruses have evolved to overcome these various resistance responses and barriers. The extent to which viruses can overcome some or all of these responses and barriers determines the extent to which they are able to colonize plants of a given genotype or species. Resistance against plant viruses occurs at different levels and by various mechanisms, most of which largely remain uncharacterized. Here, we will consider these various levels of resistance, as well as the types of resistance responses, the isolated genes involved in resistance, the signalling pathways that have been described, and the various resistance factors that have been implicated in resistance to specific viruses.
41998305|The effects of three tillage techniques (minimum tillage [chisel ploughing], and mouldboard ploughing to a depth of 25 and 50 cm) and four 2-year crop rotations (continuous wheat, wheat/barley, wheat/sugarbeet and wheat/fallow) on the foot and root disease complex of durum wheat were studied from 1999 to 2001 in an experimental field at the Bologna University farm. Brown foot rot (BFR) caused by Fusarium species and Bipolaris sorokiniana, and eyespot caused by Oculimacula spp. were the major components of the foot and root disease complex. Ploughing was significantly more effective than chiselling in controlling eyespot disease over the whole period of observation, whereas ploughing significantly reduced BFR only in 1999 when the incidence of the disease was the highest. Wheat/sugar-beet was generally less favourable for development of the foot and root disease complex than the other rotations tested. The effects of tillage techniques and crop rotations on disease were year-dependent. A more detailed analysis carried out in 2000 to evaluate the effect cultural practices on fungi associated with brown foot rot disease, indicated that F. culmorum was predominant with minimum tillage and scarce in ploughing, whereas B. sorokiniana was predominant in plots that were ploughed.
24722538|Deoxynivalenol and its acetylated derivatives (3-AcDON and 15-AcDON) as inhibitors of eukaryotic protein synthesis are the most important group of mycotoxins produced by Fusarium head blight (FHB). In this survey, 162 wheat samples from north Iran (Golestan province) have been analyzed for the occurrence of DON, 3-AcDON and 15-AcDON using HPLC/UV method. Samples were classified according to place, year of harvest (2011 and 2012) and wheat cultivar. Results have shown that 79% of the samples were co-contaminated with one or more trichothecene toxins including DON, 3-AcDON and 15-AcDON. From 162 samples, 74%, 35.8% and 48.7 % showed DON, 3-AcDON and 15-AcDON contamination, respectively, ranging from 150.7-1650.5 g kg, 10.2-320.4 g kg and 10.3-550.3 g kg. In all samples, the maximum DON levels were below the maximum permitted thresholds established by the EU. Non-parametric statistical studies revealed that significant differences existed between the results from the two harvests for DON, 3-AcDON and 15-AcDON. It was also demonstrated that Shiroodi, the favorite cultivar of the flour industry, is probably the most susceptible to contamination with DON among the cultivars investigated.
41998380|A protocol based on API 20E, REP-PCR or Biolog analyses is described for rapid and reliable identification of Brenneria nigrifluens among the bacteria isolated from bark cankers in walnut plants. Bacteria that are soluble in 3% KOH solution (Gram negative), oxidase negative and with oxidative (O) and fermentative (F) metabolism are subjected to API 20E, REP-PCR or Biolog analyses. Isolates that generate a 7-digit code = 0005773 in the API 20E system, a REP-PCR fingerprint or Biolog profile very similar (87-100%) to those of the B. nigrifluens reference strains are assigned to this bacterial species. Using the protocol, we identified 4 isolates of B. nigrifluens among the 28 gram negative isolates (14 with O/F and 14 with metabolism) obtained from bark cankers in walnut plantations on 10 farms in Central Italy. Among the other ten O/F isolates, only 2, assigned to Pectobacterium chrysanthemi, were identified with reliability by Biolog analysis. This analysis also permits identification of isolates with metabolism. A pathogenicity test performed on walnut plants revealed that only the 4 B. nigrifluens isolates provoked bark canker symptoms 3 months after the inoculation. We also found that one isolate of four and the type strain (LMG 2694T) of B. nigrifluens are urease negative, when determined in Dye's medium. Since our data are in contrast with those previously reported, this phenotypic character needs further verification for B. nigrifluens identification.
24331963|In Estonia and Finland, 386 and 671 isolates, respectively, of Phytophthora infestans were collected during the growing seasons of 2001-2007. Collection was from groups of potato cultivars of different origin from field plots at two research institutions in eastern and northern Estonia and from variety trials at two locations and commercial potato fields in Finland. Mating type, pathotype based on virulence on a differential set of 11 R genes of Solanum demissum and response to the fungicide metalaxyl were determined in both countries by comparable methods. The diversity of the P. infestans populations in both countries over the monitoring period was high. In Finland, the proportion of A1/A2 mating types was almost equal throughout the monitoring period, while in Estonia the A1 population, dominating in 2001-2004, shifted towards an equal proportion of both mating types in 2005-2007. The diversity of the P. infestans population, as measured by virulence pathotypes and the number of avirulence factors per isolate, developed in opposite directions in Estonia and Finland from 2001-2004 to 2005-2007: the diversity decreased in Estonia and increased in Finland. Metalaxyl sensitivity in the Estonian P. infestans population increased while in Finland it decreased during the same period. Results clearly show differences between Estonian and Finnish populations of P. infestans in several aspects, which may derive from cropping practices. The high A2 mating type percentage during 2005-2007 in both countries points to soil contamination with oospores.
41998537|Bacillus megaterium isolates were recovered from the green apple aphid, Aphis pomi De Geer, collected from apple trees in the Samsun province of Turkey. The lethality of nine B. megaterium isolates was assayed on A. pomi at 28-30C. The isolates caused between 92% and 100% mortality within one week, with no significant differences amongst them. In contrast, there was a significant difference between all isolates and the control at P<0.05. The highest death rate (100%) was induced by the bacterial isolate No. 23 (Bmin23). After bacterial application on A. pomi, there was a slowing down of movement, cessation of feeding and development of a brown-black discoloration in diseased aphids within three days. Death followed within five days.
41998005|Olive trees (51 adult plants and 13 seedlings from different Italian regions) showing yellowing, shortening of internodes, witches' broom, bud abortion, little leaf, hypertrophied inflorescences, decline and fasciation symptoms were tested for the presence of phytoplasmas. DNAs extracted from leaf veins were amplified in reactions assisted by universal or group-specific primer pairs constructed on 16S rRNA phytoplasma sequences and analyzed by restriction with five different enzymes. Phytoplasmas, identified as members of 16Sr-IB, -V, and -XIIA groups (Lee et al, 1998) on the basis of their RFLP patterns, were detected from 34 samples (53.0%). Of these, 24 (ca 68.0%) carried a single phytoplasma [21 members of subgroup IB (87.5 %), one (4.0%) XIIA, and two (ca 8.0%) V]. Seven samples (20.5%) carried two different organisms (IB and XIIA subgroups members) and 3 (ca 9.0%) carried phytoplasmas of all three subgroups here identified. In addition, a IB subgroup member was detected in one symptomless adult tree. It appears that these phytoplasmas are ubiquitous in the areas surveyed, but a clear correlation between a given syndrome and the presence of one or more phytoplasmas did not emerge.
41999053|A survey for viruses was carried out in the main figgrowing areas of the Canary Islands in 2010. A total of 30 samples were collected and checked by RT-PCR for the presence of Fig mosaic virus (FMV), Fig leaf mottleassociated virus 1 (FLMaV-1), Fig leaf mottle-associated virus 2 (FLMaV-2), Fig mild mottling-associated virus (FMMaV) and Fig latent virus 1 (FLV-1) using virusspecific primers. Approximately 90% of the trees were infected by at least one virus, with mixed infections in ca. 67% of the samples. FLMaV-1 and FMV were the prevailing viruses as they were found in 53.3% and 50% of the samples, respectively. Equally significant was the infection rate of the other three viruses investigated. Mosaic symptoms were consistently observed in most FMV-infected fig trees (43%). Few trees with mosaic symptoms (17%), however, were RT-PCR negative for FMV. These trees were mix-infected with most of the other tested viruses.
41997981|A homogeneous group of Rhizoctonia solani isolates from tobacco, which showed intermediate features between anastomosis groups BI and 2-1 (AG-BI and AG-2-1), was recently characterized. It was not conclusively assigned to any previously known AG and was provisionally named 'Nt-isolates'. The rDNA sequence similarity in the ITS1 region of the Nt-isolates was evaluated and a high similarity (> 90%) was found with AG-2-1 tester isolates, while it was remarkably lower with tester isolates from AG-BI and other AG-2 subgroups. Therefore, despite a low anastomosis frequency, Nt-isolates are to be considered members of AG-2-1.
23721566|Species of Calonectria and their cylindrocladium-like asexual morphs are important plant pathogens of agronomic and forestry crops, especially in the tropical and subtropical regions of the world. Calonectria species have been associated with a wide range of disease symptoms on a large number of plant hosts. On horticultural crops, most records of Calonectria species come from the Northern Hemisphere, where they occur mainly in gardens and ornamental nurseries. In Europe and the Mediterranean basin, several species are widespread in nurseries and cause extensive damage to ornamental plants. In the past, identification of species was based on phenotypic characters and sexual compatibility using standardised media. More recently, morphological characteristics, phylogenetic studies (DNA sequence data of the -tubulin, histone H3 and translation elongation factor-1 gene regions) and mating studies have revealed the presence of several cryptic species complexes that were formerly treated as single Calonectria species. These studies resulted in the introduction of several new species. Other studies aimed at understanding environmental sustainability focused attention on soil solarisation and biological control as means for controlling these pathogens. The potential use of biological control agents (BCAs) and chemicals for controlling Calonectria-induced diseases has recently been addressed. In this review we discuss the Calonectria species detected in Europe and the Mediterranean basin, and the disease management strategies. In view of the mandatory implementation of integrated pest management (IPM) for all European countries by 2014, this paper provides basic information as a platform for the adaptation of more sustainable integrated measures to control Calonectria diseases in European nurseries.
41998594|A total of 75 Erwinia amylovora isolates, collected primarily from fire blighted quince (Cydonia oblonga) and pear (Pyrus syriaca and P. communis) shoots, were tested for copper resistance and streptomycin sensitivity. Sixty eight isolates, representing 90.6% of the total were inhibited by 10 g/ml streptomycin and were thus regarded as streptomycin sensitive. On the contrary, three isolates that were not inhibited by 2000 g/ml streptomycin were considered as resistant. Fifteen isolates grew well on casitone yeast extract medium in the presence of 1.2 mM copper sulfate and none survived on the same medium containing 2.4 mM copper sulfate, indicating that most of the Syrian E. amylovora isolates are copper tolerant and could cause severe problems even in copper heavily sprayed orchards. The use of both bactricides in controlling fire blight disease in Syria is discussed.
41998370|Bacterial spot, caused by Xanthomonas axonopodis (syn: campestris) pv. vesicatoria is a widespread disease of processing pepper in Adana and Osmaniye (eastern Mediterranean Turkey). According to our and pepper growers' observations, chemical control by copper compounds has not been effective on the disease in commercial pepper fields for the last three years. Therefore, sensitivities to copper and streptomycin among strains were tested under in vitro conditions. In the summers of 2002-2004, sixty-seven bacterial strains were isolated from diseased pepper plants in the region. The strains were identified as Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. vesicatoria by morphological, physiological and biochemical tests, hypersensitive reaction on tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv. Samsun N), pathogenicity tests on pepper plants (a local cultivar, Bursa Yaglik), das-ELISA and amplification of the 355 bp hrp genes by PCR. Of the 67 strains, all were found to be tolerant to 100 pg ml of cupper sulfate and 7% were resistant to streptomycin (20 pg ml).
41997880|The progress of epidemics caused by non-persistent -ly transmitted viruses depends partly on the efficiency with which the virus can be acquired by aphids from infected plants. To measure the efficiency of a plant as virus source for aphids, the method of immunoprinting was compared to direct acquisition assay by aphids and to semiquantitative ELISA. The distribution of several isolates of plum pox virus (PPV) in the leaves of infected Prunus as measured by immunoprinting using an arbitrary intensity scale was closely correlated with success of acquisition by aphids. There was also a high correlation between the density of immunoprint and PPV titre measured by ELISA. Immunoprinting has several advantages for large scale surveys for it is a quick and sensitive method that can be used in the field revealing the distribution of the virus in the plant tissues, and thus the availability for aphids. Thus, immunoprinting appears well suited to measure the potential of plants as virus sources in field epidemiology. Lo sviluppo delle epidemie policicliche causate da virus trasmessi non persistentemente dipende dall'efficienza con cui il virus puo essere acquisito dagli afidi dalle piante infette. Per misurare l'efficacia di una pianta come sorgente di virus per gli afidi, il metodo dell'immunoimpronta  stato valutato comparativamente con saggi di acquisizione diretta da parte dei vettori e con l'ELISA semiquantitativa. L'immunoimpronta  un metodo che permette Findividuazione del virus nelle impronte ottenute pressando tessuti vegetali sezionati su membrane di nitrocellulosa.  stata cos misurata la distribuzione di diversi isolati del virus della vaiolatura del susino (PPV) nelle foglie di Prunus infette, con immunoimpronte la cui intensit  stata valutata con una scala di valori arbitraria. Una stretta correlazione  stata trovata tra l'intensita delle immunoimpronte delle foglie usate come sorgenti di virus e l'acquisizione del virus stesso da parte degli afidi e tra l'intensit delle immunoimpronte e la concentrazione di PPV misurata con l'ELISA. Il mtodo descritto  vantaggioso per le indagini su larga scala poich  rapido e sensibile, permette di localizzare il virus nei tessuti e quindi la sua disponibilit per gli afidi, puo essere adoperato in campo. Esso  perianto adatto a valutare Fimportanza di una pianta quale sorgente di virus ai fini epidemiologici.
41998646|We tested the transmission efficiency of two genetically divergent isolates of Broad bean wilt virus 1 (BBWV-1), PV-132 from the USA, and Ben from Spain, by two aphid species, Myzus persicae (Sulzer) and Aphis gossypii (Glover) collected in Spain. Efficiency was estimated as the number of infected plants divided by the number of single-aphid-inoculated plants. The two aphid species transmitted the virus isolates with equivalent efficiency, but the transmission rate was significantly higher for isolate Ben than for PV-132. It is hypothesized that the specificity determinants for vector-virus interaction might be similar for M. persicae and A. gossypii, whereas transmission rate could be affected by amino acid differences in the coat proteins of the two isolates.
41998287|To carry out reverse genetics experiments with Pelargonium flower break virus (PFBV), one of the most important viruses affecting Pelargonium spp., cDNA clones were constructed from which RNA transcripts can be synthesized in vitro. Two populations of overlapping RT-PCR products encompassing the complete PFBV RNA were ligated into pUC18 with the T7 RNA polymerase promoter fused to the 5' extremity of the viral cDNA. The RNA transcripts derived from one of the resulting clones were infectious when mechanically inoculated to the experimental host Chenopodium quinoa and to the natural host P. zonale inducing local and systemic infections, respectively. The sequence of the infectious cDNA was almost 98% identical to that determined previously for a Spanish isolate of PFBV. This is the first description of a biologically active PFBV cDNA clone, an essential tool for detailed analyses of the viral genome.
24331972|Pseudomonas syringae pv. actinidiae, the causal agent of bacterial canker of Actinidia chinensis and A. deliciosa, is currently causing severe economic losses worldwide. A study was conducted to verify if a highly virulent Psa strain, isolated during the current outbreaks of bacterial canker of kiwifruit in Italy, produces phytotoxic metabolites in vitro. Culture filtrate, obtained from 14-day-old cells grown in Pseudomonas minimal medium, induced an evident hypersensitivity-like reaction to both tobacco and kiwifruit leaves. From culture filtrates, extracts were obtained using different solvents and pH values. The extracts and their corresponding aqueous phases, were further tested for phytotoxicity. Basic, hydrophilic, lowmolecular weight and hydrophilic, high-molecular weight compounds belonging to exopolysaccharides were isolated and analyzed. These compunds proved highly phytotoxic to kiwifruit, tobacco leaves and lemon fruits. Gas-chromatography-mass-spectrometry analysis carried out on crude exopolysaccharides showed glucose as the main monosaccharide constituent. These results suggest that phytotoxic metabolites, other than the antimetabolite phaseolotoxin, could be involved in the virulence of the pathogen to kiwifruit species.
41998289|Fire blight, caused by Erwinia amylovora, is one of the important bacterial diseases of pear trees. It causes blight of different organs of the tree (blossoms, shoots, leaves, fruits, and limbs) and production of exudates. During a survey of pear orchards in different areas of the Iranian province of Guilan (Astaneh, Ashrafieh, Lahijan, and Kiashahr) necrotic shoots and exudates were observed in apple and pear trees. Samples taken from infected tissues were crushed in peptone water and aliquots of 100 l of the extract were cultured on nutrient agar (NA) and LB containing cycloheximide (50 g ml). A rod-shaped, gram negative, facultative anaerobic bacterium was consistently isolated, which produced levan in sucrose media but not fluorescent pigment in King's B medium. All isolates induced hypersensitive reaction (HR) in tobacco and geranium leaves, were oxidase, nitrate, urease, and indole negative, could not rot potato tuber slices, produced HS, and grew at 36C. The isolates could utilize citrate, arabinose, sorbitol, galactose, and trehalose as carbon source and their gelatin test was positive. Based on morphological, biochemical and physiological characters, and PCR amplification with specific primers, most bacterial isolates were identified as E. amylovora. Some isolates from spear orchards were identified as Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae. This is the first report of the occurrence of E. amylovora on pear trees in the province of Guilan.
41998770|Over 193 endophytic and epiphytic bacteria were isolated from different organs of peanut plants growing under field conditions. The diversity of the isolates was analyzed by ERIC/BOX-PCR and 16S ribosomal DNA sequencing. Their potential to protect peanut plants against the fungal pathogens Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, S. minor, Sclerotium rolfsii and Fusarium solani was evaluated by assaying important biocontrol traits. Of the isolates, 148 produced siderophores, 71 (most of them epiphytes) showed fungal growth inhibition in YEMA plates, while only 28 also exhibited this activity in PDA medium. The cell free-extract from 11 bacterial cultures showed antibiotic activity suggesting the secretion of soluble extracellular compounds, some being heat-labile compounds with mol. wt greater than 12 kDa. Fungal sensitivity to volatile compounds produced by isolates differed from those observed for soluble secreted compounds or bacterial cells.
41998691|Leaf and twig dieback of Asian pear (Pyrus pyrifolia) was observed since 2006 in two orchards in Zhejiang Province (China). A gram positive bacterium was frequently isolated alone or in combination with Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae from naturally infected twigs of field-grown pears. Inoculation of twigs with this bacterium resulted in the death of leaves and petioles as well as in twig dieback. The bacterium was identified as a Bacillus species (possibly Bacillus pumilus) by a polyphasic approach, including physiological and biochemical properties, carbon source utilization profile, fatty acid methyl esters and analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequence. This is the first report of the possible involvement of B. pumilus in leaf and twig dieback of Asian pear in China.
41998852|Carpinus betulus L. (European or common hornbeam) is well known for its rustic nature and adaptability, which make it a very important tree in private and public green areas. During the last few years, many cases of decline and death of these trees were reported in different Italian regions, and because of its lethal outcome, this disease was termed "Carpinus betulus decline." Laboratory analysis aimed at isolating the etiological agents of this disease ascertained the frequent presence of two different fungi in the same canker, and experimental infections confirmed that both fungi are hornbeam pathogens. The aim of this work is to describe the taxonomic determination of one of the fungi. On the bases of symptoms, morphocultural and micromorphological characteristics, this fungus, which produces red-spore masses on hornbeam bark, was identified as Anthostoma decipiens (DC.: Fr) Nitschke, anamorph Cytospora decipiens Sacc. To date, no Anthostoma-rclated DNA sequences have been published, and comparison of ITS1, ITS2, and partial beta-tubulin nucleotide sequences with those present in the international databases gave no help in identifying the pathogen. Therefore, the sequences obtained were deposited in the EMBL Nucleotide Sequence Database. A specific primer, to be used for PCR reactions in combination with the standard primer ITS4, and located 80 nucleotides next to the 3'-end of ITS1 primer, named REX, was selected, synthesized, and tested.
41999026|The complete nucleotide sequence of Rice gall dwarf virus (RGDV) isolate Guangdong (GD) from China was determined by sequencing dsRNA segments S1-S5 and S9-S12. Sequence comparisons showed that the genome organization of RGDV-GD is similar to that of isolates FX from Guangdong, GX from Guangxi, and Thai from Thailand with nucleotide and amino acid sequence identities of 90.8-99.6% and 95.2-99.7%, respectively. Higher sequence identity was found among the three Chinese isolates than between these and the Thai isolate. When compared with the sequence of RGDV-Thai, the dsRNA segment S4 of the three Chinese RGDV isolates appeared to lack 139 nucleotides at the 3' non-coding region and their S11 segment had three bases missing in the central part of its coding region. Our results suggest that isolates GD and Thai are two distinct strains of RGDV.
41998076|Diamine oxidase (DAO) activity was determined in internodes and leaves of faba bean (Vicia faba L.) cultivars susceptible and resistant to Ascochyta blight. DAO activity was measured in stems and leaves of whole plants and on detached leaves, untreated or inoculated with a highly virulent Ascochyta fabae isolate. DAO activity was higher in leaves than in stems, and decreased acropetally along the plant. No increase in activity was detected as a response to inoculation. The time course of DAO activity was analysed during A. fabae infection of the third leaf of V. faba seedlings. In fact, DAO activity with different inoculum concentrations showed no significant differences between inoculated plants and controls. Moreover, no increase was detected either in the susceptible line 14-12 or in the resistant line 29H. The time courses of DAO activity was also analysed during wound healing of the third internodes and leaves of the faba bean cultivar 'Lunga delle Cascine' and line 29H. Enzyme activity was enhanced during the days following wounding, showing that this enzyme may have an important role in tissue repair.
41997902|The full-length and truncated versions of the cymbidium ringspot tombusvirus (CymRSV) movement protein gene under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and terminator were used to transform Nicotiana benthamiana plants. Integration of the viral sequence in the plant genome was confirmed by PCR amplification of DNA extracts from transformed plants and by detection of virus-related transcripts in RNA extracts. Western blot analysis failed to show the presence of the transgene-encoded protein in transgenic plants. None of these plants was protected from infection when challenged with CymRSV, regardless of the type of transgene, whether full-length or truncated. It is suggested that RNA-mediated resistance was not acting in these plants and that failure to obtain resistance was due to lack of accumulation of the transgenic protein. Una versione intera e due difettive della proteina di movimento del virus della maculatura anulare del Cymbidium (CymRSV) sono state poste sotto il controllo del promotore 35S e del segnale di poliadenilazione del virus del mosaico del cavolfiore ed usate per trasformare piante di Nicotiana benthamiana. L'integrazione del transgene  stata verificata mediante analisi del DNA e dell'RNA. A1 contrario la proteina corrispondente non  stata mai trovata. Nessuna linea delle numerse saggiate  risultata resistente all'infezione. Si suggerisce che questo  dovuto alla mancanza di accumulo della proteina transgenica ed all'assenza di un meccanismo di protezione dovuto all'RNA transgenico.
41997975|Comparative tests using inmunosorbent electron microscopy plus decoration and ELISA with antibodies against Garlic virus A (GarV-A) and Garlic virus C (GarV-C) coat proteins showed that they specifically recognize the respective viruses. On this basis, the GarV-A antiserum was used in DAS-ELISA tests to study the distribution of GarV-A in different regions of Argentina. A total of 2655 samples, representing 115 garlic fields were analyzed. GarV-A was detected in 64%, 51%, 43% and 35% of samples collected in San Juan, Mendoza, Crdoba and Buenos Aires Provinces, respectively. Positive samples were not found in plants from Santa Cruz Province. Distribution among different garlic cultivars showed that this virus was present in 33%, 46%, 53%, 70% and 43% of plants belonging to cvs 'Colorado', 'Chino', 'Violeta Francs', 'Blanco' and 'Rosado Paraguayo', respectively. Negative results were obtained in samples of cvs 'Castao-INTA' and 'Violeta Santacruceo'.
23721747|Bacterial canker of kiwifruit has become a serious disease problem in many countries, including China, but the causal agent in China has not yet been sufficiently characterized. In this study, the aetiology of bacterial canker was investigated in woody vines and leaves of the kiwifruit species Actinidia chinensis and A. deliciosa in the Chinese province of Shaanxi. Symptoms on woody vines appeared from September to June of the following year, and on leaves during May-July and September-October. More than 300 bacterial isolates were obtained from seven cultivars. Pure cultures were identified as Pseudomonas syringae pv. actinidiae (Psa) based on pathogenicity as well as morphological, physiological, biochemical, and genetic characteristics. In pathogenicity assays, symptoms on branches and leaves similar to those observed in the field on A. chinensis cv. Hongyang and A. deliciosa cv. Xuxiang 15 days post inoculation. The 16S rDNA sequences were 99.9% identical to those of the Psa strains available in GenBank. In addition, PCR analyses with five pairs of pathovar-specific primers provided a further proof of identification. Repetitive-sequence PCR fingerprint patterns of Psa strains isolated in Shaanxi using ERIC and BOX primer sets were consistent with those from New Zealand (2010) and Italy (2009), but slightly different from that of the Psa strain ICMP 9853 (Japan, 1984). The conclusion is that the causal agent of bacterial canker of kiwifruit in Shaanxi was identified as Psa strain.
41998061|The effect of temperature and humidity on the infection of wheat head tissues by four fungal species causing head blight (Fusarium avenaceum, F. graminearum, F. culmorum, Microdochium nivale) was studied by controlled-environment experiments. Detached spikes were inoculated at flowering with a spore suspension and incubated at different temperatures (10.0 to 35.0C), wet and in a saturated atmosphere. Infection frequency of glumes after different incubation times (4 to 72 hours) was determined by re-isolation of the fungi that had been inoculated. Regression models were then elaborated and used to compare species and to define their cardinal temperatures for infection. F. avenaceum and F. graminearum showed the highest infection frequency, with optimum at 28.0-29.0C; M. nivale and especially F. culmorum had a lower infection frequency, with optimum at 18.0C and 26.5C, respectively. Spikes were then inoculated at optimum temperature for each species, either in the presence or in the absence of a film of water, under different regimes of relative humidity (100% to 65%). Reduction of relative humidity during incubation increased the frequency of glumes infected by F. culmorum, whereas it created unfavourable conditions for the other species.
41998128|Cempazuchil (marigold, Tagetes erecta L.) plants with symptoms of phyllody, virescence, witches' broom (shoot proliferation), apical dwarfing and yellowing were collected from fields in the States of Puebla, Michoacan, Guanajuato, and Estado de Mexico. They were examined for the presence of phytoplasmas by nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using the universal primer pair R16mF2/R16mRl followed by the primer pair R16F2n/R16R2. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of R16F2n/R16R2-PCR products and the sequencing of the 16S rDNA indicated that the phytoplasma which induces the disease known as "filodia del cempazuchil" (marigold phyllody) belongs to the aster yellows group (16SrI), subgroup B. Our results also indicated that the variety of symptoms shown by diseased Tagetes plants from different States in Mexico were induced by the same phytoplasma.
41998422|Two viruses are responsible for most of the decline in asparagus crops (Asparagus officinalis L.) in the world: Asparagus virus 1 (AV-1) and Asparagus virus 2 (AV-2). AV-1 is a member of genus Potyvirus and has so far been identified in plant and tissue-culture material of asparagus using biological assays on indicator plants, electron microscopy and, rarely, by serodiagnosis. In this study, degenerate potyvirus primers were used in RT-PCR to amplify a cDNA product from an asparagus potyvirus, previously identified as AV-1 on the basis of host range results. RT-PCR products were sequenced, and the nucleotide sequences obtained were aligned with those of other members of the genus Potyvirus to devise primer pairs specific for AV-1. The use of one primer pair in a one-step RT-PCR procedure was found to yield an amplicon with RNA from an AV-1 infected plant, but not with RNA from plants infected with Turnip mosaic virus (TuMV), Pea seed-borne mosaic virus (PSbMV), or Lettuce mosaic virus (LMV). The method was sensitive and reproducible for the detection of AV-1 in leaves and spears of asparagus samples collected from fields and from tissue-culture plantlets.
41997954|Soil solarization in greenhouse tests was carried out in 1995-1997 by covering pre-irrigated soil with transparent plastic sheets to prevent root rot caused by the Pythium species in organically grown cucumber, where P. ultimum was the main cause of root rot. Densities of naturally occurring Pythium in the upper 10 cm soil layer were determined before, during and after solarization. Pythium was reduced considerably after four weeks in experiments 1 and 2 and after two weeks in experiment 3. Pythium was not recorded in solarized plots, but was still present in non-solarized plots. The mean of daily maximum soil temperatures measured 10 cm below soil surface was 38-43 C in solarized plots compared to 31-37C in non-solarized plots during the first 14 days of the experimental period. Pythium root rot was negligible 13 weeks after solarization of the soil, whereas serious disease symptoms were seen on plants grown in non-solarized soil. This investigation showed that solarization in the summertime could reduce Pythium root rot, even in the temperate climate of Denmark. Esperimenti di solarizzazione del terreno sono stati eseguiti in serra nel perido 1995-1997 coprendo terreno preirrigato con fogli plastici trasparenti per prevenire il marciume radicale da Pythium in colture biologiche di cetriolo, dove P. ultimum era la principale causa di marciume radicale. La densit della presenza naturale di Pythium nello strato superiore del terreno di 10 cm  stata determinata prima, durante e dopo la solarizzazione. Pythium  stato ridotto considerevolmente dopo quattro settimane nell'esperimento 1 e 2 e dopo due settimane nell'esperimento 3. Pythium non  stato osservato nelle parcelle solarizzate ma era ancora presente in quelle non solarizzate. La media delle temperature massime giornaliere del suolo misurate a 10 cm sotto la superficie del suolo era di 38-43C nelle parcelle solarizzate in confronto a 31-37C di quelle non solarizzate durante i primi 14 giorni del periodo di sperimentazione. La moria delle piantine era trascurabile 13 settimane dopo la solarizzazione del terreno, mentre gravi sintomi della malattia erano osservati su piante cresciute in terreno non solarizzato. Questo studio ha mostrato che la solarizzazione durante Testate potrebbe ridurre il marciume causato da Pythium, anche nel clima temperato della Danimarca.
24331971|Fire blight (Erwinia amylovora) causes blossom and shoot blight ultimately forming cankers on woody tissues. The magnitude of late season symptom development has not been reported on apple in natural infections. Quantitative and qualitative changes of fire blight symptoms were monitored from July 2007 to April 2008 on cultivars Idared and Golden Delicious in northern Serbia with Idared displaying the highest number of symptoms. In July, shoot blight dominated with 67-88% necrotic shoot tips and completely necrotic shoots. Early blight led to formation of 7-18% cankers of determinate type. Between mid-July and end of September, the number of cankers increased from 65 to 80% on both cultivars. New cankers were of indeterminate type, suitable for pathogen overwintering. Cankers originated from extensive late season pathogen stem invasion from previously diseased shoots. Necrosis size on both cultivars increased significantly between July and September. Increases in canker number and necrosis size indicate a high level of renewed pathogen activity late in the season and its 'preparation' for overwintering. Poor winter pruning in one orchard resulted in considerable number of symptom units which constituted potential infection sources. The high magnitude of late season symptom changes, detected under severe natural infections, shows that the pathogen is vigorously active within previously formed symptoms and that pathogenesis continues clandestinely. The results underline the importance of the often neglected part of late season fire blight development for pathogen survival and enforce the requirement for eradication of cankers as primary sources of inoculum for the next season.
41998548|A sequence-specific amplified polymorphism (SSAP) technique was developed to study the clonality of Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. lactucae VCG 0300 which causes Fusarium wilt of lettuce. Specific primers designed from two known long terminal repeats (LTRs) of the F. oxysporum genome were coupled with Msel AFLP-derived primers to investigate the level of polymorphism in 80 isolates of F. oxysporum obtained from different locations worldwide. The technique proved to be reliable, efficient and able to discriminate among F. oxysporum f.sp. lactucae race 1 strains and a single strain of race 2. Polymorphisms within Italian and US race 1 isolates were detected but no relation was found between genetic variability and geographic distribution of strains. The technique confirmed the worldwide clonality of VCG 0300 race 1. In addition, the present study revealed that the SSAP technique can be used for reliable strain discrimination and as a tool to investigate transposition behaviour of retroelements in the genome of the pathogen.
41998816|The development of the bacterial knot of oleander, caused by the Pseudomonas savastanoi, was studied at different intervals after inoculation to examine anatomical changes in inoculated twig tissues, the movement of bacteria within host tissues, and the formation of defense reactions of the host plant. Pseudomonas savastanoi invades stem tissues of oleander by moving from the inoculation wound into intercellular spaces of parenchyma tissues and systemically further away through the laticifers. Bacterial invasion of oleander tissues causes degradation of primary cell walls of parenchyma cells and laticifers and formation of bacterial cavities followed by hypertrophic and hyperplasic activities. Hyperplasic activities lead to the formation of meristematic cell masses, with differentiation of vascular bundles, which contributes to the development of the knot. The host develops observable microscopic anatomical defense reactions at the different stages of host invasion. Lignin deposits form on the primary cell walls of parenchyma cells and laticifers around bacterial cavities to limit the movement of the pathogen. Tyloses form in the secondary xylem vessels, blocking them and preventing further movement of the bacteria within the vessels. Finally, the formation of impermeable periderm around bacterial cavities, neoformed tissues, xylem elements, and at the surface of the knot, leads to its final decline.
24331973|A study to determine the incidence of viral diseases in green asparagus (Asparagus officinalis L.) was carried out in Italy, sampling spears, young stems and ferns from commercial fields in several regions. Asparagus bunches from supermarkets originating from Italy as well as from several other countries, were also examined. Molecular assays (RT-PCR) were developed for the simultaneous detection of Asparagus virus 1 (AV-1) and Asparagus virus 2 (AV-2). The incidence of the two viruses was quite different. AV-2 was restricted to a few Italian cultivation areas and was never detected in samples from Spain, Peru, Mexico, Ecuador, Argentina, or the USA. In contrast, AV-1 was widely spread in Italian asparagus crops with an average infection rate of about 50.7% and was detected in imported asparagus at different rates. Partial sequences of AV-1 isolates from different geographical areas were obtained. Their 3' terminal genomic region comprising the partial coat protein gene and the 3' untranslated region of 18 isolates were compared to each other and to species of the genus Potyvirus. Results revealed that AV-1 has become the most widespread virus in commercial asparagus crops of Italy, and presumably in other asparagus producing countries. Further, our study provides, for the first time, valuable information on the molecular variability of AV-1 isolates from different parts of the world.
41998703|The status of Apple mosaic virus (ApMV), causal agent of hazelnut mosaic, was investigated in Turkey by examining hazelnut plants visually, serologically and by biological indexing. A survey of 213 orchards was carried out in 2005-2008 during the growing season in the west Black Sea region. A total of 1465 hazelnuts were sampled and tested. Disease symptoms were observed in 84 orchards. ELISA and transmission to Chenopodium quinoa and Cucumis sativus confirmed the presence of ApMV in symptomatic samples only. Average infection rate was 13.6%. The effect of infection on hazelnut trees were examined in three different provinces collecting data on plant yield from selected trees. Crop losses ranged from 19.7 to 35.6% (28.2% in average) and infected trees showed a slight growth reduction.
41998075|Leek yellow stripe virus (LYSV) causes mosaic in garlic and leek, together with other potyviruses, carlaviruses and allexiviruses. An isolate of LYSV from leek plants presenting typical yellow stripes, near Crdoba, Argentina, was mechanically transmitted and caused chlorotic local lesions in Chenopodium amaranticolor and C. quinoa. Only two out of 40 onion plants mechanically inoculated were infected. The isolate was easily transmitted to garlic mechanically (14 out of 20 plants) and by aphids (2 out of 10 plants), especially to young plants. Myzus persicae, Rhopalosiphum maidis, R. padi, Schizaphis graminum, Aphis gossypii, A. nerii, Uroleucon sonchi and Hyperomyzus carduellinus were able to transmit the virus. Abundant inclusion bodies were observed in thin sections. The modal length of the virion was 825 nm, and the capsid protein was 34 kDa in size, as determined by SDS-PAGE. LYSV from leek and Onion yellow dwarf virus were compared using several antisera, including one prepared against our isolate and their serological relatedness confirmed. The 3'-non-translated region (3'-NTR) of our isolate (accession no. AY007693) showed 94% identity with that of LYSV (accession no. X89711) and the deduced amino acid sequence for the coat protein had 97% homology.
41998689|The transmission through seeds of Fig latent virus 1 (FLV-1), a putative member of the genus Trichovirus, was investigated. Batches of seedlings of different age (1-yearold and 4-weeks-old) and geographical origin (Italy, Greece and Turkey) were analyzed by immunosorbent electron microscopy (ISEM) using a virus-specific antiserum. FLV-1 was detected in all groups of seedlings, the great majority of which were symptomless. Infection rate ranged from 73 to 100% (average 92%). Bundles of virus particles were observed in the cytoplasm of mesophyll cells of symptomless seedlings and positive RT-PCR responses were obtained in a few random assays using FLV-1-specific primers. The high transmission rate differentiates FLV-1 from most of the other seed-transmitted plant viruses which, in general, have a lower transmission frequency, and from the extant trichoviruses, none of which is apparently transmitted though seeds.
23721578|Bipolaris sorokiniana is a principal agent of seedling blight, spot blotch, root rot and black point of spring wheat in Nepal. The impact of seed-borne inoculum levels (SIL), irrigation, and cropping pattern on the multiplication of B. sorokiniana propagules and progress of foliar blight and common root on wheat is not well understood. To get insight on it, two wheat genotypes (cvs Sonalika and BL 1473) each with four SILs (5, 35, 65 and 95%) were field-evaluated in a strip-split-plot design under irrigated and non-irrigated conditions during 2002-03 at Rampur, (Chitwan, Nepal). The experiments were duplicated under fallow-wheat and rice-wheat system. The study revealed that the propagation of B. sorokiniana and the severity of foliar blight and root rot was positively influenced by SIL and susceptibility of wheat cultivars, while irrigation and cropping pattern had a lower impact. There was a significant positive association (r = 0.83, P <0.01) between SIL with B. sorokiniana frequency on leaf and stem up to flowering stages indicating that seed-borne inoculum levels had high influence in the early establishment of foliar blight. There was a high positive correlation of SIL with pathogen frequency on root at all four growth stages (r values 0.93 to 0.99, P < 0.01) and root rot index (r = 0.75, P < 0.05) suggesting that SIL had a strong impact on common root rot. The outcome of this study will be useful to develop strategies of integrated management of foliar blight and root rot on wheat.
41998156|Among plant viruses, Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV) is considered as the most widespread and to have the largest host-range. This virus is responsible for numerous epidemics in different regions of the world, mainly in horticultural and floral crops, which are often destructive and cause heavy economic losses. The highly polyphagous nature, the efficiency of virus transmission and the biological activity of its vectors, the rapidity with which new variants arise, and difficulties in the control of the vectors, make TSWV one of the most feared plant viruses by growers of agricultural crops. Preventive and integrated cultural practices such as the eradication of weed hosts able to serve as virus reservoirs, combined with vector management strategies, play a crucial role in the control of the virus. Thus, the availability of an up-to-date list of TSWV host plants is a potentially useful reference for researchers and farmers. The current list of TSWV hosts consists of 1090 plants species belonging in 15 families of monocotyledonous plants, 69 families of dicotyledonous plants and one family of pteridophytes.
23721748|The effect of the agent of dry bubble disease Lecanicillium fungicola on mushroom cultivation using two types of casing (mineral soil and peat-based) was evaluated in two artificially infected cropping trials. The incidence of dry bubble and loss of yield caused by the disease were assessed. Biological efficiency (BE) was used to evaluate mushroom productivity for the different casing soils. The results showed that, in the absence of L. fungicola infection, the higher BE obtained using peat-based casing (higher yield of Agaricus bisporus) compensates for the higher cost of the casing. However, when facing serious infection by L. fungicola, the incidence of disease and the yield of healthy mushrooms were statistically similar for both types of casing, although the number of diseased mushrooms was higher when peat-based casing was used. Therefore, the use of peat-based casings cannot be recommended when there is a high risk of outbreaks of dry bubble, since the yield of healthy mushrooms is not sufficient to compensate for the difference in price between both casing types.
41998471|A 3-year study was carried out in a geographically and ecologically isolated area of north-east Italy with a long tradition in horticulture, where a severe epidemic of stolbur phytoplasma occurred. Among cultivated vegetables, celery was the most susceptible to the disease. In the farms surveyed, Convolvulus arvensis a natural host of the phytoplasma and the vector Hyalesthes obsoletus were plentiful. Groups of H. obsoletus individuals transmitted the pathogen to celery and grapevine under controlled conditions. Other species of insects, shown by PCR to host the phytoplasma, did not transmit it. The surveyed area is a closed ecological niche with high infection pressure and represents a primary example of how an epidemic of phytoplasma can develop among cultivated plants.
24722547|The seasonal acquisition pattern of Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 1 (GLRaV-1) and Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 3 (GLRaV-3) by the grape mealybug, Pseudococcus maritimus (Erhorn), was determined over two consecutive years in a leafroll-diseased vineyard in the Finger Lakes region of New York. Groups of 1-15 immature mealybugs (1, 2 or 3 instars), adults or eggs were collected from April to November on 20 selected vines infected with GLRaV-1 and/or GLRaV-3. Results of RT-PCR using specific primers were consistent with a preferential virus acquisition by overwintered, 1 instar nymphs in April and May (87%, 45 of 52) followed by summer generation immature mealybugs in July (82%, 28 of 34). Crawlers collected on or near ovisacs in September (100%, 12 of 12) were aviruliferous and eggs collected in June (100%, 250 of 250) as well as crawlers hatching from eggs (100%, 51 of 51) tested negative for the two target viruses in RT-PCR. Importantly, crawlers collected in the vineyard at bud swell in April transmitted GLRaV-1 to healthy grapevines in a greenhouse. These findings suggest that disease management strategies designed to mitigate leafroll spread by reducing vector populations should target overwintered crawlers and second instar crawlers at a very early grapevine development stage, i.e. from bud swell to bloom, as well as the summer generation crawlers later in mid-summer.
41998434|Four hundred twenty-five trees of myrobalan (Prunus cerasifera Ehrh.) growing along the roads and small areas within residential spaces, private gardens, and parks in Sofia and around the town were visually inspected for virus symptoms and tested for the presence of PPV by DAS-ELISA. DASI-ELISA for strain differentiation was carried out for the identification of PPV isolates, using PPV-M and PPV-D specific monoclonal antibodies. A small number PPV isolates was tested with M/D specific primers targeting two different regions: cylindrical inclusion protein (CIP) and the coat protein (CP) amino terminal. The primers targeting the 3'-terminal region of the CP gene allowed the detection of a few unknown PPV isolates. While the inspected trees showed highly variable leaf symptoms, only a small number of them showed symptoms on the fruits. The overall detection of PPV was 49%, PPV-M was found in the majority (57%) of the samples, followed by PPVD (29%). Mixed infections occurred in 2% of the samples, and the diseased trees affected by the unknown PPV strain were 12%. PPV-Rec strain was identified in one infected tree. For the first time in Bulgaria two ornamental species, P. cerasifera var. rubrum and P. cerasifera cv. Pissardii were found to be natural hosts of PPV. Strains M and D alone or in mixture were identified in the infected trees of these species. IC-RT-PCR results showed the presence of mix infection of PPV-M and PPV-Rec strains in one tree of Armeniaca desicarpa (P. cerasifera  P. armeniaca). The presence of PPV in cultivated and uncultivated, edible and ornamental P. cerasifera species provides strong evidence that they are natural PPV reservoirs in Bulgaria.
41997979|Assays for Cherry green ring mottle virus (CGRMV) were developed and used to compare different sources from North American and Mediterranean countries by differential reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) amplification and phylogenetic analysis of coat protein sequences. DsRNAs of approximately 8.5 kb in size were purified from all diseased samples. Universal and specific primer pairs derived from sequences of two Californian strains of CGRMV were used in RT-PCR assays. Parsimony analyses using coat protein nucleotide sequences separated the 12 CGRMV sources into three major phylogenetic clades.
41998241|Maize necrotic streak virus (MNeSV) has 32 nm isometric particles that encapsidate a single stranded RNA genome ca. 4.3 kb in size, and is a tentative member of the genus Tombusvirus. Since tombusviruses elicit the formation of cytopathological structures known as "multivesicular bodies" that assist in their classification at the genus level, the cytology of thin-sectioned maize leaf tissues 7,15, and 45 days after inoculation was investigated. The prominent cytopathological features were: (i) an extensive accumulation of virus particles scattered throughout the cytoplasm or in crystalline arrays in the cytoplasm or, occasionally, in intercellular spaces; (ii) extensive plasmolysis and the appearance of small patches of amorphous, dark-staining material in the cytoplasm; (iii) the proliferation of membranes and the presence of empty double membrane-bound vesicular structures of various sizes. No apparent connection between these membranous elements and the nuclear envelope was detected, even when large clusters of vesicles were adpressed to the nuclei. Some of the largest double-membrane bound structures had rows of small vesicles located inside peripheral dilations of the bounding membrane. Although most of these structures appeared to originate from disintegrating mitochondria, they bore little resemblance to genuine multivesicular bodies like those arising from the modified mitochondria that follow infection by certain members of the family Tombusviridae, i.e. Carnation Italian ringspot virus, Pelargonium necrotic spot virus (PNSV), Galinsoga mosaic virus (GaMV), and Turnip crinkle virus (TCV). Immunogold labelling using antibodies to virus particles was detected over cytoplasm associated with virus particles and patches of electrondense amorphous material, suggesting that this material consists of virus coat protein.
41998208|Taxa from the Pnicillium ser. Corymbifera are reported as causing a damaging storage rot upon commercially grown vegetables and flower bulbs; however many reports of blue mould rot in the literature are based on outdated taxonomy. Pencillium ser. Corymbifera taxa are unique from other Penicillia because of their ability to grow at 0C and proliferate at 5C, their hemi-cellulase and cellulase activity at 5 and 15C, and lack of protease production. Pnicillium hordei differs slightly from this characterization by the production of proteases and Pnicillium allii differs by the lack of cellulase and hemicellulase production below 15C. With the exception of P. allii, all six of the remaining ser. Corymbifera taxa have a potential to proliferate at low temperatures and would therefore cause disease under storage conditions.
41997897|Phytoplasmas for which 16S rDNA sequences are available have been classified into 20 major phylogenetic groups or subclades. Further phytoplasmas have been assigned to these groups, according to other molecular data such as RFLP analysis of PCR-amplified ribosomal DNA, nucleic acid hybridization, and serological comparison. A total of 15 phytoplasmas were distinguishable among the molecularly characterized phytopathogenic mollicutes. I fitoplasmi, dei quali la sequenza nucleotidica del 16S rDNA era nota, sono stati classificati in 20 gruppi filogenetici principali. Sulla base di dati ottenuti mediante analisi di RFLP del DNA ribosomale amplificato mediante PCR, ibridazione di acidi nucleici e sierologia, altri fitoplasmi sono stati assegnati ai gruppi suddetti. Un totale di 75 distinti taxa  stato individuato tra tutti i mollicuti fitopatogeni caratterizzati con metodiche molecolari.
24722479|Potato virus X (PVX), one of the most common plant viruses causing disease to solanaceous crops around the world, is usually asymptomatic in tomato. After mechanical inoculation, a PVX isolate from Northeastern Spain (Sp2013) induced leaf yellowing and light curling in tomato plants, while no symptoms were observed with strain CP4 (GenBank accession No. AF172259.1). Both PVX strains were detected by ELISA with the same antiserum. In order to determine PVX population variability and structure, the full-length coat protein (CP) gene of this Spanish isolate (accession No. KJ631111 corresponding to SPCP1 strain in GenBank) was cloned, sequenced and compared with 90 PVX CP gene sequences available in the database. The global PVX population is divided in three clusters comprising: (i) mainly of South American isolates, including strain CP4; (ii) a mix of isolates from different continents, including isolate Sp2013; (iii) European isolates only. The low variability and lack of recombination events in the CP gene, except for isolate Sp2013, which has 77% nucleotide sequence identity with strain CP4, point to a homogeneous structure. Marked genetic differences between the CP gene sequence of PVX strains Sp2013 and CP4 could explain the differential symptomatology on tomato.
24332212|The causal organism responsible for severe outbreaks of orchid anthracnose in India, which affectes leaves, petioles and blooms, is not clearly established. Ten Colletotrichum isolates recovered from different orchid species in the Sikkim state were characterized based on morphological and a multilocus molecular phylogenetic analysis of the rDNA-ITS region (ITS), partial actin (ACT) and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) sequences. Phylogeny inferred from combined datasets of ACT, ITS and GAPDH revealed two groups, representing Colletotrichum cymbidiicola and C. cliviae. Cultural and morphological characters are presented for these two species. Pathogenicity assays confirmed that both species isolated from orchids are the causal agents of anthracnose. The occurrence of C. cymbidiicola and C. cliviae is reported for the first time on orchids in India.
41998224|Different Prunus species from Southern Italy with stem pitting symptoms were assayed by RT-PCR for the presence of Plum bark necrosis stem pitting-associated virus (PBNSPaV). DNA of the expected size was amplified from cortical scrapings of almond, peach, plum, apricot, and sweet cherry. The test was repeated monthly on various tissues throughout a year. Different protocols for total nucleic acid extraction and RT-PCR amplification were compared. Virus particles of an Italian apricot isolate (APR-SP1) were purified and used to produce antiserum that reacted in IEM and ELISA with particles of an American PBNSPaV isolate. However, the antiserum did not detect PBNSPaV in crude plant extracts.
41998202|In the last decades, the population structure of some plant pathogenic bacteria has been assessed by using neutral markers. However, the dynamics of such populations as well as host plant and environment selection, gene flow and genetic drift have been analysed to a lesser extent. Insights into the sequential adaptation occurring between the crop and the micro-organism can also contribute to achieve a more effective control of the disease in the long run. In this review the possible centre of origin, often in relation to the geographic history of the crop, is discussed for some phytopathogenic bacteria, such as Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. citri, Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. cassavae, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, Erwinia amylovora and Xylella fastidiosa. The rapid genetic change of bacteria through lateral gene flow and the efficient exploration of new adaptive solutions by exploiting the "contingency genes" of mutator clones, might also explain the occurrence of new diseases. Host selection, changes in environmental conditions and the introduction of new agronomic techniques, can play an important role in structuring the bacterial populations and in dramatically altering the equilibrium between the host plant and the pathogen. The prediction of such disturbances of equilibrium is fundamental for disease management.
24332019|"Brusca" (leaf scorch or marginal leaf burn) is a disease of olive (Olea europaea) typically characterized by the desiccation and death of tissues at the tip and/or along the edge of the leaf blade, which can be followed by defoliation. Since the end of the 18th century this disorder has reappeared periodically, after long periods of quiescence, in the same olive-growing areas of the province of Lecce (Apulia, Salento peninsula, southern Italy). Over time, this disease has been the object of repeated investigations, first by a couple of local physician, who were the authors of its description, then, since the beginning of the 20th century, by professional plant pathologists. These studies have established that "brusca" may have multiple origins as determined by abiotic ("brusca non parassitaria" = non parasitic scorching) or biotic ("brusca parassitaria" = parasitic scorching) causes. "Brusca non parassitaria" can be induced by any physical cause that affects water supply to the leaf margin cells (e.g. insufficient moisture in the soil, water is lost too quickly from the leaves to be replaced adequately, damaged roots), or by hot dry winds, salty winds, nutrient deficiency/toxicity. By contrast, weak foliar pathogens (i.e. the discomycete fungus Stictis panizzei) or xylem-invading fungi or bacteria that plug the water conducting vessels can, in principle, be the agents of "brusca parassitaria". These agents may include Xylella fastidiosa, a xylem-limited bacterium, which has recently been found associated with an olive disease denoted "quick decline syndrome". This disease occurs in some areas of the Lecce province where severe cases of "brusca" have repeatedly been observed in the past. This coincidence, and the type of symptoms (extensive scorching and desiccation of the canopy) that somewhat recall those described in the early literature, may lead one to speculate that X. fastidiosa has been sitting in the area for about 250 years, rather than being a pathogen of recent introduction. This is not the case, as discussed in the present paper.
24579142|The use of pyrolysed carbon, in the form of biochar, as an agricultural soil amendment has recently gained considerable scientific interest. However, its adoption in practice has been slow due to a need to satisfy concerns about the safety of biochar and the need for more evidence of system improvements in temperate soils. Clubroot, caused by Plasmodiophora brassicae, is a disease of economic importance in Brassicaceae production systems. There is only limited plant resistance and disease limitation is currently managed via rotation breaks and liming. Biochar can alter the pH of soils so a series of glasshouse bioassay trials were established to determine if biochar could provide a similar level of clubroot control as traditional liming. Soil pH was raised from an initial pH of 5.4 to pH of 7.2 upon the addition of lime and to between 5.9 to 7.3 by the addition of biochar, without or with lime. However, the incidence of clubroot was either comparable to the lime treatment, which was similar to the unamended negative control, or exacerbated following the addition of biochar. The results support the existing knowledge of clubroot epidemiology, in that solely altering soil pH is not sufficient to manage this disease infection due to a complex interaction of nutrients, pH, moisture, and inoculum load in contaminated soil. The results highlight that further work is needed within temperate soils, as the addition of biochar to Brassicaceae production systems could potentially exacerbate both the incidence and soil load of the pathogen P. brassicae.
41992431|Resistance to Plum pox virus (PPV) was tested in transgenic Nicotiana benthamiana plants containing a translatable construct derived from the full-length helper-component proteinase (HC-Pro) gene of PPV. Some of the lines tested showed a resistance characterized by a lack of systemic symptoms and viral RNA accumulation in systemic and inoculated leaves. Resistance was also effective against another closely related PPV strain, but not against other potyviruses such as Tobacco etch virus (TEV) and Potato virus Y (PVY). Resistance to PPV correlated with a lower accumulation of HC-Pro transgene mRNA and the accumulation of short-interfering RNAs (siRNAs) derived from the transgene. Resistance to PPV also correlated with the trans-inactivation of a transiently expressed GUS gene, which shares homology with the 3' portion of the HC-Pro transgene. These results indicate that the PPV resistance was caused by a post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) process promoted by the HC-Pro transgene, which can induce silencing under certain conditions despite encoding a suppressor of PTGS.
41998768|Simultaneous detection of Plum bark necrosis stem pitting-associated virus (PBNSPaV), Little cherry virus 1 (LChV-1) and Little cherry virus 2 (LChV-2) was achieved with a quadruplex one-step RT-PCR, and a hybridization test with a multi-riboprobe, apparently representing the first successful attempt of concomitant identification of viruses of the family Closteroviridae in stone fruit trees. Quadruplex RT-PCR detected double (natural and artificial) and triple (artificial) infections in all samples tested, amplifying also a plant mRNA as an internal control. Standard and quadruplex RT-PCR were comparable in terms of detection limits and specificity. Molecular hybridization with a multi-riboprobe ('clotri') containing partial sequences of PBNSPaV, LChV-1 and LChV-2, allowed the detection of each of the three viruses in Prunus hosts. The sensitivity of single riboprobes and "clotri" was comparable.
41998621|Viroids are autonomously replicating, small singlestranded circular RNA molecules that do not code for proteins and may cause disease in infected, susceptible plants. Viroids have the ability to induce both RNA-mediated transcriptional gene silencing (TGS) and posttranscriptional gene silencing (PTGS) in infected plants. Viroid PTGS has also been demonstrated in a wheat germ extract system. A possible role of gene silencing in viroid pathogenicity and evolution has been proposed.
41998547|Crown gall disease caused by Agrobacterium tumefaciens is considered as the main bacterial disease of stone fruit rootstocks in Tunisia against which only prophylactic control measures are available. Therefore, twelve rhizobacterial strains and two reference antagonists Agrobacterium rhizogenes K84 and K1026 were investigated for their efficacy against the causal agent of the disease in vitro, in pots and in the field. In vitro and in pot experiments were carried out with three strains of A. tumefaciens (C58, B6 and AR125) whereas field trials were conducted in a nursery with a soil naturally contamined by the bacterium. In vitro experiments revealed that A. rhizogenes (K84 and K1026) and Agrobacterium radiobacter (O33, O34, MM8.2 and MM8.1) were effective only against nopaline-producing strains C58 and AR125. However, Bacillus subtilis and Pseudomonas fluorescens strains were effective also against nopaline-and octopine-producing agrobacteria. On the basis of pot tests, five rhizobacterial strains (O33, O34, BSCH14, BSCH15, BSCH16) and the two reference strains K84 and K1026, that significantly reduced the percentage of galled plants, were selected for field testing in a nursery. Apart from the reference antagonists K84 and K1026, only the rhizobacterial strains BSCH14 and O33 significantly reduced the percentage of galled plants to 3.85% and 5.19%, respectively. The preliminary characterization of the antibacterial compounds of B. subtilis BSCH14 showed that they were of proteinaceous nature, stable at 100C for 60 min and resistant to pH variation. Thi study has shown that effective biological control using rhizobacterial strains can be obtained, thus suggesting their possible use in crown gall disease management.
41998495|Haustoria and associated regions of the hostpathogen interfaces of the autoecious rust Puccinia menthae, during mono- and dikariotic phases of development on its host Mentha spicata, differed in ultrastructural and cytochemical features. By application of the PA-TCH-SP procedure, polysaccharides were shown not only to be major constituents of the walls of intercellular hyphae, haustorial mother cells (HMC) and haustoria of both the monokaryon and dikaryon (m-and d-haustoria, respectively) of P. menthae, but were also present within the extra-haustorial matrix (EM) of both types of haustoria. In the neck region of d-haustoria, which is structurally more differentiated than in m-haustoria, there was evidence for the presence of lipopolysaccharides and glycoprotein. However, the characteristic neck-band, which stains densely in conventional staining of the d-haustorium, did not react with PA-TCH-SP. The outermost layer of the dikaryotic HMC wall was completely digested by protease, whereas treatment with protease and cellulase did not affect either mono- or dikariotic intercellular hyphae or walls of m-haustoria, although these treatments indicated the presence of protein and cellulose in the EM. In dikaryotic infections, protein was found to be a major constituent of the EM. Cellulase treatment resulted in almost complete digestion of the host wall, except for a thin outer layer, whereas hyphal and haustorial walls were unaffected. The morphology and structural differences observed between the mono-and dikaryotic infection structures of P. menthae, and their interactions with host cells were clarified, and confirmed the possibility of their functional differences. Such information should facilitate further comparative studies on host-parasite interfaces at different stages of the rust life cycle and other biotrophic fungi.
23721535|Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) is one of the most widespread plant viruses in the world. In the present study tomato fields in Minab and Varamin counties of the Iranian Hormozgan and Tehran provinces, respectively were surveyed for CMV presence during 2011-2012. Fifty eight out of 95 samples tested (61%) were found to be infected with CMV. Nicotiana glutinosa and Solanum lycopersicum reacted with more severe symptoms to Varamin than Minab viral isolates. Phylogenetic analysis of the coat protein (CP) gene showed five CMV Varamin isolates and most of the previously reported CMV isolates from northwest Iran as well as CMV-Cu (GenBank accession No. EF620777) in subgroup IA, whereas four Minab isolates fell into subgroup IB with the highest identity (97.2-98.7%) to the Greek isolates G2 and G10. Using the maximum likelihood (ML) method, amino acids 25, 30, and 204 in the CP gene of Iranian CMV isolates were found under positive selection, although the likelihood-ratio test (LRT) statistics for aa 25 and 204 were not significant. This study shows for the first time the occurrence and phylogenetic relationships of CMV subgroup IB isolates in west Asia.
41998237|To study the influence of rolABC Troyer citrange plants on potentially beneficial root-associated bacteria, transgenic and non-transgenic plant lines were monitored over the course of one year. Cuiturable bacterial populations were not significantly different between rolABC and wild type lines, whereas the population of fluorescent pseudomonads varied according to the plant lines and the date of sampling. A total of 321 representative fluorescent pseudomonads were investigated to determine antagonistic activity against Fusarium solani and Phoma tracheiphila, and two different antagonistic groups were identified. IAA-producing Pseudomonas fluorescens strains were well distributed among transgenic and non-transgenic plant lines. A subset of 42 representative antagonistic P. fluorescens strains, characterized by ARDRA and ERIC-PCR, showed a high degree of DNA heterogeneity. Four main groups were identified. Three groups were heterogeneous and contained isolates from transgenic and non-transgenic plant lines whereas one group was homogeneous and included only strains from transgenic lines belonging to the same antagonistic group. On the whole, the fluorescent populations isolated from the rolABC lines showed some differences from those isolated from wild types, and a partial correlation was observed between grouping of strains based on antagonistic activity and on ERIC-PCR fingerprints and the transgenic character of the plants.
41998131|AFLP markers were used to assess genetic diversity and phenetic relationships in a collection of 171 isolates, including twelve Fusarium spp. accessions from different cotton cultivars and different eco-geographic regions in Egypt. The amplification of AFLP templates resulted in reproducible fingerprints of approximately 50 to 68 fragments in the size range of 100 to 500 bp. Of 60 AFLP primers run, four primers generated 243 informative AFLP markers, which were scored as binary data, analyzed as phenetic trees and through principal component analysis (PCA), separating all Fusarium spp. isolates into two main clusters. Results confirmed the enormous genetic diversity within Fusarium spp., and showed a close relationship between F. oxysporum, F. oxysporum f. sp. vasinfectum, F. moniliforme, F. solani and F. semitectum isolates. The method allowed discrimination of Fusarium to and below the species level. The level of genetic variability detected within the Fusarium isolates by AFLP analysis confirmed that it is a reliable, efficient, and effective marker technology for determining genetic relationships in Fusarium spp.
41998861|The Sr31-virulent stem rust race Ug99 probably evolved from race UVPgt55 (Sr31-avimlent). To find differences between Ug99 and UVPgt55, both races were grown on two pairs of near-isogenic wheat lines with (Federation 4/Kavkaz and Thatchcr-Sr31) and without the Sr31 gene for resistance (cvs Federation and Thatcher). Five days post inoculation, a difference in growth of Ug99 and UVPgt55 became obvious on Federation 4/Kavkaz: while growth of UVPgt55 was inhibited, Ug99 grew well. In contrast, Thatcher-Sr31 inhibited the growth of both races, hinting at an additional resistance gene in this line not broken by Ug99. Furthermore, mycelia of both races were successfully grown in axenic culture to isolate genomic DNA of high purity. Inverse sequence-tagged repeat and random amplified polymorphic DNA analyses showed almost identical patterns in both races which clearly differed from the patterns of the Canadian stem rust race 32. Two SSHdifferential cDNA libraries were constructed, one representing mainly genes of Ug99 active in planta, the other genes of UVPgt55. Reciprocal hybridisations of cDNA macro-arrays corroborated the strong similarity between the two races, but some differentially expressed genes were found. Sixty-five clones of Ug99 and 91 clones of UVPgt55 were sequenced. Among these, five genes of UVPgt55 with a secretory signal peptide coding for proteins of unknown function were identified as potential avirulence genes.
41998023|The existence of genetic variation was a common understanding since time immemorial. However it was Darwin who linked variation with adaptation mechanisms, and replaced the concept of stasis with that of recurring sequences of dynamic change. Events, such as nucleotide substitution, intra-and inter-locus(i) recombination, unequal crossing-over, DNA sequence deletion and insertion, gene duplication, element transposition, etc., continue to generate variation. Variation accumulated in populations of wild as well as cultivated species is however different for different characters. Whereas variation for disease resistance is very high and in rapid progress, that for adaptation to environmental factors or for characters involved in the domestication syndrome is rather limited, most probably as result of continued selective pressure. Genetic diversity is of fundamental importance for the continuity of life; as it enables populations and ecosystems to adapt and survive environmental changes. In spite of its importance genetic variation is today eroded at a rate that has no precedents. Surprisingly, whereas the problem of biodiversity loss has been taken very seriously in general terms, its foundation, genetic diversity, has been almost neglected. Even less appreciated is the link between genetic diversity and the need for its conservation to sustain agriculture and food security. The consequence of this misconception is that concerns have stimulated a series of international agreements and programmes, whose principles and guidelines are not fully coherent, interpretations are different, interdependent issues are not fully understood. Actions taken under one legal instrument can lead to negative consequences on issues addressed by others. Often attention goes to the mechanisms eroding or destroying diversity, and very little or limited action is deserved to the ultimate causes of the problem, which reside in issues like population increase, explosion of consumption, poor knowledge of ecosystems and species and incorrect assessment of natural resources value, globalisation and international trade, etc. Definitely there is a need for governments to set up procedures and programmes for protecting biodiversity and for providing a more objective and more comprehensive assessment of the risks and the benefits of new technologies and the use of genetic diversity.
41997953|Restriction length polymorphism analysis of PCR-amplified ribosomal DNA was used to detect and characterize phytoplasmas infecting 49 out of 56 symptomatic plants of 16 different botanical species. The survey was conducted on vegetable and ornamental crops as well as shrubs and trees growing outdoors or under protected conditions in a region of Liguria, northern Italy. Different primer pairs were used to drive direct or nested PCR reactions. Seven plants of four botanical species showed typical phytoplasma symptoms but failed to give amplification. Alul, Hhal and Msel restriction profiles of amplified fragments showed that phytoplasmas infecting Brussels' sprouts, cineraria, marguerite, dahlia, French hydrangea, lavender, lettuce, olive, pistachio, primrose, Spanish broom, strawflower and violet were uniform and indistinguishable from the European aster yellows reference strain. Thus, all these isolates could be considered typical members of the 16Sr-IB subgroup. Phytoplasmas with restriction patterns indistinguishable among them and from those of the Serbian pepper stolbur reference strain were identified in samples of jasmine, kiwi, lavender and violet. Some of the diseases examined were already described from Italy, but a phytoplasma different from those previously reported was identified in Spanish broom. Eight plant species (cineraria, dahlia, jasmine, kiwi, lavender, pistachio, strawflower and violet) had not previously been identified as natural hosts of phytoplasmas. With the exception of violet, harbouring the two phytoplasmas, all other hosts were infected by only one kind of phytoplasma. L'analisi del polimorfismo della lunghezza dei frammenti di restrizione del DNA ribosomale amplificato mediante reazione polimerasica a catena  stata impiegata per identificare i fitoplasmi presenti in 49 su 56 campioni prelevati da 16 differenti specie botaniche con sospetti sintomi di infezione da fitoplasma. L'indagine  stata condotta nella piana di Albenga, in Liguria, su specie ortive ed ornamentali coltivate in serra o pieno campo e su piante spontane. Differenti coppie di iniziatori di reazione sono state impiegate per l'innesco delle reazioni polimerasiche dirette o ripetute, ma in sette campioni di piante con sintomi tipici di fitoplasmosi, appartenenti a quattro diverse specie botaniche, non  stato amplificato in nessun caso DNA riferibile a fitoplasmi. Il confronto dei profili di restrizione ottenuti a seguito di digestione con gli enzimi AluI, Hhal ed Msel ha mostrato che i fitoplasmi present in 13 specie diverse (cavolini di Bruxelles, cineraria, dalia, elicriso, ginestra, lattuga, lavanda, margherita, olivo, ortensia, pistacchio, primula, e viola) erano genticamente uniformi tra loro ed indistinguibili dalTisolato europeo del giallume delPastro usato come riferimento, e che quindi tali fitoplasmi potevano essere considerad tutti membri tipici del sottogruppo filogenetico identificato come 16Sr-IB. Altri fitoplasmi, identificati in campioni di actinidia, gelsomino, lavanda e viola, hanno mostrato profili di restrizione fra loro indistinguibili ed identici a quelli dello stolbur del peperone isolato in Serbia usato come riferimento. Alcune delle specie esaminate erano gi state segnalate in Italia come ospiti di fitoplasmi. Actinidia, cineraria, dalia, elicriso, gelsomino, lavanda, pistacchio e viola vengono segnalate per la prima volta quali ospiti naturali di fitoplasmi. Con la sola eccezione della viola, che  risultata infetta contemporneamente da entrambi i fitoplasmi citati, tutte le altre specie si sono rivelate ospiti di uno solo dei due fitoplasmi.
41998088|Macroconidial production of four fungi causing head blight of wheat (Fusarium avenaceum, F. culmorum, F. graminearum, Microdochium nivale) was studied on PDA under constant temperature regimes. Three isolates per species were used, which represented three groups of isolates showing different sporulation capability. Relationships between temperature (5 to 35C), incubation time (1 to 21 days) and sporulation rate were analysed by a non-linear regression model. Differences between isolates within species did not modify the pattern of sporulation rate in relation to changing temperature. Based on this model, different responses of fungal species to temperature regimes were obtained, in terms of adaptability to different temperatures, speed in beginning production of spores and in reaching maximum sporulation. Considering these features, F. avenaceum was the highest performing fungus, followed by M. nivale, and then by F. graminearum and F. culmorum. The optimum temperature for macroconidial production was 32C for F. culmorum and F. gramineaum, 28C for F. avenaceum, and 26C for M. nivale. In further experiments, a temperature-dependent model elaborated from the regression equations produced accurate estimates of the numbers of macroconidia produced on wheat stems which had been artificially infected with each of the four fungal species and placed onto the soil of a wheat crop. Under such natural conditions, temperature affected sporulation more than the other meteorological factors.
41992426|Grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV) and Grapevine leafroll-associated virus 3 (GLRaV-3) have been detected by Double-Antibody Sandwich (DAS)-ELISA in six locations where grapevines are commonly grown in Jordan. Using pairs of specific primers, fragments of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) gene of GLRaV-3 and the coat protein (CP) gene of GFLV were amplified from symptomatic grapevine tissues by Immunocapture-Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (IC-RT-PCR). After cloning and sequencing, sequences of the amplified fragments were deposited in Genbank. Alignment analysis revealed that the amplified CP gene fragment of the Jordanian isolate of GFLV (GFLV-JOR) shared sequence identity between 82 and 88% with 11 GFLV isolates from different parts of the world. High sequence identity (95-99%) was observed between the amplified fragment of RdRp gene of GLRaV-3 from Jordan (GLRaV-3-JOR) and isolates from Brazil, USA, Czech Republic and China.
23721569|Contrary to the well-documented incidence and severity of Citrus variegated chlorosis (CVC) throughout the sweet orange groves of So Paulo state (Brazil), the incidence and distribution of its causal agent, Xylella fastidiosa, is not well known. Sweet orange samples selected according to variety and age were collected from commercial groves in northern, central and southern regions of So Paulo state and analysed visually for the presence of symptoms and by PCR for the presence of X. fastidiosa. A decreasing gradient of both infected and symptomatic trees from northern to southern regions of the state was observed. However, there was a higher incidence of latent infection (symptomless trees) in the southern (32%) than in the northern and central regions (16%). The survey disclosed an increasing gradient of CVC and X. fastidiosa incidence according to the age of the trees. Infected trees younger than two years were observed only in the central region. CVC symptom expression is related to environmental conditions and the incidence of symptomatic trees does not correspond with that of trees infected by X. fastidiosa.
41998534|Certain Paenibacillus polymyxa strains that associate with many plant species have been used effectively in the control of plant pathogenic fungi and bacteria. In this article we review the possible mechanism of action by which P. polymyxa promotes plant growth and suppresses some plant diseases. Furthermore we present an updated summary of antibiotics, autolysis, hydrolytic and autolytic enzymes and levanase produced by this bacterium. Some hazards and mild pathogenic effects are also reported, but these appear to be strain-specific and negligible. The association between plants and P. polymyxa seems to be specific and to involve co-adaptation processes. There is every reason to believe that gaining an improved understanding of these processes will enhance and facilitate efforts to wean off farmers dependence on a wide range of agricultural chemicals.
41998870|Strawberry powdery mildew, caused by Podosphaera aphanis, is one of the most serious diseases on strawberry worldwide. In contrast, raspberry powdery mildew is usually less severe. Both diseases are believed to be caused by the same fungal species (P. aphanis). However, this paper shows that the mildews on these two hosts are genetically distinct. Sequencing the ITS region of a number selected samples from the two fungi clearly indicates that these two fungi are genetically different.
41998182|A phytoplasma lineage previously found in Germany and North America was identified in diseased plants of wild European blueberry (Vaccinium myrtillus L.) exhibiting symptoms of shoot proliferation in Lithuania. On the basis of RFLP and nucleotide sequence analyses of 16S rDNA, the phytoplasma (strain VAC-L) was classified in the group 16SrIII (X-disease phytoplasma group), subgroup F. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16SrRNA gene sequences confirmed that the VAC-L phytoplasma is closely related to phytoplasma strain VAC from diseased, cultivated blueberry in Germany and to North American milkweed yellows phytoplasma strain MW1, both of which are classified in subgroup III-F. The results extend the known geographic range of phytoplasmal diseases in blueberry, and raise questions concerning intercontinental movement of subgroup III-F strains and their potential to infect cultivated Vaccinium spp. in North America.
41998954|The host range and molecular variation of several Iranian isolates of Zucchini yellow mosaic virus (ZYMV) were investigated. Of 1,119 symptomatic cucurbit samples and one symptomatic weed species (Colocynth; Citrullus colocynthis) collected from 13 Iranian provinces, 430 samples were ZYMV-infected as indicated by DAS-ELISA. Twenty one viral isolates were chosen for biological and molecular characterizations based on their host range and geographical distribution. Based on biological properties, the isolates clustered in three groups. Isolates of group I and II, induced similar symptoms on watermelon, Chenopodium quinoa and C. amaranticolor, whereas isolates of group III produced different symptoms. The complete coat protein (CP) gene, the N-terminal coding region of the CP gene and the C-terminal part of the polymerase gene (NIb) of the 21 isolates were amplified by PCR, cloned and sequenced. Phylogenetic analysis using the 836 bp fragment comprising the complete CP gene and the 250 bp of NIb-CP fragment showed that ZYMV isolates clustered in three groups. Iranian isolates belonged to group I which was divided into two subgroups, IA and IB.
41998947|Plant essential oils of five aromatic herb species of the family Lamiaceae (Origanum sp., Thymus sp., Mellisa sp., Mentha sp. and Nepeta sp.) were investigated for antimicrobial effect against plant pathogenic (Erwinia amylovora and Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae) and saprophytic (Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pantoea dispersa and P. agglomerans) bacteria commonly associated with both pathogens in plant tissue of healthy and/or diseased fruit trees in orchards. The screening was carried out in vitro on agar plates seeded with the target organism. All screened essential oils exhibited a higher level of antibacterial activity than streptomycin used as a standard in all tests. Plant essential oils from Origanum compactum, O. vulgare and Thymus vulgaris were significantly more effective against all tested bacteria than essential oils from Mellisa officinalis, Mentha arvensis and Nepeta cataria. The main compounds of essential oils from O. compactum, O, vulgare and T. vulgaris were carvacrol and thymol. Apart from the three above most effective oils, those from Nepeta cataria and Mentha arvensis were also effective against E. amylovora, and M. officinalis and M. arvensis against P. syringae. pv. syringae, however only M. officinalis was effective against P. fluorescens. All tested herb essential oils exhibited the highest antimicrobial activity against P. agglomerans and the lowest inhibitory activity against P. dispersa.
23721738|A bacterial leaf blight of Christ's thorn plants (Paliurus spina-christi) observed in the Kurdistan province of Iran is described for the first time. Main symptoms of the disease are foliar water-soaked, irregular spots with yellow halo, 5-8 mm in diameter, which eventually turn brown. Due to it is relatively recent detection in Iran, very little is known about the pathogen. Yellow, non-mucoid colonies consistently isolated from leaf lesions were produced by a Gram-negative, catalase positive and oxidase negative bacterium, 15 isolates of which showed more than 90% similarity. Comparative 16S rDNA gene sequence analysis positioned this bacterium in the genus Sphingomonas with the highest sequence similarity (97%) to Sphingomonas melonis. Chemotaxonomically, fatty acid methyl ester analysis revealed that the bacterial isolates contained C16:0 (9%), C18:1  9 (51%) as predominant fatty acids and C14:0 2OH (25%) as a major 2-hydroxy fatty acid, confirming their belonging to the genus Sphingomonas.
41998186|During a serious epidemic of crown and cane gall on the blackberry-raspberry (Rubus occidentalis-Rubus idaeus) hybrid Lockness in a specialized crop in the province of Treviso (northern Italy) Gram-negative bacteria were found associated with tumours. Following experimental inoculation these bacteria caused tumours on tomato stems and on pot-grown hybrid canes in the greenhouse. These bacteria were found to possess a Ti plasmid, common to Agrobacterium. The resulting fatty acid profile did not correspond to any known Agrobacterium species, but did indicate an affinity with the genus Agrobacterium. Partial 16S rRNA sequencing revealed that the bacteria were closely related to three strains of Agrobacterium rhizogenes, in particular with a strain isolated from a peach tumour.
41999012|In order to devise optimal and sustainable strategies to protect greenhouse grown crops against Botrytis cinerea, production of spores inside the greenhouses and exchanges with the outside need to be monitored. Such knowledge could be used for adequate timing of measures aimed at limiting the entry of exogenous inoculum and others aimed at limiting the multiplication of the endogenous inoculum. In an earlier study, a model based on spore mass balance was developed to estimate the production of B. cinerea spores inside a greenhouse and the number of spores entering and leaving the greenhouse. This model was successfully used in a heated glasshouse. As much of the tomato production also occurs in more open and less controlled conditions, the present study aimed at testing the model in non heated plastic greenhouses (tunnels) where environmental parameters known to influence spore exchanges and production differ from a glasshouse setting. When diseased plants were present in the tunnel, the production of spores over 24 h estimated by the model was equivalent to 5 to 10% of the maximum potential amount present on the plants, which was coherent with the amount of spores likely to be released by the action of wind on sporulating lesions. Exchange of spores was toward the outside. When the tunnel was empty or contained disease-free plants, fewer spores were exchanged and the spore movement was globally from the outside toward the inside of the tunnel.
24722544|The effect of Cotton leaf curl Burewala virus (CLCuBuV) on cotton growth, yield, photosynthetic gas exchange, chlorophyll fluorescence and chlorophyll contents was studied in susceptible (CIM-496 and NIAB-111 from Gossypium hirsutum) and tolerant (Ravi from G. arboreum and Co Tiep Khac from G. herbaceum) cotton genotypes under glasshouse condition through artificial inoculation. Compared to the non-inoculated plants, the inoculated plants of susceptible genotypes showed stunted growth, reflected as significant decrease in plant height, internode length, number of leaves per plant, leaf area, number of bolls per plant, boll weight and yield per plant. Upon virus inoculation, transpiration rate decreased significantly in both susceptible genotypes while water use efficiency (WUE) was enhanced in CIM-496 compared to the non-inoculated plants. However, overall plant growth, net photosynthetic rate, leaf transpiration, stomatal conductance and WUE remained unaffected by CLCuBuV-infection in tolerant genotypes. Moreover, chlorophyll b and total chlorophyll content increased in one of the tolerant genotypes (Ravi) in response to CLCuBuV-infection while remaining unaffected in all other genotypes. Level of chlorophyll a and chlorophyll fluorescence (Fv/Fm) was not affected by CLCuBuV-infection in all genotypes. In conclusion, CLCuBuV infection adversely affected the overall plant growth and yield in susceptible genotypes while tolerant genotypes were able to maintain the growth and yield in the presence of infection. Reduced transpiration rate and increased WUE in susceptible genotypes and increased chlorophyll b and total chlorophyll content in tolerant genotypes on virus inoculation provided evidence for their significant involvement in CLCuBuV-tolerance mechanism in cotton.
41998935|Essential oils of Origanum minutiflorum, Sideritis erytrantha subsp. erytrantha, Satureja wiedemanniana, Salvia tchihatcheffii and Thymus sipyleus subsp. sipyleus were tested against Xanthomonas vesicatoria, the agent of bacterial spot of tomato. Essential oil yields of these endemic plants were between 0.35-4.40% v/w per 100 g plant material. Essential oils inhibition zones, measured with calipers, were in the range of 4-43 mm. The lowest minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) value against X. vesicatoria of essential oil was that of O. minutiflorum (200 pg/ml). The major constituents of the oils determined by GC-MS technique were carvacrol (CHO), -terpinene (CH), p-cymene (CH) and 1.8-cineole (CHO). The essential oil of O. minutiflorum reduced bacterial spot severity significantly (81.25%).
41998759|In 2008, a global production rounding 1,724 and 1,053 million metric tones respectively for walnut and hazelnut has been estimated. Bacterial diseases are threatening these nut crops all over the World. Xhanthomonas arboricola pv. juglandis (Xaj) is the agent of walnut bacteriosis, and has been associated also to brown apical necrosis. Several walnut genotypes have shown a range of tolerance to this disease in diverse countries. Deep bark canker (Brenneria rubifaciens) and Shallow bark canker (Brenneria nigrifluens) are the other bacterial diseases affecting walnut. Being polyphenols involved in tolerance to bacterial diseases, it has been shown that the gene jrPPO1 is the sole polyphenol oxidase PPO gene in walnut able to encode a jrPPO enzyme that is expressed in the leaves, hulls and flowers of walnut trees. It can also happen that some modifications in the anatomical traits of the epidermis of walnut progenies, such as hair density or wax thickness could act as shields against Xaj infection. These changes could explain segregation of tolerance in walnut progenies. A range of tolerance to hazelnut blight, induced by Xantomonas campestris pv. corylina, has been observed in France in diverse nursery plants. Pseudomonas syringae pv. avellanae, observed first in northern Greece, is affecting hazelnuts also in Italy, where this disease it elicits is known as 'moria' ('death'). No resistance or tolerance against 'moria' has been found.
24332026|In Summer and Autumn of 2010, blighted cucurbits suspected of bacterial infection were observed in the East Azarbayejan province of Iran. Infected plants exhibited spots on the leaves which, in the early stages of the disease, appeared as small, yellow and water-soaked with chlorotic haloes. As time went by, the spots enlarged, necrotized and coalesced so as to cover a large area of the blade, while the leaves rolled along their longitudinal axis. Such symptoms had not previously been observed in cucurbits in East Azarbayejan. To investigate the etiology of this disorder, symptomatic leaves were collected from affected plants and the putative agent was isolated and identified as Pseudomonas syringae pv. aptata based on morphological, physiological, biochemical, molecular and pathogenicity tests. In BOX-PCR, four bacterial isolates from cucurbits formed a coherent group and their sequences showed a high similarity (99%) with P. syringae pv. aptata GSPB1067, as confirmed by phylogenetic analysis based on gyrB and rpoD. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of leaf blight and necrosis of Cucurbitaceae caused by P. syringae pv. aptata in Iran.
41998946|Detection of Potato virus Y (PVY), one of the important potato viruses, was undertaken using various PCR-based techniques, i.e immunocapture reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (IC-RT-PCR), direct binding RT-PCR (DB-RT-PCR) and print capture RTPCR (PC-RT-PCR). These techniques were evaluated for detection of PVY virions immobilized on solid supports. The 5'UTR and PI region (969 bp) of the PVY genome were amplified using these techniques, which were compared with DAS-ELISA and nucleic acid spot hybridization (NASH) using fluorescein labeled cDNA probes. The detection limit of purified PVY in serially diluted healthy potato leaf sap was 10 ng for DAS-ELISA, 1 ng for NASH and DB-RT-PCR, 1pg for PC-RT-PCR, ICRT-PCR and standard RT-PCR. Of all techniques, PCRT-PCR proved to be the simplest, economical and reliable. It does not require antibodies for the capture of virions nor lengthy RNA extraction processes.
41998648|Citrus leaf blotch virus (CLBV), the type species of the putative new genus Citrivirus, causes a bud union disorder of Nagami kumquat and Calamondin scions grafted on trifoliate rootstocks. This virus was successfully transmitted to Nicotiana cavicola using leaf extracts of infected Nagami kumquat and Etrog citron, thus widening its herbaceous host range. The infection was latent but confirmed by the positive response of RTPCR using virus-specific primers and by electron microscopy. The positive transmission of CLBV to N. cavicola should in principle facilitate laboratory investigations, as it provides a new source of virus alternative to and more manageable than citrus.
41998119|Grapevines can be infected by five different viroids, of which Australian grapevine viroid (AGVd) is the least studied. Here we report the use of RT-PCR for the detection of this viroid from infected grapevines in Tunisia. RT-PCR results were confirmed by cDNA sequencing. This is the first report of AGVd from the Mediterranean region. The data presented indicate a wider geographical distribution of this viroid than previously reported and record its occurrence in Africa. The molecular variability of AGVd from two different cultivars, Carignan and Syrah, was studied by restriction analyses and by cDNA sequencing. Sequence variability was not clustered in any specific domain or region of the genome.
41998702|Colletotrichum acutatum is the causal agent of anthracnose of azalea (Rhododendron azalea). This disease, first observed in Italy in 2002 on cv. Palestrina in nurseries located in the Verbano-Cusio-Ossola province of Piedmont (northern Italy), causes serious losses. Although most azalea cultivars grown are resistant to the disease, some of the most popular are very susceptible. In order to understand the effect of environmental parameters on anthracnose, the effect of inoculum density, leaf wetness duration and temperature on the development of the disease was studied. Conidial concentration of 10 and 10 produced the most severe symptoms. The disease was severe at 15C and 20C, and severity decreased at temperatures outside this range. At 20C the pathogen required at least 24 h of leaf wetness to develop significant symptoms, whereas at 15C it needed extended periods; with 48 h of leaf wetness the pathogen produced 85 to 100% infection of leaf surface. No symptoms developed at 5C or 30C. Knowledge of the factors favourable to disease development could help improve management tactics, based on the control of environmental factors.
41998149|The coat protein (CP) gene of Cucurbit yellow stunting disorder virus (CYSDV) was amplified by reverse transcription  polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The amplicon was cloned in pGEM-T, sequenced and subcloned into a bacterial expression vector (pQE-31). The recombinant CYSDV CP was expressed as a fusion protein with an N-terminal hexa-histidine tag, purified by affinity chromatography yielding 8 mg native protein per liter of bacterial culture, and used as an antigen to produce CYSDV CP antiserum in a rabbit. The resulting antiserum was successfully assayed in tissue blot immunoassay (TBIA), dot blot immunoassay (DBIA), indirect ELISA and DAS-ELISA, with a titer of about 10 for all methods. TBIA was very specific and showed the virus localization in the phloem tissue and is recommended for large-scale surveys.
