25790860|This study examined the relationship between direction of treefall, slope-aspect and prevailing wind in five old-growth stands where single-tree canopy gaps characterize the dominant disturbance regime. All live and downed trees were inventoried in 0.45-ha sample plots, and crown sizes of live trees were measured along two perpendicular axes. Directions of fall and slope-aspect of downed trees also were recorded. Regional prevailing winds and wind gusts were obtained from four nearby airports. I used circular statistics to determine if directions of treefall for each study stand had a mean direction or if the directions of fall were uniformly distributed. If directions of treefall had a true mean, they were then compared to mean slope aspect and prevailing wind directions. At two of eight plots, treefall directions were uniformly distributed (i.e., no mean direction). Only one plot showed a statistically significant similarity between mean slope-aspect and mean direction of fall, and only three of the eight study plots showed statistically significant similarities between mean treefall and wind directions. Mean crown asymmetry (ratio of long and short diameters) was 1.26, and there were no significant differences in asymmetry values when current gap border trees and non border trees were compared. While trees may fall downhill and downwind, the high variation in treefall and wind directions precluded establishing a consistent statistical relationship between these data sets. I suggest that crown asymmetry, resulting from differential crown growth of trees on sloped-hillsides and within canopy gaps, exerts a strong additional influence on direction of fall.
10.2307/3088760|We sampled permanent plots to observe the effects of removing recreational impacts on the botanical composition of the herbaceous layer vegetation in Ferne Clyffe State Park, Illinois. Prior to 1979 this site was a recreational facility used primarily as a picnic and camping area. Seventeen $1\>m^2$ plots were sampled in 1979, 1981, 1988 and most recently in 1997. Exotic species including Poa annua and Festuca pratensis dominated the flora early on, but these were replaced by mesic forest species including Carex jamesii, Muhlenbergia sylvatica and Ostrya virginiana. Species richness increased significantly across the four sampling periods, and most markedly from 1988-1997. Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) was used to examine trends in overall species composition. The ordination illustrates the change in species composition of the herbaceous layer that occurred over 18 years. Our study shows that with little active management or restoration, species diversity increased as exotic species abundance declined and mesic forest species increased. This suggests that given enough time after discontinuation of high impact recreational use, the vegetation will succeed to a community comparable with the surrounding flora.
10.2307/2997275|The most prominent secondary landforms in the Valley and Ridge province are the small valleys most pro and intervening ridges, commonly called hollows and noses, that corrugate the flanks of major ridges. Noses and hollows are relatively uniform both with respect to form and surficial materials on a given ridge flank. Knowledge of the distribution of vegetation associated with these landforms, therefore, is a key to the understanding of the overall pattern of vegetation in this province. We selected three study localities in southwestern Virginia that differed greatly in two or more of the following variables: bedrock, surficial deposits, elevation, and aspect. We described the vegetation in four hollows and on four noses at each of these three localities. Large differences between noses and hollows were found to exist in all three localities, differences that equal or exceed the differences between the study localities. For example, on a north-facing ridge flank with bouldery soils, Betula lenta had an importance value of 38.6 in hollows but only 0.6 on noses, whereas Quercus prinus displayed a value of 24.7 on noses but did not occur in hollows. On a south-facing ridge flank with bouldery soils, Quercus alba had an importance value of 37.4 on noses but was completely absent in hollows. On a northwest-facing ridge flank with steep-walled V-shaped hollows and thin shale-chip soil, Pinus pungens had an importance value of 31.2 on noses but did not occur in hollows. Compositional differences were even greater for shrubs and herbaceous plants. In addition, tree density, sapling density, shrub density, herb stratum cover, rock cover, and species richness differed significantly between noses and hollows at one or more study localities.
20063929|Two populations of the clonal orchid Goodyera pubescens (Willd.) R. Br. were studied between 1976 and 2006 in Gatineau Park, Quebec, at the northern edge of the distribution. The species is ranked as "imperiled" in the province. Four life-history stages were identified: seed, juvenile/immature, flowering and vegetative. The populations, which were 5 km apart, expanded with doubling times of 7.5 and 15.9 years, the difference in doubling times being attributed to ongoing herbivory at the latter site. Inter-generational times for vegetative reproduction were 4-8 years, while none of the few juvenile/immature individuals monitored had flowered after 9 years. Large flowerings, of up to 30% of the rosettes in a patch, usually were spaced at intervals of 2-4 years. These large flowerings were synchronous within patches, among patches, and between populations. They occurred in the years that followed years with an extensive warm, dry period in May.
43287014|A taxonomic review of the species of Vriesea sect. Xiphion with simple inflorescences indicated that a lectotype for Vriesea fenestralis Linden & Andr was needed because its holotype cannot be found. We have designated the lectotype and provide a list of studied material along with comments on the geographic distribution, taxonomy and conservation of the species.
40207569|Knowledge of plant mating system attributes is essential to the conservation of endangered species. The purpose of this study was to examine the functional consequences and conservation implications of protandry, andromonoecy, and mating patterns in the critically endangered and clonal plant, Ptilimnium nodosum. We conducted intra- and interfloral phenological observations to quantify opportunities for geitonogamy and calculated floral sex ratios of sequentially blooming umbel orders. We also provide information on P. nodosum's mating system. Flowers are self-compatible, but strong intrafloral protandry precludes autonomous selfing (< 1% seed set). Weak interfloral protandry combined with vegetative reproduction, however, provided multiple opportunities for geitonogamy which characteristically decreased with umbel order. Although low, mean seed set was comparable among open pollinated (25%), manually outcrossed (26%), and geitonogamously selfed (21%) pollination treatments, suggesting a mixed-mating system dependent on insect-mediated pollination. The significant decrease in mean seed set among higher umbel orders in open-pollinated plants is likely a consequence of low floral density and lack of pollinators late in the flowering season. Moderate reproductive output and high seed germinability suggest that environmental conditions, not mating system, regulate the distribution and abundance of P. nodosum and high immediate fitness gained by self-compatibility and vegetative reproduction plays a critical role to the species' short-term persistence.
20063825|Using Doyle (1996) as a starting point, we compiled a morphological cladistic matrix of 54 coded taxa (31 wholly extinct, and 23 at least partly extant) and 102 informative characters in order to explore relationships among gymnosperms in general and pteridosperms in particular. Our core analysis omitted six supplementary fossil taxa and yielded 21 most-parsimonious trees that generated two polytomies in the strict consensus tree, both among pteridosperms; the first affected several hydraspermans, and the second affected the three peltasperm/corystosperm taxa analyzed. The resulting topology broadly resembled topologies generated during previous morphological cladistic analyses that combined substantial numbers of extant and extinct higher taxa. Each of the five groups that include extant taxa was relatively well resolved as monophyletic and yielded the familiar Anthophyte topology (cycads (Ginkgo (conifers (Gnetales, angiosperms)))), strongly contradicting most recent DNA-based studies that placed Gnetales as sister to, or within, conifers. These five extant groups were embedded in the derived half of a morphologically diverse spectrum of extinct taxa that strongly influenced tree topology and elucidated patterns of acquisition of morphological character-states, demonstrating that pteridosperms and other more derived "stem-group" gymnosperms are critical for understanding seed-plant relationships. Collapses in strict consensus trees usually reflected either combinations of data-poor taxa or "wildcard" taxa that combine character states indicating strongly contradictory placements within the broader topology. Including three progymnosperms in the analysis and identifying the aneurophyte progymnosperm as outgroup proved crucial to topological stability. An alternative progymnosperm rooting allowed angiosperms to diverge below cycads as the basalmost of the extant groups, a morphologically unintuitive position but one that angiosperms have occupied in several recent molecular studies. We therefore believe that such topologies reflect inadequate rooting, which is inevitable in analyses of seed plants that use only extant taxa where the outgroups can only be drawn from ferns and/or lycopsids, groups that are separated from extant seed-plants by a vast phylogenetic discontinuity that is bridged only by wholly fossil groups. Given the rooting problem, and the poverty of the hypotheses of relationship that can be addressed using only extant taxa, morphology-based trees should be treated as the initial phylogenetic framework, to subsequently be tested using molecular tools and employing not only molecular systematics but also evolutionary-developmental genetics to test ambiguous homologies. Among several possible circumscriptions of pteridosperms, we prefer those that imply paraphyly rather than polyphyly and exclude only one monophyletic group, providing one cogent argument for the inclusion of extant cycads in pteridosperms. Although pteridosperms cannot realistically be delimited as a monophyletic group, they remain a valuable informal category for the plexus of gymnosperms from which arose several more readily defined monophyletic groups of seed-plants. The ideal solution of recognizing several monophyletic groups, each of which combines a "crown-group" with one or more pteridosperms, is not yet feasible, due to uncertainties of relationship and difficulties to satisfactorily delimiting the resulting groups using reliable apomorphies. Exploration of the matrix demonstrated that coding all of the organs of a plant (extinct or extant) and dividing significantly polymorphic coded taxa are highly desirable, thereby justifying the substantial investment of time required to reconstruct individual conceptual whole plants from disarticulated fossil organs.
10.2307/3088687|In two mixed populations of Andropogon selloanus (Hack.) Hack. and A. macrothrix Trin. from northeastern Argentina we found two individuals that were morphologically intermediate between these two taxa. The hypothesis that these individuals were natural hybrids was tested through comparisons with a controlled hybrid obtained from the cross A. selloanus x A. macrothrix. The results show that there are neither morphological, nor cytological, nor reproductive differences among intermediate individuals and the controlled hybrid; therefore they deserve to be regarded as products of natural hybridization. Meiotic chromosome behavior in the hybrids indicates that these two species share different forms of a basic genome (S), which accounts for the complete sterility of the hybrids. Therefore, although hybrids are produced in natural populations, the two taxa are apparently well isolated and gene flow between them looks highly improbable. The S genome is also known to be present in A. ternatus, a South American triploid with strong similarities to A. macrothrix.
41678792|Analyzing the spatial pattern of individuals within a plant community is useful for inferring the underlying mechanisms and processes governing community organization. Aggregated patterns can be caused by habitat-specificity or dispersal limitation, while overdispersed patterns are often caused by competition or predatory hostspecificity. However, few studies have looked at how abiotic influences might drive spatial patterning. Here, we address how topography might lead to differences in tree spatial patterning on a north-and south-facing slope at Dysart Woods. We also look at how species identity, canopy position, and sampling year affect spatial patterning. We found that the spatial distribution of trees was highly aggregated on a south-facing plot, but did not differ from random on a north-facing plot. We attribute these differences largely to the differential dominance of Acer saccharum and Fagus grandifolia on the north and south plots, respectively. Acer saccharum individuals were largely randomly distributed, while Fagus grandifolia individuals were highly aggregated. We also found differences between understory and overstory individuals, with smaller individuals being more aggregated, likely due to life-history or competitive self-thinning processes. Lastly, we observed a surprising change in the scale that aggregation occurred at from 1996 to 2011 on the south plot. In 1996, stems on the south plot were aggregated at distances > 3 meters, but only at distances > 10 meters in 2011. We found that this reduction in aggregation was largely due to the unusually high mortality rates of Cornus florida and Prunus serotina. We conclude that topography can greatly influence spatial patterning, and that this and other abiotic variables should be taken into consideration in future studies on community structure.
41678789|Members of the aquatic plant genus Utricularia have extremely modified vegetative morphology, which includes absence of roots and lack of a clear distinction between leaves and stems. In this study, the vegetative morphology, anatomy and growth pattern of Utricularia gibba (L.), a common species in the southern Florida Everglades, was analyzed to determine general developmental patterns and establish a basic model for growth of this species. Specimens were collected from different habitats in southern Florida during both the wet and dry seasons. Light and scanning electron microscopy were used to quantify anatomical and morphological characteristics. Utricularia gibba has a shoot apical meristem that produces repeating developmental units, each of which consists of a stolon bearing dichotomously branched leaf-like structure that supports the traps. These structures may subtend one or more axillary buds that can grow out to form additional stolons or inflorescences. The inflorescence produces aerial flowers, but also forms a modified stolon at its base that is covered with unique glandular papillae. Re-iteration of this model through branching creates the floating and benthic mats found in this species. The basic model can be expanded to other species of section Utricularia but not to all species of the genus.
20063783|Excessive shade in the understory has been widely cited as the most important factor causing poor oak regeneration in eastern deciduous forests. We examined the effect of single and multiple fires on forest stand structure and the consequent impacts on the gap fraction measured in the understory. Differences in midstory stem density (stems 2-15 cm diameter at breast height; DBH) before and after prescribed burning were highly correlated with fire frequency (
10.2307/3557521|This paper reports the results of a study on the effects of leaf litter cover, herbivory, and substrate-type on bolting and fecundity in the facultative biennial Arabis laevigata var. laevigata, a species of rocky, deciduous woodlands in eastern North America. Probability of bolting decreased with mean cumulative amount of leaf litter cover and of rosette herbivory and was lower for plants growing on soil than for those growing on rock-moss. With rosette size factored out, both cumulative rosette herbivory and flower stalk herbivory decreased fecundity, whereas neither cumulative leaf litter cover nor substrate-type had an effect on seed production. On the basis of data in the present study and those in five previously-published papers on the life history biology of A. laevigata var. laevigata, we conclude that the taxon exhibits a stress-tolerant ruderal (SR) strategy sensu J. P. Grime's triangular model of plant strategies.
20063782|Permanent vegetation plots in the northern Sonoran Desert, USA, provided an opportunity to assess the effects of recent drought on desert shrubs and to examine survival in relation to rainfall variability during the past 76 years. Survival and maximum longevity of six species were determined for eight intercensus periods between 1928 and 2004. Average annual survival was Ambrosia deltoidea, 0.9167  0.0415; Encelia farinosa, 0.7952  0.0926; Janusia gracilis, 0.9334  0.0247; Krameria grayi, 0.9702  0.0270; Larrea tridentata, 0.9861  0.0174; and Lycium berlandieri, 0.9910  0.0077. The longest-lived species were Larrea, Lycium, and Krameria, with average maximum life spans of 330, 211, and 184 years. Janusia, Ambrosia, and Encelia were much shorter lived, with average maximum longevity of 53, 40, and 16 years. Winter rain equalled or exceeded 90% of the long-term average accumulation except during 1948 to 1959 (65% of average) and from 2001 to 2003 (49% of average). Summer rain did not drop below 90% of the average accumulation in any period. The 1950s drought caused modest declines in survival of Ambrosia, Encelia, Janusia, Krameria, and Lycium. The effects of the recent drought were much more pronounced, resulting in sharp declines in survival and maximum longevity of Ambrosia, Encelia, Krameria, and Larrea, and modest declines for Lycium. Despite heightened mortality during the recent severe drought, 72% of the deaths observed between 1928 and 2004 occurred during periods of average or better-than-average rain, providing support for the idea that demography of shrubs in arid regions is influenced by continuous as well as episodic processes.
20063875|During August-November 1999-2002, we studied herbivory in two populations of the Illinois threatened prairie plant, Agalinis auriculata (Michx.) Raf. (Orobanchaceae). We collected and identified insect herbivores, and measured levels of folivory and granivory. We also tested whether observed levels of folivory influenced the reproductive success of the plant (i.e., fruit set, seed set and seed mass). Major herbivores included the black-horned tree cricket (Oecanthus nigricornis), the verbena bud moth (Endothenia hebesana), and the buckeye butterfly (Junonia coenia). Significant differences were found between populations for percent leaf damage, although the percent of leaf area per plant removed by insects was relatively low, ranging from 0% to 40% in 2000 and 0% to 12% in 2001. A significant negative correlation between leaf damage and seed set was found, but not with fruit set or seed mass. In addition, E. hebesana was capable of causing up to 100% damage to seeds within individual fruits, although the infestation level of total yearly fruit samples was relatively low in 2000 (21%, N = 72) and 2001 (6%, N = 266), but high in 1999 (89%, N = 18). Insect herbivory, combined with habitat loss and other biotic constraints may hinder the recovery of Agalinis auriculata.
20063855|Soil nutrients and disturbance are two of the main abiotic factors that influence plant dominance (canopy cover), density, and fecundity in early successional old field plant communities. The manner in which the dominant species in old field successional systems respond to the interaction of nutrients and disturbance is poorly known. We examined the dominance, density of flowering tillers, and reproductive output of Tridens flavus, a perennial, warm-season bunchgrass that is important in old field succession, to varying soil nutrient and disturbance regimes. We tested the hypothesis that the interaction between nutrients and disturbance would influence the performance (cover, density, fecundity) of T. flavus. To test this hypothesis, we subjected 25 m experimental plots to various combinations of fertilizer and mowing treatments for eight years after initially plowing the field. The performance of T. flavus was measured by estimating percent cover for 8 years (1996-2003) and both density of flowering tillers and reproductive output (panicle length and number of branches per panicle) for three years (2001-2003). The pattern of canopy cover of T. flavus over the first eight years of succession varied over time depending on mowing regime. Dominance was significantly higher in plots that were fertilized only in years one and five than in annually fertilized and unfertilized control plots. The length of panicles and density of flowering tillers were both significantly greater in annually mowed plots than inunmowed plots. In the absence of mowing in particular, T. flavus became overtopped by woody species and declined in this old field community. Therefore, disturbances such as mowing and fertilization may be important in maintaining grasses such as Tridens flavus in old fields.
10.2307/3088666|Combining the study of changes in mature forests with the study of secondary succession provides a unique opportunity to understand forests in a way not made possible by studying each alone. In this study, I examined tree species composition of two mature (>150 yr-old) upland hardwood forests with a long history of fire suppression and two younger second-growth upland forests (40 yr-old), also fire-suppressed. I then compared present-day tree species composition of the two old-growth forests and the two younger forests with the composition of bearing trees (i.e., trees identified by land surveyors in the 1830s) in upland and lowland areas within townships encompassing the four sites. Bearing tree samples were similar in composition to an explorer's account of old-growth woodlands that dominated the region during sparse subsistence settlement by Chickasaw Indians. There were striking differences between present-day and bearing-tree samples. One of the old-growth forests (Bailey Woods) was more similar in species composition to the mid-successional second-growth forests than to bearing-tree samples. The shade-intolerant, but fire-tolerant, Quercus marilandica Muenchh. was nearly absent from present-day upland forests (< 1% of all stems  10 cm dbh; range 0-3%) but was the most common species among presettlement upland trees (42% of all bearing trees in the township containing the field sites). Liquidambar styraciflua L., often regarded as both a pioneer species and a common constituent of alluvial floodplain and mesophytic terrace forests, was the single most abundant tree species in the understory and midcanopy of one of the old-growth forests (Bailey Woods) and in all size classes of trees of both younger forests. It was completely absent from presettlement records of upland trees, but was an abundant bearing tree in nearby sections containing lowland alluvial forests. I hypothesize that open oak woodlands dominated the upland landscape of Lafayette County, Mississippi before extensive settlement. These woodlands were neither mid-successional nor late-successional forests but were a unique fire-dependent community type that is absent from north Mississippi today.
10.2307/3557530|As demand for goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis L.) and ginseng (Panax quinquefolius L.) intensifies due to the herbal plant trade, basic information about distribution and abundance is needed to inform management strategies. We surveyed 16 sites focusing on West Virginia, but including nearby sites in Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Ohio, and Maryland to determine H. canadensis and P. quinquefolius presence and abundance. In total we surveyed 29.32 ha over two summers in a wide range of aspects, elevations, management regimes and forest cover types. So few patches of goldenseal were encountered that we were unable to detect statistically significant effects of elevation, aspect, land use or vegetation on either encounter probability or density. Ginseng was more frequently encountered than goldenseal. The probability of encountering ginseng increased with elevation. Overall, ginseng was not more frequent or abundant on north-facing 'cove' forests. A significant elevation x aspect interaction was found, whereby ginseng was most abundant on west-facing slopes at low elevation, but more abundant on east-facing slopes at middle elevations. Extrapolations of ginseng densities to the state of West Virginia suggest that the species is not rare in the typical sense. Instead, it is widespread, but scarce everywhere it is found. Harvest rates are estimated to be ca. 5% of the natural ginseng population annually. Understanding basic ecological relationships and management of these species is made difficult by the widespread, dispersed nature of individuals, patches and populations and the complex interaction with human harvesters.
20063879|Three Pacific Northwest taxa, Impatiens aurella, Impatiens ecalcarata, and Impatiens noli-tangere, are considered native plants, based on collecting histories beginning in the 1850s. Impatiens capensis, indigenous to eastern North America, is found in coastal Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia, where it was first collected in 1950. Its late arrival suggests Impatiens capensis is a recent introduction and not native, contrary to reports in regional floras. Rapid dispersal and population increases have made it common on many shorelines. Of 39 indigenous Impatiens ecalcarata populations located west of the Cascade Mountains, 34 (87%) were mixed with introduced Impatiens capensis. Spontaneous hybrids flowered simultaneously with both parents. In a mixed population pollinators favored the flowers of Impatiens capensis (77% of 295 visits) over hybrids (18%) and Impatiens ecalcarata (4%). Hybrids were frequent, ranging from 6-69% of the individuals present, and were found in all mixed populations of Impatiens capensis and Impatiens ecalcarata. Impatiens capensis and its hybrids together comprised more than half the individuals present at most sites, suggesting Impatiens capensis is a potential threat to the genetic integrity of native coastal populations of the relatively uncommon Impatiens ecalcarata.
41262020|Mature and old-growth forests are often thought to be buffered against invasive species due to low levels of light and infrequent disturbance. Lianas (woody vines) and other climbing plants are also known to exhibit lower densities in older forests. As part of a larger survey of the lianas of the southern Lake Michigan region in mature and old-growth forests, the level of infestation by invasive lianas was evaluated. The only invasive liana detected in these surveys was Celastrus orbiculatus Thunb. (Celastraceae). Although this species had only attached to trees and reached the canopy in a few instances, it was present in 30% of transects surveyed, mostly as a component of the ground layer. Transects with C. orbiculatus had higher levels of soil potassium and higher liana richness than transects without. In contrast, transects with the native scandens had higher pH, sand content, and soil magnesium and lower organic matter compared to transects where it was absent. Celastrus orbiculatus appears to be a generalist liana since it often occurs with native lianas. Celastrus orbiculatus poses a substantial threat to mature forests as it will persist in the understory until a canopy gap or other disturbance provides the light and supports necessary for it to ascend to the canopy and damage tree species. As a result, these forests should be monitored by land managers so that C. orbiculatus eradication can occur while invasions are at low densities and restricted to the ground layer.
20063933|Rhamnus cathartica L. is a large shrub or small tree native throughout much of Europe and eastern Asia, but invasive in North America. In this review, the current native and invasive distributions of R. cathartica are documented and possible factors limiting its naturalized distribution are considered. Within its broad distribution, R. cathartica occurs in diverse habitats ranging from urban forests to fens. Rhamnus cathartica is shade tolerant, prefers disturbed areas with moist, but not saturated, soils and may have an affinity for alkaline soils high in calcium carbonate.
25790862|The abundance of old-growth associated herbs in young Pseudotsuga menziesii forests is limited in part by the low availability of propagules of these species, but it remains unclear whether the slow post-logging development of old-growth species in younger forests also reflects a lack of microhabitats suitable for seed germination. This study attempts to fill an almost total lack of knowledge about germination of understory species in second-growth Douglas-fir forests, and in young coniferous forests in general, while providing a preliminary exploration of the relative importance of these two limiting factors. The ability of six common forest herbs to germinate in a 40-year-old Pseudotsuga menziesii stand was tested, and survival and growth were monitored for seven years. Five of the six species germinated well (850% germination), while one open-site species failed to germinate. After seven years, survival of four old-growth associated species was 10% (of the original seed number), while only 1% of seeds of a disturbance-adapted species were still present as seedlings. For all species, seedlings grew slowly and did not reach reproductive size, forming a seedling bank analogous to that of shade-tolerant tree seedlings. All old-growth associated species showed higher overall seedling numbers or greater survival in gaps than in non-gap microsites, and two species showed higher survival in the more mesic lower part of the watershed. Naturally occurring seedlings were rare and included only easily dispersed species that are forest generalists or characteristic of mature, but not of old-growth forests. I conclude that germination of late-seral herb species in young Pseudotsuga menziesii forests is not strictly microsite limited, but that these species are instead limited by a combination of low propagule availability and low resource levels with concomitant slow growth rates.
20063913|Although fire exclusion is thought to be linked with declining plant diversity in oak forests, few studies have examined long-term changes in their shrub and ground layers resulting from repeated burning. In this study, we compare the composition and structure of woody understory and ground layer vegetation in burned and unburned oak forest after 17 years of annual dormant season low-intensity burns. Over time, burned forest had 97% reduction of shrubs and small saplings, but only 38% loss of stems in the &gt 5-10 cm size class. Canopy openness was similar in burned and unburned forest plots prior to the onset of burning, but it was significantly greater in burned forest after 17 years of fire. Ground layer vegetation structure also changed significantly, with responses differing by guilds. Spring herbs were the dominant guild before burning and did not change over time. However, cover and abundance of summer herbs increased over time in burned forest, probably in response to greater light assimilation under the more open canopy. This resulted in greater overall species richness in burned plots without loss of the spring herbs. Burning eliminated most alien shrubs, although common buckthorn persisted in small numbers. The alien herb garlic mustard also persisted and had greater abundance in burned plots, apparently by re-colonizing from unburned microhabitats and adjacent forest. These results indicate that long-term burning can eliminate shrub and small sapling canopy cover, thereby increasing canopy openness and promoting greater richness and cover of summer forbs. Fire also probably had a positive effect on seedling establishment through removal of litter. Resulting tradeoffs to this gain in diversity include loss of native vines, shrubs, understory trees and forest interior bird habitat, as well as persistence of alien plants.
10.2307/3557534|In the southeastern United States, true open cedar glades, i.e., the type first described in the Central (Nashville) Basin of Tennessee, occur in nine physiographic regions in Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, Georgia, and Virginia. Our compiled-checklist of vascular plants of these glades includes 448 native and 96 nonnative taxa. The largest families are the Asteraceae and Poaceae, and the largest genera are Carex, Hypericum, and Panicum. The most distinct floristic element of the southeastern glades is the 21 endemic/near-endemic taxa, but the species with centers of distribution north and west of the glade region (including several disjuncts) also contribute to the uniqueness of the flora. However, the majority of native taxa occur in a variety of habitats throughout eastern/southeastern North America.
43286989|Old field succession has been reviewed extensively in many community settings; however, secondary succession in maritime communities, especially forest and shrub communities is poorly understood. Maritime communities of the North American Atlantic coast are unique and often fragmented ecosystems that provide critical stopover sites for migratory birds. Historical losses coupled with rising developmental pressures have created the need for conservation and restoration to protect these globally rare communities. We examined secondary succession by analyzing the vegetation community composition and soil seed bank of an abandoned agricultural field initially and at seven years (2009) after initiation of stateagency site restoration that used a combination of active and passive restoration techniques. The restoration field was divided into three projected habitats: early maritime forest (16 ha), maritime shrub (12 ha), and coastal grassland (8 ha). A trend was observed with loss of species richness across habitat types. There was a high proportion of species turnover, yet there were no significant differences in the number of species belonging to functional groups for each habitat between the two sampling years (2003 and 2009). Zones where active restoration techniques were used were more indicative of restoration success compared to areas that relied on spontaneous succession. Long-term vegetation surveys are critical to assess the success of restoration operations, and to describe and predict successional trajectories. Accessible vegetation survey data may become increasingly important in the future as land managers place more emphasis on protecting and restoring these overdeveloped, unique coastal communities.
20063854|The combination of protandrous flowers and acropetal inflorescence development in bee-pollinated species is thought to maximize cross-pollination because bees visit vertical inflorescences from the bottom up. However, incomplete protandry may allow bees to carry out geitonogamous pollinations. We examined the overlap in male and female phases in the rare orchid Spiranthes diluvialis, a plant with the above combination of characteristics. We found that unvisited male phase flowers proceed to a hermaphroditic phase, not a female phase, because each flower's single pollinarium remains viable and may be removed by pollinators throughout anthesis. Pollinator visitation rates, as estimated by pollinaria removal rates, varied among five populations in Utah and Colorado, USA. More hermaphroditic phase flowers accrued on inflorescences in populations with low visitation rates than in those with higher visitation rates. We conclude that the cross-pollination mechanism of S. diluvialis requires some minimum threshold of bee visits in order to work optimally. When bees are plentiful, male and female functions remain temporally separated and cross-pollination is maximized. In contrast, the potential for geitonogamy in this self-compatible species is much higher in populations with low visitation rates. We suggest that pollinator abundance may affect the mating system of other protandrous, acropetal, bee-pollinated plants if protandry depends upon the timely removal of long-lived pollen.
20063891|At the landscape scale, herbaceous understory plant species are limited in return to forested settings by dispersal. At fine-scales, microhabitat characteristics are known to be important in determining the distribution of herbaceous understory plant species. Fine-scale manipulative experiments to determine responses of understory species to disturbance, however, are few and limited to Europe and the Pacific northwest. The Unified Neutral Theory of Biodiversity (UNT) predicts that species enter disturbed habitat in abundances proportional to their neighboring abundance. I assessed the reestablishment of dominant understory plant species (Dryopteris intermedia, Lycopodium lucidulum, and Oxalis acetosella) following small-scale disturbance in a Catskill northern hardwood forest. While reestablishment of all species was significantly and positively correlated with the presence of each species in surrounding areas indicating the importance of dispersal limitation of reestablishment, rates of recovery were species specific. Reestablishment of O. acetosella was far greater than that of the other species. In fact, no sexual reproduction was observed for D. intermedia and L. lucidulum. Cover of D. intermedia and L. lucidulum was significantly and positively correlated with pre-disturbance cover but this was not true for O. acetosella, indicating that for the pteridiophytes, habitat quality (as well as dispersal) was an important factor in reestablishment. Reestablishment therefore was influenced by dispersal and habitat characteristics, was species specific, and did not follow the predictions of the UNT. Thus, small-scale disturbance can have an important effect on the composition of the herbaceous community in northern hardwood forests.
10.2307/3088655| Freshly-matured seeds of Chamaelirium luteum have fully differentiated, but small, embryos; mean embryo length was about 1.0 mm. Since embryos in seeds of this species had to grow to 1.3-2.8 mm, depending on the individual seed, before germination was possible, seeds have morphological dormancy. Embryos also are physiologically dormant; thus, the seeds have morphophysiological dormancy (MPD). Cold stratification at 5C for 12 wk broke physiological dormancy, but embryos in only about 20% of the seeds grew to 1.3 mm during this treatment. After seeds that had been stratified in darkness at 5C for 12 wk were transferred to light at a simulated spring temperature (20/10C = April), embryos in all seeds grew to 1.3 mm within 12 days. Furthermore, seeds receiving 12 wk of stratification in light at 5C had germinated to 90-100% after 14 days in light at 15/6, 20/10, 25/15, and 30/15C. Seeds receiving light only during the stratification period at 5C or only during the 2-wk incubation period at the four temperature regimes germinated to 33-100%, whereas those in continuous darkness during both stratification at 5C and incubation germinated to only 1-7%. Seeds of C. luteum have nondeep simple MPD. In the field, mature seeds are dispersed in mid- to late autumn, and cold stratification during winter breaks physiological, but not morphological, dormancy of the embryo. However, embryo growth and germination occur rapidly as temperatures begin to increase in early spring. 
10.2307/2997266|The High Mountain forest in metropolitan northeastern New Jersey was recently purchased by Wayne Township in order to preserve open space. The reservation is unique because it contains rare and endangered trap rock glade communities and relatively undisturbed second growth oak forest. The vegetation of High Mountain has not been intensively studied and its ecology is not well understood. In order to examine successional trends in this forest preserve, the canopy and understory of mixed oak stands were sampled for species abundance and coverage. Similarity indices were employed to compare the statistical divergence of canopy and reproduction layer species composition. The canopy of High Mountain's mixed oak forest is dominated by a combination of oaks: white (Quercus alba), black (Q. velutina), and northern red (Q. rubra). However, sugar maple (Acer saccharum) is the most dominant single species within this forest. Replacement of oak is likely to take place because the sapling layer is characterized by sugar maple and red maple (A. rubrum), not oak reproduction. Competition for light and fire suppression may best explain this pattern of succession. This successional course coupled with lack of fire may threaten rare and endangered rock outcrop communities on High Mountain.
20063833|The persistence of oak-dominated ecosystems throughout the Central Hardwoods Region has been attributed to chronic, non-catastrophic fire regimes prior to Euro-American settlement. The nature of these fires is not well understood. We used lightning strike, thunderstorm activity, and precipitation data to elucidate the seasonal timing of natural fire regimes for southern Ohio. Our results suggest that fires are most likely to be initiated during the growing season (especially August) when there is a high frequency of lightning strikes and thunderstorm activity that occurs simultaneously with dry environmental conditions. We hypothesize that the use of prescribed growing season fires would effectively deter encroachment of shade tolerant hardwood vegetation and foster regeneration of oaks. Such fires would provide an evolutionary basis for the conservation of oak-dominated ecosystems in southern Ohio.
10.2307/4126952|Ecological species groups, consisting of assemblages of co-occurring plant species exhibiting similar environmental affinities, were developed for ground-flora and tree strata in late-successional forests on a 13,000 ha southern Appalachian landscape. We distinguished 11 ground-flora groups that included 50 species and six tree groups comprised of 19 species. Ground-flora groups ranged from a xeric Vaccinium group (including Vaccinium pallidum, Euphorbia corollata, and Piptochaetium avenaceum) to a mesic Rhododendron group (typified by Rhododendron maximum, Mitchella repens, and Hexastylis heterophylla). Tree groups ranged from a Quercus coccinea group to a Tsuga canadensis group. Consistent with previous research, species groups exhibited a range of amplitudes from widely distributed Smilax and Vitis groups to a Sanguinaria group restricted to one ecosystem type. A given species group occupied a variety of different combinations of measured environmental variables, which apparently interacted to produce repeating environmental complexes across the landscape favorable for specific species groups. We also tested two multivariate methods for quantifying associations among species groups, and found that Mantel tests using traditional distance measures were inappropriate because of the double-zero problem of species absences, whereas canonical correlation modeled species group associations consistent with species distributions among sites. This study is among the first to develop ecological species groups in the southern United States, and the species group approach was useful for explaining vegetation-environment relationships, identifying groups of ground-flora and tree species that varied together across the landscape, and for determining the environmental gradients most strongly associated with species distributions.
40865066|New approaches to underground systems in Brazilian Smilax species (Smilacaceae). Scientific studies show that the watery extract of the thickened underground stem and its adventitious roots of the genus Smilax can act as a therapeutic agent in immunoinflammatory disorders, such as rheumatic arthritis. Brazilians have used this genus of plants in folk medicine, however it is very hard to identify these species, since the morphology of the underground systems is very similar in this group. For better identification of those systems, we studied six species of Smilax L. (S. brasiliensis, S. campestris, S. cissoide s, S. goyazana, S. oblongifolia and S. rufescens), collected in different regions of Brazil with different physiognomies and soil characteristics. The main purpose is to describe the morpho-anatomy of the underground systems and to analyze if their structure depends on environmental conditions. The underground stem (rhizophore) is of brown color and it is knotty, massive, slender (S. rufescens) or tuberous (S. brasiliensis, S. campestris, S. cissoides, S. goyazana and S. oblongifolia). The tuberization is a result of primary thickened meristem (PTM) activity. The color and thickness of the adventitious roots change during development because the epidermis and outer cortex are disposed of, so the inner cortex becomes the new covering tissue with lignified and dark color cells. There are differences in starch grain shapes in mature roots. The chemical attributes of the soil are very similar in all studied environments and, even when soil characteristics varied, all the species' underground system was distributed close to the soil surface (10 to 15 cm deep). The species exhibited clonal growth hence their underground system functions as storage structures and the axillary buds can sprout into new stems. Only Smilax rufescens, collected in sandy soil of Restinga, has vegetative dispersal due to the runners.
10.2307/4126915|With the aim of testing the effects of seedling age on the damage caused by mollusk herbivores in the Asteraceae species Centaurea pseudophrygia, C. jacea and Arnica montana, seedlings of five age classes (one to five weeks old) were transplanted into a lowland meadow. Leaf damage and seedling mortality were monitored for about six weeks. For both Centaurea species, age-specific herbivore damage was detected. The majority of the smallest plants were killed within a few days; whereas most of the oldest plants survived until the end of the experiments. Although the oldest plants with the largest leaf area suffered the highest absolute leaf area loss due to mollusk consumption, the mean relative leaf area that was eaten decreased with increasing age when plants were first exposed to herbivores. There were no seasonal differences in the herbivory damage between C. pseudophrygia plants sown and transplanted in spring or late summer. The comparison between seedlings of the montane C. pseudophrygia and the closely related, widely distributed C. jacea revealed similar growth patterns and nearly the same damage, and therefore gave no indication that the lower altitudinal distribution limit of C. pseudophrygia may be caused by a more severe seedling herbivory. In contrast to Centaurea, the highly palatable Arnica montana seedlings were completely consumed within a few days after transplantation, irrespective of age class and without any regeneration events, supporting previous hypotheses that mollusk herbivory is a limiting factor for the geographical range of Arnica montana. In general, the results confirm that a high sampling resolution in time is of great importance to detect age-specific mortality factors in plant population studies.
10.2307/3557554|Red chokeberry (Aronia arbutifolia (L.) Ell.) and black chokeberry (A. melanocarpa (Michx) Ell.) are relatively common deciduous shrubs in southern Appalachian wetlands. Both are native species that produce pomes consumed by birds and mammals. There is growing interest in using these and other native plants in ecological restoration and wildlife management projects. However, few studies have focused on chokeberries, and published information is generally limited to casual observations and occasional estimates of percent cover. We examined the distribution and fruiting of red and black chokeberry in forested and early successional areas of a mountain fen in western North Carolina. In July 2002, we counted stems of each species in 40, 4 m x 4 m plots (20 plots in each area of the fen), and recorded the number of pomes on each fruiting stem. Two-thirds of all chokeberries occurred in the early successional habitat. Black chokeberry dominated both areas, comprising 72% of all chokeberry stems in the early successional area, and 79% in the forested area. Few pomes were observed in the forested area, and no red chokeberries fruited there. In the early successsional area, nearly equal percentages of each species produced fruit (8% of red chokeberries, and 10% of black chokeberries). However, red chokeberry produced significantly more pomes per stem, as well as 20% more pomes than black chokeberry, across the entire fen.
10.2307/2996585|Helianthus schweintizii was designated as a Federally endangered species in 1991. Since that time, an intensive research effort has been carried out on the species. The taxonomic typification is clarified through the examination of all the pertinent material. Examination of the historical background of Lewis David von Schweinitz allows a theory of the location of the original collection site. Misidentifications of the species before it was well known produced incorrect distributions and led to a report of chemical compounds attributed to this species, but which in fact occur in another sunflower. These identifications are corrected. The reported chromosome number of n = 51 (hexaploid), based on one collection that cannot be relocated, is corrected to 2n = 68 (tetraploid), based on 33 counts from eight populations
10.2307/3557540|Pit membrane remnants occur in all collections of Cyrillaceae studied: they are minimal in Cliftonia monophylla, C. parviflora, and Purdiaea antillana, whereas in the specimen of Cyrilla racemiflora, many perforations possess intact pit membranes or membranes with small pores or, in a few cases, large holes. Some perforation pit membranes in C. racemiflora appear to possess holes only in one of the two pit membranes of the two adjacent cells. Retention of pit membrane remnants in C. racemiflora may represent a tendency to lose conductive capability related to the habitat (understory, marshy ground) This could be considered a stage in vessel loss except for the fact that three other criteria for vessel loss are not met. Presence of pit membrane remnants in Cyrillaceae is consistent with such presence in the sister family Clethraceae as well as in other families of Ericales (Theales of some authors) as defined on the basis of recent molecular data.
41262014|Handicrafts from Jalapo (TO), Brazil, and their Relationship to Plant Anatomy. In the state of Tocantins, midwestern Brazil, communities from the region of Jalapo use scapes of "capim dourado" (golden grass - Syngonanthus nitens-Eriocaulaceae) and leaves of (Mauritia flexuosa - Arecaceae) to make handicrafts (baskets and ornaments). The predominant biome of this area is cerrado (savanna), with a notable presence of buriti in the "veredas" (swampy forest-like vegetation), and of golden grass, which is one of the most common plants in humid grasslands. These traditional handicrafts represent a significant source of income for local communities. The whole scapes of Syngonanthus nitens are used due to their golden color, which is a reflection of such internal structures as thick walled cells and lignin in the epidermis and cortex. The strips called "seda" (silk) used to sew the scapes in the making of handicrafts come from young leaves of Mauritia flexuosa. They are constituted by the adaxial epidermis and bundles of subepidermic fibers, both showing thick-walled cells. Since the cells of the bundles of sclerenchymatic fibers from the abaxial surface of buriti leaves present stegmata containing silica bodies, their mechanical properties are less adapted to the production of "silk", justifying the use of the leaf adaxial surface. Anatomical characteristics such as the thickening and composition of the cell walls of both species together with sociocultural factors, allow a better knowledge of the use of plant structures in the making of handicrafts.
40864966|Calcium distribution during peltate and capitate glandular trichome development in Lavandula pinnata L. was examined with the potassium antimonate precipitation method. In order to establish a role for calcium in the secretory process and elucidate calcium function in the glands, the effects of calcium removal were investigated by treatment with nifedipine (Nif, a calcium channel blocker) and Ethylene glycol-bis (2-aminoethyl ether)-N, N, N', N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA, a calcium chelator). Untreated, mature glands accumulate many calcium precipitates in the subcuticular space and adjacent cell wall during secretion. In Nif or EGTA treated plants these precipitates disappear, and the amount of secretory product is drastically reduced. Calcium removal also results in a reduction in gland density, cells with decreased cytoplasmic density, formation of a lax cell wall, abnormal formation of the subcuticular space, thinning of the cuticle, and the presence of multivesicular bodies near the plasma membrane. At the post-secretory stage, calcium precipitates are common on the degenerating organelles. These results support a role for calcium in gland development, secretion, and programmed cell death.
40864972|Invasive plant species are often more successful within introduced areas when compared to their natural ranges. Allelopathy has been suggested as a potential mechanism for this success because invasive plants frequently establish monocultures and may produce allelochemicals evolutionary novel to the recipient community. However, species are typically tested in isolation making the relative strength of allelopathy difficult to assess. We conducted laboratory bioassays for 10 co-occurring non-native species to determine the relative strength of their allelopathic potential. These species represented a suite of successful invaders within a young forest and were from a variety of plant life forms: trees, lianas, shrubs, and herbs. We determined the germination responses of a target species to a gradient of leaf extract concentrations to assess relative allelopathic potential. The relative strength of germination inhibition was quantified by the slope () of the germination response to plant extract concentration. Ailanthus altissima extract had the greatest inhibitory effect on target species germination out of all 10 species ( =  0.55) while the other tree species, Acer platanoides extract, had small effects on germination ( =  0.14). For lianas, Celastrus orbiculatus extract inhibited the target species ( =  0.28) more than Lonicera japnica extract ( =  0.06). All invasive shrub extracts had very small effects on seed germination ( value  0.03 to  0.19). Extracts of the two herbaceous species, Alliaria petiolata and Microstegium vimineum, had very large inhibitory effects ( =  0.37 and  0.38, respectively). In this system, we screened a suite of invasive species for allelopathic potential and determined the relative strength of germination inhibition. Most species, particularly invasive shrubs, did not exhibit sufficient allelopathic potential to suggest allelopathy would occur in the field. Four species, Ailanthus altissima, Alliaria petiolata, C. orbiculatus, and M. vimineum all exhibited strong germination inhibition and warrant additional study in the field.
10.2307/2997262|High levels of herbivory can reduce plant growth, reproduction, andultimately, abundance. I compared the morphology and shoot demography of Maianthemum canadense on large boulder tops, which were inaccessible to white-tailed deer, and on small boulder tops, which are browsed. Vegetative shoots tended to be larger on boulder tops, but there were no differences between large and small boulder tops in internodal rhizome lengths or branching frequencies. Shoot densities, frequency of occurrence of flowering shoots, and frequency of flowering shoots within quadrats were higher on large boulder tops than small boulder tops. Such differences were not observed in Oxalis acetosella, a species which is not browsed. Similar patterns have been reported for other forest herbs throughout the eastern United States from locations where browsing pressure is great. Refugia may allow browse-sensitive plants to persist, albeit at lower densities, in overbrowsed habitats.
10.2307/3088729|During an extensive floristic survey to catalogue the aquatic macrophyte distribution of the Valparaiso Chain of Lakes Watershed, the first record of Ceratophyllum echinatum A. Gray in Indiana was made at Deep Lake in Porter County. The species has subsequently been found in fourteen additional lakes, predominantly throughout Northern Indiana. Although these are the first records of this species in Indiana, the historical scarcity of comprehensive aquatic plant surveys in the state and our knowledge of the geographical range of this species throughout the Midwest, leads us to believe that this species has been in Indiana for an extended period. The close similarity in vegetative morphology among Ceratophyllum echinatum, Ceratophyllum demersum L. and other aquatic plant species with finely dissected leaves, such as Myriophyllum species, has also likely been a contributing factor leading to an under representation of this species in floristic surveys. Voucher specimens of Ceratophyllum echinatum are deposited in the Aquatic Plant Herbarium of Purdue University North Central.
10.2307/3557531|We examined changes in species composition and aboveground biomass of a maturing, Adirondack northern hardwood forest over a 15-yr period in order to assess the potential effects of beech bark disease on the structure and nutrient cycling processes of the stand. Aboveground biomass of living and dead stems, and annual litter production were estimated in 1985 and 2000 within a 1.96 ha area using total stem inventories ( 5 cm dbh). A comparison of speciescomposition and biomass of the forest, as well as mortality and growth rates between the two sampling years are presented. The aboveground biomass of living stems decreased from 209.8 Mg  ha
10.2307/3088700|Federal lands may harbor much of the diversity of upland pine-oak-hickory forests in the southeastern USA Fall Line Sandhills region. These forests are managed throughout the region; species composition is influenced by topography, soil composition, periodic natural and prescribed fires, and forest harvesting practices. Our objective was to describe the canopy and ground layer vegetation of upland sites at Fort Benning, Georgia that are managed primarily for longleaf pine (thinned, burned at 3 year intervals) and differ in soil texture (from sandy to clayey) and intensity of military training (lighter dismounted infantry vs. heavier mechanized training). We characterized surface soil texture and land-use disturbance of 32 sites, each 400 m x 400 m, and asked if canopy and ground layer community measures (species composition and richness, basal area, abundance) differed among sites on the basis of soil texture or land-use. There was significant interaction between land-use and soil texture, with a gradient of soil texture (% clay) from clayey sites within light training areas, to sandy sites in heavier training areas. Road-like features, including active and remnant trails, roads, and vehicle tracks or trails were the most frequent and abundant disturbance feature. Number of disturbance features per site did not differ among land-use/surface soil texture categories. Differences in ground layer and canopy composition among sites reflected disturbance intensity; differences in canopy composition also reflected the proportion of pine. Species richness of ground layer vegetation differed among surface soil texture/land-use categories. There was a richness gradient from heavily disturbed sites with clayey soil, through lightly disturbed sites, to heavily disturbed sites with sandy soil. Our results suggest upland pine-oak-hickory forests at Fort Benning range from sandhills scrub oak-pine to pine-hardwood to oak-hickory dominated forests, with greater species diversity in the ground layer of clayey sites. Forestry practices and disturbances associated with mechanized military training favor pine dominance, and maintain open-site, successional or fire-tolerant species in the ground layer. Although intense management toward pine monocultures can reduce within-stand diversity, federal installations such as Fort Benning may help conserve pine-oak-hickory forests in the rapidly developing Sandhills region.
10.2307/3088657|Fungal endophytes are thought to play a major role in the ecology of many cool-season grasses. However, the frequency of endophyte infection in the wild remains poorly known. Populations of wild fescues were tested for systemic fungal endophyte infection by taking samples from four native or naturalized species throughout southern Illinois (Festuca arundinacea, F. rubra, F. obtusa, and F. paradoxa), and one of these species (F. arundinacea) from native populations in England. The two grasses native to southern Illinois (F. obtusa and F. paradoxa) were highly infected (mean infection of 91 % and 100 %, respectively). The introduced grass F. rubra was uninfected. Festuca arundinacea showed variable levels of infection among populations in both southern Illinois and England (71 % and 64 %, respectively). The role of endophytes in natural systems is contingent upon infection levels that appear to vary widely among these four species. Furthermore, the use of agricultural cultivars may differentially affect infection levels of naturalized plants.
10.2307/3088746|Vegetation, soil charcoal, and fire modeling measurements were used to test the hypothesis that beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.) is an indicator of long-term fire history on the Delmarva Peninsula. Three forest communities were determined using principal components analysis, and beech and red maple (Acer rubrum L.) were shown to correlate negatively and significantly with fire. These results confirm the observations of early ecologists who recognized disturbance as a major influence on southeastern coastal plain forests.
10.2307/2996599|Seed predation may be an important factor influencing the structure of successional plant communities. We used a cafeteria-style experiment, placed in an old field and an early successional forest, to determine predator preferences for seeds of nine species of woody plants. Intensity of seed predation was equivalent in both sites. Seed predators preferred Acer saccharum, Ilex verticillata, and Viburnum dentatum, but this was not related to seed mass. Predation intensity was more variable in the old field than in the forest, possibly related to the higher ground-layer heterogeneity of the old field site. We conclude that predator choice will allow some species to escape seed predation, potentially altering future plant community composition.
10.2307/4126951|Combining dendrochronological and documentary reconstructions, this paper investigates the history of the forests at James Madison's Montpelier plantation in the Virginia piedmont from their earliest written account in 1716 through the designation of a National Natural Landmark (NNL) forest in 1987. This forest, informally known as the 'Big Woods,' currently features a live basal area of
41262043|The seed ecology of the federally endangered shrub, Lindera melissifolia was investigated to determine if this aspect of the species life history contributes to the rarity of the species. Lindera melissifolia has the capacity to form a short-lived (two growing seasons) persistent soil seed bank if fruit pulp remains on seeds following dispersal and subsequent winter flooding occurs. Seeds, both with or without pulp (i. e., mesocarp and exocarp), exhibited tolerance to submergence, but were not hydrochorous. Following 6-12 weeks cold stratification (5  or 5/1  C) or submersion in cold water (5/1  C) for 12 weeks, > 63% of seeds germinated when incubated in light and at temperatures of 35/20  and 30/20  C. When incubated in darkness, 100% of seeds germinated following 6 weeks of cold stratification. Giberrelic acid was moderately effective in breaking dormancy. Collectively, our results indicate that seeds of L. melissifolia have nondeep physiological dormancy. Aspects of the seed ecology of L. melissifolia that may contribute to continued rarity of the species include absence of a longterm persistent soil seed bank, no obvious mechanism of long-distance dispersal, and late season germination that prevents seedling growth to a sufficient size for survival prior to cold temperatures and flooding.
27751827|Species composition in three strata of 63 permanent plots across two physiographic divisions (Ozark Hills and Shawnee Hills) of the Shawnee National Forest (SNF) in southern Illinois was resampled 36 years after initial establishment with the objective to assess short-term changes in species composition. Environmental data collected at each plot included overhead canopy cover, elevation, solar radiation, slope, and a suite of nine soil properties. Basal area of the trees in the Ozark Hills Division did not change, but total basal area and basal area of Carya ovata, Fraxinus americana, Quercus rubra, and Ulmus alata increased in the Shawnee Hills Division. In the woody understory, there was an increase in the density of Acer saccharum, C. florida, F. americana, and U. alata in the Shawnee Hills Division, and a decrease in density of C. florida and Fagus grandifolia in the Ozark Hills Division. The decrease in C. florida in the Ozark Hills Division is likely due to an infestation of Discula destructive, a fungal pathogen. There was a significant change in the composition of the field layer from one sampling to the next including a change in the abundance of 16 species and an increase in total cover probably due to a lack of recent disturbance. The field layer had the largest number of environmental variables related to species composition (8 variables) when compared to the tree stratum (7) and the woody understory (5) with elevation being the single variable related to the composition of all strata. Overall, the changes reflect rapid and dynamic changes occurring in these forests that differ between the two physiographic divisions, especially in the woody understory and field strata.
10.2307/3557545|We studied the effects of prescribed fire on a long-unburned oak scrub on the Lake Wales Ridge of central Florida. We quantified postburn survival of 12 endemic plants by censusing tagged individuals before and after fire, assessed postfire changes in the composition and structure of the scrub community, and investigated the effect of postfire cover changes in subcanopy, shrub, litter, lichen and Polygonella myriophylla on herb abundance. We found that eight of the 12 endemics had postburn resprouting rates varying from ~15% to 98%, while four species were killed by fire. Postburn reductions in subcanopy, shrub, litter, lichen and P. myriophylla cover were paralleled by increases in the abundance of scrub herbs. While some scrub herbs resprouted, most postburn increases in herb abundance were due to seedling recruitment.
20063914|In 2004 we remeasured trees in 42 permanent vegetation plots that had been established in Adirondack spruce-fir, northern hardwood, and pine-dominated stands in 1984. Over the 20-yr interval, live basal area (BA) in red spruce and/or balsam fir-dominated plots decreased by 15%. Blowdown was a major cause of balsam fir, but not red spruce mortality in two plots. Excluding the two blowdown plots, balsam fir live BA increased by 17%, while red spruce live BA decreased by 42% (P &lt 0.05). There was no significant change in the overall live BA of northern hardwood plots. However, excluding beech, the pooled northern hardwoods showed a significant decrease (P  0.05) in live BA over the 20-yr interval. In contrast to the spruce-fir and northern hardwood plots, the live BA of pine-dominated plots increased by 19% over the 20-yr interval (P  0.01). Changes in sapling densities in the spruce/fir plots were not significant, though fir in the 2-9.9 cm dbh class reached densities of &gt 3000 stems
40207583|Canebrakes were monodominant stands of bamboo once common in bottomlands throughout the southeastern U.S. They were habitat for many wildlife species, and have declined drastically since the 18 th century. Knowledge of the reproduction of canebrake bamboos is sparse and often contradictory. We studied reproduction and the role of disturbance in one canebrake bamboo, Arundinaria gigantea (Walt.) Muhl., at two field sites in Louisiana. We noted flowering with little or no seed-set during each of four years at our primary study site, and a massflowering event at a second site from which we collected 2,000 seeds. Of these, 82-95% proved viable in germination trials. We used these seeds in a 2  2 factorial design at the Buckhorn Wildlife Management Area in NE Louisiana to test the effects of prior windstorm and fire on seed germination and seedling survival. Results indicate that A. gigantea is capable of reproducing in the leaf litter and partial shade typical of open forest habitat but may have problems reproducing in burned- over areas with bare mineral soil. We identified three potential bottlenecks in the species' regeneration and proposed that successful outcrossing may drive synchronized flowering events in these and other bamboos. We presented implications for canebrake restoration efforts, plus several questions that might be examined by future studies.
10.2307/3088684|Hoffman and Swinburne islands, located 1.5km east of Staten Island, New York, were constructed in the late 19
20063860|Greentree reservoir management was initiated during a period when riparian forests of the Mississippi Alluvial Valley were disappearing rapidly. Greentree reservoirs (GTRs) were intended to provide a refuge for overwintering migratory waterfowl within a landscape of decreasing habitat availability. However, GTRs frequently are flooded as much as 2.5 months longer than unimpounded bottomland forests (UBF), and previous work has shown that such unnatural hydroperiods can have substantial negative effects on such ecosystem attributes as tree assemblage composition and invertebrate production. We conducted the present study to quantify (1) frequency of canopy gaps and (2) tree species composition in GTRs, as compared with UBFs. In general, GTRs were quite similar to UBF stands, in terms of canopy density, proportion of trees in the canopy versus mid-story, degree of stress exhibited by individual trees, gap frequency, and species diversity. However, multivariate comparisons of GTRs versus unimpounded areas indicated differences in species composition. Indicator Species Analyses and examination of the dominant species showed clear differences between GTRs and UBFs, with GTR tree species being, on average, better adapted to flooded conditions, based on wetland indicator status. Greentree reservoir canopies generally were dominated by a Taxodium distichum -- Acer rubrum -- Quercus lyrata mix, whereas unimpounded forest canopies were characterized as Liquidambar styraciflua -- mixed Quercus stands. The midstories of the groups were more similar to one another, with dominance by Acer -- Carpinus caroliniana -- Planera aquatica in GTRs and Liquidambar - Carpinus - Acer in unimpounded stands. The GTRs included in this study had been managed for 40 to 48 years, providing a long history of flooding which served to select for highly adapted species assemblages.
27751813|Most plant species endemic to a rock outcrop system have high constancy to one substrate type. However, the complex geology of the Ozark region of Arkansas and Missouri has promoted a diversity of adaptive strategies and challenged the traditional classifications of edaphic adaptation. For example, the small aromatic mint Satureja arkansana (= Calamintha arkansana) has been considered an obligate calciphile, growing abundantly on calcareous rock outcrop communities in the Ozarks and occurring on sandstone outcrops only when plants receive alkaline drainage from nearby calcareous formations. However, we observed in Arkansas that this technically perennial, but functionally winter annual, plant regularly occurs on sandstone outcrops not receiving calcareous effluent. To determine whether this occurrence represented ecotypic specialization or substrate indifference, we compared growth parameters of plants collected from non-alkaline sandstone and calcareous limestone outcrops on their own and the other's native soil. Plants from sandstone outcrops produced significantly greater biomass on native sandstone than on non-native limestone soil. Surprisingly, plants from limestone outcrops also grew better on the non-native sandstone than on their native soil. Other differences in plant growth parameters (e.g., numbers of branches and leaves) between the soil types occurred in both populations and were consistent with the biomass results, although high variances meant that not all parameters were statistically significant. Our results reveal that S. arkansana is not an obligate calciphile, and actually has better growth on sandstone soil, but has a "broad substrate tolerance" that allows success in rock outcrop communities on both substrates.
40207591|In this study, we documented the presence of macroscopic (> 2 mm) charcoal, quantified charcoal mass, and radiocarbon-dated charcoal macrofossils in 10 soil cores to develop a coarse-resolution fire history for a mixed hardwood forest on the Cumberland Plateau in Tennessee. Macroscopic charcoal occurred in all 10 soil cores. Total dry mass of macroscopic charcoal varied by core and by depth layer. Charcoal fragments were most abundant in two non-adjacent cores (separated by ca. 80 m), a finding that may be evidence of a patchy fire regime in the study area. AMS radiocarbon dating of the five deepest charcoal samples indicated that the earliest recorded fire in the study site occurred around 6735 cal yr BP (calibrated years before 1950). Charcoal in surface soils was not dated but one deep sample indicated a fire during the historic period at approximately 174 cal yr BP. No overlap occurred within the 2-sigma calibrated age ranges of the dated charcoal samples, indicating a minimum of five separate fire events have occurred on the site during the last 6700 plus years. This was the first study to use soil charcoal to document past fire events in hardwood forests of the Cumberland Plateau and the first to examine the prehistoric fire regime of Quercus stands in the region at a local-scale. Our results provide a basis for reconstructing long-term fire histories at the stand-scale in Quercus-dominated forests of eastern North America.
27751793|This work reports on the fruit surface and anatomy of seven Neotropical species of Indigofera (I. campestris Bong. ex Benth., I. hirsuta L., I. lespedeziodes Kunth, I. microcarpa Desv., I. spicata Forssk., I. suffruticosa Mill., and I. truxillensis Kunth) to help species diagnosis and clarify the fruit type classification. Flowers and fruits at several stages of development were removed from living material, fixed, and examined with scanning electron (surface analyses) and light microscopies (histological analyses). Species showed differences in relation to the number of exocarp layers, secretory trichome morphology and distribution, presence of stomata, phenolic idioblast size and distribution in mesocarp, the number and arrangement of endocarp fibers, and the presence of a separation tissue. It is noteworthy that no separation tissue was observed in I. microcarpa and I. suffruticosa, although they have dehiscent fruits, which indicates a delayed dehiscence. The present work confirms that fruit anatomical characters can be utilized as a tool for fruit type classification, especially in Indigofera, the third largest genus of Leguminosae.
10.2307/2997254|Recently, several populations of Fitzroya cupressoides (Mol.) Johnst. (a rare comter endemic to southern Chile and parts of adjacent Argentina) have been found in Chile's Central Depression, where it was thought to have been extirpated due to over-exploitation. Five of these populations exist as small forests (core areas  3 ha), where Fitzroya forms nearly pure stands. We established permanent plots in each of these five stands, determining tree ages and recording species composition. Multivariate analyses performed on both understory and tree species composition separated one stand from the remaining four, the differences being a function of stand ages and disturbance histories. Given their small size and isolation (from each other and from Fitzroya populations of the Coastal and Andean Cordilleras), these stands represent an extreme example of habitat fragmentation. A combination of conservation efforts is being undertaken to ensure their persistence in the Central Depression.
10.2307/2997286|Information on factors limiting reproduction in rare plants can aid formulation of management practices This study provided basic information about the reproductive biology of Clematis socialis Experiments determined the roles of pollination limitation, herbivory, predation of fruits (achenes), and resource availability in sexual reproduction. Hand pollination increased the frequency of acheneset, indicating that pollination frequency limited reproduction Treating plants with insecticide enhanced production of viable achenes, but resource modification treatments (addition of fertilizer, addition of water, clearing nearby herbaceous plants) did not significantly affect achene production A negative association was found between light levels and flower bud abortion, implying that low light levels increased bud abortion and limited reproductive success. Postmaturation achene predation by mice (Peromyscus sp) was intense Mice destroyed 30% of achenes placed in the field during a 1 wk period We concluded that sexual reproduction in C. socialis was limited by a combination of pollinator abundance, herbivory, low light levels, and post-maturation achene predation
41811876|Potential allelopathic effects of wax myrtle, Morella cerifera (L.), to Brazilian peppertree, Schinus terebinthifolia Raddi, were investigated in laboratory and field studies. Aqueous leaf extracts of wax myrtle suppressed germination and reduced seedling growth and survival of Brazilian peppertree. Similarly, root washings of wax myrtle negatively affected germination, growth and biomass accumulation of Brazilian peppertree. In field plots planted with equal densities of wax myrtle and Brazilian peppertree saplings, no differences in final densities, growth or vigor between the two species were detected after 14 months, suggesting that neither species was competitively superior to the other. Based on the results of this study, wax myrtle may have value as one tool in an integrated approach to management of Brazilian peppertree, but additional research is required to demonstrate allelopathic effects in the field.
10.2307/3088707|Twenty noteworthy vascular plant species are reported from the New York portion of the Torrey Range: Aster spectabilis, A. subulatus, Eclipta prostrata, Eleutherococcus sieboldianus, Eragrostis curvula, Eupatorium aromaticum, E. serotinum, Helonias bullata, Hypericum denticulatum, Ipomoea pandurata, Iris prismatica, Phellodendron amurense, Pinus echinata, Pueraria lobata, Rhodotypos scandens, Rosa nitida, Schizaea pusilla, Sesuvium maritimum, Solidago rigida, and Tribulus terrestris. One species is listed as federally threatened, 13 species are listed as rare in New York, one species is an addition to the flora of New York, and one species should be excluded from the flora of New York. Thirteen of the species are native to the Torrey Range and seven are non-native; four species have become or have the potential to become invasive weeds.
10.2307/4126924|The fire-maintained longleaf pine ecosystem of the southeastern Coastal Plain harbors nearly 200 rare and endangered plant species, many of which depend on frequent fire for persistence. One such fire-dependent species is the federally endangered hemiparasite, Schwalbea americana L. (Scrophulariaceae). Regardless of season of burn, fire stimulates flowering and subsequent seed production in this species, but the specific mechanisms involved in this fire-induced flowering response are unknown. The purpose of this study was to determine the factors controlling the flowering response to fire. Using experimental treatments in the field and greenhouse, we examined the effect of variables associated with fire that may influence flowering of S. americana. Our field treatments included fire, shading immediately following fire, stem clipping plus competing vegetation exclusion, and mowing plus raking. Greenhouse treatments consisted of a gradient of light levels plus stem clipping. Our findings indicate that flowering, and subsequent viable seed production, is stimulated by a combination of clipping and increased light. These results suggest alternative management options for S. americana during years in which prescribed fire is not feasible. If prescribed fire is not an option, we suggest that mowing plus raking could be used as a temporary means to stimulate flowering and promote seed production and future seedling establishment.
41475110|We investigated the occurrence of nonnative invasive plants on approximately 175 ha comprising a long-term, 60-year-old U. S. Forest Service silvicultural experiment and old-field stands in the Penobscot Experimental Forest (PEF) in central Maine. Stands in the silvicultural experiment were never cleared for agriculture, but have been repeatedly partially cut. Our objectives were to determine the extent of nonnative invasive plant populations in the PEF, and to relate invasive plant abundance and distribution to management history and environmental factors (overstory composition and basal area, canopy openness, and soil characteristics). We found ten invasive plant species in the study area. Very few occurrences of these were in the silvicultural experiment; where present, invasive plants there appear to be associated with proximity to seed source, and a greater degree of recreational or silvicultural disturbance. Ordination showed that the environmental variables which were associated with invasive species in the old fields were not associated with the presence of invasives in the silvicultural treatments. In the old-field stands, invasive plant cover was positively related to exposed mineral soil and negatively related to organic horizon thickness; invasive plant richness was negatively related to hardwood litter cover. Frngula alnus was the most frequent invasive plant species in both the old-field stands and silvicultural experiment; its distribution was not correlated with observed environmental variables. Control measures are recommended to prevent further encroachment of invasive plants into the silvicultural experiment.
10.2307/4126943|Twenty one noteworthy species of vascular plants are reported from the Torrey Range, encompassing southeastern New York, northern New Jersey, and southwestern Connecticut: Amaranthus pumilus, Arethusa bulbosa, Aristolochia serpentaria, Bolboschoenus maritimus ssp. paludosus, Bouteloua curtipendula, Campanula glomerata, Cardamine impatiens, Chimaphila umbellata ssp. cisatlantica, Cyperus retrorsus, Diospyros virginiana, Gaylussacia dumosa, Glaux maritima, Heracleum mantegazzianum, Hydrocotyle verticillata, Hypericum hypericoides ssp. multicaule, Polygala lutea, Pycnanthemum torrei, Sedum sexangulare, Spergula morisonii, Tropaeolum majus, and Uvularia puberula. Fourteen species are listed as rare in either New York, New Jersey, or Connecticut, and one is on the federal list of threatened species. Four species are new records for the Torrey Range. Two species found on Staten Island had not been reported from there since the 1860s, and three species from Long Island are re-located populations from the 1920s and 1930s. Two species have become, or have the potential to become, invasive weeds.
10.2307/4126938|The Levi Wilcoxon Demonstration Forest (LWDF) was originally established by the Crossett Lumber Company in 1939 to promote forestry research and demonstration in the Upper West Gulf Coastal Plain of southern Arkansas. The reserve currently has at least 27 different overstory tree species, with loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.), shortleaf pine (Pinus echinata Mill.), and white oak (Quercus alba L.) comprising the majority of stand basal area. Hardwoods are most numerous, dominated by shade-tolerant species such as red maple (Acer rubrum L.), flowering dogwood (Cornus florida L.), blackgum (Nyssa sylvatica L.), and winged elm (Ulmus alata Michx.), especially in the subcanopy and understory. Large pines, oaks, and sweetgum are scattered throughout the stand, with some individuals exceeding 100 cm DBH and 45 m tall. Overstory trees rarely proved sound enough to age, but some stumps, logs, and increment cores suggest that the dominant canopy pines are 100 to 150 years old, with the largest individuals exceeding 200 years. Pines contributed the greatest amount of coarse woody debris. The average volume of dead wood was noticeably less than other examples of old-growth upland forest in the eastern United States, attributable largely to salvage. Increased windthrow and the salvage of dead and dying pines have become the primary perturbations of the LWDF. Without large-scale disturbance like catastrophic fire or logging, shade-intolerant pines, oaks, and sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua L.) will decline in prominence, to be replaced by more shade-tolerant species.
41678804|A number of understory species in temperate and boreal forests are characterized by the wintergreen habit which entails retaining leaves for a portion of a second growing season. Several hypotheses have been offered to account for this trait, most commonly: old leaves serve as storage organs for nutrients required for spring growth or old leaves contribute to the overall carbon gain of the plant given their presence in the understory during the period of high radiation prior to canopy leafout. In this study, using field-derived light response curves, plant demographic data, leaf phenological data, and twice-hourly understory light levels, we model the relative contributions of old and new fronds to overall seasonal net carbon gain of a common fern, Dryopteris carthusiana, in a boreal and deciduous forest in Ontario, Canada. Approximately 43% of the total fern carbon gain in the deciduous forest occurs in the 40 days before canopy closure, compared to 46% in the boreal forest during the same period. In the deciduous forest, approximately 30% of the total fern net carbon assimilation occurs at the end of the growing season following overstory leaf fall, which was not the case in the boreal forest. Old fronds contribute 29% of overall carbon gain in the deciduous forest, but substantially more (63%) in the boreal forest. We estimate the total net carbon assimilation by D. carthusiana ferns in the deciduous forest at 90.7 kg C ha for the growing season and 45.5 kg C ha in the boreal forest. Our findings quantify the importance of the wintergreen habit for overall fern seasonal carbon gain, as well as the importance of early season high light conditions for understory plants in deciduous forests.
41475122|Studies associated with diaspore self-burial have emphasized the role of awns and substrate surfaces to explain burial differences between species. However, limited research has been conducted to determine the effect of diaspore morphometrics on intraspecific self-burial differences. The aim of this study was to evaluate morphometric and self-burial differences between diaspores of Hesperostipa spartea growing in loam versus sandy soils. Hesperostipa spartea diaspores were collected in three black soil prairies (loam soils) and three sand prairies (sandy soils) in Illinois. Eight morphometric measurements were made from 50 diaspores per site to determine differences between diaspores from these two soil types. Two studies were conducted to determine if self-burial rate and depth of burial differed between diaspores from loam versus sandy soils. Morphometric results showed that sandy soil diaspores were smaller than loam soil diaspores. In addition, regardless of the soil of origin, diaspores were more successful at self-burial in loam soil than in sandy soil due to microtopography. Lastly, diaspores from sandy soil self-buried deeper than diaspores from loam soil regardless of soil substrate. This study demonstrates that there are intraspecific morphometric differences between Hesperostipa spartea diaspores from loam versus sandy soil prairies and that these morphometric differences affect self-burial.
10.2307/3088658|Well-drained terraces of river basins in Midwestern North America are home to the purest stands of the native hop, Humulus lupulus var. lupuloides. Plants of H. lupulus var. lupuloides are of exceptional significance, because they have contributed germplasm to prominent international hop cultivars. The ecology, traits, and survival status of this taxonomic variety are the subjects of this study. Native Humulus populations were typically associated with only a few tree and shrub species, notably Acer negundo L. [box elder], Crategus spp. [hawthorn], Fraxinus nigra Marsh. [black ash], F. pennsylvanica Marsh. [green ash], Populus balsamifora L. [balsam poplar], P. deltoides Marsh. [cottonwood], Prunus americana Marsh. [wild plum], P. pensylvanica L. [pin cherry], P. virginiana L. [choke cherry], Quercus macrocarpa Michx. [bur oak], Ribes spp. [wild currant], Rosa spp. [wild rose], Salix spp. [willow], Sambucus canadensis L. [elder], Symphoricarpos occidentalis Hook. [snowberry], and Viburnum opulus var. americanum Ait. [highbush cranberry]. Cone (strobilus) variations, exceeding those of leaves and vines, included size (15 mm to 45 mm long), shape (globose to ovoid-conical), and compactness (loose vs. imbricated bracts). Trait diversity of seedling progenies exceeded that of each native population from which they originated. Traits of genetically potential usefulness included dwarf plant habit, precocious cone production, early season flowering, pest repellence, frost resistance, potential drought resistance, and commercially desirable cone structure. Both native-plant and progeny populations were generally free of diseases common to commercial hops, thus offering germplasm that is compatible with institutional hop breeding programs. Persistence of native hop populations from 1989 to 1999 was problematic, with five of 11 selected study sites sustaining complete loss or serious damage. Protection of sensitive riparian habitats occupied by this genetic resource may be warranted, particularly until adequate germplasm sources are secured and reposited for further investigation and use.
43286983|Pyrrocoma racemosa var. racemosa, is a rare, endemic species found in six remnant Willamette Valley wetland prairie sites in western Oregon, USA. Due to its rarity and association with high-quality wetland habitat, P. r. var. racemosa is a focal species for reintroduction and genetic rescue. However, no genetic studies for this species have been undertaken. I conducted a pollen addition experiment between the two largest P. racemosa populations to determine the effects of selflng, intrapopulation crosses and interpopulation crosses on plant fitness. An ANOVA indicated that the percentage of filled achenes from intrapopulation crosses was significantly greater ( 30% more filled achenes) than both interpopulation crossing and selling, which did not statistically differ from each other. Pollen viability, inferred through flourescein diacetate staining, did not differ statistically over the time span that it took to gather and perform the pollen addition treatments, suggesting that the diminished seed set from the interpopulation crosses was due to genetic incompatibility. Although the two P. r. var. racemosa populations are only about 6 km apart, the established seed transfer zones for other locally rare plants are considerably larger and if applied would not likely provide an effective genetic safeguard.
10.2307/2997242|To examine the existence and behavior of a seedling bank, seedlings of sugar maple were censused for 24 years in a mixed-hardwood forest in central New York State. Each year we measured the heights of all sugar maple seedlings (individually-marked) in permanent plots. The population of seedlings persisted through time, with little net upward growth, in the shade. This seedling bank was maintained both by recruitment of new seedlings and by low annual mortality, with some sugar maple seedlings surviving > 30 years at < 1 m height. In an experimental canopy gap, long-suppressed sugar maple seedlings responded with substantial height growth. Thus, sugar maple exhibited the three defining characteristics for a seedling bank: a narrow range of heights in the shade, persistence in the shade, and retention of the capacity to grow rapidly upward once light availability increased.
20063836|The study of microhabitat factors has attracted the attention of ecologists for about half a century. We examined crop-forest, access road-forest, and hay field-forest edge types in temperate deciduous forest in Southern Illinois to obtain information that may contribute to the control and management of exotic species. Forest edges have different abiotic factors compared to the interior, a phenomenon known as an edge effect. To investigate microhabitat factors, three 90 m transects were established from the forest boundary into the interior at each of the three edges in July 2002. Twelve 3.14 m circular plots at 5 m intervals from each other for the first 20 m and 10 m apart thereafter were established along each transect. A 550 cm soil core was extracted from the six cm A-horizon in each plot along the three transects in August 2002 and analyzed for soil texture, pH., and major soil nutrients. To quantify the edge effect, the Distance of Edge Influence (DEI) was calculated by contrasting the value of microhabitat factors in plots  50 m from the forest boundary with the value of microhabitat factors in plots &gt 50 m from the boundary (interior plots) using a permutation approach. The DEI is calculated as the distance where two or more consecutive plots from the forest boundary have values that differ significantly from the expected value of the interior plots. Percent clay and sand generally declined across the crop-forest and access road-forest edges into the interior while the opposite relationship was observed at the hay field-forest edge. Percent silt showed a pattern that was opposite to those exhibited by percent sand and clay at all the three edge types. The DEI of the percent sand, clay, and silt varied between 15 to 50 m at the three edges. Seven exotic species were present in the vegetation and the relationship of the abundance of three of them to 11 microhabitat factors was tested. Lonicera japonica and Allium vineale were absent when canopy openness was &lt 15% while the presence of Cardamine hirsuta was independent of canopy openness. Management strategies for the control of the invasive L. japonica and A. vineale should consider canopy closure among other factors. By contrast, management prescriptions for the exotic C. hirsuta may pose a challenge to forest managers and conservation biologists as a result of its insensitiveness to the 11 microhabitat factors including light (canopy openness) measured in this study. For conservation purposes, a buffer strip of 50 m around a conservation area would eliminate most of these microhabitat edge effects.
27751790|A review of live, herbarium, and bibliographic material of Chelyorchis revealed considerable floral variation that appears to be geographically correlated. We assessed whether the genus included one or more taxonomic entities using a morphometric analysis that involved the study of principal component analysis across several floral characters in 70+ specimens, representing both geographical range and morphological variation. To further establish the phylogenetic relationships of Chelyorchis within the Cuitlauzina-clade, and to analyze the evolution of relevant characters, we performed a combined analysis using nrITS, morphological, and gap-coding data, which included only 13 species. Both of our phylogenetic analyses strongly support the genus Chelyorchis as a monophyletic entity that is sister to a clade comprised of the genera Ticoglossum and Rossioglossum. The morphometric evidence strongly suggests that two taxa at the level of species should be recognized, differing primarily in the shape and proportions of the labellum but also in their geographical distribution. A new species, Chelyorchis pardoi, is described and illustrated to accommodate the South American morph. Full description of the new species and iconography of both taxa are provided, and diagnostic features are discussed. The conservation status of the new taxon is assessed against IUCN criteria.
10.2307/4126941|This vascular flora of Pelham Bay Park, Bronx County, New York is based on collections made by H.E. Ahles in 1946-47 and by the authors from March of 1994 through October of 1998. Altogether, 123 families, 471 genera and 956 species are reported here. Of these 956 species, 583 (61.0%) are native, 321 (33.6%) non-native and 52 (5.4%) either planted or introduced and not spreading to any degree. The largest families were the Asteraceae (120 species) and the Poaceae (106 species), and the largest genera were Carex, Polygonum and Aster. The park's current flora is analyzed by habitat and four plant communities are described and discussed. Most of the extant plant species diversity occurs in two habitats: 255 species were found primarily in the woodland community, and 288 species usually occurred in the grassland/meadow community. According to current criteria in New York, 27 native species collected in 1994-98 are considered uncommon, rare, threatened or endangered in the state. The most pernicious non-native species that occur in PBPK are: Acer platanoides, Alliaria petiolata, Ampelopsis brevipedunculata, and Rhamnus frangula. The future of the remaining natural areas of Pelham Bay Park will depend upon the degree biologists make people aware of the significant plant species diversity remaining in New York City's second largest park.
43287010|Planting native grasses can provide a source of seed for prairie restorations, but requires knowledge of how the plants that establish will perform. This study sought to determine variation in fitness of population sources of Andropogon gerardii, a dominant grassland species, when grown in a mesic common garden. Using multiple population sources, we tested the hypothesis that plants from populations within the local region would exhibit a 'home-site advantage' as measured by higher fitness compared to plants from populations collected from drier regions of the tallgrass prairie ecosystem (up to 986 km west of the common garden). Plants collected from four pristine, never restored population sources from each of three regions (central Kansas, eastern Kansas, and southern Illinois) were raised in the greenhouse from seeds and planted in a common garden in Illinois. To estimate fitness, we used commonly measured traits related to seed production, including flowering tiller number and number of flowering raceme branches, seed number, viability, and percentage germination. There was no evidence of a ' home-site advantage' for populations originating from southern Illinois. Rather, there was high within-region variability in fecundity. Plants from southern Illinois had the largest number of raceme branches per plant. Plants from eastern Kansas had the highest number of vegetative tillers per plant. Plants from central Kansas produced the most germinable seeds. Under the current climate, plants from any one of the three regions may be suitable to propagate seeds for restoration, but other traits may vary among populations to affect height, cover, and productivity.
10.2307/3088768|The T. pusillum complex consists of five or six southeastern morphogeographical taxa with a confused taxonomic history. Some authors have considered them as a single species, whereas others have split the complex into various combinations of species and varieties. Our study examined pollen and stomatal characteristics of these taxa for their utility as taxonomic characters. All T. pusillum varieties have pollen characterized by somewhat spherical and inaperturate grains with rounded granulate ornamentation. Stomatal complexes lacked subsidiary cells and were aperigenous and homostomatic. Although trends were identified in both pollen diameter and stomatal size and shape, these characters were not reliable variety-specific taxonomic characters. Only T. pusillum var. texanum exhibited both abaxial and adaxial stomata, a feature that consistently distinguished it from other putative varieties that we examined. We suggest that this complex be subdivided into two species, T. texanum Buckley and T. pusillum Michaux, based upon these stomatal distribution patterns.
27751814|Understanding the regeneration niche of white pine (Pinus strobus L.) is necessary to promote the restoration of this formerly widespread species. We tested several hypotheses drawn from the literature relating to four features of the regeneration niche for P. strobus: distance to seed source, overstory influence, segregation into spatial neighborhoods, and deer browsing. All hypotheses were tested in a 0.36-ha stem-mapped Pinus resinosa Ait. stand with abundant naturally regenerating P. strobus. Few regenerating P. strobus were found in the immediate vicinity of the seed source tree or other overstory trees and the distribution of distances away from the seed tree differed for very young (&lt; 5 yr) and older regeneration. The spatial arrangement of older regeneration was less associated with the overstory than that of young regeneration, although growth rates were lower in areas of higher overstory influence. Evidence was found for the segregation of regeneration on the basis of size and age classes into spatially distinct neighborhoods, which varied in spatial extent. Spatial segregation was also observed for regeneration that had been browsed, although this was not related to size. Our results supported some hypotheses gleaned from the literature and refuted others, indicating that our understanding of the germination and establishment niches of P. strobus is as yet too immature to predict the factors shaping the regeneration niche.
10.2307/2996582|Vegetation/environment relationships in two contiguous physiographic regions in eastern West Virginia were examined to determine local and sub-regional gradients underlying vegetation patterns. For 258 plots sampled in the Monongahela National Forest, West Virginia, broad vegetation patterns expressed along ordination axes were strongly related to elevation. Plots were ordered along the first ordination axis from high-elevation, mesic sites in the Allegheny Mountains to sandy, steep, lower-elevation sites in the Ridge and Valley. A comparison of mean soil-site factors between physiographic regions indicated that only depth of A horizon differed significantly. These similarities were reflected in the community types derived from TWINSPAN analysis. All seven community types were represented in both regions, although some regional affinity was apparent. Subsequent separate ordinations of plots within the Ridge and Valley and Allegheny Mountains showed community variation correlated with elevation. In the Ridge and Valley, geographic location, surface rock cover, topographic moisture and stand age were secondary gradients related to community distribution. In contrast, secondary gradients in the Allegheny Mountains included topographic moisture and solar radiation.
27751791|Two new species of Croton L. (Euphorbiaceae) from campos rupestres of Minas Gerais State, Brazil. Two new species of Croton L. (Euphorbiaceae) are described and illustrated. Croton lenheirensis and C. pradensis occur in campo rupestre vegetation on quartzitic soils in the State of Minas Gerais, the former from Serra do Lenheiro in So Joo del Rei and the later from Serra de So Jos in Tiradentes. Both localities are within an important center of endemism for Croton sect. Medea (Klotzsch) Baill., which is represented by at least 30 species from South America. Taxonomic characters which circumscribe the Section are subshrub and shrub habit, laciniate or glandular stipules, stellate indumentum, distribution of glands at the margins of either laciniate or entire sepals of the pistillate flowers, and multifid styles. Croton lenheirensis morphologically resembles C. gnidiaceus Baill., but differs by triangular stipules, lack of petals in pistillate flowers and of apressed-stellate trichomes. Croton pradensis shares morphological characters with C. vestitus Spreng. and C. josephinus Mll. Arg., species also represented on Serra de So Jos flora, but it is easily distinguishable from both by its wooly sparse indumentum and pistillate flowers which present entire eglandular sepals and no petals.
20063874|We studied the breeding system and pollinators of Nebraska populations of the endangered plant Blowout penstemon, Penstemon haydenii. This species appears to be one of the few known self-incompatible species of Penstemon: few self-pollinated flowers set fruit and few of these produced seeds. We found no indication that sexual reproduction was limited by inadequate pollination or resources. Pollinators were several species of native bees which varied from population to population and from year to year; there did not appear to be a consistent P. haydenii pollinator fauna. Flowers were pollinated mainly by large apid bees in the genera Habropoda and Bombus, by (mostly) smaller halictid bees, and by intermediate sized megachilid bees, particularly in the genus Osmia. One frequent flower-visitor, the presumed Penstemon specialist, Hoplitis pilosifrons (Megachilidae), may be more of a pollen-parasite than a pollinator because it commonly collected pollen into the scopa but carried very little pollen on other body parts. Management plans for conservation of Penstemon haydenii need to recognize its need for pollinators, and that the health of pollinator populations may be site-specific.
41262026|This work assesses the seed biometry of Stryphnodendron adstringens, S. obovatum and S. polyphyllum species, the effectiveness of some pre-germination treatments to break physical coat dormancy, and the effects of different temperatures and light qualities on the germination of these seeds. The biometry data show that the seeds of S. polyphyllum are bigger than those of the other two species, whose seed characteristics are very similar. Stryphnodendron adstringens and S. polyphyllum present the highest germination percentage and emergence speed index when their seeds are scarified with sulfuric acid for 40 min and then soaked in GA for 24 h. For S. obovatum, the highest percentage and emergence speed index were reached when seeds were scarified with sulfuric acid for 40 min or scarified with sulfuric acid for 40 min and then soaked in water, but these values did not differ statistically from the other treatments. Seeds of the three evaluated Stryphnodendron species proved insensitive to light. The temperatures used were within the range of optimum temperatures for the species.
10.2307/3088718|Waterhemps traditionally have been divided into two species, Amaranthus rudis and A. tuberculatus, based on morphology, but the distinctions break down for specimens collected from a major portion of the total waterhemp geographic range. Two hypotheses of waterhemp species circumscriptions were explored using morphological and isozyme data sets. The first hypothesis holds that there are two waterhemp species as traditionally circumscribed, intermediate morphological materials being hybrids. The second hypothesis holds that there is a single, polymorphic species of waterhemp. Principal components analysis of pistillate morphological, staminate morphological, and isozyme data sets all show a single waterhemp continuum exhibiting geographic variation. A single waterhemp species, A. tuberculatus, is proposed.
10.2307/3088679| Phenology and pattern (direction and distance from mother plant) of seed dispersal were monitored in a population of the facultative woodland biennial Arabis laevigata var. laevigata. Dispersal began soon after seeds matured in June and lasted >2.5 years in some plants. Fifty percent of the seeds on 1986 seed-producing plants in the population had been dispersed by 22 September 1986 and about 92% by 2 March 1987. Length of time an individual plant dispersed seeds ranged from 14 to 586 days (mean  SE = 202  12.8 days). The majority of seeds fell <0.5 m from the parent plants, direction of dispersal was preferentially to the south, and the shape of the dispersal distance-seed density curve was concave. Number of seeds retained on dispersing plants declined exponentially with increase in time after beginning of dispersal. The possible ecological advantages of an extended period of seed dispersal are discussed. 
20063770|Constructed wetland soil samples contained many more species with densities &gt 100 seeds /m than reference marsh ones (102 vs. 28); constructed wetland densities for many species were considerably higher and richness (species / sample) were &gt 2 greater than the reference marsh. Of the total 218 seed bank species, 60 were common to both and 34 occurred only in reference marsh samples. Numbers of cover species were similar, but composition differed. Invasive species, notably Lythrum salicaria, Phalaris arundinacea, and Phragmites australis, were more important in constructed wetland soil samples and vegetation. Non-native species comprised 9% and 13% of the reference marsh and constructed wetland seed bank species and 8% and 12% of the cover species, respectively. Variable dispersal patterns and in situ seed production contributed to these differences. Over the entire study area (wetlands and adjacent terrestrial areas) we recorded 875 species, representing 141 families, more than doubling the number observed in a 1988 report. The families having the most species were Asteraceae (103 species), Poaceae (100), and Cyperaceae (83). The largest genera were Carex (46) and Polygonum (19); seven other genera also had  10 species. Nine species were pseudo-viviparous, producing plantlets on inflorescences. Non-native species comprised 27% of the total flora. Overall there were 37 NJ rare / endangered species for the entire area; 11 occurred only in the constructed wetland with constructed wetland soil samples containing more than the reference marsh samples (8 vs. 1). Available lists from 1824, 1887, and 1964/65 and five species known only from herbarium specimens indicate that several species have been extirpated since the
40865072|Light and hydrology are believed to have important effects on the population vigor of the globally rare and declining plant Trollius laxus (Ranunculaceae), which occurs in both open and forested geogenous, calcareous wetlands (e.g., rich fens, northern white-cedar swamps) in the northeastern United States. In a forested peatland that supports the largest population of T. laxus worldwide, we explored the relationships between T. laxus vigor and both light (photosynthetic photon flux density) and hydrology at 30 subpopulations. Subpopulation vigor was quantified as abundance (plant and seedling counts), size (stem counts), and reproductive output (flower and follicle counts), and these 5 vigor variables were regressed on 14 light environment and 6 hydrology predictor variables. The two measures of reproductive output were related to a number of the predictor variables, but subpopulation size and abundance were not. Although T. laxus emerges and blooms early in the spring, subpopulation vigor showed similar positive relationships between the spring and summer light environment variables. Vigor had stronger relationships with diffuse light than with direct light. Higher spring groundwater level, the only hydrology variable related to any component of subpopulation vigor, was related to greater follicle production. Because canopy gaps can cause small-scale changes in both light transmittance and hydrology in forested peatlands, our results indicate that gaps may be key to the persistence of T. laxus and other rich fen species during secondary succession.
20063896|Pocosins are shrub wetlands of the southeastern coastal plain maintained by fire. Increased herbaceous plant diversity has been reported after wildfire. To test the effect of radiant heating on the seed bank of pocosin-upland ecotones, wet heat treatments were applied to Sphagnum substrate from a Virginia small depression pocosin. The seedling emergence method was used to quantify wetland seedling abundance and richness. Extant vegetation was measured at each seed bank sampling area and the seed bank and vegetation were compared with Sorenson similarity values. No significant seedling abundance, richness, or evenness effects were detected among wet heat and control groups. However, the high wet heat treatment (75 C) significantly reduced the density of Sphagnum cuspidatum capitula more than 80% relative to the control. Mean seed bank density was 6,209 seedlings/m (richness = 11) and was dominated by Scirpus cyperinus (97.8%), contained many early successional species. The seed bank did not closely resemble the extant vegetation. Pocosin canopy was sparse and dominated by Pinus serotina. The shrub-sapling stratum indicated co-dominance of Acer rubrum and ericaceous species, potentially indicating a shift from a shrub bog to a wet pine-hardwood community.
41262035|In order to increase the understanding of the diversity, distribution and abundance of liverworts and hornworts on the Atlantic Coastal Plain, a six year study (20042009) was conducted focusing on the Delmarva Peninsula (a land mass comprising portions of the states of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia). Our previous knowledge of the liverworts and hornworts of the Delmarva were minimal. Collections were few and usually localized, and published and unpublished reports were scarce. Results from this study are presented in the format of an annotated checklist and represents the first comprehensive study on the liverworts and hornworts of the Delmarva Peninsula. A total of 65 species, subspecies, and varieties were documented during this study with 22 being reported as new to the bryoflora of the Delmarva.
43287033|A summary of the recent introduction of Aldrovanda vesiculosa to eastern United States is presented, with discussion on the status of the species in New Jersey, New York, and Virginia. Several introduced populations include millions of individuals and have been self-sustaining for more than a decade. Aldrovanda is a globally endangered species and may soon be extinct in its natural Old World habitats.
20063878|The retention of overstory trees in a shelterwood-with-reserves regeneration method provides structural legacies, but at an unknown cost to white pine regeneration growth. Height, breast height diameter, and basal diameter growth responses of 12-15 year-old naturally regenerated eastern white pine (Pinus strobus L.) to partial overstory removal and pathological pruning (i.e., the removal of lower branches that are most susceptible to blister rust infection) were monitored over four growing seasons in a 110-year-old red pine (Pinus resinosa Ait.) - white pine stand. A two-cut shelterwood-with-reserves system with an average basal area of 23
41262027|Despite the economic and therapeutic importance of Mexican Oregano essential oil, there is no information regarding secretory structures and the effect of environmental factors on their density is unknown. The main goal of this study was to describe the morphology of glandular trichomes in Lippia graveolens H.B.K. (Verbenaceae), and evaluate the hypothesis that glandular trichome density on leaves of L. graveolens would be greatest for populations found in the most arid locations. Morphology and trichome density were investigated using a combination of scanning electron and stereoscopic microscopy in nine wild Oregano populations. Emberger's index of aridity was calculated to characterize the populations located in a bio-climatic gradient. Correlation analysis was used to assess the relation between trichome density and aridity. Lippia graveolens presented two types of glandular trichome on both sides of the leaf: peltate and capitate, of which the former presented higher density. Geographic variation in trichome density was observed at three spatial scales: among bio-climatic regions, among populations within regions and among plants within populations. We found that plant populations at the most arid sites had, on average, lower trichome density. Our results showed a trend for a greater trichome density in more humid sites. Nevertheless, the importance of inter-population variation in trichome density suggests that microenvironmental and genetic factors should be taken into account, in order to better explain the observed differences.
10.2307/3088722| Inflorescence development in Salpiglossis consists of repeated modular units consisting of two floral bracts on an axis terminating in a flower. The calyx is initiated in a helix with the first primordium appearing on the abaxial side of the floral apex. Primordia of the corolla, androecium, and gynoecium arise in three successive whorls. Zygomorphy first becomes manifest with the slightly delayed initiation of a staminodial primordium. Growth of the corolla and androecium show a dorso-ventral asymmetry that also results in zygomorphy. During early development the median plane of many flowers is on the axillary plane. The median plane of other flowers is oriented 10-15 off the axillary plane, but this is less than half the expected 36. The off-median orientation does not produce the oblique gynoecial orientation described in the literature as a defining feature of Solanaceae. The zygomorphic flowers of Salpiglossis have a gynoecium that is on the median plane and not oblique. Further the flowers are not obliquely oriented unless via pedicel rotation prior to anthesis. The floral orientation of Solanaceae, as exemplified by Salpiglossis, has the staminode and a calyx lobe in the abaxial position, which is a synapomorphy with respect to other Asteridae. 
40207586|Recent studies have emphasized the importance of multiple and interacting disturbances in controlling plant community dynamics. However, detailed information on disturbance history and changes in species abundance are unavailable for many forest ecosystems. As a result, it is often difficult to evaluate the influence of disturbance interactions on changes in species composition over time. This study examines the history and dynamics of Fagus grandifolia-dominated forests in coastal New England to evaluate the role of multiple disturbances in the development of Fagus dominance. Detailed historical and dendroecological data were used to reconstruct disturbance history and compositional trends for the past > 300 years. At the time of European settlement, the study area supported mixed forests of Quercus, Fagus, Carya, and Pinus. Intensive harvesting in the early 19th century resulted in abundant Quercus alba, Q. velutina, and Fagus regeneration. Thereafter, harvesting and fire were limited, but repeated low-moderate intensity hurricanes allowed Fagus but not Quercus species to establish and persist in the forest understory. A severe hurricane in 1944, accompanied by intense herbivory from a high deer population, accelerated the development of Fagus dominance by releasing Fagus saplings, initiating Fagus establishment, and preventing Quercus establishment. The extreme shade tolerance of Fagus, in combination with its flexible regeneration strategy (i.e., the ability to regenerate from seed or from root sprouts), and low palatability to deer, contributed to the increase in abundance of Fagus in response to this complex disturbance history. Thus, long-term changes in forest composition and reduced species richness resulted from species-specific responses to multiple, interacting disturbances.
41475120|New species o Aechmea, Quesnelia and Vriesea (Bromeliaceae) are described and illustrated. All species occur in Bahia State, in remnant areas of Atlantic Rainforest.
10.2307/2997281|We analyzed the size-class structure of Atlantic white cedar (Chamaecyparis thyoides) swamps established prior to 1930 to determine if there is any evidence that cedar-swamp succession is controlled through replacement by hardwood species such as red maple. The size-class distribution patterns that we observed for cedar in most stands were characteristic of even-aged stands undergoing density-dependent mortality or self-thinning. Hardwoods, including red maple, blackgum, sweetbay, and grey birch, contributed little to total basal area and occurred at low densities. Red maple was the most dommon hardwood. For this species, large-diameter ( 10 cm) stems, relative density of small (<10 cm) and large ( 10 cm) diameter stems, expressed as a percentage of total small-diameter and large-diameter cedar and maple stems, relative basal area, and canopy cover increased in relation to increasing cedar-stem size and decreasing cedar-stem density. Although these trends suggest that red maple abundance and recruitment may be related to cedar size-class structure, there was no significant difference in the absolute density of < 5 cm diametetr maple and cedar stems, and the absolute density of 5-9.9 cm diameter cedar was greater than that of red maple. It is questionable whether red maple or any hardwood species occurred at densities sufficient to allow them to respond quickly to canopy gaps created by the death of overstory trees in the swamps that we studied. Our study indicates that hardwood replacement of cedar in swamps is not a certain outcome of cedar-swamp succession. If Atlantic white cedar is actually replaced by hardwoods as individual trees age and die, the replacement process may take centuries. Even then it may only result in conversion to mixed stands dominated by cedar rather than the complete loss of cedar
10.2307/3088733|Factors affecting germination and seedling establishment of the nonindigenous, invasive Chinese tallow tree (Sapium sebiferum (L.) Roxb.) were investigated under greenhouse and field conditions. In greenhouse experiments, buried seeds had higher germination rates and percentages than surface seeds, and simulated and actual seed passage through the avian gut enhanced germination. One year of aging reduced germination and seed viability, particularly for seeds unhandled by birds. In the field, seedling emergence and survival were greater in mixed pine-hardwood forest than in pine-turkey oak forest or spoil areas. Planting date did not affect overall seedling emergence or survival. Seeds sown in March 1998 and 1999 in five coastal forests that contained established tallow trees emerged throughout the growing season. While seedling emergence rates varied, final seedling numbers were similar across habitats in 1998, but were lower and differed across habitats in 1999. Recruitment was thus spatially and temporally variable. Viability of seeds buried for one and two years ranged from 16 to 69% in the five habitats, but did not differ among habitats or length of burial time. Because habitat type did not affect seed dormancy (both years) and final seedling number (1998 only), we conclude that other factors influence the differential success of tallow trees among coastal forests in South Carolina. Management strategies (e.g., fire) should consider the seedling phenology and seed bank capability of tallow tree.
41475111|Recent consideration of two taxa, a fern (Botrychium minganense Viet.) and a birch (Betula x sandbergii Britton), for addition to the list of protected plants by the Vermont Scientific Advisory Group on Flora revealed the need for an assessment of hybrids in the context of the listing of rare taxa for protection. Though both are hybrids in that they are the product of secondary contact between divergent lineages, the two lie at opposite ends of the hybrid continuum. A consideration of the known array of hybrid biologies in the context of the conservation literature leads to the argument that the fern should be listed, but not the birch. Botrychium minganense is reproductively competent, fully isolated from its progenitors, and evidences a genetic heritage unique relative to them. However, Betula x sandbergii does not have the integrity or genetic uniqueness typical of the rare hybrid lineages that have been listed for protection, either at the state or national level. It lacks a unique gene pool vulnerable to extinction. The two candidates for listing in Vermont present contrasting biologies that together inform a substantive understanding of the issues relating to the conservation biology of plant hybrids.
20063766|Forested wetlands in the northeastern US are increasingly surrounded by urban and suburban land-use, as development spreads outwards from city centers. I have studied a sample of 21 mature deciduous forested wetlands in a densely populated and long-settled region, northeastern New Jersey, in order to 1) describe characteristics of the plant communities of wetlands in such human-dominated landscapes, and 2) test the utility of hydrogeomorphic classification (HGM) in explaining the variation in composition and structure observed among the sites. The wetlands support a rich flora of over 300 species, with a mean richness of 66-92 species per site for the different HGM classes; common species were similar to those reported in previous studies of undisturbed red maple swamps. Structural characteristics (tree diameter and stem densities) were, like species richness and species composition, similar to those reported in previous reviews of red maple swamps, suggesting that despite the urban setting, community composition and structure of these wetlands are similar to those of undisturbed wetlands. Exotic species represented on average 5-11% of the flora of the sites, a value similar to other forested wetlands, suggesting that the urban setting does not result in a higher degree of exotic invasion than expected for forested wetlands in non-urban landscapes. HGM classification was poorly related to all aspects of vegetation structure, suggesting that at least in urban landscapes, it is not useful for predicting characteristics of the vegetation. The ability of these communities to resist major changes due to the urban setting may reflect the facultative-wetland status of most of the species; their ability to tolerate a wide range of wetland conditions allows them to persist despite alterations of hydrological regimes. Forested wetlands in developed landscapes can evidently maintain community composition and structure similar to those in undeveloped landscapes.
10.2307/3088713|The bi-tripinnately compound leaves of Aralia spinosa are covered on both their axes and leaflet surfaces with numerous prickles. There was a positive correlation between prickle density on the adaxial and abaxial leaf surfaces, with prickle density highest on the adaxial surface. Although prickle density declined with both ramet height and leaf position along the length of the stem, only about 8% of this variation could be explained by either of these variables. Leaf prickle density varied considerably among ramets within a site, but varied little among sites. Prickles were always associated with veins and the prickles represent outgrowths of the epidermis and underlying parenchyma cells. No vascular connection exists, however, between veins and adjacent prickles. The epidermis of prickles was found to be highly lignified and covered with a thick cuticle. Leaf prickles may (1) act to deter insects from landing and/or crawling on the leaflets, especially the adaxial surface; (2) deter large herbivores from feeding; (3) protect fruit from frugivores other than seed dispersers; or (4) protect stems from physical damage by larger animals.
20063786|We examined the changing influence of environmental factors and land use history on the composition of the canopy tree, shrub, herb and tree seedling strata of a Connecticut forest over 45 years. The many herb and shrub species initially found in post-agricultural areas of this site declined or disappeared as the forest canopy closed. Tsuga canadensis ([L.] Carriere) increased in importance in the forest canopy until the introduction of the hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae Annand). Shade-intolerant under-story species are now increasing in abundance as the death of large T. canadensis opens gaps in the canopy. Mantel path analysis, a multivariate technique that allows examination of indirect and direct relationships among variables, was used to quantify the complex network of relationships among environment, land use history and plant community composition. Overall environmental variability was uncorrelated with vegetation, except within the shrub stratum. Slope and drainage were the most important individual environmental factors measured. Land use history was strongly correlated with all four strata, and the strength of this relationship decreased over time. The composition of the tree seedling stratum was highly variable through time; other strata showed more self-similarity between sample dates. Land use history appears to impact the vegetation so strongly as to conceal any effects of environmental variation on this site.
43286988|Hardwood-dominated riparian forest was surveyed in 83 quadrats on 3 floodplains, 11 lower terraces, and 8 upper terraces along 11 km of Zoar Valley Canyon, a minimally disturbed segment of 5th-6th order Cattaraugus Creek in western New York State, USA. Increment core-based stand ages from 8 to > 300 years constituted the longest middle-order riparian sequence yet studied in the East. Comparisons of aerial images starting in 1929 with present-day increment cores indicated trees have reached breast height and persisted on recent lower terraces within at most 6-27 years after deposition, suggesting landform age and type associated primary succession rather than floodregime driven secondary succession or maintenance of early serai stages. In 2009, the second largest flood since 1940 caused only modest damage even to floodplain stands, supporting this premise. Regressions of stand characteristics on age across the 300-year sequence revealed logarithmic increases in tree diameter and height, stand basal area, and shade tolerance as succession has progressed. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) ordination of stand characteristics and species distributions further revealed coherent successional gradients, including affinity vs. divergence among species of varying life history traits; e.g., an association between late-seral Acer saccharum and Fagus grandifolia and their divergence from pioneering Populus deltoides and Salix nigra. It also revealed a convincing association of biotic variables with a directional and strongly discriminated ordination distribution of landform types of increasing maturity; i.e., geomorphic patterns. Successional trends eventually leveled off beyond  150-200 years' stand age, suggesting a dynamic equilibrium (perhaps now reflecting a gap-phase and no longer true primary succession) that bears structural, compositional, and aesthetic resemblance to scattered old-growth in the surrounding uplands. It has been questioned, especially in the East, whether riparian succession often proceeds so far, or if hydrologie processes more likely interrupt the progression. In Zoar Valley, where vegetational succession appears to have been generally protected from both natural (flood damage, inundation) and anthropogenic disruption (logging, flow regulation), multi-aged old-growth stages occur on upper terraces throughout the riparian zone.
40207590|This study describes changes within the Leguminosae plant family along two to 25 years of secondary succession after slash-andburn agriculture and compares regrowth with mature rain forest legume species composition. Research was conducted on a 21-site (12.9 ha) chronosequence and covered all legume plants > 50 cm height. Legume biomass shares ranged from 4-8% in secondary regrowth and were two to four times higher in mature rain forest (17%, or 78 tons ha). Legume taxonomic composition differed strongly between secondary and mature rain forests, and floristic similarity (Jaccard's coefficient) of legumes between both forest types was only 34%. Successional changes in legume vegetation shares and taxonomic composition were weak within secondary regrowth, though repeated slash-and-burn did affect legume vegetation. Legume functional composition changed along succession with high shares of potentially N-fixing lianas in young regrowth. We conclude that 1) the composition of legume species in the community differs strongly between secondary and mature rain forest but legume composition along regrowth does not provide an adequate criterion for the definition of optimum fallow periods, and 2) legume lianas assume a key functional role in biological N-fixation and ecosystem N-cycling especially early along succession.
20063780|Pedicularis canadensis (lousewort) is a hemiparasitic plant of open woodland and prairie habitats. The interactions between this hemiparasitic plant and selected members of a tallgrass prairie community were investigated via a greenhouse experiment and field observations in a restored prairie. The greenhouse experiment examined interactions between P. canadensis and hosts from each of three families prominent in prairie communities: big bluestem (Andropogon gerardii, Poaceae), tall goldenrod (Solidago canadensis, Asteraceae), and showy tick trefoil (Desmodium canadense, Fabaceae). Individual hemiparasites were grown with one host, with two hosts of a single species, or with two hosts of different species, in all combinations. P. canadensis reduced tall goldenrod shoot mass, marginally affected big bluestem shoot mass, and had no effect on root mass of these two host species or on shoot and root mass of showy tick trefoil. The presence of the hemiparasite did not alter competitive relationships between host species and its effect was similar to that of a competitor. Spearman rank correlations were calculated between P. canadensis cover and species richness and abundances, including bare ground, for Six-Mile Creek Prairie, a restored tallgrass prairie in McLean County, Illinois. Species richness was positively correlated with increasing P. canadensis cover. These results suggest P. canadensis can influence prairie community composition.
10.2307/3088651|The vascular flora of Fisherman Island, Virginia, consists of 274 species within 180 genera and 64 families. Seven species of southern affinities are at or near their northern range limit on Fisherman Island; thirteen species are new records for Northampton County; and seventeen species are listed as rare, threatened or uncommon in Virginia. Two of the species, Eremochloa ophiuroides and Oplismenus setarius, had not been reported from Virginia before this study. Species of foreign origin, though numerous in the flora, are nonetheless only a minor component of the natural vegetation. Each taxonomic entry in the checklist is accompanied by an annotation that includes the habitat in which each taxon occurs, frequency of occurrence, range extensions, rarity status and pertinent synonyms. Largest families are Poaceae (57 species) and Asteraceae (37 species), and largest genera are Panicum s. lat., Juncus, Carex and Cyperus.
40207592|In 1924, Bob Marshall and his Harvard University advisor Richard Fisher developed an integrated historical approach for forest reconstruction to address ecological questions and provide insights to forest management. Their approach utilized complementary methods and data: dendrochronology, diverse historical records (e.g., deeds, town and oral histories, and census and lumber mill records), and intensive field mapping and sampling of the site including stumps and uproot mounds, and forest composition and structure. Marshall applied this approach broadly to a 61-ha Tsuga canadensis (eastern hemlock)- Pinus strobus (eastern white pine) forest on sandy dry soils and intensively to a 0.15-ha sub-plot. He sought to test his hypothesis that pine and hemlock displayed compositional resilience to disturbance and to understand the life-history and growth characteristics of the two species that enabled co-dominance. Marshall concluded that, in contrast with the successional tendencies of white pine across New England's mesic uplands, pine and hemlock had dominated on these dry, sandy soils since at least the early 1700s and through multiple episodes of logging. Based on his interpretation of the contrasting growth rates and shade tolerance of these species, he developed a simple model of forest development and silviculture to guide management on dry sites for pine and hemlock timber production. Fisher, Marshall, and Harvard Forest colleagues used these historical insights to plan a suite of harvesting experiments on the site in 1924--25 to perpetuate hemlock and pine. Unfortunately, the hurricane of 1938 and subsequent salvage logging terminated the experiment. In 2007, we tested Marshall's interpretations and prediction of resilience in this forest by examining its long-term response to the series of intense disturbances. We synthesized decades of observations, photographs, and data, and relocated Marshall's plot to measure forest age and size structure, composition, and site features including decaying stumps, pits, mounds, and bent and sprouting individuals. The current hemlock and pine forest is strikingly similar in structure and composition to that of 1924. These results reinforce Marshall's conclusion that hemlock and white pine forests on well-drained sandy soils can be remarkably resilient in composition to intense disturbance. The work highlights the development and application of an integrated approach to forest reconstruction by Marshall and Fisher and underscores the contribution of historical insights to addressing basic ecological questions, designing large long-term field experiments, and guiding forest conservation and management.
10.2307/3088747|The serpentine barrens of Pennsylvania and Maryland are increasingly recognized as a global hotspot for rare and endemic species, and are the focus of management efforts by government agencies and conservation organizations. Surrounded by forests, farmland, and housing developments, the typical serpentine barrens community may be characterized as savanna-like; its presence is commonly attributed to the unusual chemical and physical conditions of serpentine-derived soils. However, recent research and anecdotal evidence suggest that disturbance, particularly fire, also plays an important role in maintaining the serpentine ecosystems. To better understand the various factors involved in maintaining these ecosystems, I investigated the spatial and temporal patterns of disturbance and vegetation change in the Nottingham Serpentine Barrens over the past 150 years. Between 1937 and 1993, savanna area was reduced by half and hardwood forest area increased from 2% to 25% of total area. Fire is one factor responsible for maintaining the savanna conditions that support the rare and endemic species. In the case of less frequent fire (or its absence) the savannas and open woodlands convert to closed hardwood forest. Soil depth also appears to influence the rate and direction of succession: where soil depth is shallow, native serpentine vegetation has a competitive advantage. Frequent fire most likely maintains shallow soil conditions by reducing litter which might otherwise contribute to soil development. This suggests that a feedback relationship among disturbance, soil development, and vegetation may best explain current conditions at Nottingham. These findings have important implications for land managers interested in using prescribed fire to protect these ecosystems.
10.2307/3088644|Macerations of rhizomes of five species of Selaginella were studied with scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Although only tracheids were observed in two species of Selaginella (pit membranes thin or weblike but intact), vessel elements were seen in the remainder. Pit dimorphism resulting in intermittent perforation plates featuring wide perforations alternating with narrow pits occurs in S. lepidophylla. Highly porose pit membranes were observed in three species. Although the number of species examined is small, the apparent absence of vessels in some species and the absence of vessels with simple perforation plates are evidence that the heterophyllous species of Selaginella have xylem less xeromorphic than that of the homophyllous species; S. lepidophylla has more adaptations for potentially rapid conductive rates than other heterophyllous species. Structural features of vessels and tracheids of Selaginella as seen with SEM have also been reported in ferns.
41262040|Environmental stresses and disturbances are common in terrestrial ecosystems. Clonal integration and foraging behavior are often, but not always, beneficial for clonal plants grown in heterogeneous stressful environments. In this study, clonal fragments of the clonal perennial herb, Aeluropus sinensis (Debeaux) Tzvel (Poaceae), were grown with stolons connected or severed at five salinity levels (0, 50, 100, 200, and 400 mmol L' NaCl). In each clonal fragment, the apical ramet was exposed to crude oil on the sediment surface while the basal ramet was not. We proposed three possible scenarios: growth of the apical ramet subjected to crude oil would be (1) enhanced, (2) limited, or (3) not affected by clonal integration. Results supported scenario (2). Responses to crude oil differed between plants grown at low and high salinity levels. For A. sinensis, at high salinity levels, clonal integration promoted habitat selection by decreasing biomass of apical parts to escape the oil polluted habitats and increasing clonal growth of basal parts to select the unpolluted habitats, while at low salinity levels, connection did not influence growth of the basal or apical parts. Salinity modulates the behavior of a clonal plant subjected to heterogeneous crude oil contamination, at least in A. sinensis.
10.2307/2996613|The cheniers of southwestern Louisiana are linear arrayed ridges up to 3 meters high and 450 meters wide. These prehistoric shorelines now stand as relict "islands" surrounded by coastal marsh. Although the chenier woodlands were once extensive, most have now been converted to rangeland, roads and homesites, and therefore presently exist as remnants. The woody species in six remnant sites were sampled in order to determine species diversity and importance High numbers of the introduced species, Sapium sebiferum (L) Roxb., resulted in species diversity in the two Little Chenier sites being significantly lower than those on Grand Chenier, Tiger Island and Pecan Island. This appears to be due to a higher level of habitat destruction in the Little Chenier than in the other cheniers Importance values suggest a high degree of heterogeneity among the sites chosen for study For example, Quercus virginiana L Celtis laevigata Willd, Cephalanthus occidentalis L and Sapium were each the most important species in at least one of the sampled sites An ordination of the six sites suggests that only three sites form an ecologically meaningful cluster and the remaining three sites are clearly segregated from all others. The ordination pattern may be due primarily to varying levels of habitat destruction as a result of historic anthropogenic activity.
20063750|This paper provides the first comprehensive, updated account of the Falkland Islands native flora for nearly forty years. 171 species are recognised, thirteen of which are endemic. Seven native species are included in the checklist for the first time: Arachnitis quetrihuensis Dimitri, Carex banksii Boott, Carex barrosii Nelmes, Elatine sp., Plantago moorei Rahn, Ruppia filifolia (Phil.) Skottsb. and Viola magellanica Forst. f. The presence of Rumex magellanicus Campd., a record previously considered doubtful, is also confirmed. Three previously reported native species are believed to have been recorded in error for the Falkland Islands, and are removed. These are, Eleocharis albibracteata Nees & Meyen ex Kunth, Plantago maritima L. and Schizaea fistulosa Labill. The checklist provides the first detailed account of the ecology, phenology, distribution and status of the vascular plant flora, and as such is a unique record of the Falkland Islands flora at the beginning of a period of unprecedented economic and social change.
10.2307/3557520| Seeds of the woodland herb Hexastylis heterophylla (Ashe) Small (Aristolochiaceae) were incubated in two sequences of temperature regimes: (a) warm  cool  cold  cool  warm, and (b) cold  cool  warm  cool  cold  cool  warm. In the first sequence, roots emerged during the first cool period ("autumn") and shoots during the second cool period ("spring"). In the second sequence, roots emerged during the second cool period ("autumn") and shoots during the third cool period ("spring"). Thus, in seeds of H. heterophylla, a period of warm temperatures is required for subsequent emergence of roots at cool ("autumn") temperatures and a period of cold ("winter") temperatures is required for subsequent emergence of epicotyls (shoots) at cool ("spring") temperatures (in seeds with roots emerged). These dormancy-breaking and germination requirements demonstrate clearly that seeds of this species have deep simple epicotyl morphophysiological dormancy (epicotyl dormancy), like those of Asarum canadense L., another eastern North American woodland herb in this family. This is the first report in the literature on seed dormancy in Hexastylis and only the third one for Aristolochiaceae. 
41811884|Lecythis ibiriba (Lecythidaceae), a new combination, is described, illustrated, and discussed. This species occurs as a shrub or small-to mediumsized tree that grows in the Atlantic Forest of northeastern Brazil. Lecythis ibiriba differs from most species of Lecythis by having seeds with poorly developed basal arils and stalked vestigial stamens that are curved but not swept inward. Morphologically, it is similar to L. lurida; however, differences in the bark, leaves, flowers, and fruits justify its recognition as a separate species.
20063966|This paper summarizes a broad range of studies that have examined influences of recent climate change on plant phenology or distribution. Spring events such as leafing and flowering have typically advanced, some by several weeks, with median advances of 4-5 d per degree Celsius. Autumn events, such as leaf coloring or leaf fall, have usually become delayed, though with more variability than spring events. Changes in summer events have been mixed. Phenological changes have varied geographically, as have recent temperature changes. Most studies of at least several decades duration show the initiation of rapid changes in the 1970s or 1980s, paralleling patterns of temperature change. Plants and animals in a given area have often responded at different rates to temperature change, which is likely to change patterns of interaction between plants and their pollinators and herbivores. Altitudinal changes in plant distributions have been demonstrated in several areas, especially in Scandinavia and in Mediterranean Europe, though these changes lag the measured temperature changes. Latitudinal changes in plant distribution have been demonstrated in only a few instances and it has been suggested that precipitation changes may have limited range shifts in response to warming in some areas. The observed and predicted changes in plant distribution and phenology have major implications for various ecological and evolutionary phenomena, including ecosystem productivity, species interactions, community structure, and conservation of biodiversity.
20063911|Stand reconstruction, using live trees and deadwood, provided a four to five hundred year recruitment history for the current stand structure in dry fir-pine forests of northern Washington, USA. The lengthy structural record indicated these dry fir-pine forests were resilient to change, that all forest conditions were transient, and that forests were currently transitioning away from maximum tree density levels. Historically, frequent fires maintained low tree abundance, but fire cycles lengthened in the 1860s as Euro-settlement progressed. Average stand density had already increased to 194% (SD = 116) of 1860 levels by the start of effective fire suppression in 1915. From the 1930s to 1960s, average stand density peaked at 258% (SD = 98) of 1860 levels. By 2000, tree mortality in these overstocked stands had reduced average stand densities to 68% (SD = 19) of maximum levels. However, tree densities in 2000 still averaged 173% (SD = 64) above historical levels. Although there had been significant tree recruitment and a century without fire, the trees present in the historic stands provided 75% (SD = 13) of the basal area in 2000. Numerous understory (&lt 7.6 cm dbh) trees (252 trees/ha, SD = 97) were present in 1860 stands and these trees contributed more basal area than the historic overstory in 2000. In the absence of fire and without human intervention, the sampled stands have decreased in overall tree density from maximum levels while representation of shade-tolerant species, range and evenness of age-class structure, and abundance of old forest (live tree and deadwood) legacies have increased.
10.2307/3088758|As humans increasingly disturb coastal ecosystems, there is a need to understand the interaction between natural and human-caused disturbances in order to conserve these ecosystems. The goals of this study were: (1) to quantify the size and composition of seed banks in areas of intact maritime chaparral and nearby abandoned roads; (2) to investigate whether a burning regime is necessary to induce germination of the species present in the seed bank; and (3) to compare the seed bank composition with the vegetation in maritime chaparral and abandoned roads. Soil samples for seed bank analysis were collected in October 1996 from seven paired areas of intact chaparral and abandoned roads near Monterey, California. Seed bank samples were subjected to a burn or a control (no burn) treatment, after which germination was monitored in a greenhouse for five months. In spring 1997, vegetation at each area was surveyed. Results of the seed bank study indicated that greater numbers of native plant species and native seeds germinated in intact chaparral compared to road areas, whereas numbers of exotic plant species and seeds germinating were similar in the two habitats. Burning reduced the number of native species and seeds that germinated, and to a lesser extent the number of exotic species and seeds that germinated from the seed bank. In the field survey, intact chaparral areas had greater numbers of native species and greater native cover than roads, whereas road areas had greater numbers and cover of exotic species. Several species were found only in field surveys; in particular, few chaparral shrub seeds germinated from the seed bank. Similarity between the seed bank and vegetation was low in both chaparral and road sites. The results suggest that although many native species of chaparral plants are present in the seed bank, planting of some species may help accelerate recovery in disturbed areas.
25790852|Caloplaca yuchiorum, a saxicolous sorediate species, is described as new to science based on collections from localities in Oklahoma, South Carolina, and Texas, USA.
40207610|Three hundred and forty eight vascular plant taxa were documented for Aztec Ruins National Monument, San Juan County, New Mexico. These include 13 new records for San Juan County, New Mexico. New records for Aztec Ruins National Monument include Sclerocactus cloveriae K. Heil subspecies cloveriae. This work was part of a biological inventory throughout the National Park Service as part of the Natural Resource Challenge, a legislative and administrative mandate.
40207604|Montane rain forests in Central and South America are threatened by human activities and climate change. Consequently, epiphytic plant genera such as Restrepia are also endangered, making their ex-situ conservation vital. For success, this conservation strategy requires affordable, efficient, and reliable protocols for axenic seed germination as well as protocorm and seedling development prior to establishment ex vitro. In our study, effects of four asymbiotic media (Murashige and Skooge, Phytotech P668, Vacin and Went, and Western) on seed germination and early protocorm development of Restrepia brachypus were compared. In addition, their effects with and without banana pulp were examined on in vitro seedling development. Western medium produced the highest mean germination rate (53%), the second highest mean protocorm diameter (325 um) and, with banana, the largest mean seedling length (3.6 mm). These data provide a simple protocol using commercially available media that is suitable for ex-situ conservation of Restrepia. These media may also be of use for the micropropagation and conservation of other related orchid genera.
10.2307/2997228|Seed bank and vegetation dynamics of a newly abandoned agricultural field were studied for a decade (1984-1994). Seed bank densities ranged from 3540 m
20063807|Because the goal of natural areas management is often the preservation of biodiversity, documenting botanical species richness is critically important. We conducted a series of botanical surveys in Big Everidge Hollow, a 52 ha watershed containing old-growth forest, on the Cumberland Plateau of eastern Kentucky. We contrasted our findings with a floristic survey that included parts of our study area, conducted approximately 20 years prior. Our research, from 1999 through 2001, yielded 263 species from 176 genera and 82 families, including 19 species that were new records from the site. These new species may have been overlooked in the previous study because of their scarcity or highly cryptic taxonomy, or they may have established in the years between studies. Of the 263 species recorded in our surveys, only one is considered non-native. This remarkable absence of exotic species indicates the high levels of "ecological integrity" inherent the study site and suggests an increasingly vital role for old-growth forests as reference ecosystems.
10.2307/3088682| Disturbance such as catastrophic windthrow can play a major role in the structure and composition of southern Appalachian forests. We report effects of Hurricane Opal followed by salvage logging on vegetation dynamics (regeneration, composition, and diversity) the first three years after disturbance at the Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory in western North Carolina. The objective of this study was to compare species composition and diversity of understory and groundlayer species in a hurricane + salvage logged (H+S) forest to an adjacent undisturbed forest. Abundance of groundlayer species was much higher in the H+S forest than in the undisturbed forest, and abundance increased over time. Percent cover, density, and species richness were significantly higher in the H+S forest than in the undisturbed forest. In addition, percent cover increased by approximately 85% between 1997 and 1999 in the H+S plots. Shannon's index of diversity (H) based on percent cover was significantly higher in the H+S forest than the undisturbed forest by the third year after disturbance. However, there was no significant difference in H based on density between H+S forest and the undisturbed forest in either year. In the undisturbed forest, 59 species and 50 genera represented 30 families. By 1999 (the third year after disturbance), the H+S forest retained 93 species, 72 genera and 42 families. The Asteraceae and Liliaceae had the highest number of species in both sampled forests, with more species of Liliaceae in the H+S plots. Micro-relief created from pit and mound topography from uprooting of windthrown trees, shade from the slash-debris left on site from the salvage logging, and shade from the remaining overstory trees created a mosaic of environmental conditions. This environmental heterogeneity could be responsible for the mix of early (shade intolerant) and late (shade tolerant) successional herbaceous species, and a higher species richness and diversity than the undisturbed forest. 
10.2307/3088751|The accuracy of early land survey records often used to reconstruct colonial forest composition was tested for three regions of the northeastern United States: central Massachusetts, the southern part of Berkshire County in eastern Massachusetts and adjacent towns in Connecticut, and northeastern Pennsylvania. Simple linear regressions of early proprietor's survey data on average growing degree days revealed significant relationships for oak (Quercus spp.), beech (Fagus grandifolia), and hemlock (Tusga canadensis) with consistent slopes for all three regions. The patterns fit well with colonial forest composition as inferred from regional pollen studies and with climatic preferences of the taxa, suggesting that these proprietor's data provide an accurate representation of forest composition. The same analyses were done with a subset of five towns where two sets of data were available: proprietor's data and road survey data. There were significant differences between the two data sets, with the road surveys not related to climatic gradients. We suggest that different types of survey records represent different aspects of forest composition, so that data from specialized surveys such as those for roads should be used only in spatially specific studies where the location of the surveys within a town can be taken into consideration.
20063841|Little is known about the role of mutualistic relationships with local species in promoting or limiting introduced invasive plant species. In this study we carried out controlled pollination treatments and floral visitor watches at three sites varying in degree of human disturbance in central Florida to determine the breeding system and potential pollinators of Paederia foetida L (skunk vine). A native of eastern Asia, P. foetida is invasive in natural and human created habitats in the southern United States and Hawaii. Our data suggested that populations of P. foetida in Florida were self-incompatible and relied on both small-bodied halictid bees native to Florida and the introduced European honey bee for pollination. Visitation by native bees was more frequent in less disturbed sites, while the opposite was true for the honey bees. Pollinator limitation was evident at the relatively undisturbed and the highly disturbed sites, but not at the intermediate disturbed site. Mutualistic relationships with native pollinators as well as the introduced honey bee probably contributed to the establishment and spread of skunk vine in Florida.
20063764|We examined the effects of a single dormant season fire on overstory and understory species diversity and composition and tree seedling regeneration patterns the first and second years following a prescribed burn in the Conasauga River Watershed of southeastern Tennessee and northern Georgia. We asked: Can a single dormant season fire initiate a trajectory of overstory and understory species change consistent with restoring Pinus echinata/mixed-oak/bluestem (Andropogon gyrans and Schizachyrium scoparium)-grass community types? Six sub-watersheds (similar in vegetation, soil type, stream size, and disturbance history) were located within the Conasauga River Watershed; four of the sites were burned in March 2001, and two sites were designated as controls. Within each site, vegetation was measured in layers: the overstory layer (trees  5.0-cm DBH), the midstory layer (woody stems &lt 5.0-cm DBH and  0.5 m height), and the ground flora layer (woody stems &lt 0.5-m height and all herbaceous species). All plots were sampled before the prescribed burn (Sept. 2000) and after the burn in July of 2001 and 2002. Consistent with the goals of the land managers, all the prescribed fires resulted in low-to-moderate intensity and low severity fires. However, we found no significant change in overstory, midstory, or ground flora species diversity after burning. We found no regeneration of P. echinata seedlings after the prescribed fire. Although fire reduced basal area of woody species in the midstory, prolific sprouting from hardwoods resulted in higher density of fire-sensitive hardwoods such as Acer rubrum, Oxydendrum arboretum, and Nyssa sylvatica. Density of Pinus strobus, an undesirable species, was reduced by 20% and its basal area was reduced by 50% after the burn. Overstory mortality occurred in small size class hardwoods as a result of the fire, but most of the mortality occurred in P. echinata and P. virginiana Miller due to infestation with pine bark beetles. The prescribed fires were not of sufficient intensity to: reduce overstory basal area, prepare a seedbed for successful pine germination, affect diversity of any of the vegetation layers, or promote A. gyrans and S. scoparium recruitment. Thus, additional fire treatments or a combination of fire and thinning treatments will be necessary to restore these ecosystems to P. echinata/mixed-oak/bluestem grass community types.
10.2307/2997318|With advances in computer technology, the use of hemispherical photography to assess forest canopy cover and understory light environments has become increasingly simplified. Numerous investigators have utilized this technique and employed various protocols for photo acquisition. Several studies have noted the potential for subjective bias at various stages throughout the procedure. However, it remains unclear as to what influence either the identity of the investigator or camera height may have on the outcome of the analysis. Based on considerations derived from the literature, we evaluated two aspects of the hemispherical photography technique (camera height and experimenter error) to determine if decisions made at various points in the process contribute additional variance that may ultimately affect the interpretation or comparability of studies. The first consideration was camera height. A variety of camera heights have been used in the literature. We found no significant differences (P > 0.50) in either estimates of percent open sky or available global radiation obtained at heights of either 30 or 150 cm in a mixed oak forest in southern Ohio. The second consideration was to assess how different experimenters analyzed the same set of hemispherical photographs. We found no significant differences among ten experimenter's measures of either percent open sky or available global radiation (P > 0.75). Based on our results, we feel more confident about the comparison of results from independent studies done by different investigators using a variety of photo acquisition protocols.
41262011|Struthanthus is a large and diverse genus in Loranthaceae in the New World Tropics. In Venezuela, there are six species in the pedunculate triads-sessile flowers group to which Struthanthus phillyreoides Eichler and Struthanthus dichotrianthus (Kunth) Blume belong. The identification of S. dichotrianthus and S. phillyreoides has frequently been confused as both have lanceolate leaves, with an acute apex and base and 2-radiate umbellate inflorescences. An assessment of herbarium specimens revealed considerable morphological variation within S. dichotrianthus and this variation overlapped with S. phillyreoides. To objectively evaluate the identity of both species, multivariate analyses were performed on a morphological data set of 28 characters based on 131 specimens, collected over a wide geographical range. These analyses did not separate the two species but separated the specimens into two groups based on sex alone. When male and female subsets and vegetative characters were analyzed separately, the analyses were unable to separate both species. These results indicate that S. dichotrianthus and S. phillyreoides cannot be distinguished morphologically based on the characters used and therefore these two species should be considered synonymous. Because of the priority of the name S. phillyreoides, a revised taxonomic treatment for this species is provided.
20063767|Changes in forest composition and structure were investigated by comparing two decades of permanent plot records (1977-1978 and 1995-2002) for the woodlots of Cades Cove, Great Smoky Mountains National Park, Tennessee. The importance of late-successional shade-tolerant species, such as Tsuga canadensis L. Carr. (eastern hemlock), increased in the understories and overstories of all of the forest types examined. The most significant increases were observed in the white pine-mesic oak and successional pine types. Our results suggest that most of the woodlots are currently undergoing stem exclusion with some stands in the early stages of understory reinitiation. The most pronounced structural changes were observed in the successional pine woodlots, which are experiencing rapid attrition of Pinus virginiana Mill. (Virginia pine), a short-lived pioneer species. Over the last two decades the diversity, richness, and density of woody understory vegetation in the woodlots has declined. These results are likely due to a combination of factors including natural stand developmental processes and the legacy of high white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus Zimmerman) densities at Cades Cove.
10.2307/4126919|Most of Arkansas is outside the normal geographic range of several bottomland hardwood species important in floodplain forests of the southeastern United States. Other species therefore occupy the portions of the flooding gradient normally filled by those missing species. Analysis of 45 non-quantitative elevational transects from slough edge or stream edge to upland sites and ordination of 58 quantitatively sampled bottomland stands were used to assess distribution of tree species along a flooding gradient and in relation to steamside vs. backwater habitats in southern and eastern Arkansas. Emphasis was on hardwood stands dominated by species other than the extremely flood-tolerant Taxodium distichum and streamside species Salix nigra. Flooding gradient rankings based on site dominance along the elevational transects could be assigned to 20 tree species. Across the ordination, three dominant oaks were arranged from drier to wetter sites in the order Quercus nigra, Q. phellos, and Q. lyrata. Despite a wide moisture tolerance, Liquidambar styraciflua was much more important toward the drier end of the ordination. Carya ovata was important in much wetter stands than would be predicted by the literature, and Quercus stellata and Q. texana (= Q. nuttallii) were most important near the middle rather than at the drier end of the ordination. Carya aquatica was the important hickory in the wetter half of the ordination, and occurred in both backwater and streamside stands. Celtis laevigata also reached high importance in both streamside and backwater sites, and its associates in those sites suggest that it has greater flood tolerance than indicated by the elevational transects. Taxa like Forestiera acuminata and Planera aquatica that typically occur as subcanopy species were dominant in some wet stands, presumably because timber harvest had removed most of the original canopy trees. Ulmus spp. and Fraxinus pennsylvanica occurred at moderate levels across all but the driest portion of the flooding gradient, but almost never dominated a stand, and surprisingly were rarely important in the same stands. The important southern bottomland forest species Quercus laurifolia, Fraxinus caroliniana, F. profunda, and Nyssa sylvatica var. biflora (= N. biflora) are among those absent from the study area, and several other such species were present but of very low importance (Quercus michauxii, Acer rubrum, Acer saccharinum, Betula nigra).
10.2307/2997250|Garlic mustard (Alliaria petiolata, Brassicaceae), a biennial plant species native to Eurasia, is of concern in the Midwestern and Northeastern United States and adjacent Canada because it forms monospecific stands that dominate forest understories and displace the native understory flora. We examined the influence of varied irradiance on growth and photosynthetic rates of first-year garlic mustard plants. We measured the photosynthetic rates at different levels of irradiance for plants grown at ambient irradiances in a forest or garden, and in a growth chamber under one of four irradiance treatments (constant 125, 243, 469, or 1,140  mol m
20063821|Exceptionally well-preserved adpressions of the Late Pennsylvanian seed fern Odontopteris brardii (Brongniart) Sternberg are described from the Bonner Springs Shale (Kansas City Group, middle Missourian) of western Missouri, U.S.A. The fossils indicate that O. brardii fronds are bipinnate and similar in architecture to those seen in Lescuropteris (= Odontopteris) genuina (Grand'Eury) Remy et Remy from the Stephanian of France. This seems to contradict the widely accepted opinion that O. brardii is conspecific with Odontopteris minor f. zeilleri Potoni, because fronds of the latter taxon are asymmetrically tripinnate. We suggest that heteroblastic development occurred in O. brardii and O. minor f. zeilleri, and bipinnate fronds were produced by juvenile plants. On the other hand, intraspecific differences in frond architecture may also have been a mechanism of adaptation. As a result, frond architecture can be used only in a limited sense for species circumscription in odontopterid seed ferns until the mechanisms underlying heterophylly in these plants are more fully understood.
40207568|Two species of Manfreda Salisbury (Agavaceae) endemic to the Mexican Yucatan Peninsula are proposed as new. The new species, Manfreda paniculata L. Hernndez, R. Orellana & Carnevali and M. petskinil R. Orellana, L. Hernndez & Carnevali are characterized by the presence of long-lasting leaves, paniculate inflorescences, and flowers subtended by a single bracteolethe latter a unique character found within the family Agavaceae and probably within the order Asparagales. Manfreda paniculata is similar to M. sileri, differing from it by the presence of a stem, bulbils, leaves fleshier and more rigid, larger marginal teeth, with long flexible spine-like tip, pedicellated flowers, and shorter floral tube. Manfreda petskinil has been annotated in some herbaria as M. scabra, but the new species is similar to M. variegata, from which it differs by the presence of minutely pubescent and denticulate leaves, ascendant flowers, filament insertion at the mouth of the tube, and a thin style. However, both new species are most closely related to each other than any other species in the genus. Manfreda petskinil is acaulescent with narrower, linear-lanceolate leaves, finely serrulate margins and smaller than M. paniculata.
10.2307/2996581|Since the Anisomerae was proposed by House in 1908, all but three species have been moved into other paris of the genus. Morphological study now indicates that these three species should be placed elsewhere. Ipomoea anisomeres belongs in sect. Erpipomoea. Ipomoea squamosa and I. lindenii do not seem to be closely related to each other or to 1. anisomeres. Thus, this series was polyphyletic. The species were originally grouped together because of convergent evolution in sepal inequality. Placement is proposed for all names included in 1908. The original species are now placed in Ipomoea sect. Eriospermum (ser. Batatas, ser. Eriospermum, ser. Mirandinae); Ipomoea sect Erpipomoea; Ipomoea sect. Exogonium; Ipomoea sect. Pharbitis ser. Tyrianthinae; to an Australian Ipomoea alliance (section unknown); and to the Old World genus Xenostegia. Several taxa confused with Ipooea anisomeres and I. squamosa are discussed. Ipomoea pedicellaris is moved from sen Setosae to sect. Erpipomoea. Nine species are described and illustrated, including the Hawaiian endemic Ipomoea tuboides (sect. Exogonium), and a new Panamanian endemic Ipomoea eremnobrocha D. E Austin sp. nov. (sect. Eriospermum). A key is provided for identification. A new section and series are proposed for Ipomoea subg. Quamoclit sect. Tricolores J. A. McDonald, sect. nov., and Ipomoea subg. Quamoclit sect. Tricolores set. Microsepalae D. E Austin, comb. nov.
40865067|Historical land use has shaped ecosystem structure and function in much of eastern North America, but the question of how long the legacies of 19 th and 20 th century agriculture will persist in forested landscapes remains a matter of debate. To evaluate whether the legacies of land use are diminishing over time we resampled permanent vegetation plots in areas which either did or did not have an agricultural history. This study focused on changes in trees, shrubs, herbaceous plants, and soil chemistry between 1984 and 2006 at the Cary Institute of Ecosystem Studies in southeastern New York State. Substantial shifts in tree species composition were observed, including a decline in the basal area of Cornus florida and Quercus prinus. These changes appear to be due, respectively, to dogwood anthracnose and mortality associated with gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar) defoliation. Quercus rubra and Acer saccharum increased in basal area over the same period. Sapling density in the plots remained nearly constant between 1984 and 2006, but seedling density nearly doubled. The invasive herbaceous plant Alliaria petiolata increased markedly in percent cover and frequency of occurrence. Acer rubrum and Q. prinus tree abundances were highly correlated with land use history, while A. saccharum and Q. rubra were not, so the documented changes in forest composition have obscured some of the legacies of land use history on this forest over the past two decades. In addition to the changes caused by novel pests and pathogens, we show how other regional influences on forests (such as fire suppression and invasive plants) may diminish the differences in forest composition between forests with and without agricultural history.
20063751|Caumsett State Historic Park (CSHP) is a 650 ha tract, 50 km east of New York City, New York. The vascular flora comprises 101 families, 330 genera, and 624 species, of which 405 species (65%) are native and 219 species (35%) are exotic to CSHP. Flowering plants (Division Magnoliophyta) form the bulk of the flora. Magnoliopsida (dicots) account for most of the angiosperm families, genera, and species. Liliopsida (monocots) scarcely account for more than 20% in any category. Pinophyta (conifers) are rare, as are the Lycopodiophyta and Equisetophyta ("fern allies"). Polypodiophyta (ferns) equal all the other non-angiosperm groups, at all taxonomic levels. The most species rich families are Asteraceae, Poaceae, Rosaceae, Fabaceae, Cyperaceae, Liliaceae, Lamiaceae and Brassicaceae, in that order. The largest genera are Carex, Aster, Solidago/Euthamia, Polygonum, and Hieracium, in that order. Eleven CSHP species are listed as endangered or threatened in New York State (NYS; Young and Weldy 2003). These are Carex abscondita, C. hormathodes, Cenchrus tribuloides, Scirpus georgianus, S. maritimus, Acalypha virginica var. virginica, Lycopus rubellus, Lysimachia hybrida, Physalis pubescens var. integrifolia, Salicornia bigelovii, Suaeda linearis. Two species, Ligustrum ovalifolium and Vicia lathyroides are new to the flora of NYS. Five classes of habitats are found within the park, each with many types of plant communities. These are I. upland forests, mature forest and also extensive areas undergoing succession; II. freshwater swamps, marshes and ponds, dominated by flood tolerant trees, shrubs, forbs or graminoids; III. gravel and sand deposits, dominated by drought tolerant shrubs, forbs and grasses; IV. tidal wetlands, dominated by salt tolerant grasses, shrubs and, locally, forbs; and V. disturbed habitats, mainly lawns and dry meadows, dominated by grasses and composites.
20063881|Grasslands are a widespread vegetation type that once comprised 42% of the plant cover on earth's surface. Features commonly shared among grasslands are climates with periodic droughts, landscapes that are level to gently rolling, high abundances of grazing animals, and frequent fires. World-wide expansion of grasslands occurred 8 to 6 MaBP and was associated with increasing abundance of grasses using the C4 photosynthetic pathway, a decline in woodlands, and coevolution of mammals adapted to grazing and open habitats. Beginning with Transeau's seminal paper on the prairie peninsula in 1935, North American ecologists debated the relative importance of fire and climate in determining the distribution of grasslands. In the 1960's, a major research interest was the response of prairies to fire, especially the productivity of burned and unburned grasslands. Understanding mechanisms for increased productivity on burned prairies began in the late 1960's and continued into the middle 1980's. During the past 20 to 25 years, grassland research has focused on the coevolution of grasses and mammalian grazers and fire-grazing interactions that affect habitat heterogeneity and diversity across trophic levels. While this paper does not follow a chronological development of our understanding of grasslands, all of these major research interests are considered.
20063788|The vegetation changes of a central Wisconsin floodplain from the mid-1800's to 2000 were documented, and the probable changes to 2050 projected. This was accomplished by use of survey witness trees in 1851, an extensive survey in 2000, and projection to 2050 using probable gap replacement frequencies and forest development theory. Between 1851 and 2000 extensive changes in relative abundance of tree species occurred. Silver maple (Acer saccharinum L.) exhibited the largest increase, and river birch (Betula nigra L.) and eastern white pine (Pinus strobus L.) the greatest decline; bur oak (Quercus macropcara Michx.) and yellow birch (Betula alleghaniensis Britton (B. lutea Michx. f.) were noted by the surveyor but not found in 2000. Conversely, two species [hornbeam (Carpinus caroliniana Walt.) and paper birch (Betula papyrifera L.)], that are present now were not found among the witness trees in 1851. The amount of open habitat remained approximately constant, but the degree of canopy closure in forests increased dramatically from 1851-2000. The probable causes of these changes were land clearing and harvesting during European settlement, supplemented by the hydrologic changes they induced. Collected data suggest that the current disturbance regime of scattered, small-scale canopy gaps will continue until the
41678793|Diversity and compositional dynamics in deciduous forests of eastern North America are subject to an array of drivers, and these forests are thought to be undergoing a long-term dominance shift in which maples (Acer spp.) are replacing oaks (Quercus spp.). We examined dynamics of woody understory species in an old-growth central Appalachian forest to document baseline dynamics over a decade and describe the relationships between diversity and surrogate measures of productivity (density and cover). We also investigated the reaction of shrub-and ground-layer vegetation to a recent fire in one portion of the study site. Over a ten-year interval (2000-2010), shrub-layer densities of Acer spp. decreased significantly (P < 0.01) and Quercus spp. did not change. Ground-layer densities of Acer spp. increased significantly (P < 0.01) while mean cover decreased significantly (P < 0.01). For a few Quercus species, ground-layer densities increased significantly (P < 0.01), and mean cover of ground-layer Quercus alba increased significantly (P < 0.05). Significant unimodal relationships (P < 0.01) were exhibited between diversity/richness and density/cover in both understory strata. Plots burned by a wildfire in 2010 had significantly lower shrub-layer density and species richness (P < 0.01) compared to predisturbance data in 2000. In the same area, the ground-layer response to this fire disturbance was equivocal, with increased density, decreased cover, and unchanged diversity and richness. Decadal oak-maple dynamics in the woody understory of this old-growth stand did not fully support the hypothesized oak-to-maple dominance shift; changes in shrub-and ground-layer populations of Acer spp. were erratic while Quercus spp. populations appeared stable. Unimodal relationships between diversity and productivity surrogates were found in both woody understory layers and are likely driven by the range of environmental conditions found within the study site. Fire induced short-term changes in the shrub-and ground-layers and may have facilitated colonization of invasive species. Quantification of changes across all woody forest strata in areas of minimal anthropogenic disturbance (e.g., old-growth stands) is important for understanding baseline dynamics of deciduous forests in eastern North America.
20063820|Stem morphotaxa continue to be the primary line of evidence for pteridosperm phylogenetic analyses, and the current state of our knowledge of Upper Paleozoic permineralized medullosan and manoxylic lyginopterid stems is reviewed here. Manoxylic Lyginopteridaceae include Lyginopteris, Heterangium, Rhetinangium, Schopfiastrum, Microspermopteris, Trivena, Tetrastichia, Tristichia, Lyginopitys, and Laceya. This group is poorly defined, and cannot be grouped by any as yet known synapomorphy. Four genera are generally included in the Medullosaceae; Medullosa, Colpoxylon, Sutcliffia, and Quaestora, however Colpoxylon should be included in Medullosa. This family is characterized by rachis bases that are vascularized by numerous traces produced at more than one node.
43286996|Seasonally flooded wetlands are periodically drained due to dry-season precipitation patterns. In the dry season, soil moisture can decrease to a level where wetland vegetation communities are subjected to drought stress. To understand the effects of drought conditions on the structure of seasonal wetland communities, we conducted a post-flooding reciprocal transplant experiment among three grass species across a soil moisture availability gradient at Archbold Biological Station, Florida, USA. We also manipulated the intensity of competition. We found that Cutthroat, the most upland species, responded physiologically to low soil moisture via root growth and leaf tissue moisture content, while the two flood-adapted species (Maidencane, Blue Maidencane), modulated growth and exhibited a dieback-resprout "drought deciduous" mechanism. These differential phenotypic responses, and not competition, were responsible for growth patterns in Florida seasonal wetlands in drought conditions.
43287028|Degradation of wetlands on agricultural lands contributes to the loss of local or regional vegetation diversity. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP) funds the restoration of degraded wetlands on private 'working lands', but these WRP projects have not been studied in the Southeast United States. Wetland hydrogeomorphic type influences hydrodynamics and thus the vegetation of restored sites, but species composition may also be affected by prior land-condition and restoration methods. We examined the variation in restored wetland vegetation of 61 WRP sites (representing 52 projects) across the Southeast region. Field surveys identified the common plant species at each site, and species composition was analyzed in relation to hydrogeomorphic type and specific restoration methods that were linked to pre-restoration habitat status. At least 380 plant species were recorded across all sites. Site floristic composition generally reflected variation in wetness conditions and vegetation structure. Wetlands restored by 'non-intensive' methods overlapped in species composition irrespective of hydrogeomorphic type, as a consequence of successional dynamics related to natural hydrologie variation. More distinctive species composition occurred in wetlands restored by 'intensive' methods designed to compensate for intense agricultural land-use before restoration. In the Southeast U.S., WRP wetlands are supporting a variety of plant assemblages influenced by hydrogeomorphic settings, site land-use history, and differing restoration approaches.
10.2307/2997244|Steephead ravine forests of the Apalachicola River Bluffs region of northern Florida contain tree species that are widespread in the Southeastern Coastal Plain and species that are highly endemic, such as the Florida yew, Taxus floridana. We sampled woody vegetation in three ravine systems within the Apalachicola Bluffs and Ravines Preserve (Liberty Co., Florida). We used transects randomly located along north-facing and south-facing slopes, as well as transects along north-facing slopes that contained adult individuals of T. floridana. Slope position (lower slope, midslope, and upper slope) greatly affected important species composition and densities. In. contrast, aspect of steepheads had little influence on the densities of most species. American beech (Fagus grandifolia), southern magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora), and a number of evergreen understory species were more abundant along north-facing slopes containing T. floridana than along random north-facing slopes. North-facing slopes containing T. floridana, with their characteristic mesic midslope areas, represent a unique subset of north-facing slopes along steepheads of the Apalachicola River Bluffs. The discontinuous distribution of such north-facing slopes within ravine systems potentially results in a discontinuous distribution of T. floridana.
40207608|Abiotic factors, particularly area, and biotic factors play important roles in determining species richness of continental islands such as cedar glades. We examined the relationship between environmental parameters and species richness on glades and the influence of native species richness on exotic invasion. Field surveys of vascular plants on 40 cedar glades in Rutherford County, Tennessee were conducted during the 2001-2003 growing seasons. Glades were geo-referenced to obtain area, perimeter, distance from autotour road, and degree of isolation. Amount of disturbance also was recorded. Two-hundred thirty two taxa were found with Andropogon virginicus, Croton monanthogynus, Juniperus virginiana, Panicum flexile, and Ulmus alata on all glades. The exotics Ligustrum sinense, Leucanthemwn vulgare, and Taraxacum offlcinale occurred on the majority of glades. Lobelia appendiculata var. gattingeri, Leavenworthia stylosa, and Pediomelum subacaule were the most frequent endemics. Richness of native, exotic and endemic species increased with increasing area and perimeter and decreased with increasing isolation (P  0.03); richness was unrelated to distance to road (P  0.20). Perimeter explained a greater amount of variation than area for native and exotic species, whereas area accounted for greater variation for endemic species. Slope of the relationship between area and total richness (0.17) was within the range reported for continental islands. Disturbed glades contained a higher number of exotic and native species than nondisturbed ones, but they were larger (P  0.03). Invasion of exotic species was unrelated to native species richness when glade size was statistically controlled (P = 0.88). Absence of a relationship is probably due to a lack of substantial competitive interactions. Most endemics occurred over a broad range of glade sizes emphasizing the point that glades of all sizes are worthy of protection.
10.2307/4126929|Bloodroot Valley, in central Staten Island, south-eastern New York State, has unusual vegetation. It is a highly disturbed area in which serpentinite rubble has been deposited on till-covered serpentinite bedrock. Bloodroot Valley is reputed to contain the only wild, albeit augmented, population of Sanguinaria canadensis found on Staten Island. The hypothesis of the study was that variation in observed plant associations would correlate with variations in soil properties. This study compared two distinct vegetative patterns on opposing slopes, existing within meters of each other, and each associated with different soil properties. Human disturbance in one area of Bloodroot Valley has fostered a unique soil condition that reflects a blend of features of serpentinite soils, anthropogenic calcium deposits and river floodplains. Vegetation on the west slope in Bloodroot Valley contains neither "serpentinite flora" nor flora typical of the adjacent mixed oak forest, but rather, a floodplain type plant association with Hydrophyllum virginianum as dominant.
20063901|The structure and ultrastructure of immature to fully mature glandular dots in the leaf, floral organs and fruit, and their secretion components were described in Caesalpinia echinata Lam. (Leguminosae) for the first time. Data showed that glandular dots were groups of idioblasts with contents that reacted positively for both lipophilic and hydrophilic substances. Idioblasts originated from successive divisions of the ground meristem cells or mesophyll cells of an ovary of a fertilized flower. Following division, cells enlarged, the cytoplasm became denser and its content became full. No idioblasts were observed after fruit sclerification. Besides these mixed-content idioblasts, some cells in the sepals, petals and mesocarp were found to contain phenolic compounds, which probably represent a kind of constitutive defense mechanism, once the flowers and fruits become highly fitness-valued parts of the plant and can be commonly attacked. The contents of the idioblasts are released as the growth rate of the embryo increases, indicating that the plant probably diverts the precursors of secondary metabolites into the primary metabolism, at this critical time of embryo development.
20063915|We conducted a biogeochemical analysis of four Adirondack northern hardwood forests (two old-growth and two maturing second-growth) to elucidate correlations among stand age, site conditions and several nutrient cycling processes. One each of the old-growth and maturing forests were located on base-rich sites, while the other two were on base-poor sites. At each site we analyzed soil solution chemistry and estimated nutrient flux rates; measured annual litter production, and nutrient and lignin content; measured annual N mineralization and nitrification rates; and characterized herb- and canopy-layer vegetation, and coarse woody debris volumes. Vascular plant communities of the two base-rich sites were dominated by several rich-site indicator species, while such indicators were lacking at the base-poor sites. Tree basal areas and annual litter production did not differ among the study sites, but the old-growth stands contained 3-fold more coarse woody debris than the maturing stands. Foliar litter N concentrations did not differ among the study sites, but foliar litter from the base-rich sites had higher
10.2307/3557536|Before 1950, native Celastrus scandens (American bittersweet) was rather common in the New York Metropolitan area. Celastrus orbiculatus (Oriental bittersweet) was introduced into the region in the late 1800s. Analyses of the distribution of both species since the time of the introduction of C. scandens into the flora indicate that the native C. scandens has declined considerably, while the non-native C. orbiculatus has significantly spread and increased in abundance. Possible reasons for the concomitant decline of C. scandens and spread of C. orbiculatus are discussed.
10.2307/2997232|Hemlock woolly adelgid (HWA), Adelges tsugae, an introduced aphid-like insect from Asia, is expanding its range across the northeastern United States through the range of Tsuga canadensis (eastern hemlock) and can severely reduce or eliminate this important late-successional species. As part of a study investigating stand- and landscape-level forest dynamics resulting from HWA infestation, we examined initial community response of eight T. canadensis stands in south-central Connecticut. Our major objectives were to assess mortality patterns in T. canadensis, evaluate subsequent changes in stand microenvironment, and relate these and stand composition to initial patterns of regeneration, understory response, and community reorganization. Tsuga canadensis damage varied broadly across the study area ranging from near zero to greater than 95% mortality. All size and age classes sampled were attacked by HWA, although smaller trees exhibited higher mortality rates than larger trees. All remaining T. canadensis sampled in seven of the eight stands were infested with HWA and over 90% suffered at least 50% foliar loss. Substantial accumulations of downed woody debris have developed in stands with severe HWA damage. Canopy gaps created by HWA damage significantly increased the amount of light reaching the forest floor and resulted in rapid understory vegetation responses. Prolific Betula lenta (black birch) establishment occurred in stands with moderate to severe T. canadensis mortality. In addition, opportunistic herbaceous species (Erechtites hieracifolia, Phytolacca americana) and exotic species (Ailanthus altissima, Microstegium vimineum) have recently invaded these stands. Due to mortality from HWA, T. canadensis seedlings were scarce in sampled stands, suggesting that advance regeneration and seedbanks will not be important mechanisms for T. canadensis reestablishment. Tsuga canadensis cannot sprout following defoliation and has no apparent resistance to HWA. Therefore, dramatic reductions in T. canadensis across broad geographical areas appear imminent if HWA dispersal continues unimpeded and no effective natural enemies of HWA are found.
10.2307/3557529|Flowers of Sisyrinchium are regarded as fugacious and bee-pollinated. We report a species of this genus bearing flowers that last 1 to 4 days, and are mainly pollinated by hoverflies. Floral biology, daily blooming pattern, floral longevity, and frequency and behavior of pollinators of Sisyrinchium vaginatum were studied in a high-altitude grassland in the Serra da Bocaina, southeastern Brazil. Anthesis starts between 10:00 and 16:30 h, but most flowers open in the middle of the day. Flowers open and close every day, or may remain closed on their second day of anthesis, to then re-open the subsequent day. The regulation of flower longevity and blooming pattern seems to be endogenous, but climatic conditions and pollinator activity may also be involved. As a floral reward, the yellow, dish-shaped flowers only offer pollen. Although small bees were reported as the main or exclusive pollinators for other areas, syrphids were the main pollinators of S. vaginatum in the Serra da Bocaina. For this population, the flowering peak occurred during the winter, while for populations of other areas it took place during the summer. Since, in winter, the diversity and number of small bees is extremely reduced in those high-altitude grasslands, the syrphid-pollination in the Bocaina's population is probably linked to its flowering peak in that season.
10.2307/4126953|This study characterized the vegetation of floodplain forests along a 66 km stretch of the upper Passaic River in northern New Jersey, USA. Although the study wetlands lie in a highly disturbed region of New Jersey, they are intact and well-buffered floodplains. A characterization of wetlands in this region is imperative to properly assess and restore natural lands in this ever increasingly developed landscape. As in similar floodplain systems, there was a change in canopy composition along the 66 km stretch. Specifically, Quercus palustris dominated forests shifted to Acer saccharinum dominated forests near the midpoint of the sampled river section. Sub-canopy, shrub and ground vegetation were sampled but clear patterns were not detected with respect to position along the sampled river section. Species richness was lower than any other published descriptions for this type of floodplain system. The low species richness in all strata may be attributed to urban influences although this requires additional study. Exotic flora represented up to 20% of the total flora, but did not appear to correlate with river position or canopy composition. Our data provide quantitative vegetation descriptions of reference wetland standards for a hydrogeomorphic model for this river system.
20063959|The Mashomack Preserve on Shelter Island, New York contains one of the premier oak-dominated coastal plain forests in the northeastern U.S. It represents a unique opportunity to study woody species in juxtaposed forests that differ primarily in past land-use (logging versus agriculture). We researched how contrasting land-use history affected: 1) tree species composition, size, and age structure; 2) soil chemistry and morphology; 3) the dominance of Smilax, a native invasive shrub; and 4) the historical ecology and successional pathways. Randomly located plots were sampled for vegetation and soils in the unplowed interior forest versus the maritime forest that was cleared and/or plowed for agriculture and grazing in the
10.2307/2996595|Two coastal populations of Ocala sand pine (Pinus clausa (Chapm. ex Engelm.) Vasey ex Sarg. var. clausa D. B. Ward) in southeastern Florida were compared for effects of disturbances occurring at different scales on spatial dispersion and age structure. Fire has been excluded from the older population (JDO) since at least 1947; the younger population (JDY) experienced a wildfire in 1971. The two populations differed markedly in size and age structure and spatial dispersion. Density was greater and basal area was lower in JDY than in JDO. Ages in JDY were bimodally distributed, with a primary peak from 11-20 years old (delayed recruitment after the 1971 fire) and a secondary peak from 41-45 years old (earlier post-fire recruits that survived the 1971 fire). Stems in JDY were aggregated, with a positive association between seedlings and small trees. JDO had experienced more wind damage, heart rot, and mortality than JDY. Ages were unimodally distributed in JDO, with the peak from 61-70 years old; and stem distribution was random to regular. Although others have reported regeneration in canopy gaps in senescent Ocala sand pine populations in the absence of fire, JDO has shown no recruitment since 1950. With continued fire suppression and mortality of sand pine in JDO, xeric hardwoods in the understory will likely become increasingly dominant.
20063823|Mesozoic seed ferns represent a grade of gymnospermous plants whose affinities remain problematic. The three major orders recognized today include the Caytoniales (Triassic-Cretaceous), Peltaspermales (Carboniferous-Triassic) and Corystospermales (Triassic-Cretaceous). A number of genera described from Mesozoic rocks have also been included broadly in the Mesozoic seed ferns, but their frequency, distribution, and affinities render their assignment to specific orders equivocal. The morphotypes in the three principal orders have been important in phylogenetic analyses of seed plants and have been implicated as angiosperm progenitors at various times in the past. All three groups were originally described only from compression/impression fossils, but anatomically preserved corystosperms are now known from Argentina and Antarctica. Since their original description, the geographic and stratigraphic ranges of all three major groups have been expanded, and they are now known from both the northern and southern hemispheres. An additional order of Mesozoic seed ferns, the Petriellales, has been described from the Triassic of Antarctica. This paper will summarize our current knowledge of the Mesozoic seed ferns and comment on the phylogenetic position of several orders, focusing especially on permineralized and compressed corystosperms from the Triassic of Antarctica. Recent studies of well-preserved material from the central Transantarctic Mountains have provided information about the three-dimensional morphology and anatomy of pollen organs and ovulate cupules, as well as the first evidence of the attachment of reproductive organs to the parent plant. These discoveries offer new information that can be used in phylogenetic analyses to provide increased resolution of seed plant relationships.
43287027|I analyzed changes in the native flora of Worcester County, Massachusetts, between the mid-1900s and the early 2000s in relation to changes in land use and climate. I also identified genera and families in which declines and apparent losses were particularly high. Current floristic data came from a recent survey of the county and historical data were obtained largely from herbarium collections, especially a county-wide survey from the 1930s to the 1950s. Climate data came from records collected in Worcester beginning in 1950, and land use data came originally from aerial photographs taken in 1951, 1971, 1985, 1999 and 2005. Average daily temperatures increased by 0.15 C per decade between 1950 and 2011. The most prominent land use changes during this period were an increase in disturbed land and a decrease in fields and pastures. Extent of forests declined slightly, though forest maturity increased. Northern species decreased relative to southern species, presumably reflecting climatic changes. Losses of northern species were most evident in the southernmost towns in their ranges and were more pronounced than gains of southern species. This difference in behavior of northern and southern species presumably reflects the fact that range extensions depend on dispersal mechanisms, which can be slow, whereas range retractions reflect unsuitability of conditions, which occurs more quickly. Species of disturbed sites increased and species of fields declined, consistent with patterns of habitat change. Several families and genera had high rates of species loss or decline, and some of these, including the Orchidaceae, Ophioglossaoeae, Orobanchaceae and Violaceae, have shown high rates of loss or decline elsewhere in the Northeast. Some of these changes may be tied to succession or to active eradication efforts. Two declining families (Orchidaceae, Ophioglossaceae) have juvenile stages dependent on fungi. Changes in climate, patterns of land use and other factors are likely to continue and perhaps accelerate, leading to further changes in the flora and posing challenges for conservation of biodiversity.
40207603|Knowledge on seed bank longevity is especially important in understanding population dynamics of invasive species and critical in determining the intensity and length of control efforts. In this study we determined the soil seed bank longevity of Paederia foetida across three main natural habitats that P. foetida occur in Florida (the interior of a mixed mesic forest, a forest edge, and an open grassland). A native of eastern Asia, P. foetida is invasive in natural and human created habitats in the southern United States and Hawaii. We placed multiple bags with known number of fruits (diaspores) in four stations on the soil surface in each habitat and retrieved the bags once a year for three years. Our data demonstrated that P. foetida forms a short term persistent seed bank and seeds may remain viable for more than one year in the soil seed bank. The decline of soil seed bank was significantly slower in the forest interior than in forest margin and grassland. In the forest interior, 38% of the seeds remained viable for one year, but only 2% remained viable in the forest edge and open grassland habitats. The percentages of viable seeds dropped to 4.7%, 0.4%, and 0% after two years in the soil seed banks in the forest interior, the forest edge, and the open habitat, respectively. After three years, only 0.3%, 0.1%, and 0% of seeds were found viable in these three habitats, respectively. Even though very small proportions of seeds survived three years, given that the annual fruit production of P. foetida is typically large and that it only takes a minimum of two viable seeds to start a new reproducing population for this self-incompatible species, we recommend post adult plant elimination monitoring for two years in open habitat, but up to four years in forest areas.
10.2307/4126957|The seven species of Lechea (Cistaceae) in New Jersey are identified and described. The plants prefer dry, open habitats and are most common on the sandy soils of the coastal plain. Nine names were based on New Jersey plants and these are typified. While most species are not rare or endangered in New Jersey, loss of habitat has decreased the distribution of L. minor L. and L. pulchella Raf. in the state.
20063963|Studies of wide-band tracheids (WBTs) have aroused the interest of researchers who have searched to understand their origin, function, and phylogenetic implications. The present research has the objective of studying the distribution of WBTs, together with anatomic aspects of vegetative organs in different stages of Pilosocereus aurisetus, in order to understand the occurrence of WBTs in columnar cacti. Transverse and longitudinal sections of the stem (apex, middle, and base) and the root were made. The epidermis was present in the photosynthetic stem, but was substituted by periderm which was already well established in the root. The differentiation of the cortex is visible in the middle of the stem, becoming homogeneous in the base. WBTs were observed in the base and middle of young stems (WBT monomorphic wood); common in stems of globular cacti. However, WBTs/fibrous dimorphic wood was observed in the base of adult stems, a result of the cambial activity producing vessel elements and fibers. This wood polymorphism of the Cactaceae can be interpreted as cambial variation, a common character of Caryophyllales. Due to the small size of the plant, the presence of WBTs in the young stem may be related to water retention necessary for its development, rather than to physical support of the plant.
10.2307/3088737|The optimum frequency and time of sampling required to generate comprehensive diversity indices of herbaceous species in Allegheny hardwood forests was studied. Four 8-ha sites on the Allegheny National Forest were sampled monthly from May to August in 1992 and 1993 for herbaceous layer species composition and percent cover. Each site included 60 circular 4-m
41678806|This study was conducted to determine the effects of time and spatial environmental heterogeneity on the survival and germination of artificial Silene latifolia (Caryophyllaceae) seed banks. Replicate packets of Silene latifolia seeds were buried at depths of 5 cm at five randomly selected locations at each of two sites located within a southwestern Virginia metapopulation. Samples of seeds from each site and location within site were exhumed periodically over a 3.5 yr period and examined for germination during burial. Seeds that had remained intact during burial were placed into growth chamber germination trials. Thirty-six to 59% of seeds remained intact (i.e., not germinated) and viable at the end of the 3.5 yr period. Germination during burial represented the primary avenue of loss from the seed bank and varied significantly among locations within sites for the 2.5 and 3.5 yr exhumations, and between sites at the 3.5 yr exhumation. The results suggest that appreciable proportions of buried Silene latifolia seeds are able to remain intact, but viable in the study environments over a 3.5 yr period. Germination during burial accounted for most losses from the seed bank, and varied significantly among locations within sites, which suggests that the ability of Silene latifolia seed banks in this metapopulation to serve as demographic buffers for local populations may be highly dependent on local environmental factors. Spatial environmental variation in seed bank persistence could contribute to the development or maintenance of genetic structuring within both local populations and the metapopulation.
10.2307/3088689|We examined relationships among vegetation, surficial geology, and soil water content in the Pocono till barrens, an assemblage of pitch pine-scrub oak-heath communities rich in rare species near Long Pond, Pennsylvania. Soil water content was measured using time domain reflectometry over three time periods in summer 1997 in four vegetation types (forest and three barrens communities) on two parent materials (Illinoian glacial till and upper Devonian sandstone bedrock). Wide variation in drought conditions among the time periods (quantified using the Keetch-Byram drought index) allowed for strong tests of differences in soil water-holding capacity among vegetation and parent material types. Soils of barrens and forests did not differ in water content at any depth or drought condition, which confirmed floristic evidence and earlier research that suggested pitch pine-scrub oak vegetation is not associated with xeric conditions. Disturbance history, and possibly the hypothesis of alternative community states, better explain the distinction between barrens and forests in the study area. Soils derived from till and bedrock had similar water contents at each time period, although bedrock soils may have been slightly wetter in the top 15 cm of the soil profile. This contradicts a presupposed relationship between parent material and soil water content and suggests that pitch pine-scrub oak vegetation might occur more extensively on mesic sites in northeastern Pennsylvania than previously thought. Contrary to expectation, barrens types did not differ in soil water content under any drought condition. These results suggest that rhodora barrens, which include diverse and abundant hydrophytes, are not restricted to sites relatively immune from drought. A testable alternative explanation is offered for the distribution of the rare rhodora barrens vegetation type.
41475105|Ophryosporus includes ca. 40 species restricted to the Andes of Ecuador to Argentina, with a few species inhabiting Brazil. Some of its species have multiple medicinal uses such as analgesic, antisyphilitc, anti-inflammatory and antiprotozoal activity, expectorant, relief of migraine, wound healing, antiseptic and antimicrobial activities. Despite of the number of chemical studies on this genus, its secretory structures are scarcely studied. An anatomical survey of leaves shows that two types of secretory structures coexist: 1) secretory reservoirs and 2) glandular trichomes. The secretory reservoirs are schizogenous and have an uniseriate epithelium. The glandular trichomes are biseriate vesicular represented by subtypes  and . The profuse development of secretory reservoirs in leaves of Ophryosporus could affect foraging by folivorous insect and may be the primary source of secondary metabolites with potential medicinal uses.
20063844|Sable Island, Nova Scotia, Canada, was surveyed for vascular plants in August 2002. The island's past and present flora comprises 61 families, 156 genera, and 224 species, of which 145 species (65%) are native and 79 species (35%) are non-native. The most species-rich families are Poaceae, Asteraceae, Cyperaceae, Polygonaceae, Caryophyllaceae, and Rosaceae. The largest genera are Juncus and Carex. Floristic studies of five earlier investigators are presented and discussed, including Macoun, conducted in 1899; Gssow, in 1911; St. John, in 1913; Erskine, in 1952; and Catling et al., in 1981. During the past 100 years, the island's flora has remained relatively stable; the number of native species has changed little and most plants introduced to the island have not become established.
20063739|Plasticity in photosynthetic response to varied light conditions likely contributes to the successful spread and domination of eastern deciduous forest ground layers by the invasive, non-indigenous plant species Alliaria petiolata. We examined the effects of growing plants with no shading, or under 30% or 60% black shade cloth on leaf photosynthetic rates, maximum rates of leaf photosynthesis (
41811877|Forests of eastern North American are losing Tsuga candensis (eastern hemlock) ecosystems throughout an expanding portion of its range due to the invasive pest insect Adelges tsugae (hemlock woolly adelgid: HWA). Tsuga canadensis represents a small portion of the landscape, particularly in the central and southern Appalachians where it is largely restricted to cove and riparian areas; however, it is a foundation species that defines a unique forest ecosystem. Consequently, loss of T. canadensis will result in a re-organization of ecosystem structure and function as alternate communities develop. A greater understanding this transition will advance ecological theory, but is also directly applicable to management and restoration planning. While county-level patterns of detection are readily available, less is known about the process of decline and compositional shifts. We identified riparian T. canadensis forests along thirty headwater streams across West Virginia and Virginia, representing an invasion chrononosequence of nine to thirty-two years. Sites encompassed a range in elevation, slope, and aspect, intended to identify patterns of T. canadensis dominance and decline. At each site, we sampled the overstory and sapling vegetation and recorded the crown health of each T. canadensis in transects at 10, 30, and 50 meters from the bank-full stream channel. Although in severe decline, T. canadensis continued to dominate both the overstory and sapling layers across riparian-upland transects across the central Appalachians. Structural equation modeling (SEM) indicated decline was moderated by higher elevations and landscape positions that received less incident radiation due to aspect and slope, but duration of Adelges tsugae invasion was the most influential factor in the decline of crown health for the overstory. SEM also identified decline in the overstory as the most influential factor in the decline of the sapling layer. Future forest function depends on composition, which will likely vary depending on the presence of Rhododendron maximum, an aggressive native shrub. Most importantly, functional processes that respond rapidly to T. canadensis decline are likely to experience continuing fluctuation as the composition shifts more gradually.
10.2307/3557543|A survey of biological crust components (bryophytes, lichens, chlorophyta, bacteria), soil fauna (nematodes, collembolans, mites) and vascular plants was conducted in a dry sand savanna in northwestern Ohio between 1995 and 2001. In soil, six free-living chlorophytes and seven cyanobacteria taxa were identified. Chlorophyta were more abundant than cyanobacteria with Desmococcus olivaeus and Stichococcus bacillaris being the most common species. For bryophytes, the most common species were Polytrichum piliferum and Ceratodon purpureus, and for lichens, Cladonia species. Notably, we found lichen species in the crusts have chlorophytes not cyanobacteria, as their photobionts. Twenty-seven families and 29 genera of nematodes, and four collembolan species were identified in crust and rhizosphere communities. Autotrophic denitrifying bacteria were not detectable with the method employed. The biological crust occurred among a vascular plant community with Robinia pseudoacacia, Rubus flagellaris, Bromus inermis, and Vicia villosa as the most abundant tree, shrub, graminoid, and non-grass herbaceous plants, respectively. To our knowledge, this is the first report of microbial crust community composition in xeric patches of northwestern Ohio. Moreover, our report includes a report of soil nematode or collembolan communities associated with soil biological crust communities.
40207609|The Huancabamba Biogeographical Province covers sections of southern Ecuador and northern Peru, and is well known for both its biodiversity and high levels of endemism. Paramo, a form of tropical alpine vegetation, covers less area in this region than in other tropical montane regions, and is dominated by shrubs instead of tussock grasses. A botanical inventory was conducted at a paramo site in Podocarpus National Park, southern Ecuador. Located between 3385 and 3250 m elevation, this site covers 2.4 ha of grass-and shrub-dominated vegetation communities. Fifty-five families, 90 genera and 136 species occurred, 27 of which are endemic to Ecuador. Both the combination of species and the growth forms differ markedly from those of most other paramo ecosystems. After describing the floristic characteristics of the site, I discuss the species composition, growth forms, and patterns of endemism in relation to various geographical and ecological factors.
43286991|Loss of small herbaria is an unfortunate global trend and initiation of new collections at small academic institutions is an increasingly rare occurrence. In 2006, a new herbarium was established at the State University of New York College at Plattsburgh. The PLAT herbarium has since grown to more than 7,000 specimens, many of them representative of the flora of northeastern New York (especially Clinton County). Previous to 2006, this region was without a recognized herbarium, the nearest in-state collections being more than 150 miles away. Although botanists have previously worked in the region, relatively few plant species were recorded for Clinton County by the New York Flora Atlasa resource providing species distribution records based on specimens accessioned in herbarium collections. Given the dearth of available distribution data for Clinton County (including the eastern Adirondack Mountains and the western Lake Champlain valley), this project sought to provide records of previously unreported species by comparing NY Flora Atlas maps with current holdings. 203 species will now be added to the NY Flora Atlas for Clinton County, roughly half of those considered exotic. This exercise has amplified the importance of supporting and maintaining small regional herbaria as repositories of valuable biodiversity information. Likewise, this project also highlights the enduring value of training in floristics and taxonomy.
20063803|Gronovia scandens is a short-lived climbing herb that lives in disturbed sites and has become a weed in crop lands as a result of its rapid vegetative expansion and population growth, although it can also develop in late successional stages. Study of its predispersal reproductive ecology showed that this plant is a self-compatible outcrossing annual with delayed autogamy; i.e., it exhibits a mixed mating system in which outcrossing has a temporal advantage over selfing. The outcrossing advantage is revealed by the high biomass allocation to male structures and pollinator attractants in the flower and the high pollen/ovule ratio. The delayed autogamy is mainly due to the fact that the anthers adhere to the stigma at the end of anthesis allowing seed production when outcrossing fails. The hymenopterans that were captured and identified as pollinators made non-specialized foraging movements and loaded scarce pollen on their bodies, although the body areas with pollen made contact with the stigma. Nevertheless, the presence of a single ovule per flower, delayed autogamy and a relatively low fruit cost related with the flower cost, favor a high efficiency in fruit (seed) production.
40864971|We used floristic studies from the state of North Carolina to compare the patterns of total, native and exotic plant species richness from sea level (Atlantic coast) to the summit of the Appalachian Mountains. Few studies have investigated how patterns of native and exotic species richness differ along environmental gradients, and these studies have yielded contrasting results. We compare our results with those few published studies, and demonstrate that there is a need for future studies examining exotic richness along gradients. We modeled the effects of size of study area, year of study, and elevation on species richness using a dataset of sixty-eight floristic studies. Native and exotic species richness showed a positive relationship with area and year. Exotic species showed a steeper slope than native species for the species-area relationship. Richness of both groups was positively but weakly related to year of study. After accounting for area and year, native species displayed a hump-shaped pattern along the elevational gradient. Exotic species richness was weakly related to elevation, which was not a significant variable in the model. This contrasts with the few previous studies that have examined exotic richness patterns along elevational gradients that have found either a strong linear decline, or a strong hump-shaped pattern. Both native and exotic species showed high variation in richness at elevations below 400 m. We conclude that different processes may govern native and exotic plant richness patterns and that exotic richness patterns along gradients may in fact be idiosyncratic due to factors such as disturbance history.
10.2307/2997230|The 27.4 km freshwater dune barrier on the eastern shore of Lake Ontario protects an extensive system of high quality wetlands. The vegetation was previously undescribed, and development pressures required management decisions for which data were needed. The objective of this study was to describe and compare the vegetation under high and low recreational use. We found four community types using hierarchical classification (TWINSPAN): (1) Ammophila breviligulata (beachgrass) (2) Toxicodendron radicans-Vitis riparia-Populus deltoides (brushland) (3) Quercus rubra-Acer rubrum (forest), and (4) Alnus incana (thicket). Reciprocal averaging ordination displayed communities along a first gradient of distance from the beach. A second gradient is likely related to disturbance. Species composition was similar in beachgrass and brushland communities under high and low recreational use. Under low use, forest and shrub thicket were present on the back of the barrier, but were absent under high use. Species richness and ground cover of vegetation, and density of colonizing species were lower on equivalent physiographic zones under high compared to low recreational use.
20063799|Mangroves cover large areas of shoreline in the tropics and subtropics where they are important components in the productivity and integrity of their ecosystems. Many mangrove plants are rooted (most are stilt roots-adventitious roots derived from stems) directly through standing sea water into anoxic substrate. Under these conditions, shoots must provide O to roots. The purpose of this research was (1) to understand the tissues involved with the predominant airflow pattern in red mangroves (Rhizophora mangle) from leaves to roots (2) to understand the anatomical characteristics of air conducting tissues, and (3) to quantify these structures and tissues. Cork warts (density = 0.17
43286994|Plant life history traits like clonal growth and dioecy can complicate endangered species conservation because of the potential for remnant populations to contain few genetically different individuals or a single sex. In this study, we used 11 microsatellite (SSR) markers to characterize fine-scale genetic structure of the endangered dioecious perennial Lindera melissifolia (pondberry) growing in seasonally isolated wetlands across the southern Atlantic Coastal Plain. We found fine-scale genetic structures consistent with extensive clonal growth in all sites. Of the 508 stems sampled across 11 sites, we found 67 genetic individuals (genets), of which 94% were site specific and 39% were represented by a single stem. Individual sites contained from 1 to 16 genets. Spatial genetic analyses showed limited intermingling among different genets within sites, which is consistent with a phalanx clonal growth form. Nine of the eleven sites had biased sex ratios, with six male and three female biased sites. Given our observations of extensive clonal growth, few genetic individuals, and biased sex ratios, we conclude that simple stem counts of this clonal perennial dioecious shrub will grossly overestimate the number of genetic individuals in these remnant southern Atlantic Coastal Plain sites. In order to promote self-sustaining sexually reproducing pondberry populations, as outlined in the pondberry recovery plan, natural areas managers may want to consider introducing unrelated and underrepresented gender plants into sites with few genets or biased sex ratios.
10.2307/2997227|Plants in the sandhill habitats of the southeast are thought to be limited by soil resources such as water and nutrients. We measured ecophysiological characters related to resource use for several growth stages: Seedling Sprouts (small sprouts from small root collars), Stump Sprouts (small sprouts from large root collars) and Adults (large reproductively mature trees) of Quercus laevis (turkey oak) in SC. Adults did not differ from Stump Sprouts in water potentials, photosynthesis, stomatal conductance, or leaf nitrogen. In contrast, Seedling Sprouts differed from Stump Sprouts and Adults in June: lower predawn water potentials, lower rates of photosynthesis and stomatal conductance, higher specific leaf area, and lower leaf N concentration. The September growth stages rankings for these characters were generally similar to those in June, but variation within a growth stage was greater and thus Seedling Sprouts were only significantly different from the other two growth stages for leaf nitrogen. The differences between Seedling Sprouts and larger individuals may be due to differential access to soil resources as a function of rooting depth. Soil water availability was high in March, low in June, and higher again in September except at 1.25 m. Soil total N was higher at soil depth of 0-0.1 than 0.1-0.2 m in March, but did not differ between 0.25, 0.50, 0.75, 1.00 and 1.25 m in June. The differences in resource acquisition and resource use should relate to growth and survival of individuals within a population.
20063835|Additions of nitrogen (N) have been shown to alter species diversity of plant communities, with most experimental studies having been carried out in communities dominated by herbaceous species. We examined seasonal and inter-annual patterns of change in the herbaceous layer of two watersheds of a central Appalachian hardwood forest that differed in experimental N treatment. This study was carried out at the Fernow Experimental Forest, West Virginia, using two adjacent watersheds: WS4 (mature, second-growth hardwood stand, untreated reference), and WS3 (25-yr old, treated with 35 kg N
27751826|Field sampling along line transects in Raquette Lake, the largest natural lake in the Adirondack Mountains, enabled comparison of the flora encountered in 1983 with that recorded in a 1933 survey, and documentation of quantitative vegetation change between 1983 and 1999/2000. More than 30 submersed and floating-leaved macrophyte species were found in 1933, and 1983, a relatively high species richness for a lake. Nine species not seen in 1933 were found in 1983, and an additional two species by 2000, indicating considerable species turnover. The most important species at two sites in 1983 declined sharply by the end of the century, while the inflated bladderwort (Utricularia inflata) rose from not being present to become the most frequent species at both sites. This bladderwort, only recently reported north of New Jersey and only at sites more than 250 km distant from Raquette Lake, may have contributed to the decline of other species. Utricularia inflata appears to be expanding its range rapidly: it has also appeared at one other site in Raquette Lake and at sites in Limekiln Lake and Fulton Chain of Lakes (Seventh Lake) in the Adirondack Mountains. This species has the potential to cause substantial ecological change.
27751807|Structure and development of included phloem was investigated in the stems of Calycopteris floribunda Lamk., of the Combretaceae. After the definite period of cambial activity, cells in the middle of the cambial zone began to differentiate into thin walled cambial derivatives which separated the cambium into outer and inner cambial segment at certain places. Rest of the cambium along with separated outer segment remained functionally active while inner segment became temporarily nonfunctional. Original circular outline of the cambial cylinder was restored by joining of outer segment with existing one whereas inner cambial segment got embedded resulting in production of an islands of included phloem in the secondary xylem. This process was repeated several times resulting in a number of phloem islands surrounded within thick walled secondary xylem. Differentiation of phloem elements was initiated only after the formation of thick walled xylem derivatives from the outer cambial segment. The segments of the cambium producing the phloem island remained active for fairly long time. Sieve tube elements of the phloem islands situated deep inside the older stem became non-functional and underwent obliteration after heavy accumulation of callose. Secondary xylem was diffuse porous with indistinct growth rings and composed of vessels (both wider and fibriform vessels), nucleated xylem fibers, axial and ray parenchyma. Perforated ray cells were also encountered frequently in all the samples studied. Structure and development of included phloem is described in detail and possible significance of nucleated fibers and perforated ray cells is discussed.
41811875|Prolific production of offspring is generally characteristic of invasive plant species. However, Allee effects and other populationlevel processes may constrain reproductive success. This study identified variation in seed quality resulting from different genetic diversity levels in parental populations of an invasive grass. Using the outcrossing and wind-pollinated annual grass Lolium multiflorum, experimental populations were created with independently varying size and genetic diversity. Seeds from parental populations with lower diversity germinated and emerged from the soil at significantly lower rates than seeds from populations with the highest diversity. This effect was not detected in later-occurring fitness components such as flower production per planted seed. Reductions in seed germination and seedling numbers can affect future generations by reducing the size and/or genetic diversity of the resulting populations. The reduced offspring quality seen here suggests that fecundity and invasiveness vary not only among invasive species or potential invasive species, but also among populations of the same invasive species and highlights an advantage of genetic diversity within invasions.
40207571|Two species of Stratiomyidae, Ptecticus nigrifrons Enderlein and Ptecticus sp., were reared from fallen androecia of Lecythis poiteaui Berg (Lecythidaceae) at rain forest sites in French Guiana. Floral aromas were collected by headspace adsorption from the night-blooming flowers. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis (GC-MS) identified several sulfur-containing compounds that contribute to the characteristic foul odor of the flowers. Although stratiomyids are thought to be generalist associates of decaying matter of plant and animal origin, we suggest that fetid floral attractants may make L. poiteaui flowers especially attractive to certain flies. This is the first report of Lecythidaceae flowers hosting stratiomyid flies.
41262013|Previous studies described the lateral flowers of Melia azedarach cymules as staminate, and the terminal one as perfect. This paper shows that all the flowers of the inflorescence present both gynoecium and androecium but only the terminal ones produce fruits. Both types of flowers are successful in developing megagametophytes and viable pollen. All flowers are fertilized but ovules of the lateral flowers of cymules degenerate after fertilization. The lateral flowers mature later than the apical ones. Therefore, it could be apical dominance by terminal flowers that prevents development of seeds from lateral ones as a possible energy saving. However, when the apical flower fails in its development after fertilization, lateral flowers can form seeds and fruits. This ensures good seed production in this species and that is what makes it a highly invasive species.
41262017|The invasive grass Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camus grows in dense monocultures beneath the canopy of woodlands in eastern North America and along sunny forest edges. This annual matures seeds in chasmogamous (CH) spikelets on terminal racemes and cleistogamous (CL) spikelets on axillary racemes. The objectives were to determine whether density-dependent reductions in growth and reproduction occur, what patterns they show across densities in a sunny vs. shady environment, and whether the intensity of intraspecific competition depends on light environment. Seedlings of M. vimineum were grown at densities corresponding to 105, 526, 947, and 1368 individuals m in 11 cm diameter pots in a greenhouse exposed to full sun or under deep shade (5.8% of full sun). Mature, partially senesced target plants were harvested prior to seed drop. Shoot dry mass, CH and CL spikelet, and seed production, were significantly reduced under shade and at all densities relative to the control (no competition). However, in shade there were no density-dependent effects on reproduction via CL or CH. There was also no density-dependent mortality. Relative competition intensity, based on the density-dependent reduction in shoot mass of target plants increased with increasing mass of competitors and was greatest in the sunny environment. Reproductive mass (i.e., dry mass of CH or CL spikelets and seeds per target plant) was positively correlated with shoot mass across density treatments, suggesting that density-dependent effects on reproduction in competing monocultures were indirectly due to decreased shoot mass at higher densities. Density-yield curves were highest in the sunny environment where they quickly reached saturation, revealing that a solitary individual can produce the same biomass as a group of competing individuals at higher densities. The success of this invasive species in woodlands may be due to high tolerance to a range of intraspecific densities and to an ability to set seed under shady conditions even when densities are high.
20063749|Radial growth patterns are examined in relation to the historical development, disturbance history, and climate responses of an old-growth hemlock forest located in central Pennsylvania. Hemlock recruited continuously from the mid 1700s through 1890 with a sharp pulse of regeneration between 1860 and 1870, while white pine formed an even-aged cohort in a narrow interval between 1865 and 1870. No recruitment of any species occurred in the
41475104|The species of Xyridaceae are grouped into two subfamilies: Xyridoideae, which includes the genus Xyris, and Abolbodoideae, comprising the genera Abolboda, Achlyphila, Aratitiyopea and Orectanthe. Since the inter-and infra-familiar relationships in Xyridaceae are not yet well established, this study aimed to characterize the morphology and anatomy of vegetative organs and inflorescence axis of Abolboda species in order to assess characters with taxonomic value. Characteristics such as the length and width of leaves, length of inflorescence axes, length of bracts of the inflorescence axis node, number and type of vascular bundles in the mesophyll, presence or absence of bundle sheath extensions in the leaves and shape of the leaf margin are important to delimit the species. The presence of an epidermis with thin-walled cells in the adaxial side and slightly thickened walls on the abaxial side and a hypodermis facing the adaxial side of the leaves differentiates Abolboda from the other genera of Xyridaceae. Partially thickened epidermal cells and nodes on the inflorescence axes are also diagnostic characters of Abolboda. The species of Abolboda have anatomical characteristics that contrast with those of Xyris and others that are similar to those of other genera of Xyridaceae, supporting the division of the family into two subfamilies.
41262031|We examined the effect of position with respect to the soil surface, species, and piece size on the decomposition rate of fine woody debris (< 15 cm diameter) in a North Carolina forest disturbed by hurricane. To examine year-to-year trends, pieces of two species (Carya tomentosa ((Lam.) Nutt.) and Quercus alba (Lam.)) in four size classes were placed on the forest floor and collected annually for ten years. In addition, to examine position effects samples of the same species and sizes were suspended in the air and buried underground at a depth of 20 cm and collected at years 2, 4, and 8. Nine other species were placed on the forest floor and collected at years 2, 4, and 8 to determine the range of variability among species. Decomposition was slower the first year than subsequent years, therefore the lag exponential equation was used to determine time trends and an integrated decomposition rate-constant (k1) reflecting the overall decomposition rate-constant was calculated. The k1 for C. tomentosa and Q. alba ranged from 0.17-0.25 year with a significant interaction between species and size. The buried and suspended samples generally decomposed more slowly than the samples on the surface and k1 ranged from 0.11-0.24 year and from 0.10-0.18 year , respectively. There was a significant interaction between position and size; while drying limited decomposition of suspended pieces regardless of size, high moisture may have limited decomposition in the largest buried pieces. The k1 for all eleven species and sizes averaged over all size classes ranged from 0.06-0.33 year . There was a highly significant interaction between species and size with the smaller sizes tending to decompose faster than the larger sizes and in general species with the most decay-resistant heartwood having the largest response to increases in size. Our experiments and comparison to other studies suggests that the interactions between species, size, and position relative to soil surface are highly complex and dependent on site climate.
20063893|Understanding the processes contributing to long-term change in remnant plant communities is relevant to community ecology and conservation biology. Using a unique set of historical field data, we undertook a natural field experiment to examine how novel landscape conditions, fire history, and increased woody canopy affect plant composition and structure of tallgrass-prairie remnants in Wisconsin, USA. In 1999 we used 1-m quadrats to resample 21 remnant tallgrass-prairie sites that had been similarly sampled between 1947 and 1954. Results reveal that community change was largely recruitment driven, with mean recruitment (41.4 spp./site  14.4 SD) significantly different from mean extirpation (28.4 spp./site  11.5 SD). Species density increased significantly from 10.6  2.3 to 12.8  3.9 spp./m, indicating that regional processes contribute substantially to species diversity. We propose that increased species density is the inevitable consequence of prairie's historical condition of seed limitation combined with modern seed subsidy from an altered landscape now rich in habitat generalist species. We hypothesized that species responses to fire suppression and increased shading would vary with their competitive versus reproductive ability. The bulk of increaser species were habitat generalists. Declines among habitat specialists and once-dominant species were exacerbated by fire suppression. Canopy effects were generally weaker than fire suppression effects, consistent with the theory of strong floristic similarity of prairie and savanna vegetation. Extirpations of rare species (i.e., original quadrat frequency  5%) ranged from 48 to 84 percent, but extirpations were independent of fire regime or woody canopy. Our results suggest that the instability of remnant communities is the consequence of regional, local, and stochastic processes.
20063876|Plant community composition may be limited by propagule availability, environmental constraints, or both. In the Nanticoke River watershed in Maryland and Delaware, herbaceous communities of tidal freshwater swamps in upstream areas are less diverse than in downstream areas. To test factors constraining plant community composition, a reciprocal transplant study was conducted between an upstream site with lower diversity, Broad Creek, and a downstream site with higher diversity, Deep Creek. Species composition, height, biomass, and below-canopy PAR were measured in sections of soil with rooted vegetation (sods) assigned to one of three treatments arranged in a randomized block design: transplant (excavated and moved between sites), disturbed control (excavated and replaced in same location), or undisturbed control (no excavation). Data were also collected on soil seed bank composition, hydrology, and salinity. Vegetation measures in sods transplanted from Deep to Broad Creek were not significantly different from control sods left at Deep Creek, but sods transplanted from Broad to Deep Creek developed a community intermediate to controls at either site. Broad Creek was inundated 10% longer than Deep Creek (P &lt 0.0001), and had lower light levels for four of five sample periods (P &lt 0.021); salinity was significantly higher in Deep Creek for all months (P &lt 0.001) and exceeded 3 parts per thousand in July. Seedling density (P = 0.013) and taxa density (P = 0.001) were four times higher in seedlings emerging from seed bank samples of Deep Creek than Broad Creek. The community that developed in sods transplanted into Broad Creek suggests that over short time scales, diversity may be increased by propagule additions. However, a combination of propagule availability and suitable environmental conditions over longer periods may be necessary to sustain a robust vegetation community.
40207587|When Hurricane Isabel reached the Virginia Coastal Plain on September 18, 2003, it was still a Category 2 hurricane, the strongest hurricane to hit Virginia for more than 70 years, and it inflicted much damage on forests. Permanent hardwood forest plots sampled just months before the storm were re-sampled after the event, revealing an overall damage rate of 14.9% of stems  2.5 cm dbh, with 7.3% of stems uprooted or secondarily crushed. Larger trees suffered more damage than smaller trees, ranging from 9.7% stems damaged for stems below 10 cm dbh (all by secondary damage) to 32.4% of stems over 60 cm dbh. In the larger size classes, red oaks (predominantly Quercus rubra, but including, Q. falcata, Q. coccinea, Q. velutina) suffered more damage than white oak (Quercus alba). Liriodendron tulipifera and Fagus grandifolia suffered even less damage, but both species lost many branches in an ice storm in 1998, and may have had smaller crowns with less wind resistance than the canopy oaks. There was no significant difference among species in amount of (secondary) damage to smaller trees, although Nyssa sylvatica had a particularly low percent damage. Overall 16% of basal area was lost, but damage was patchily distributed. No basal area was lost in nine of 27 plots, but more than 30% of basal area was lost in seven plots. Loss of large trees created numerous canopy gaps that will no doubt change the forest dynamics in years to come.
20063946|Successful dendroclimatic reconstructions require separating trees with strong climate records in their tree rings (sensitive trees) from those with weak climate signals (complacent trees). Traditionally, dendroclimatologists identify sensitive trees based on their growing site and favor trees from high elevation or xeric sites; however, recently dendroclimatologists have explored the potential of bottomland hardwood sites because they harbor some of the oldest trees in the eastern United States. The objective of this study was to contrast the dendroclimatic sensitivity of Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. growing on a floodplain vs. a river terrace. Although the difference in elevation between these two sites was only 10 m, this represented a substantial difference in frequency and duration of flooding. Tree cores from Fagus grandifolia growing on the floodplain and on the terrace were collected to create two master chronologies from the tree ring widths. The ring width indices from these two sites were correlated with temperature, precipitation, and Palmer Drought Severity Index. At the terrace site, significant dendroclimatic correlations existed during the summer months with Palmer Drought Severity Index, precipitation, and temperature. No significant dendroclimatic relationships existed for the Fagus grandifolia growing on the floodplain. These results identify the fine line that exists between sensitive and complacent trees within bottomland hardwood sites and identifies a geomorphic region (terrace sites) that has traditionally been overlooked in dendroclimatic studies but which produces sensitive tree ring records.
10.2307/2997289|The rapid expansion of a population of reed canarygrass on a small river island in western Wisconsin was documented for a 15 year period Transect samples conducted in 1981 disclosed a single small population Subsequent transect samples in 1996 revealed that reed canarygrass had become the dominant plant at elevations of <1 m above the normal high water level. Large perennial grasses, especially those that prevail at >1 m elevation, were not adversely affected by the increase in reed canarygrass However, several formerly abundant herbs and grasses of low areas have been displaced and are now infrequent Some reasons for the increase in reed canarygrass appear to include a more aggressive introduced strain of this grass and current low summer flows that have made more areas of <1 m available for longer periods of time during the growing season
43287032|The inflated bladderwort (Utricularia inflata, Lentibulariaceae) is a submersed freshwater macrophyte that has recently expanded its range in the northeastern United States. To evaluate the potential and actual spread of this plant, we experimentally tested the ability of small (1.0 and 5.0 cm) stem fragments without apical meristems to survive and grow, and of 10 cm apices to grow at different pH levels. We also sampled vegetation in seven lakes to document the quantitative importance of U. inflata, and qualitatively surveyed 29 additional sites for its presence. All fragments of both lengths survived, and produced new branches at similar rates (t-test: P = 0.62). Contrary to expectation, relative growth rates were 15% greater at pH 5 than pH 7 (P < 0.001), indicating that low pH per se does not limit this plant. Utricularia inflata has become an important component of the vegetation at greater depth in two of the seven lakes, and now occurs in 15 water bodies in three New York counties (Franklin, Hamilton, and Herkimer) - more than doubling the known locations for this invasive species. Current patterns of distribution strongly suggest that dispersal of U. inflata has occurred by downstream flow along chains of lakes, but also by boat traffic and/or waterfowl to account for its spread to new river drainages.
10.2307/3088654|Temporal dioecism is a synchronized flowering sequence with minimal overlap between the pistillate and staminate phases of an individual plant. This strategy allows pollen to be shed before stigmas become receptive, minimizing geitonogamous pollinations and maximizing outcrossing. I studied this condition using Eryngium yuccifolium Michx., a tallgrass prairie perennial species. As a temporaly dioecious species, E. yuccifolium exhibits the following characteristics: 1) an extended pistillate phase, with stigmas becoming receptive only after the anthers have shed pollen and dehisced, 2) synchronized flower heads, 3) numerous flower heads visited by generalist pollinators, and 4) some degree of self-compatibility as indicated by hand pollinations. Finally, results from open and bagged pollinations and high pollen-ovule ratios indicated that the species is xenogamous. This study also found high fruit and seed sets (close to 90%) for E. yuccifolium. However, intense herbivory by the larva of a Gelechiidae moth significantly reduced the reproductive output of the species by destroying 40-60% of flowers and fruits. The results of this study indicate that temporal dioecism can enhance outcrossing and potentially can explain the high fruit and seed set for E. yuccifolium.
41678788|Female flowers of gynodioecious species (plants with either female or hermaphroditic flowers) are typically smaller with no reward for pollinators. We proposed and tested that pollinators (bees and butterflies) would visit female plants less frequently and visit fewer flowers for a shorter duration in a native prairie species, Lobelia spicata. We observed and quantified floral visitors exhibiting pollinator behavior in a population of L. spicata in a remnant tallgrass prairie located in central Illinois. We also quantified the number of seeds per fruit and fruits per plant. We found female plants have fewer visitors than hermaphroditic plants. Bees and butterflies, once on female plants, visited fewer flowers and spent less time than on hermaphroditic plants. Despite the lower number and shorter duration of visits, the females set more seeds per fruit. However, females did not consistently produce more seeds per plant, which is required to maintain females in the population.
27751794|The non-native invasive deciduous shrub Lonicera maackii causes a reduction in plant growth and species diversity under its canopy. The mechanisms of these effects are not fully understood, but an apparent difference between L. maackii and native shrub species is its extended leaf duration. We tested the hypothesis that L. maackii has a longer leaf duration than native shrub species found in the same habitats. Leaf phenology of L. maackii and the native deciduous shrubs Asimina triloba and Lindera benzoin was observed at four sites in central Kentucky (USA) from March until December, 2007. Additionally, a late spring freeze allowed for examination of freeze tolerance among the three test species. Lonicera maackii leaf development was two to three weeks earlier than the natives in March and early April. A hard freeze in early April caused significant (P &lt; 0.05) leaf mortality to both of the native species (60100% leaf mortality at 3 of 4 sites) while L. maackii showed no observable damage. L. maackii had a later transition to fall color and leaf abscission than the native species, which were at a significantly later stage of development (closer to leaf abscission) for a period of four to six weeks. These data suggest two advantages for L. maackii over potential native competitors: 1) greater access to carbon via a longer leaf duration, and 2) a greater capacity to withstand freezing temperatures.
20063944|The acquisition of baseline data on Tsuga canadensis forests in the southern Appalachian Mountains has become increasingly important as these forests face imminent climatic changes and alterations induced by an exotic-invasive insect pest, the hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae). While general forest patterns in the southern Appalachian Mountains are well documented, there is a dearth of research that specifically examines the characteristics of Tsuga canadensis forests in this region. To examine the compositional and environmental characteristics of these forests, I established 50 plots within mature Tsuga canadensis stands of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP), USA. I used cluster analysis to identify forest types; differences among types were assessed using analysis of variance (ANOVA) with Bonferroni multiple comparison tests. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) was used to relate Tsuga canadensis forest patterns to environmental variation. Four Tsuga canadensis forest types were identified in this study: Tsuga canadensis/Betula/Acer rubrum; Tsuga canadensis/Liriodendron tulipiferal/Halesia carolina; Tsuga canadensis/Betula, and Tsuga canadensis. Site variables that were significantly different among forest types included slope aspect, litter depth, tree species richness, and diversity. DCA results separated Tsuga canadensis forests with northern hardwood affinities from those with cove hardwood affinities, as well as mesic from submesic forests. The DCA results also suggest gradients of canopy openness, soil properties, and location linked with the compositional variability among Tsuga canadensis forests of GSMNP. Ongoing forest dynamics and past anthropogenic disturbances prior to the formation of the national park are probable causal factors for the forest-environment linkages observed in this study.
25790861|The hemlock-silverbell (Tsuga canadensis-Halesia tetraptera) association is endemic to several small stands in federally protected lands in the southern Appalachian Mountains and is currently threatened by the hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae). Pre-infestation stand structure was still evident at the time of the study but hemlock mortality and associated vegetation responses portend rapid changes in this system. In order to guide potential future restoration efforts and impact assessments, a study was implemented to determine the structure of hemlock-silverbell stands and to identify environmental variables associated with differences in stand composition in areas of Great Smoky Mountains National Park treated to control hemlock woolly adelgid. Halesia tetraptera and T. canadensis exhibited even-aged and uneven-aged stand structures, respectively. Forest composition varied as a function of environmental variables within the hemlock-silverbell association with overstory H. tetraptera relative density positively correlated with higher water availability (Beers aspect and slope) and overstory T. canadensis was negatively correlated with Beers aspect. Relative density of H. tetraptera and T. canadensis in the understory were similarly associated with higher and lower productivity conditions, respectively. In the understory, Acer pensylvanicum relative density was negatively associated with that of understory T. canadensis. The results suggest that partial canopy removal resulting from the loss of T. canadensis due to hemlock woolly adelgid may benefit aggressive tree species such as A. pensylvanicum. The United States Park Service vegetation management policies, here and in other natural areas where non-native invasive species are controlled (but native species responses are unaccounted for), will need to address this phenomenon if T. canadensis restoration is to be accomplished in the event adelgid control can be achieved.
10.2307/3557524|Restoration of perennial herbs may be influenced by plant-animal interactions. For example, projects may be aided by native pollinators or seed dispersers or impeded by herbivores. Our previous work at Jockey Hollow, a U.S. National Park, indicated that abundance of native woodland herbs was low and herbivory by Odocoileus virginianus Zimmerman (white-tailed deer) was intense. The goal of our experiment was to test the feasibility of herbaceous plant restoration in spite of a large O. virginianus herd. By examining small-scale reintroductions of nine species of native herbaceous perennials (Asarum canadense L., Geranium maculatum L., Mitella diphylla L., Polemonium reptans L., Sanguinaria canadensis L., Smilacina racemosa (L.) Desf., Tiarella cordifolia L., Uvularia grandiflora J.E. Smith and Viola spp.) we determined which plants survived and reproduced. After 3 years, 46% of plants survived and 5% flowered inside exclosures, while 23% of plants planted outside survived; no plants surviving outside exclosures flowered. Within deer exclosures, native bees visited five species and ants dispersed Sanguinaria seeds in experimental depots. However pollination and seed dispersal occurs only with protection from O. virginianus. Overabundant O. virginianus and the relatively long generation time of perennial herbs may prevent restoration of similar plant communities at this time.
43287008|Lectotypifcation for the following names is proposed: Scleria filiculmis Boeckeler, Scleria catharinensis Boeckeler, Scleria microcarpa Nes ex Kunth and Scleria panicoides Kunth. The chosen lectotypes and respective discussions are presented as follow.
10.2307/4126925|Coastal sandplain heathland is a rare ecosystem maintained by recurrent disturbances and chronic abiotic stress. In areas with low disturbance or stress, heathland communities are succeeded by tree species, such as Pinus rigida, that outcompete native heathland plants. We propose that salt spray is an important natural abiotic stress factor that helps to maintain heathlands near the coast by slowing tree succession. We investigated whether salt spray inhibits succession in heathlands on Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts, by surveying natural field distributions of species and by quantifying the survival and growth of P. rigida seedlings transplanted at different distances from the ocean. Tree species did not grow in areas with high salt spray and multivariate analyses identified salt spray as an important ecological factor influencing species distributions in coastal heathlands. Although transplanted P. rigida seedlings exhibited low mortality close to the ocean, they exhibited higher water stress and needle necrosis as well as inhibition of growth, suggesting that salt spray may be important in suppressing trees close to the ocean.
43287000|Wiliwili (Erythrina sandwicensis), an endemic Hawaiian dry forest tree species, is threatened by an invasive gallforming wasp (Quadrastichus erythrinae) first detected in Hawai'i in 2005. Eurytoma erythrinae, a predator of Q. erythrinae from Tanzania, was selected as a biological control agent and was released at sites throughout the Hawaiian Islands. To assess the effectiveness of this biocontrol release, we measured the extent of damage attributable to Q. erythrinae wasps in 124 E. sandwicensis trees at the Waikoloa Village Dry Forest Recovery Project before (January, 2009) and after (January, 2011) the release of the parasitoid wasp at this site. Because host spatial distribution has important consequences for the establishment and success of natural enemies such as parasitoids, we took a spatially explicit approach to account for the potential spatial heterogeneity in E. sandwicensis. We observed an increase in galling damage across the population and 21 trees became completely defoliated between the two survey years. The distribution of E. sandwicensis across the landscape was highly clumped and tree-level change in galling damage showed a strong spatial signal. Erythrina sandwicensis recovery was non-random with respect to landscape indicating that individual response to the biocontrol agent and exogenous factors (e.g., drought) may have strong interactions with the invasion and persistence of the pest Q. erythrinae.
10.2307/3088677|The roots of selected water lilies, Nymphaeaceae and Cabombaceae, and water lotuses, Nelumbonaceae, were examined using epifluorescence, brightfield, and modified darkfield microscopy to determine the characteristics of root cortical structure. The members of the Nymphaeaceae have an endodermis usually with Casparian bands only, many astrosclereids and some transverse diaphragms scattered throughout the aerenchyma, and a hypodermis with a uniseriate exodermis with Casparian bands and suberin lamellae, although there may be some secondary, cellulosic thickening. The Cabombaceae are characterized by small roots with an endodermis with Casparian bands and uneven suberin lamellae, aerenchyma without sclereids or diaphragms, and an exodermis with Casparian bands and distinctive suberin lamellae. The Nelumbonaceae are distinctly different: Nelumbo has an endodermis of Casparian bands, suberin lamellae, and secondarily lignified walls, an aerenchyma without sclereids or diaphragms, and a multiseriate hypodermis with a uniseriate exodermis of Casparian bands and suberin lamellae, and an inner hypodermis with distinctly lignified walls.
10.2307/3088762|Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camas (Poaceae) is an aggressive non-native annual from Japan that was first reported in North America in 1919. It is now invasive throughout its range in eastern North America. A perennial form of M. vimineum was recently reported. The identification of these perennial individuals is questioned. It seems likely that individuals of the putatively perennial M. vimineum are really native Leersia virginica. Similarities and differences in morphology, habitat and phenology between the annual M. vimineum, the putatively perennial form and L. virginica are discussed. Comments on the spread and dispersal of M. vimineum are included. The importance of voucher specimens in botanical research is stressed.
20063760|We investigated visitation of a bruchid seed beetle, Althaeus hibisci Olivier, to flowers of Hibiscus moscheutos L. (Malvaceae) under natural conditions. We examined movement of the beetle among flowers that were in different developmental stages, the correlation between corolla size and pollen production, and the correlation between beetle density and corolla size. Beetles moved diurnally from wilted Hibiscus moscheutos flowers that had opened on the previous day to newly open flowers. Beetles did not move to unopened flowers as long as petals were covered by sepals. The results demonstrate that the beetles use corollas as a cue to locate flowers. Hibiscus moscheutos flowers produced pollen in proportion to corolla size; therefore, beetles visiting larger flowers had a high probability of finding larger amounts of pollen. We detected positive correlations between beetle density and petal area when beetles were abundant. Although the correlation coefficients were small (r = 0.24-0.32), they were statistically significant or marginally significant. On the other hand, the correlations were not significant when the density of beetles was low suggesting that the preference for larger flowers is not always detectable and its strength varies with beetle density under natural conditions.
40207567|The morphology, histochemistry, and ultrastructural aspects of the secretion of Lavandula pinnata L. (Lamiaceae) glandular trichomes were studied in order to prepare for work on calcium distribution in normal and heat stressed plants. The secretory process was observed in both light and dark-grown plants. The secretion of the capitate glandular trichomes consists of both lipophilic and polysaccharidic substances (mainly the latter), while peltate glandular trichomes only secrete lipophilic substances. Our ultrastructural results are consistent with the finding that plastids are the main organelle that synthesizes the lipophilic substances, especially terpenes, while dictyosomes synthesize polysaccharides. The essential oil is most likely transported directly by the RER, while the polysaccharides reach the plasma membrane via Golgi-derived vesicles. Exocytosis is the main way that secretory products move from the cell to the subcuticular space. There are no differences in gland development or secretion between the light and dark-grown plants.
10.2307/3088699|Ecosystem restoration has become an important component of forest management, especially on public lands. However, determination of manageable reference conditions has lagged behind the interest. This paper presents a case study from pine-dominated forests in the Upper West Gulf Coastal Plain (UWGCP), with special emphasis on southern Arkansas. Decades of forest management, fire exclusion, exotic species invasion, and other ecological changes have converted the small remnants of mature shortleaf (Pinus echinata Mill.) and loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) stands into ineffectual models for restoring presettlement-like conditions. However, sufficient information can be gathered from available references to more reliably describe the boundaries of the desired reference environment. Early explorer accounts, maps, survey records, historical trade and technical publications, and modern scientific journals were consulted to reconstruct presettlement (pre-1900) forest conditions for pine-dominated landscapes of the UWGCP. On average, virgin UWGCP pine forests had considerably more shortleaf pine (especially in the uplands) than contemporary natural stands, with relatively low basal area and standing volume concentrated in large trees. Presettlement pine timber also had less uniform structural and spatial patterns than modern examples of mature pine. Assuming most of the critical processes are still present, it appears possible to recreate the compositional and structural attributes of virgin pine forests.
43287018|Leopoldinia is palm genus with three species, L. major, L. pulchra and Leopoldinia piassaba. The taxonomic status of these three species is supported by vegetative and reproductive morphological evidence. There are some conflicting views of the treatment of two species, L. major and L. pulchra, which some authors consider a single species and others as two separate species. The findings in this study show that L. major and L. pulchra have three distinct anatomical features that support their species status. First, the dorsiventral leaf type of L. pulchra as opposed to the isolateral leaf type of L. major. Second, the epidermis of L. pulchra is formed by fibrous and tannin filled cells while in L. major epidermal cells are thin walled cells. Third, stornata distribution in L. major is amphistomatic and in L. pulchra is hypostomatic. These anatomical features are consistent with the horizontal and pendulous appearance of their respective pinnae.
10.2307/3088723|Genetic differentiation in flowering phenology has been frequently demonstrated among populations of wide-ranging species. However, fine-tuning of flowering phenology, i.e., responses to yearly fluctuations in the local environment, should best be accomplished via phenotypic plasticity. To test theoretical expectations as to the interaction of genetic differentiation and plasticity, and conditions under which each should be most important, populations of the inbreeding Sporobolus cryptandrus and the outbreeding Panicum virgatum were compared in genetic variation among clones and in amounts and patterns of plasticity in phenology. For each species, three years of data from replicated blocks of cloned genotypes in a common garden near Fort Collins, Colorado, were treated as characters measured in three environments as a way of quantifying "environmental sensitivity" and partitioning the variance in flowering time. The three years provided major differences in length of growing season, temperatures, precipitation, and evaporation rates. The outbreeding species possessed the greatest genetic variation among clones in a population, while the inbreeding species showed less genetic variation within and more between populations. Populations of both species varied significantly in amount and highly significantly in pattern of plasticity. The long-lived, clonal Panicum showed a significantly greater plasticity than the short-lived, non-clonal Sporobolus. The plasticity variance component was the largest component overall for Sporobolus, which is found over the widest range of environments heterogeneous in space and time, and there was a highly significant relation between a population's ecological history and the relative importance of plasticity in flowering phenology. The two species did not show a consistent relationship between amounts of clonal genetic variation and plasticity, emphasizing that experiments on a diversity of species are required to appropriately test theoretical expectations.
41475124|Cyperus entrerianus (Boeckler) (deeprooted sedge, deeproot sedge, woodrush flatsedge) has become naturalized throughout the Texas coastal prairie ecoregion and is now found throughout much of the southeastern United States. Originally from Argentina, its successful naturalization is linked to its rapid growth, morphological plasticity, and generalized habitat requirements, but little work has focused upon its seed biology or ecology. Research was conducted to quantify phytomorphological variability, develop seed yield prediction models, and quantify germination requirements for C. entrerianus to aid in future control and management efforts of this exotic invasive sedge, particularly those focused upon seedbanks. Cyperus entrerianus phytomorphology, seed production, and seed germination were extremely variable among study areas, and provide evidence for its successful naturalization. Although plants varied morphologically, spike cluster area and inflorescence diameter explained much of the variation in seed biomass production. Seed yield prediction models will be useful in monitoring seed production throughout its naturalized range. We estimated that 1300-3100 kg ha seeds could be produced in monotypic stands, although germination rates varied among study areas as well. Seeds collected from larger plants in sites that produced more seeds showed germination rates > 85%. Seeds exposed to imbibition and chilling treatments had reduced germination, although no seed treatments (imbibition, chilling, combinations thereof) depressed germination rates below 63%. Immediate and shortterm control and management efforts should focus upon interruption of seed production, via aboveground plant removal, but long-term efforts must target seedbank management. Although seed longevity is not known, seedbank depletion and subsequent integrated management using herbicides and prescribed fire will be required for local and large scale control efforts.
40865070|Facilitation between different plant species has been documented in terrestrial and marine ecosystems worldwide. The classic example of such positive relationships, the large keystone saguaro cactus (Carnegiea gigantea), always establishes under nurse plants that provide protection to young seedlings through subcanopy climate and environmental modification. Plants (e.g., nurse plants) are not necessarily symmetrical and variations in shape and zone of influence may impact the distribution of other species associated with them. The saguaro is distributed disproportionately to the south of its nurse tree Cercidium microphyllum (palo verde) where subcanopy temperatures are warmer on cold winter nights. I determine whether the tree's canopy shape contributes to the non-random pattern of its protg cacti in its subcanopy. Data for tree canopy width for each of the four cardinal directions were collected. ANOVA and circular statistics (Rayleigh and V tests) found a significant canopy bias to the southwest. A second dataset shows that Carnegiea are found significantly more often to the south of Cercidium trunks than to the north. When the center of canopy is used rather than the trunk, the statistical bias no longer holds. The observed biases in distribution may be a function of the nurse's canopy shape and resultant microclimate effects. The findings of this study provide an explanation to several already documented observations: 1) winter temperatures are more ameliorated to the south of the trunk than to the north, 2) more of the shade-dependent cacti are found on the south side of their Cercidium nurse's trunk than to the north, and 3) saguaro cacti show a distributional preference to dense-canopied nurses. Variations in nurse canopies become crucial elements of the microenvironment and will alter patterns of establishment and survival of the protg species that rely on them as even small changes can dramatically alter distributional patterns and expected survivorship. Nurse protection may lead to patterns quite different from the seed rain, and ultimately has a dominant role in the population dynamics of the species.
27751812|Herbivores may negatively impact plants by reducing biomass and decreasing fecundity. Rare or endangered plants may be particularly vulnerable to herbivore damage. However, plants may compensate for herbivory by increased growth or reproductive output. We investigated compensatory growth and reproductive effort in Liatris ohlingerae (S.F.Blake) B.L.Robe, a federally-listed herb narrowly endemic to pyrogenic Florida scrub on the Lake Wales Ridge, by conducting biweekly surveys of observed herbivory and an herbivore exclusion experiment. In the field surveys, we assessed the effects of vertebrate herbivory ("topping") and invertebrate leaf herbivory on plant size and fecundity and compared observed levels of herbivory across sites with different disturbance histories (scrub vs. roadside; scrub sites with differing time-since-fire). In the herbivore exclusion experiment, we compared the effects on plant size and fecundity of excluding vertebrate herbivores (toppers) only vs. excluding both vertebrate and invertebrate herbivores. We found that 62% of plants in the survey had one or more topped stems and that topping occurred more frequently in recently burned sites (&lt; 8 years since fire vs. &gt; 14 years since fire) and in scrub than in roadside sites. Topped plants were significantly shorter and had a greater number of stems (untopped plants only produced 1 stem). Topped plants were less likely to flower, began flowering later in the growing season, and produced fewer inflorescences, infructescences, achenes, and full achenes than untopped plants. Fifty-two percent of surveyed L. ohlingerae plants also showed evidence of invertebrate leaf herbivory with a mean of 24% of leaves damaged. Plants damaged by invertebrate herbivores did not differ significantly in growth or reproduction compared with undamaged plants. In the experiment, exclusion of vertebrate herbivores resulted in taller plants, fewer stems, higher flowering frequency, earlier first flowering, and greater production of inflorescences, infructescences, achenes, and full achenes per plant; plants gained no additional benefits when invertebrates were excluded. Our study demonstrates that L. ohlingerae partially compensates for vertebrate herbivore damage at some sites, depending on the disturbance history. There are population level consequences of undercompensation; vertebrate topping resulted in a 30% reduction in mean fecundity. Future research is necessary to determine if undercompensation jeopardizes the long-term persistence of L. ohlingerae populations.
40207606|Removal of canopy dominant trees in temperate closed-canopy forests due to natural or anthropogenic disturbance may allow for the release of co-dominant and sub-canopy trees into the canopy. Historical growth releases of these trees can be reconstructed from the analysis of their annual rings and compared with historical disturbance events to better understand forest dynamics. We applied boundary-line growth patterns, a method for the reconstruction of historical release from disturbance, to annual-ring series of co-dominant longleaf pine in two closed-canopy successional forest sites (Everwoods and Seacock Swamp) the Mid-Atlantic Coastal Plain of southeastern Virginia. The somewhat degraded stands were co-dominated by mixed hardwoods and loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) after a long fire-free history. Our study documented recruitment patterns through age-class distribution and reconstructed disturbance events (growth releases) using a modified version of the boundary-line growth method. Ages for all cored individuals at Everwoods (n = 37) ranged from 32-184 years (x = 53 years), and at Seacock Swamp (n = 32), from 56-175 years (x = 94 years). Longleaf pine has failed to recruit over the past two decades at Everwoods, and over the past half-century at Seacock Swamp, probably due to increased competition and habitat decline in the absence of fire. Boundary-line growth patterns revealed moderate and major release events for longleaf pines at both sites that we linked to anthropogenic disturbances, such as silvicultural operations (1900s to the 1930s) at both sites and logging by the landowner (early 1950s) at Seacock Swamp. We interpreted extremely low growth rates and dramatic growth-change pulses after disturbance as evidence of heavy suppression atypical for this species, which has been conceptualized as shade-intolerant. Our findings fit with other studies that have suggested that longleaf pine may be less shadetolerant than formerly thought, at least in some areas or sites. Applications of the boundary-line growth patterns method to old-growth and second-growth longleaf pine forests throughout the southeastern U.S. could help to document possible spatial variability in disturbance histories, responses to releases, and suppression patterns.
10.2307/3088681|Prairie fens form islands of glacial remnant habitats throughout the midwest. A number of species are restricted to these unique wetland habitats, including Valeriana ciliata (prairie valerian-Valerianaceae). Genetic variation was studied in the two remaining populations of V. ciliata in Ohio. These southern, edge-of-range populations were compared with genetic variation in four Michigan populations at the middle of this species' range. Allozyme electrophoresis of individuals in populations of this subdioecious species revealed overall levels of genetic diversity (H
41678790|Rhododendron maximum L. is an evergreen, clonal shrub that forms a dominant sub-canopy layer and is a key species in southern Appalachian forests. We investigated the age and distribution of R. maximum across the Coweeta Basin, a 1626 ha watershed in western North Carolina. We selected 16 perennial, second-order streams and used a Global Positioning System to establish site boundaries and map the coverage of R. maximum across the hillslopes from stream to ridge. In each site, three transects from stream edge to the ridge were used to measure diameters of overstory trees (> 2.5 cm dbh), tree saplings (< 2.5 cm dbh) and shrubs including R. maximum stems. Along each transect, we cut cross-sections of R. maximum ramets and extracted increment cores from nearest neighbor trees to determine ages. The 16 sites ranged in size from 0.3 to 1.9 ha depending on the distance from stream to ridge. Rhododendron maximum cover ranged from 25 to 100% and ages ranged from 6 to 120 years. Rhododendron maximum establishment year showed a skewed unimodal distribution with the peak establishment occurring between 1928 and 1940. Although the R. maximum age and distance-from-stream relationship was statistically significant, the relationship was not meaningful as distance-from-stream only explained 2.6% of the variation in R. maximum age (r 2 = 0.026, P = 0.0003, n = 487). Distance from stream only explained 4.2% of the variation in overstory tree age (r= = 0.042, P = 0.0015, n=237). It appears that R. maximum has not expanded upslope over the last 100 years; rather the ranges in sizes and ages suggest that ramets are recruiting under established R. maximum canopies particularly in the wetter, near stream locations.
10.2307/4126917|Approximately 92% of the U.S. population of American hart's-tongue fern (Phyllitis scolopendrium var. americana) is found in Onondaga and Madison counties, New York, in 17 distinct colonies. All New York colonies have been periodically censused since 1916, though rarely in the same year. This study examines census data of the total New York population during and following the severe drought of 1999 and during the summers of 2000 and 2002. Additionally, the long-term (1922-2002) census data of seven colonies are examined relative to climate data for the same period. The total New York population has declined overall since the last previous census in 1995. No climate variables explained more than 23% of variation in population size of any growth phase. The lack of controlling, large-scale climate factors suggests that the distribution of hart's-tongue fern in New York is determined mostly by the occurence of habitat capable of buffering climatic fluctuations. Future work should combine small-scale habitat and large-scale climate factors in any analysis.
10.2307/3088667|Fire is the most frequent and widespread disturbance affecting forests in the Pacific Northwest and identifying the frequency, extent, and severity of fires is essential for understanding the role of fire in longterm forest dynamics. This study quantifies presettlement fire regimes (i.e. fire return interval, fire extent, fire severity, fire rotation) and successional patterns in a 950 ha upper montane forest using 39 cross-dated fire scar samples, tree ages and radial growth patterns in cores, and tree diameter distributions in 112 plots. Forest species composition varied with potential soil moisture and there was variation in some fire regime parameters among forest compositional groups. Mean fire return intervals were shortest in red fir-white fir forests (41 yr), and longer in white fir-Jeffrey pine, lodgepole pine, lodgepole pine-red fir, and red fir-western white pine forests (59-70 yr). Lodgepole pine and lodgepole pine-red fir forests experienced more high severity (38-75%) fire than other forest types (13-25%). Fire rotation varied by time period, and was shortest in the pre Euro-American period (76 yr), longer in the settlement period (177 yr), and longest in the fire suppression (577 yr) period. The average extent of a fire was small (150 ha). Lodgepole pine-red fir, white fir-Jeffrey pine, and red fir-white fir forests are changing in composition but lodgepole pine and red fir-western white pine forests are compositionally stable. Recurring fire in the presettlement period maintained fire-dependent pines but fire suppression is now causing shifts in species composition and changes in landscape scale vegetation patterns similar to those in lower montane forests.
10.2307/2996594|Phytosociological and environmental analyses of the pteridophyte community of a mixed-mesophytic forest in southeastern Ohio were used to evaluate the influences of major environmental gradients on species distribution and community structure. The community was dominated by Adiantum pedatum, Asplenium platyneuron, Botrychium dissectum, B. virginianum, Deparia acrostichoides, Diplazium pycnocarpon, Polystichum acrostichoides, and Thelypteris hexagonoptera. The first two axes of a detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) captured <30% of the total variation. Correlations between species DCA scores and environmental parameters indicate that species, and associations identified using unweighted paired-group means analysis (UPGMA), segregate along an environmental plexus dominated by moisture and soil nitrate; both gradients correlated well with the first ordination axis. Non-significant correlation between canopy cover and the first two ordination axes indicate that the highly fluctuating nature of understory light environments may have little influence on the distribution of long-lived understory perennials such as pteridophytes. Direct gradient analyses and correlations between species presence/abundance and environmental values were used to generate more detailed information regarding species-specific distributional patterns. The data presented here emphasize the complexity of factors influencing pteridophyte communities and the need for studies to integrate demographic and environmental analyses of both gametophytes and sporophytes when studying pteridophyte communities.
10.2307/3088705|The vascular flora of Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge, New York, consists of 456 species within 270 genera and 90 families. Twelve of the species are listed as rare in New York. Largest families are Asteraceae (77 species) and Poaceae (57 species), and largest genera are Polygonum, Cyperus, Aster, Panicum, Trifolium, Carex and Eupatorium. Each taxonomic entry in the checklist is accompanied by an annotation that includes the habitat in which each taxon occurs, frequency of occurrence, rarity status and pertinent synonyms. A summary of the land use history of Jamaica Bay is also presented.
10.2307/3557523|The fruit flag (Stiles 1982) and the bicolored fruit display (Willson and Thompson 1982) hypotheses state that plants with fruit displays that provide contrast within the infructescence, the plant, or their surrounding environment, serve to attract birds, thereby increasing fruit consumption and seed dispersal. We simulated fruit flags by attaching infructescenses from pokeweed (Phytolacca americana) to wooden stakes wrapped with different colors of flagging tape-fluorescent pink, fluorescent green, and black. Pokeweed is a plant hypothesized to utilize fruit flags and has stems that turn from green to bright pink as berries along infructescences ripen to purple-black. In two habitats, removal rates from brightly colored stakes (pink and green) were significantly higher than those from black stakes, indicating that a bicolored fruit display increased fruit removal by birds. There were no consistent differences in removal from pink and green stakes suggesting that the particular color of the flag may not be as important as the contrast between the flag and the fruit.
27751796|In xeric limestone prairies (XLPs, also known as "glades"), soil depth and fire are commonly posited to affect plant community composition and structure. Through mediating plant competition, these factors may explain plant distribution in XLPs, including mechanisms driving edaphic endemism. In a XLP in southwest Missouri, the abundance of Lesquerella filiformis Rollins (Missouri bladderpod), a rare winter annual, was higher in open sites, where competition was presumably low, than in Juniperus virginiana L. (eastern redcedar) or hardwood canopy cover types; L. filiformis density in the latter two cover types varied among years. Open, J. virginiana, and hardwood canopy cover types were distributed along an increasing soil depth gradient. During flowering of L. filiformis in April, photosynthetically active radiation was highest in open sites, intermediate below hardwood canopy (prior to (leaf-out), and lowest below J. virginiana canopy. Removing J. virginiana was associated with greater increases in L. filiformis abundance between 2003 and 2005, and the basal area removed was positively associated with the magnitude of increase in plant abundance. These findings supported the hypothesis that interspecific competition, presumably at least partly for light, limited the distribution of L. filiformis in XLPs. While higher plant densities indicated that L. filiformis preferred open microhabitats, thinning J. virginiana provided a management option that increased L. filiformis density in marginal habitats subject to woody plant encroachment. Because factors affecting L. filiformis germination, establishment, growth, and survival likely vary along relatively fine-scale environmental gradients, (micro-) habitat specific management of XLP vegetation may assist in protecting rare edaphic endemic plant species, such as L. filiformis.
40207612|Solidago erecta has long been considered a member of the flora of New York, but recent studies have revealed that the six known voucher collections of S. erecta from New York had been misidentified and have been reassigned to S. speciosa or S. puberula. The earliest published reports of S. erecta from New York were partially based on the misapplication of scientific names and a misunderstanding of the taxonomy of the S. speciosalS. erecta complex. Solidago erecta should be excluded from the flora of New York because it has not been documented from the state with voucher specimens.
20063888|Many communities invaded by one non-native plant species also are invaded by others due to a shared response to environmental factors that promote invasive species generally, such as fragmentation, disturbance, and proximity to seed sources. Direct comparison of these co-invasive species in their shared communities therefore is necessary for understanding the ecology of invaded communities, particularly if management resources must be prioritized. We compared ecological characteristics of two of the most important co-invasive herb layer species in forests of the eastern United States, Alliaria petiolata (garlic mustard, a C biennial herb native to Europe) and Microstegium vimineum (Japanese stilt-grass, a C annual grass native to east Asia). Both are invasive across a wide geographic range, establish dense stands under varying canopy covers, and are associated with lower native herb layer diversity and abundance. However, A. petiolata has attracted much greater attention from the scientific and management communities. Our research had three related components aimed at understanding which species may be a greater threat. We conducted a greenhouse experiment with shaded and unshaded growing conditions, in which M. vimineum grew much greater shoot biomass (although total biomass was similar) and photosynthesis rates for M. vimineum generally exceeded those for A. petiolata. We also did a large field experiment using transplants grown from seed. Microstegium vimineum had greater survivorship, less insect herbivory, larger mass, and higher photosynthesis rates than first-year A. petiolata. In addition, we studied a co-invaded natural community. Both species' percent cover were variable across the site but had no relationship to photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) levels. Microstegium vimineum had higher cover in 2001 and by 2005 had increased dramatically over A. petiolata in co-invaded plots. In the summer months M. vimineum had greater photosynthesis rates (measured in situ with a Li-Cor 6400) and were matched only by A. petiolata's early spring rates. These results indicate that in forests where they co-invade M. vimineum may have greater potential for spread than A. petiolata and deserves increased attention from both scientists and forest managers.
40864975|In order to understand how trees replace themselves during the conversion from agricultural field back into eastern deciduous forest, I first used data sampled in ten old fields over the first 20 years after abandonment to generate six different models of tree replacement. Each of the six models was then used to generate abundance predictions for six common tree taxa (species or genera) from year 21 to 30. Finally each model tested those predictions against the actual data sampled during those same years (21-30) focusing on the predicted rank abundances of the six test tree taxa using Spearman's rank correlation coefficients. I found that: 1) models generally predicted tree abundances and tree replacements well, with the exception of Juniperus virginiana, 2) although some matrix models became constant and some patch models became zero over time, most of the time matrix models had a higher abundance prediction than the patch models for the same species, and 3) among the matrix models, model 3 (which used cover values) had the highest values especially for the wind-dispersed species and among patch models, model 4 (which used the number of plots) was often as great or greater than models 5 or 6 (which used stem counts and cover values, respectively) especially for the bird-dispersed species. Taken together the results suggested that models using cover were closer to the data sampled in the fields compared to the other models within their type (matrix or patch), and that patch models were better estimators of stem densities than matrix models, perhaps due to the inherent dampening properties of matrixes.
41811881|Floristic Quality Assessment (FQA) is a recognized bioassessment technique for evaluating habitat nativity or resource condition (status) using conservatism of the plant community. The Mid-Atlantic Floristic Quality Assessment Project (MAR-FQA) was undertaken in 2009 to advance floristic quality assessment in the Mid-Atlantic region. The primary objectives of the project were to assign coefficients of conservatism to the regional flora; describe the Mid-Atlantic region in terms of its floristic composition, conservatism, and nativity; and examine the potential subjectivity of coefficient values. We identified 4208 unique plant species of which 2822 were ranked. The flora was dominated by perennial forbs and graminoids. Two-thirds was native to either all or part of the region, while one-third was considered nonnative to the region or to North America. Most coefficient ranks fell within the mid to upper range of the scale with distribution noticeably skewed toward higher conservatism due to a greater number of taxa with coefficients of 8, 9, and 10. Our investigation of bias in the approach indicated that subjectively assigned conservatism values were remarkably accurate. Over 75% of highly conservative taxa were found exclusively at high-quality wetland sites while less than 5% of generalist taxa were restricted to a single condition category. While FQA has been successfully used to assess habitat on both the state and sub-regional scales, it is now possible to deploy it in the Mid-Atlantic region. As a bioassessment tool, it offers a relatively rapid, reliable, and repeatable approach to assessing the somewhat arbitrary concept of quality. As such, it is an important addition to any botanist's tool kit.
20063941|This study examined the effects of nutrient addition on pollen performance (pollen germination, pollen tube growth, and siring success) in the wildflower Clarkia unguiculata. Chamber-grown plants were watered with either a full strength commercial fertilizer (20% nitrogen, 20% phosphorus, 20% potassium) or with distilled water. Pollen performance was assessed in crosses between plants watered with nutrient solution and plants watered with distilled water. The nutritional status of the pollen donor did not affect percent germination or pollen tube growth. However, the nutritional status of the pollen recipient did significantly affect pollen germination and pollen tube growth rates. Pollen from both donor types grew significantly faster through the styles of plants watered with distilled water. Siring success, as measured by seed production, did not differ significantly between any of the treatments.
40207594|Over the past three centuries successive land-use decisions have led to significant changes in the composition and structure of the floristic resources at Evansburg State Park in southeastern Pennsylvania. A recent survey of the park identified 544 vascular plant species from 116 families and 337 genera across 26 distinct, yet extremely fragmented, plant communities. Slightly less than 66% of the recorded species are native to the eastern United States and only two species of concern were discovered. Forty-six species were added to the flora of Montgomery County. In addition, woody vegetation in seven mature forest types of the 16 naturally occurring community associations were sampled. A histogram of species importance across these sites reveals a trend towards increasing compositional homogeneity in forested areas. The remaining ten communities are anthropogenically influenced habitats which comprise 75% of the park's acreage, are scattered widely throughout the park, and contain a high percentage of non-native invasive species. A clear shift in the composition of the forested areas towards Acer saccharum and/or Acer rubrum dominated associations is already apparent and likely to persist given the magnitude of adverse events that continue to alter the landscape and disrupt successional processes.
10.2307/3088773|When elucidating plant community dynamics, investigators have focused on plant-plant and plant-environment interactions and on the characteristics of individual plants. The role of animals has been relatively neglected. Herbivory may affect vegetation dynamics by altering community composition and structure and by influencing the performance of species. Therefore, herbivory can be an important factor in succession. We experimentally tested the role of mammalian herbivores in two fields at the Hutcheson Memorial Forest Center in central New Jersey. Both fields were released from active cultivation, one at the beginning of the experiment and the other 17 years earlier. Large exclosures (5 x 5 m) were used to exclude mammalian herbivores, and open units of the same size were used as controls. The effect of herbivore exclusion on the structure and composition of the plant community was analyzed. In addition, tree seedlings of three species-Acer rubrum, Cornus florida, and Juniperus virginiana-were planted in the experimental units in both fields. These species typically invade early- to mid-successional old fields. The survival of these individuals was calculated and, using height as an indicator, their performance assessed. Herbivore exclusion primarily influenced the structure of the plant community rather than its composition. Percent cover of species and species richness of all plants were not affected by herbivory, but in one field the relative cover of exotics was greater in the exclosures. The height profile of the plant community in the exclosures was significantly taller than the community in the open plots. The survival and growth of planted A. rubrum and C. florida seedlings was significantly greater when protected from herbivores. In contrast, the survival and growth of J. virginiana seedlings was not affected by herbivores. Growth and survival of J. virginiana did differ by the field they were planted in, suggesting that physiological constraints may be more important than herbivory for this species. These results reenforce that herbivorous mammals play a key role in old field succession, particularly in the pivotal shift of dominance from herbaceous to woody cover.
10.2307/3088645|In the dioecious conifer Juniperus virginiana L. reproductive activity and the sex ratio among reproductively active trees are strongly influenced by local circumstances. In managed parkland derived from diverted secondary succession on fertile soils in the Tennessee Valley of northern Alabama, 86% of J. virginiana > 10 cm dbh were reproductively active, and the sex ratio in such sites was indistinguishable from 1:1. In mature xeric forests (cedar woodlands) on the rocky mountainsides of the adjacent southern Cumberland Plateau only 41% of the J. virginiana > 10 cm dbh were reproductively active, and the male:female sex ratio among those was 2.2:1. Univariate logistic regression models suggest that the likelihood of reproductive activity was (1) lower on the mountainside than in the parkland, (2) increased with tree diameter and with tree height, (3) increased with diameter growth rate, and (4) decreased with increased shading by neighboring trees. Interpretation is complicated because trunk diameter of J. virginiana in these populations was related to tree height, the site, the extent of shading, and to an interaction between site and the extent of shading. Furthermore, trunk diameter growth was greater in the parkland. Stepwise multiple logistic regression suggests three factors affect the relative likelihood of reproductive activity: tree size, the extent of shading, and an interaction between size and site.
10.2307/2997278|The temporal variation in species recruitment was examined in relation to annual dendrochronological data to determine the historical development and disturbance history of an old-growth bottomland hemlock-hardwood forest in the Cook Forest State Park in Northwestern Pennsylvania. This 15 ha forest, located at the headwaters of a stream, contains a mixture of Tsuga canadensis (hemlock), Fagus grandifolia (beech), Quercus rubra (northern red oak), Pinus strobus (white pine), and Acer rubrum (red maple). The present age structure indicates that a cohort of Quercus alba (white oak) established between 1680 and 1710, and that the oldest hemlocks became established in the early 1700s. A period of almost 100 years followed in which there was virtually no recruitment. Tree recruitment resumed about 1800 and consisted primarily of hemlock and beech until 1855. A period of episodic recruitment associated with a concomitant radial growth increase, indicative of a major disturbance, began in many of the oldest trees in the stand during the 1850s and persisted for 70 years. Approximately two-thirds of all trees aged in this study became established between 1855 and 1930. The presence of decayed, cut stumps of several different species scattered throughout the stand is evidence that selective logging occurred, probably during the middle to late 1800s. This activity greatly altered the structure and composition of the forest and created conditions favorable for the establishment of even-aged cohorts of relatively shade intolerant Q. rubra and P. strobus, not recorded in the stand prior to cutting, as well as cohorts of late-successional tree species. In response to canopy closure and a large increase in deer populations, few new trees were recruited since 1930. Therefore, this forest has experienced dramatic changes following Euro-American settlement of the region that continue to the present, despite the fact that it retains many old-growth characteristics. This study represented a rare opportunity to investigate the impacts of direct and indirect anthropogenic influences on an old-growth forest. The results are relevant for the restoration ecology of other eastern forests, because they point out that certain silvicultural techniques may differ broadly from natural disturbances and result in unique and uncharacteristically diverse assemblages of species.
20063778|SEM studies of macerated stems and roots showed that long scalariform perforation plates are present in roots and probably also stems of Philydrum (Philydraceae). In Haemodoraceae, clearly recognizable vessel elements are present in roots; perforation plates range from scalariform to simple. In stems of Haemodoraceae, however, less clearly recognizable vessel elements are present: the presence of thread-like pit membrane remnants is one criterion that argues for vessel presence. Such tracheary elements can be considered transitional between tracheids and vessel elements. End walls of transitional tracheary elements may have narrower bars between perforations, less prominent borders, and pit membrane remnants rather than non-porose pit membranes. However, only one or two of these three character expressions may be present, suggesting that clear definitions of vessel elements and tracheids may not be possible. Haemodoraceae show a marked difference, or disjunction, in morphology between vessel elements in roots and the vessel elements transitional to tracheids of stems. The physiological and evolutionary correlations of this morphological disjunction may be related to seasonality of water availability.
10.2307/4126950|Species of Cylindropuntia and Opuntia cacti, which have segmented stems, have a wide range of morphologies from tall, tree-like forms to prostrate forms. Considerable interest has developed regarding mechanical stresses at joints between stem segments and how these stresses relate to overall morphologies and reproductive capabilities of cactus species. Determinations were made of maximum normal stress at failure for twenty terminal joints per species, the number of joint segments on longest branches for ten plants per species as well as the percentage of detached terminal segments that become established for 25 cactus species. We hypothesized that cactus species with more segments per stem should require more force to remove terminal segments. Regression analyses of mean maximum stress at failure of terminal joints versus mean number of segments for the species tested gave a line equation of y = 380x + 1350 with a regression coefficient of 0.85. We hypothesized that cactus species with few segments per stem for adult plants should have good establishment of detached terminal stem segments while species with many segments on adult plants should have low levels of establishment of detached terminal segments. Regression analyses of mean establishment of terminal segments as a function of mean number of segments gave a line equation of y =-1.73x + 80.6 with a regression coefficient of 0.77. In contrast, plant height was not related to either maximum normal stress at failure or segment establishment. We conclude that number of stem segments on longest stems of plants was a good predictor of force necessary to remove terminal segments. Number of stem segments was also a good predictor of rooting and establishment of terminal segments. Overall, the data of this study show that Cylindropuntia and Opuntia species with large numbers of stem segments along each stem rely mostly on sexual reproduction for procreation while species with fewer stem segments rely mostly on asexual reproduction via rooting of detached stem segments.
43287026|A critical aspect of early-stage invasive species management is determining the niche and assessing the impact of a new species. A multiscale strategy to predict potential habitat and impacts at the ecosystem, community and species level presents a robust, efficient, and cost effective tool for invasive species management. Regional scale maximum entropy modeling and local scale field studies were used to characterize species-environment and species-species interactions of Oplismenus undulatifolius, a recent invader in Mid-Atlantic forest understories. Oplismenus undulatifolius was first discovered in the U.S. near Baltimore, Maryland in 1996 and is currently found in 13 counties in Maryland and Virginia. At the landscape scale the USDA estimates that 30 percent of the U.S. is suitable for the establishment of O. undulatifolius. Regional scale modeling indicated that 22% of the area modeled was suitable for O. undulatifolius, with 1% highly suitable. Local scale field studies indicated that O. undulatifolius thrives at low light levels (2-11 mois m day) across a wide range of litter depths (0-6 cm) and that light and litter depth are involved in dominance of O. undulatifolius over Microstegium vimineum. Interactions with Fagus grandifolia result in decreased O. undulatifolius cover and dominance, and areas of high O. undulatifolius cover typically have low species richness. Oplismenus undulatifolius has the ability invade a far greater portion of the forest than M. vimineum, and more research on the community and ecosystem-level effects of this new invasive forest understory species is needed.
41262034|Species ranges are expected to shift northward with climate warming. Southern Appalachian Magnolia species have never been recorded in oak-dominated forests on Long Island. This study presents data for the occurrence of Magnolia acuminata, M. macrophylla and M. tripetala, in a few stands at Tiffany Creek Preserve, Oyster Bay Cove, Nassau County, Long Island, New York. A tree core datum suggests that the largest Magnolia acuminata in our oak-dominated stands was established in the 1930's; the population has proliferated in the most recent two decades. The largest population of M. tripetala in our area occurs in a complex of swamp forests dominated by Acer rubrum. We compare the climate Normals of Asheville, NC, in the core area of Magnolia acuminata distribution, with those of Mineola, L. I., NY, near its northeastern limit. We find that the winters (average January temperatures) on Long Island have been colder, and with a longer freezing period than in the mountains and piedmont of North Carolina. This suggests that the microclimate of Oyster Bay Cove, north central (North Shore) Long Island, now resembles that of Asheville, and has become more equable.
20063882|Twenty five noteworthy species of vascular plants are reported from the Torrey Range, encompassing southeastern New York, northern New Jersey, and southwestern Connecticut: Anagallis minima, Asclepias purpurascens, Diospyros virginiana, Eupatorium album var. subvenosum, Euphorbia lathyris, Fatoua villosa, Froelichia gracilis, Juncus debilis, Lemna valdiviana, Ludwigia peploides subsp. glabrescens, Lygodium palmatum, Myriophyllum spicatum, Oxalis violacea, Polygonum perfoliatum, Pycnanthemum torrei, Pyrus calleryana, Pyxidanthera barbulata, Rumex hastatulus, Spiranthes vernalis, Thlaspi alliaceum, Trapa natans, Trichostema setaceum, Utricularia juncea, Utricularia radiata, and Vicia lathyroides.
41262016|In 1994, heavy ice storms hit southwestern Virginia, causing extensive damage to trees. Larger trees tended to experience branch breakage while smaller trees were more commonly bent under the weight of the ice. Bent trees formed compression wood in the years following the ice storm. To evaluate the influence of tree size and location on the formation of compression wood, a commercial wood defect, 47 Pinus strobus L. trees were felled and cross-sections were collected at 0.5 m above the root collar. Disks were sanded and scanned, and the cross-sectional area of compression wood within each tree ring was quantified using image analysis software. In addition, wood anatomical features were quantified in the 3 years before and after the storm. Compression wood formation was significantly related to tree diameter and the 6-9 cm diameter class formed more compression wood area than any other size class (this class was 48 cm at the time of the storm). Trees > 18 cm at the time of the storm did not form any post-storm compression wood, suggesting a lack of stem bending at 0.5 m. Trees < 6 cm were able to right themselves with less compression wood formation than the 6-9 cm class. Post-storm compression wood contained significantly more cells per unit area than pre-storm normal wood, but no significant differences existed in cell wall area. Therefore, compression wood had a higher cell wall to lumen ratio, creating wood that is more structurally sound on the lower stem side. This research identifies which size classes of P. strobus are most vulnerable to post-ice storm compression wood formation, and sheds light on cellular characteristics that contribute to its ability to return gymnosperm trees to an upright position after displacement.
41475108|Successful biological invasion requires correspondence between invader functional traits and their utility in novel environments. We focused on specific phenological and ecophysiological characteristics of an herbaceous biennial, Alliaria petiolata, related to its successful invasion of deciduous forest groundlayers in eastern North America. We tested for phenological separation between A. petiolata and native groundlayer species during spring of its second year, when the plant accumulates 91% of its total biomass, and assessed importance of availability of high irradiance before tree canopy closure on growth and reproductive output. We experimentally shaded plants in situ during three intervals: Early: before native groundlayer was well developed (3 March-20 April), Mid: 21 April to tree canopy closure (18 May), and Late: after canopy closure to 29 May. We measured maximum photosynthetic rates (A max ) in early (13-14 April) and late (22-26 May) spring. Alliaria petiolata began rapid growth and reached maximum cover earlier than most native groundlayer species. Shading effect on plant growth and resource allocation to vegetative growth and reproduction varied depending upon timing and duration of shading. Comparison of treatments differing by being shaded or unshaded in only one of three intervals showed that unshaded plants consistently had significantly higher production than shaded plants only during the Early interval. Greatest A max occurred in early spring (13-14 April), when ground layer irradiance was high. Success of A. petiolata in invading this community is likely related to phenological niche separation and temporal availability of resources not available to most native species in early spring.
10.2307/2997299|Old-growth forests constitute rare habitat that may support rare bryophytes (mosses and liverworts) or provide refugia for populations once more widely distributed. This study was undertaken to determine what differences, if any, can be found between the bryophyte flora of old-growth and nearby second-growth forest sites matched for elevation, slope, aspect, and forest type. Bryophytes were censused on trees, logs, rocks and exposed soil in four western Massachusetts old-growth stands and in four second-growth stands. Ninety-one bryophyte species were identified; the majority of species were sparsely distributed. Several species either occurred only in old growth or were most abundant in old-growth, although no species was strictly associated with old-growth. The total number of species on trees in old-growth is nearly twice that of species on trees in second-growth, and Acer saccharum in old-growth hosted more bryophyte species than Acer saccharum of same diameter in second growth. Abundances of substrate available for bryophyte colonization were similar in old-growth and second growth. Although old-growth and second-growth plots had similar bryophyte floras, there may be important differences in habitat provided by these forest types, and some less common species may be slow to recolonize cleared areas.
27751795|The conservation of Helonias bullata L. (swamp pink), a federally listed species, is closely associated with the maintenance of appropriate site hydrology. Although changes to site hydrology have been implicated in the degradation and extirpation of some Helonias bullata occurrences, quantitative hydrologic data with which to assess potential hydrologic impacts to the species are lacking. We characterized site hydrology, substrate, topography, tree-canopy cover, and hydrologic regimes associated with Helonias bullata at two colonies located along small streams in the New Jersey Pinelands and assessed the potential impact of simulated water-level reductions on the species and its habitat. Over the two-year study period, surface-water levels at the two colonies fluctuated by 11.9 and 27.9 cm. Sites were characterized by muck substrate and variable topography with steep-sided hummocks in and along stream channels. Tree-canopy cover above the two colonies was 36% and 9% less than canopy cover in the adjacent forests. The pronounced difference in water levels associated with Helonias bullata plants compared with water levels associated with Helonias bullata plants compared with water levels associated with points where the plant was not present suggested that Helonias bullata was not uniformly distributed at the sites in relation to water table. Helonias bullata clusters, composed of groups of individual plants, were typically associated with the emergent portions of hummocks in and along the stream channels. Based on measurements at 958 clusters, the two-year median water level at the two sites was 7.9 and 10.9 cm below the base of the clusters. More than 90% of the total cluster area at both sites was associated with water levels between 5.0 (submerged) and 19.9 cm (exposed). The greatest total cluster area was associated with water levels between 5.0 and 9.9 cm, which may be the optimal water-level range for Helonias bullata. A relatively small simulated water-level drawdown of 15 cm exposed more than 30% of the cluster area at both sites to extreme hydrologic conditions, which we defined as the water level beyond which &lt; 10% of the total existing Helonias bullata cover occurred at our sites (i.e.,  20 cm below the base of the clusters). A larger simulated water-level reduction of 30 cm exposed all or nearly all of the cluster area to extreme conditions. Simulated impacts on habitat were less pronounced for smaller drawdowns because losses of suitable habitat (i.e., habitat that occurs within the 10th and 90th percentiles of measured water levels associated with Helonias bullata) were countered by dewatering of habitat that was previously submerged. The extent to which this dewatered habitat can compensate for losses in suitable habitat depends upon the potential for Helonias bullata to colonize the dewatered habitat. The hydrologic relationships described in this study may inform restoration efforts for this species and provide the basis for assessing potential impacts to Helonias bullata sites that are subjected to hydrologic variation.
20063804|Intense prescribed fire has been suggested as a possible method for forest restoration in mixed conifer forests. In 1993, a prescribed fire in a dense, never-harvested forest on the North Rim of Grand Canyon National Park escaped prescription and burned with greater intensity and severity than expected. We sampled this burned area and an adjacent unburned area to assess fire effects on understory species composition, diversity, and plant cover. The unburned area was sampled in 1998 and the burned area in 1999; 25% of the plots were resampled in 2001 to ensure that differences between sites were consistent and persistent, and not due to inter-annual climatic differences. Species composition differed significantly between unburned and burned sites; eight species were identified as indicators of the unburned site and thirteen as indicators of the burned site. Plant cover was nearly twice as great in the burned site than in the unburned site in the first years of measurement and was 4.6 times greater in the burned site in 2001. Average and total species richness was greater in the burned site, explained mostly by higher numbers of native annual and biennial forbs. Overstory canopy cover and duff depth were significantly lower in the burned site, and there were significant inverse relationships between these variables and plant species richness and plant cover. Greater than 95% of the species in the post-fire community were native and exotic plant cover never exceeded 1%, in contrast with other northern Arizona forests that were dominated by exotic species following high-severity fires. This difference is attributed to the minimal anthropogenic disturbance history (no logging, minimal grazing) of forests in the national park, and suggests that park managers may have more options than non-park managers to use intense fire as a tool for forest conservation and restoration.
10.2307/4126914| Seed dormancy and germination, flowering, and biomass allocation patterns of the deciduous forest species Chaerophyllum procumbens var. shortii were investigated relative to its winter annual life cycle. It was determined that seeds had nondeep simple morphophysiological dormancy at maturity in late May. The physiological component of dormancy was broken during summer, and embryos grew (morphological component) in autumn if seeds were exposed to light. Seeds sown in late spring germinated only in autumn, but a few did not germinate until the second to seventh autumn, indicting the potential to form a small persistent seed bank. Vernalization was not required for flowering. In the field, plant growth and development occurred during autumn, winter, and early spring, and individual plants reached highest total plant biomass [0.28  0.01 g (mean  SE)] at flowering. Total plant biomass decreased from flowering to mericarp maturity. In two successive years, the proportion of total biomass allocated to roots ( 22.2  2.9%) at five growth stages was less than that allocated to any other vegetative structure. Changes in biomass allocation during reproductive growth stages occurred only in above-ground structures. Although mass of reproductive structures was strongly correlated with plant vegetative mass, differences in slopes of the regressions between years indicated that between cohort differences in percent reproductive allocation were not completely accounted for by overall plant size. 
41262028|The genus Ariocarpus comprises seven endangered species endemic to the Chihuahuan Desert. We studied the reproductive ecology of Ariocarpus fissuratus at Cuatrocinegas region, Mexico, in order to explore if reproductive traits influence population viability. The size of perianth, pistils and stamens, floral behavior and controlled pollination treatments were assessed to determine Cruden's outcrossing index (OCI), the outcrossing rate and the mating system. The breeding system was estimated with pollen/ovule ratios (P/O) and outcrossing rate was estimated by comparing progeny from self-and outcross-pollination treatments. Frequency and behavior of floral visitors was determined, and nectar production recorded. Ariocarpus fissuratus blooms synchronously during three weeks in autumn. Flowers display herkogamy and homogamy, and OCI and P/O ratio suggest xenogamy. Generalized linear mixed models were fitted to evaluate the effect of pollination treatment on fruit set and number of viable seeds yielded per fruit. Fruit set was significantly higher in the outcrossing treatment than in the selling treatments. The mating system indicates that A. fissuratus is mainly an outcrosser, showing a partial self-incompatibility with low fruit set for hand self-pollination. Floral visitors are native solitary and introduced bees, and beetles cause high levels of florivory damage. Reproductive ecology suggests that the need for pollinators, presence of exotic pollinators, partial self-incompatibility and florivory negatively affect sexual reproduction and thus the persistence of this endangered species.
40207601|Previous research has shown that identical scale and bark injuries occur on stems of 16 species of columnar cacti in North and South America. For all 16 species, areas with scale and bark injuries on stems were greater on equatorial-facing surfaces than on polar-facing surfaces. Moreover, percentages of stem areas with injuries were well correlated with relative amounts of annual sunlight exposure. Cacti with high levels of scale and bark injuries had high levels of mortality. Previous data have shown that at the Equator, about 1.4 times more incident light occurs on west-facing and east-facing surfaces (equatorial surfaces) than on north-facing and south-facing (polar-facing) surfaces. Herein we determined the percentages of stem areas with scale and bark injuries on equatorial-facing (east and west) and polarfacing (north and south) surfaces of four species of columnar cacti in Ecuador (near the Equator). Specifically, percentages of trough areas with scale and bark injuries were determined for stems of Armatocereus cartwrightianus, Pilosocereus lanuginosus, and Praecereus euchlorus on mainland Ecuador and for Jasminocereus thousarii on the Galapagos Islands, Ecuador. For our analysis, data from all four cactus species were pooled. Chi-square tests showed that average injuries on equatorial surfaces were greater than average injuries on polar surfaces. For the pooled data, injuries on equatorial-facing surfaces were 1.4 times greater than on polar-facing surfaces. Therefore, the 1.4 times greater injuries on equatorial-facing surfaces compared with polar-facing surfaces was coincident with the 1.4 times greater incident light on equatorial surfaces than on polar surfaces for cacti at the Equator. Taken together with previous data, the data of this study show that at least 20 species of long-lived columnar cactus species in the Americas have almost identical scale and bark injuries even though they exist from 32 N to 32 S. Ratios of equatorial vs. polar injuries are well correlated with ratios of PAR (photosynthetically active radiation) for equatorial and polar surfaces. Moreover, the ratio of injuries on equatorial vs. polar surfaces were highly correlated with the latitudes of this study.
10.2307/2997314|Torreya taxifolia (Arn.), an endangered conifer, is believed to be failing in its environment because of poor growth. Poor growth has been hypothesized to be a result of disease infection, yet a primary disease agent has remained elusive. We compared the growth of T. taxifolia to a close congener, T. californica (Torrey), to determine if T. taxifolia is growing less vigorously in its environment than would be expected under the assumption that the two species should exhibit similar growth patterns. We found that growth patterns do not statistically differ between the two species although T. taxifolia shows a slightly higher growth than T. californica by most measures. With no reason to believe that T. californica is failing in its environment, we cannot reject the hypothesis that the currently observed patterns of growth in T. taxifolia are normal for this species. Tree rings were sampled from dead and downed logs that date from the time of the decline. Tree rings show frequent periods of suppression and release consistent with a tree responding to variation in light. In addition, trees planted in high light treatment expanded a terminal bud and grew in height more frequently than those in low light treatments. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that low light is a primary environmental feature limiting growth in T. taxifolia. These observations argue against, but do not reject, the hypothesis that low growth rate is a result of disease stress.
20063880|A comparative flora of ten large ( 400 ha) urban parks located in or bordering on Boston, MA; New York, NY; Philadelphia, PA; Baltimore, MD; and Washington, DC was created. Patterns of species presence or absence were analyzed to determine whether a common urban park flora exists; to determine interpark similarities; and the relationship between species diversity and human population of the counties in which the parks are located. The combined vascular flora for the ten parks contains 147 families, 599 genera and 1391 species, 490 of which are non-native. Fewer than 1% of the total number of species were present in all ten parks and less than 2.5% were present in nine or ten parks, indicating that a common urban park flora does not exist. Floristic similarity was related to the geographic proximity of the parks for both native and non-native species. However, the two parks in Bronx County, New York City had greater similarity to parks in Baltimore, MD and Washington, DC than the three parks in Kings and Queens Counties, New York City suggesting that species introductions and removals mask similarity related to geographic proximity. Linear regression analysis revealed a significant direct relationship between human population and non-native species diversity that may be a result of greater access to funds for plantings in more densely populated areas. Also, a significant inverse linear relationship was found between human population and native species diversity, which is likely caused by the higher intensity of trampling and vandalism causing a greater loss of native species.
41262021|Throughout much of its range, Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr. (eastern hemlock) is severely threatened by the hemlock woolly adelgid (HWA; Adelges tsugae Annand), an exotic, invasive insect introduced from Japan. HWA causes defoliation and mortality, which presents a serious threat to the survival of T. canadensis in forests of eastern North America. Although HWA has been extensively studied in the forests of New England and the Mid-Atlantic, its spread into forested ecosystems throughout the southern Appalachian Mountains is relatively recent, and few studies have addressed the early impacts of this biological invasion. This study utilized forest inventory data collected in 2003, and again in 2008-2009 to quantify T. canadensis mortality and consequential shifts in species composition resulting from infestations of HWA throughout Great Smoky Mountains National Park. We observed significant decreases in the density of overstory and understory T. canadensis. The majority of the surviving overstory T. canadensis trees are in severe decline, and will likely die in the coming years. Furthermore, understory T. canadensis trees have experienced greater rates of mortality than overstory trees. No individual site or stand characteristic was correlated with mortality. Overstory and understory species composition did not significantly change over the observation period, but the overwhelming presence of Rhododendron maximum L. (rosebay rhododendron) in the understory may influence future successional trends in forests of the southern Appalachian Mountains.
10.2307/2997290|In the 19
10.2307/3088772|This study documents changes in the distribution of non-native woody species from 1938 to 1999 within 30 forests of a $54\>km^2$ landscape in Monroe County, New York. Within these forests, the mean number of exotic species increased nearly three-fold from 1938 to 1999, and two species not naturalized within the landscape in 1938, Lonicera morrowii and Rosa multiflora, had become widespread by 1999. In 1999, the most abundant exotic was Lonicera morrowii, which had greater cover within forests on wetter portions of the landscape where much of the surrounding agricultural land had been abandoned. Though exotics accounted for < 10 % of relative cover within the shrub layer and < 1 % of the tree layer, their cover was higher in portions of some forests, especially near edges. In 1999, six species had covers > 25 % within patches $> 100\>m^2$: Acer platanoides, Crataegus monogyna, Ligustrum vulgare, Lonicera morrowii, Robinia pseudoacacia and Rosa multiflora. These species in particular may represent on-going invasions that could alter this landscape's forested habitats.
41678796|Salt marsh islands are currently threatened by rates of erosion and sea level rise outpacing rates of sediment accretion. Past deposition of dredge materials was used to create spoil islands, which adds to total upland area but may result in different plant assemblages as found on natural islands. Plant diversity was compared between 11 spoil and 9 natural islands of the Timucuan Ecological and Historic Preserve, along a tributary of the St. Johns River, northeastern Florida. At each island, a I m quadrat was used to estimate plant and unvegetated cover every 5 m along a transect that extended from the upland border to the approximate middle of each island. Three parallel transects were surveyed on each island. A total of 92 species was recorded with a mean of 21.8 species per spoil island and 16.7 species per natural island. Mean species richness was 3.0  0.1 m and each species was present in < 3% of the sampled quadrats. Island area contributed to species richness in the preserve, describing 78.1% of the variability in species richness. Species diversity on spoil and natural islands was similar (ANOSIM; Clarke's R = 0.069), indicating that the approximately 50-yr old spoil islands had sufficient time for physical conditions to be comparable to natural islands. The low species occurrences among islands were likely a response to local dynamics influencing species recruitment and survivorship. This study suggests that spoil material may serve to maintain upland habitat as rising sea level threatens coastal marshes.
10.2307/2997217|Abiotic resources may limit growth and reproduction of forest understory herbs or cause changes in allocation between sexual and vegetative reproduction. In a field experiment, 104 ramets of Viola blanda were randomly assigned to four treatments: shading (by 55% shade cloth) only, fertilization (using superphosphate fertilizer) only, or shading and fertilization. After harvesting and drying to constant weight, the mass of the entire ramet, the mass of ramet after any stolons, pedicels, or fruits had been removed, the mass of the pedicels and fruits, and the mass of the stolons were measured. Analyses of variance and covariance indicated that shading significantly reduced the mass of the entire ramet, the mass of the sum of leaves, roots, and rhizomes, and the mass of stolons. Phosphorus increased the combined mass of the pedicel and fruit. Unshaded plants were more likely to have fruit and stolons. The proportion of total biomass allocated to seeds, stolons, or pedicels and fruit was not changed by the treatments. A surprising result was that shading increased average seed mass. Chemical analysis showed that fertilized plants had higher levels of tissue phosphorus. The results generally suggest that light levels limit growth and reproduction in V. blanda, but do not change patterns of allocation to reproduction via seeds and stolons.
10.2307/2997302|To investigate influences of land use on old field successional vegetation,we sampled twenty-one old field with agricultural histories of either cultivation or pasturing in Tompkins County, New York. A TWINSPAN classification showed a major division corresponding to field history, with apple-dominated old pastures clustered together. Analyses of ground-layer vegetation did not show the same division. Common and important woody plants included Acer rubrum, Comus racemosa, Crataegus spp., Fraxinus americana, Malus spp., Pinus strobus, Prunus serotina, Rhamnus cathartica, and Viburnum dentatum. Formerly pastured old fields more frequently contained apple, pear, buckthom, and hawthorn, which were sometimes the dominant trees. These taxa were infrequent and never dominant in formerly cultivated old fields, which more commonly contained red maple and white pine. Exotic plants were a major part of the successional vegetation, comprising over one quarter of the woody and one third of the herbaceous taxa identified. Most of the exotic woody taxa were early successional species, however. A number of herbaceous forest understory species appeared in formerly cultivated old fields. One formerly pastured site that had never been plowed contained 13 such taxa, which apparently persisted through fifty years of pasturing.
40207611|A step-by-step procedure is described and demonstrated using the liana flora of Pennsylvania, USA, for the creation of simple biodiversity informatics applications in the form of Web-mashups. The target audience is non-tech-sawy biologists. For each liana species, the Web-based "Liana Atlas of Pennsylvania" creates Species Pages by aggregating information or direct links to information on taxonomy, distribution, morphology, genetics, as well as photographs and general encyclopedic or bibliographic information, "live" from third-party websites including the Global Biodiversity Information Facility, the USDA PLANTS database, Wikipedia , and GenBank. The result is an original, information-rich, fully illustrated application providing more up-to-date information on Pennsylvanian lianas in one place than had previously been available elsewhere. More importantly, the procedure described and files available at the demonstration website are portable and customizable to many other biogeographic regions or taxa, and its application requires only basic knowledge of Web navigation and text editors. We hope that this procedure will encourage others, including biologists with limited IT knowledge or at smaller institutions with limited resources, to contribute their own informatics applications valuable to local or regional interest-groups such as educators, students, and amateurs.
43286981|At least 50 angiosperm families have plants that produce both chasmogamous flowers and cleistogamous flowers. Various environmental and physiological factors, including the plant growth regulators gibberellins (GAs), have been reported to influence the flower types. Here, the relationship between GAs and flower production was studied for the first time in Viola, a genus famous for the large number of species with the mixed breeding system. Orthologs of genes for GA20 oxidase (VGA20ox) and GA3 oxidase (VGA3ox) were identified by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) from a widespread North American species, Viola pubescens. Semiquantitative RT-PCR indicated that both genes had increased expression in chasmogamous flowers as compared to cleistogamous flowers, supporting a role for GA in the differential production of flower type. However, the application of exogenous GA3 (the most common commercially available GA) to V. pubescens failed to induce a conversion of production of cleistogamous flowers to chasmogamous ones. Thus, increased levels of GAs in the floral buds appeared be related to flower type in the chasmogamous-cleistogamous mixed breeding system in V. pubescens, but exogenous application was not sufficient to induce an alteration in the type of flower produced.
10.2307/3088726| Electric and petroleum utility corridors are common components of human-dominated landscapes, vital for the distribution of electric power, natural gas, and oil over short and long distances. Despite their economic importance, construction and maintenance of utility corridors can have negative impacts on the natural ecosystems that they traverse. For example, utility corridors can serve as foci for invasion of native plant communities by alien plant species that can adversely affect community structure and function. To determine how corridor establishment influences riparian vegetation of the Allegheny High Plateau of northwestern Pennsylvania, we compared the species composition and richness of the herbaceous layer (all vascular plants  1 m tall) of utility corridors and adjacent headwater riparian forests, and tested the hypothesis that utility corridors serve as foci for the invasion of adjacent riparian forest by alien vascular plants. We contrasted plant species richness and vegetative cover, cover by growth form, species richness and cover of alien plants and cover of microhabitat components (open soil, rock, leaf litter, log, bryophyte) in utility corridors and adjacent riparian forest at 17 sites. Cluster analysis revealed that herbaceous layer species assemblages in corridors and riparian forest were compositionally distinct. Herbaceous layer cover and species richness were significantly (P  0.05) greater in corridors than in riparian forest. Fern, graminoid, and forb species co-dominated herbaceous layer cover in corridors; fern cover dominated riparian forests. Cover of alien plants was significantly greater in corridors than in riparian forest. Alien plant species richness and cover were significantly and positively correlated with open soil, floodplain width, and active channel width in corridors but were significantly and negatively correlated with litter cover in riparian forest. Given that the majority of alien plant species we found in corridors were shade-intolerant and absent from riparian forests, we conclude that open utility corridors primarily serve as habitat refugia, rather than as invasion foci, for alien plant species in riparian forests of the Allegheny High Plateau. 
20063943|Species composition of Pinus ponderosa P.&C. Lawson var. scopulorum Engelm. forests in the sky islands of the Davis Mountains was evaluated and classified using ordination and classification techniques. Twelve study sites were established within Pinus ponderosa forests in the summers of 2002 and 2003. Overstory (tree) and understory (shrub and herbaceous) vegetation strata were sampled. Thirteen associations were recognized by combining four overstory groups and eight understory groups. The associations reflected a wide range of ecological conditions with Juniperus deppeana associations occupying dry sites and Pinus ponderosa associations occupying wetter sites. The major environmental factors responsible for the differences in vegetation of these forests were altitude, slope position, slope inclination, and soil moisture.
40207619|The occurrence of crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) and c photosynthetic activities in Peperomia species has been linked to the differential distribution of c and c photosynthetic enzymes within the distinct leaf tissue layers. Our objectives were to test if relative thickness of the spongy mesophyll layer is an indication of CAM and if the distribution of water in the leaf tissue changes in response to drought. Under field conditions we studied photosynthesis and water relations of Peperomia obtusifolia and P. macrostachya, species that differ in leaf anatomy. Gas exchange and titratable acidity were measured over a complete 24 hour photoperiod. Plant water status was determined at dawn while chlorophyll a fluorescence data were collected during the day (12 noon). Thickness of the distinct leaf layers was determined with the aid of a calibrated light microscope. Gas exchange and titratable acidity showed that when well-hydrated, P. obtusifolia has typical c activity and P. macrostachya has typical CAM activity with spongy mesophyll layer thickness of 26% and 76% respectively. With almost the same proportion of spongy layer, P. macrostachya was found to exhibit reduced CAM activity while P. obtusifolia switch from c to CAM during the dry season. During the dry season, P. macrostachya did not show significant change in leaf osmotic potential, whereas P. obtusifolia had a significant increase at dawn, likely due to malic accumulation. Relative water content (RWC) was reduced significantly for both species during the dry season with severe reduction in P. macrostachya. Though there was a drastic reduction in RWC, no change in thickness was noticed within the water storing hydrenchyma. This, in addition to reduced CAM activity, could be an adaptation by the plant to drought. We also found that the distribution of water in the leaf tissue changes in response to drought, from the hydrenchyma to the chlorenchyma in P. obtusifolia, but not the case in P. macrostachya. Chlorophyll a fluorescence parameters Fo and qN were significantly higher during the dry season for both species, in contrast to Fv/Fm and
10.2307/3557553|We examined how selective seed predation by the introduced red imported fire ant (Solenopsis invicta Buren) influenced an old field plant assemblage by observing the ants' effects on ragweed (Ambrosia artemisiifolia) distribution and growth. Ragweed had higher cover on ant mounds than off mounds, and plants growing on the mounds had higher aboveground biomass than did plants growing away from mounds. Nitrate concentrations were higher on ant mound soil, while concentrations of organic matter, phosphorus, magnesium, copper, and zinc were higher in soil off ant mounds. In seed predation experiments, ragweed seeds were selected less often than those of four other early successional species: pigweed (Amaranthus retroflexus), bluegrass (Poa annua), common lamb's quarters (Chenopodium album), and goldenrod (Solidago altissima). Moreover, fire ants selected both larger and smaller seeds than those of ragweed indicating that selection was not driven by relative seed size. There was an increase in the number of ragweed seeds removed by fire ants as the summer progressed, suggesting that more ragweed seeds were incorporated into the diet of fire ants as other species of seeds became less abundant. Lastly, nearly all seeds of pigweed (a preferred species) placed 1, 2, 3 and 4 meters from ant mounds were consumed, which suggests that fire ants may effectively forage the entire field. Both fire ants and ragweed are early successional species that rapidly invade disturbed areas created by humans and natural events. Fire ants significantly contributed to the success of ragweed plants growing in an old field community.
20063840|In 1991, large plots established on the dunes on Hog Island, part of the Virginia Coast Reserve Long Term Ecological Research site, were fertilized with nitrogen to examine plant community response to nitrogen addition. Nitrogen fertilization significantly increased biomass, and the fertilized plots continued to exhibit enhanced production for 9 years following fertilization. The current study sampled aboveground biomass, belowground biomass, and nitrogen standing crops of the experimental plots on a mid-island dune to determine the mechanism of long- term nitrogen retention in this nitrogen-limited system. Aboveground and belowground biomass were significantly greater in the fertilized plots than in the control plots in 2000. Aboveground biomass declined significantly in control and fertilized plots from 1991 to 2000, while belowground biomass exhibited a significant increase in both control and fertilized plots. In particular, biomass of standing dead, litter, and live roots, and nitrogen standing crop in all plant components were substantially greater in fertilized plots in 2000. Nitrogen concentrations were higher in the litter in the fertilized plots. These data suggest that the retention of nitrogen within the fertilized plots has been primarily facilitated by increased biomass, predominantly in roots, and increased pools of plant litter.
20063822|Anatomically preserved fossils from the Late Permian basins of Antarctica and eastern Australia have played a pivotal role in our understanding of Glossopteris-bearing plants since their discovery in the late 1960s. The first studies, from the Bowen Basin of Queensland by Gould and Delevoryas, showed that permineralized glossopterid ovules are borne on fertile leaf-like structures, suggesting to these authors a "seed fern" affinity for them. Based on vascular bundle orientation, it is now clear that ovules are borne on the adaxial surface of fertile structures, and more recent study has documented that they are often borne on small stalks. Plectilospermum, an Antarctic seed, was shown to exhibit simple polyembryony. With the recent discovery of evidence for swimming sperm in Australian ovules, our understanding of glossopterid reproduction continues to develop. Although whole plant reconstructions are not yet known for individual glossopterid plants, we can now document, in part, information about the plants that bore G. schopfii, G. skaarensis, and G. homevalensis leaves.
10.2307/3088693| The characteristics of pramo (tropical alpine) vegetation were investigated at a chronically disturbed site in Podocarpus National Park, southern Ecuador. Located at 2950 m elevation, this site was most likely covered with forest 500 years ago, but it has experienced frequent anthropogenic disturbances during the past several hundred years. Nine 2 x 2 m plots were inventoried to determine the diversity and floristic composition of this vegetation, and the results are compared to those obtained for other pramo communities examined in southern Ecuador. Approximately 60 vascular plant species occurred, most of which are common in pramo communities located at higher elevations. This community exhibits characteristics of both grass and shrub pramo vegetation, and shrubs are as important as any of the other six life forms present. Finally, I discuss the vegetation of this site in relation to disturbance ecology and other environmental factors. 
10.2307/3557541|Morphometric analysis of the fruit detachment zone during fruit ripening was examined in an easy-pick and a hard-pick line of Tabasco peppers. The anatomical parameters examined included: sclereid development, size and shape of parenchyma cells, volume of intercellular space, and crystal development across the diameter of the separation zone. During ripening, sclerification proceeded centripetally in both lines but was more pronounced in the hard pick line. Parenchyma cells in the central zone of both lines were nearly isodiametric and did not enlarge significantly during fruit maturation. In the peripheral zone, parenchyma cells of easy-pick fruits elongated significantly more than corresponding cells in the hard-pick line. There was a greater volume of intercellular space in the central zone than the peripheral zone of both lines, but more so in the easy-pick line. The number of crystals in the central zone decreased in both lines during fruit ripening. This study suggests that several anatomical factors are associated with ease of fruit separation from the peduncle in pepper.
41262045|We evaluated the impact of long-term overbrowsing by white-tailed deer on the diversity and density of trees in a forest in the Allegheny High Plateau region of central Pennsylvania. We compared tree diversity and density inside a 60 year-old deer exclosure to an adjacent reference site. Browsing caused a 55-100% decline in density of four tree species (Prunus serotina, Acer saccharum, Betula lenta, Cornus alternifolia) and created a forest dominated (> 70% of all stems) by Acer pensylvanicum, an understory tree that is known to be highly browse-tolerant. The total density of trees that are capable of ascending into the canopy (i. e., non subcanopy tree species) declined by 85%. Browsing caused a significant decline in both mean species richness and Shannon diversity and created communities that contrasted significantly in tree species composition (ANOSIM, R = 0.8105, P < 0.0001). Our results suggest that long-term over-browsing can create low density, depauperate communities where dominance is concentrated in only a few browse-resistant species (Acer pensylvanicum and Fagus grandifolia; 82% of all individuals vs. 37% inside the exclosure). We suggest that this may lead to novel forest dynamics in the event of a large canopy disturbance because these two species were never co-dominant in this region and the beech saplings (typically root sprouts) will likely succumb to future bouts of beech bark disease. Our results combined with those of many other studies call for the long-term reduction in the size of the deer herd throughout this region.
20063916|The objective of this study was to assess nutrient losses, via soil solutes, from discrete zones of recent, single-tree gaps in an old-growth, northern hardwood forest. Growing season flux rates of all solutes did not differ between the "undisturbed" zones (areas 5 m away from gap-making trees) and "crownfall" zones (areas associated with fallen tree crowns) of the twelve tree-fallgaps we studied. Under assumptions of partial root gap formation (50% root mortality), total cation and anion fluxes were 2-fold greater, and DON and total N fluxes were 2- to 3-fold greater in the "proximate" zones (areas 0-2 m from stumps of snapped, gap-making trees) compared to the crownfall and undisturbed zones. The "pit" zones (areas of disturbed soil associated with tipped-up trees) exhibited 3- to 6-fold greater
10.2307/3088719|Although there is considerable controversy regarding the phylogenetic structure and infrafamilial classification of Chenopodiaceae, the tribe Atripliceae generally has been recognized as a natural group. Relationships within this tribe remain controversial, especially with regard to the taxonomic delimitation and infrageneric classification of the largest genus, Atriplex. Most of the genera that have been segregated from Atriplex are monotypic or include few species that are variously distributed in Africa, Australia, or North America; however, one of these genera, Obione, includes half of all species of Atriplex sens. lat., and has a worldwide distribution. Seventy terminals were included in a cladistic analysis, based on morphological characters, to test the monophyly of Atripliceae and its subtribes, and of Atriplex, Obione, and several infrageneric groups. The taxonomic sample includes representatives of 22 putative genera of the tribe Atripliceae, and all sections of Atriplex (except Austrobione) and Obione, following Ulbrich's (1934) classification, from throughout the geographic range of the tribe. Primary hypotheses of homology were postulated for 78 characters reflecting variation in gross morphology, leaf anatomy, and chromosome number. Results, as reflected in the strict consensus tree, suggest that both Atripliceae and Atriplex are paraphyletic, with three outgroup genera from tribe Chenopodieae (Chenopodium, Monolepis, and Suckleya) nested among species of Atriplex. Also, monophyly of the subtribes of Atripliceae is not supported. The results suggest that the deepest branch within Atripliceae is between Ceratocarpus and all other members of the tribe. Krascheninnikovia, the next genus to diverge, is the sister of a diverse clade that consists of two subclades. One of these includes Theleophyton plus Endolepis, Zuckia, and Grayia, and the other includes all species of Atriplex in the sample, plus all sampled species of Obione, the remaining genera of Atripliceae, and the three sampled genera of Chenopodieae, with Halimione pedunculata as the sister of all other members of this clade. Resolution generally is poor among species of Atriplex, and neither Obione nor most of the sections of Atriplex is resolved as monophyletic, though there is support for the monophyly of section Spongiocarpus. Also nested among species of Atriplex and Obione is a well resolved clade with four defined subgroups: Suckleya by itself; Atriplex hortensis and Chenopodium; Archiatriplex, Axyris, and Microgynoecium; and Monolepis, Proatriplex, Manochlamys, and Exomis. The results support the recognition of Endolepis, Theleophyton, and Zuckia (sensu Standley 1915) as segregates of Atriplex, but not Blackiella, Halimione, Haloxanthium, Morrisiella, Neopreissia, Obione, Pachypharynx, or Senniella. In addition, the results suggest that the continued recognition of Archiatriplex, Axyris, Exomis, Manochlamys, Microgynoecium, Proatripex, and Spinacia (Atripliceae), as well as Chenopodium, Suckleya, and Monolepis (Chenopodieae) should be reconsidered. If these results are confirmed by further analyses using other character sets and a wider taxonomic sample, it will be necessary either to transfer several genera to Atriplex or to circumscribe Atriplex narrowly, and segregate a number of additional genera from it.
20063945|A silvicultural chronosequence was studied in upland pine stands of Fort Benning, Georgia, to assess understory vegetation and soil characteristics following silvicultural disturbance activities. Hypotheses regarding patterns of understory vegetation distribution and abundance, and the impact of disturbance on soil properties were evaluated in 32 forest stands. The chronosequence encompassed various times following clear-cut regeneration: stand age (0-3 yrs), (8-10 yrs), (18-20 yrs), and (30-80 yrs). Soil pH, total carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) contents, soil texture, and bulk density were used to characterize soil conditions across the chronosequence. Foliar cover by species was used to characterize vegetation across this same chronosequence. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) was performed to determine the relationship between understory vegetation pattern and measured soil gradients and stand age. CCA identified stand age as the most important factor influencing distribution and abundance of understory vegetation. Herbaceous species composition and cover varied more with stand age than did understory woody species. Aside from a decrease in bulk density soil variables did not vary with recovery time. Indicator analysis identified Gaylussacia mosieri (Small) and Carya spp. as the only significant woody indicators of age class. Cyperus croceus (Vahl) and Bulbostylis barbata (Rottb.) C. B. Clarke were identified as herbaceous indicators of the 0-3 age class. Andropogon virginicus (L.), Dichanthelium sp. and Sporobolus junceus (Beauv.) Kunth were significant indicators of the 8-10 year age class. Significant indicators of the 15-20 year class were Pityopsis sp. and Tridens flavus (L.) A. S. Hitchc. Andropogon ternarius (Michx.), Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash, Desmodium sp., Hieracium sp., and Rhynchosia tomentosa (L.) Hook. & Arn. were indicators of 30-80 year age class. Major changes in understory vegetation cover and composition continued for at least 15-20 years post clear-cut regeneration.
10.2307/2997263|To contribute to the un-derstanding of the long-term effects of atmospheric deposition on forests of eastern North America, we conducted a set of greenhouse experiments designed to determine the effect of reduced soil Ca:Al ratio on growth and competitive interactions of two common, co-occuring tree species. Second year seedlings of northern red oak (Quercus rubra), an ectomycorrhizal species currently declining in abundance in eastern North America, and yellow-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera), an arbuscular mycorrhizal species currently increasing in abundance, were grown in intraspecific or interspecific pairs in either field soil or silica sand, and at Ca:Al ratio of 4 or 100. Overall relative growth rates (RGR) of the two species were similar; however, red oak allocated more new biomass to stem wood while yellow-poplar allocated biomass to leaves and roots. Reducing the Ca:Al ratio from 100 to 4 had no major effect on red oak growth but reduced RGR, leaf production, and N uptake significantly in yellow-poplar; leaf [N] was significantly higher in red oaks grown at Ca:Al of 4 than 100. Yellow-poplar grew better in interspecific pairs than in intraspecific pairs. In contrast, competitive mode had no effect on red oak growth. Analysis of soil N pools indicated that red oak was unable to make use of the inorganic N added during biweekly nutrient solution additions. In contrast yellow-poplar was able to deplete soil N pools rapidly and its growth was probably N limited at Ca:Al ratio of 100. The critical Ca:Al threshold for growth decline appeared to be <4.0 for red oak and >4.0 for yellow-poplar. Yellow-poplar outcompetes red oak under N enriched conditions, but its competitive advantage decreases at lowered Ca:Al ratio. We hypothesize that the current shift in tree species composition observed in eastern North America may be the consequence of N enrichment, but that the direction of these shifts may reverse as lowered Ca:Al ratio and other effects of N saturation develop.
40207618|In the 92 native wild spiny or thorny Asteraceae species in Israel, five types of spiny modules exist: 1) rosette leaves, 2) cauline leaves, 3) wings along the main stem or branches, 4) leaves associated with the inflorescence head, and 5) thorny branches. Per species, up to four of these modules protect shoots and inflorescences against vertebrate herbivores. Of the 92 species, 37 have only one type of spiny module, and 30 of these have spines associated with the inflorescence head; three species have two spiny modules, 30 species have three, and 23 species have four. The most common module protects the inflorescence (84 species). Next follow spiny cauline leaves (58 species), spiny rosette leaves (54 species), spiny wings on stems and branches (23 species), and lastly thorny branches (three species). At least 41 of the 92 spiny species have colorful spines and may be considered aposematic.
40207574|Ten dry prairie remnants in south-central Wisconsin first sampled in 1950 were resampled in 2005 to determine changes in species presence and frequency and to characterize differences between species that increased and decreased in abundance. Combined species richness over all sites has increased (from 147 to 189), but this largely reflects the recruitment of exotic species, woody vegetation, and taller shade-tolerant species. Mean native species richness per site decreased (from 65.2 to 59.7) reflecting the loss of rarer and shorter forbs while mean exotic species richness increased greatly (from 0.3 to 10.1). Although the average number of habitat generalist species per site has remained constant (13.0 vs. 13.6), the number of habitat specialists has declined (from 27.4 to 21.7) contributing to declines in floristic quality. The five native species that decreased in occurrence and 15 that decreased in frequency tended to be short, non-clonal specialist forbs. The seven native increaser species tended to be tall, clonal, and/or woody generalists. Efforts to conserve dry prairies should thus focus on those species most at risk (i.e., rare, short-statured, and non-clonal) and the processes that sustain them. Burning and removing exotic species and woody vegetation appear to enhance our ability to conserve and maintain plant diversity in dry prairie remnants.
10.2307/3088736|Acer platanoides is an exotic, invasive tree in eastern deciduous forests of North America where past research shows it to thrive in the forest interior and to suppress understory diversity. To test the efficacy of restoration strategies and to probe dynamics of this tree's seedling bank, trees and seedlings of Acer platanoides were removed in 1997 from a mixed maple forest carpeted by an even mix of exotic Acer platanoides and native Acer saccharum seedlings. The treatments were removal of trees (height > 1.5 m) and removal of small seedlings (height < 1.5 m), using a crossed design with a total of 80 permanent plots, all sampled before removals and two years later. After two years, removal of Acer platanoides trees had caused an increase in native Acer saccharum seedling densities over those in control areas and had caused a decrease of new Acer platanoides recruitment. Conversely, removal of Acer platanoides seedlings initiated far more new Acer platanoides than Acer saccharum seedlings. The Acer platanoides seedling bank was partially, but not fully, replenished two years after its removal. Although removal of canopy trees appears effective as a restoration tool, other exotic species (especially Lonicera japonica, Alliaria petiolata, and Robinia pseudoacacia) proliferated where tree removals opened the canopy. Restoring the pre-invasion community will thus require future intervention.
40207615|The tree genus Juglans (nogal, walnut) is generally thought of as a north temperate group, but most of the 16 species of black walnuts (Juglans sect. Rhysocaryon) occur in subtropical areas of the New World, spanning Central America, Andean South America, and the Greater Antilles. The two species native to Central America (J. olanchana var. olanchana and J. steyermarkii) and two closely related Mexican taxa (J. olanchana var. standleyi and J. pyriormis) have not been studied thoroughly from a comparative systematic perspective, so here we provide a detailed investigation of their morphology and natural history as a first step towards a broad-based synthesis of J. sect. Rhysocaryon. Fieldwork in Guatemala and Mexico provided the material for germination studies, morphological analyses, and phylogenetic reconstruction using DNA sequences. Juglans steyermarkii was rediscovered in its type locality in Guatemala, and new populations were located during the course of fieldwork. SEM analysis of trichome diversity and density, along with leaflet shape, provided characters to differentiate among five taxa of Juglans in the accompanying key. Staminate flowers and pollen examined for the first time in J. steyermarkii showed close morphological similarities to those of other species of black walnuts. Variation in the pattern of nut-wall sculpture appears to be a promising source of variation; however, adequate capture and quantification of this variation will likely require three-dimensional scanning techniques. There was high variability in percent seed germination of the two Central American species and no observed advantage to leaching, scarification, or a prolonged stratification period. DNA studies included in the exploration of three promising sources of nuclear sequence variation: the ETS and ITS (external and internal transcribed spacer of ribosomal DNA), and the second intron of the LEAFY gene. Combined phylogenetic analysis of these sequences provided a moderately resolved topology containing two major groups of black walnuts and a general correlation between phylogeny and geography. The analyses supported a division between taxa from northern Mexico and the USA, and those from southern Mexico, Guatemala, the West Indies (Greater Antilles), and South America. Observations on the geographic range of Juglans in Mexico and Guatemala indicated a frequent association with coffee plantations, suggesting similar climatic requirements. Our studies of the dispersed and most likely fragmented populations indicate that Juglans may still be found in native plant communities as a canopy tree, although it is much more common to observe populations in cleared areas where the trees were retained as shade for coffee. We are not aware of any major efforts to conserve the native nogal in Central America, though they are sometimes left and/or planted as shade trees in coffee tineas. A study conducted in Mexico suggests that Juglans might be useful in agroforestry efforts to rehabilitate degraded sites.
10.2307/2997252|We characterized the microhabitats of the endemic Florida scrub plant Dicerandra christmanii in comparison to random points in the same abandoned sand road and random points in adjoining mature oak scrub lacking plants. We also compared microhabitat preferences of D. christmanii to its endemic, allopatric congener D. frutescens, a plant with a similar life history growing in similar habitats. Plants of D. christmanii occur in microhabitats with significantly more open canopies, shorter shrubs, and lower litter cover and depth than random points in the scrub. Random points in the abandoned road had intermediate microhabitats. D. christmanii had similar quadrat occupancy patterns across gradients of litter depth and cover as its congener. However, it occurred less often than D. frutescens under closed canopies and near tall shrubs. The microhabitat preferred by D. christmanii (canopy cover < 60%, shrub height < 3m, litter cover < 80%, litter depth < 2 cm) is absent in mature oak scrub unburned for several decades. Suitable microhabitat can probably be provided by periodic prescribed fire or other disturbances that temporarily remove shrub cover and litter, although the response of D. christmanii to these treatments has not been studied.
25790853|Persicaria extremiorientalis is native to Japan, the Russian Far East, China, and Korea. It is documented here with specimens from the Atlantic coastal region including the states of Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Maryland and North Carolina. The earliest collections in North America are from Queens, New York in 1961. The species belongs to Persicaria section Persicaria, and is distinguished from all other North American species by the combination of stems usually hispid or sparsely pilose with long, soft hairs; ocrea outer surfaces strigose and the apices setose; leaf blades eglandular and the abaxial surfaces golden-strigose; racemes dense, often nodding, the bracts short-ciliate; achenes small, brown, lenticular or biconcave (rarely trigonous) and basally tumescent. The existence of this species in North America is substantiated with herbarium specimens and a full description and an identification key to it and related species are provided.
41811883|In this work fresh material and herbarium specimens of Lentinus and Panus from the semi-arid region of Brazil were analyzed. A new species, Panus parvus, is described as one of the smallest species among the lentinoid species. Lentinus bertieri, L. swartzii, Panus tephroleucus, and P. velutinus are recorded for the first time for the Brazilian semi-arid region. Additional, comments and a key to the species of Lentinus and Panus from this region are provided. Panus caespiticola, Panus hirtiformis, and Panus neostrigosus are new combinations proposed here for a clear understanding in the discussion of Panus parvus.
41475112|Twenty-four noteworthy species of vascular plants are reported from the Torrey Range, encompassing southeastern New York, northern New Jersey, and southwestern Connecticut: Acalypha australis, Carex arctata, Carex typhina, Corallorhiza trfida, Corydalis incisa, Cyperus polystachyos var. texensis, Cypripedium parviflorum var. makasin, Dryopteris celsa, Froelichia floridana, Galium borale, Houstonia pusilla, Isotria medeoloides, Juglans ailantifolia, Juncus brachy carpus, Kyllinga pumila, Nymphoides peltata, Oldenlandia uniflora, Phlox divaricata, Platanthera pallida, Pycnanthemum verticillatum, Ranunculus pusillus, Schoenoplectus mucronatus, Stylophorum diphyllum, and Trichostema setaceum.
40865071|Species may reach novel habitats through dispersal but nevertheless be restricted in their establishment at different life history stages by local conditions. However, disturbances may alter local conditions within a habitat and hence change establishment outcomes. We investigated the establishment of two non-native weeds of pastures and roadsides, Carduus nutans and Carduus acanthoides, in three contiguous habitats (abandoned pasture, forest edge, and forest) under three disturbance treatments: no disturbance, initial disturbance only (pulse disturbance; i.e., temporary), and initial disturbance with weeding (press disturbance; i.e., sustained). For both species, establishment was not limited by seedling emergence in any habitat, although emergence in the pasture and forest edge relied heavily on disturbance. Combined emergence and survival in the pasture and forest edge were also significantly increased by disturbance, but disturbance had no effect in the forest, where seedlings were unable to survive. Our results show how the spread of a species into different habitats may be limited at different life history stages under different disturbance regimes.
40207600|Domesticated tree species represent an economically and ecologically important group of taxa. Trees differ from other well-studied crop systems (rice, wheat, corn, sunflower) in several basic biological attributes, all of which influence the way in which genetic variation is structured in these organisms. The goals of this study were to delimit a lineage of a Mesoamerican domesticated tree, Spondias purpurea, and to investigate the relationship between this lineage and another sympatric congener (S. mombiri) using nuclear and chloroplast sequence data. The fourth intron of Pepc was sequenced for sixty-eight Central American Spondias trees including twelve S. mombin accessions, 55 S. purpurea trees, and one S. radlkoferi individual. Data were analyzed using traditional phylogenetic techniques and using a network approach. Nuclear data were compared with previously published sequence data from the chloroplast spacer trnS-trnG, revealing that the Spondias purpurea lineage includes both cultivated and wild populations, but in localized areas hybridization and incomplete lineage sorting blur the boundaries between the crop species and a sympatric congener. This study provides insight into the nature of a domesticated tree lineage, which, in the case of Spondias purpurea, is generally distinct despite some evidence for ongoing gene flow.
25790855|Pyxidanthera brevifolia is an evergreen semi-woody cushion plant endemic to the Sandhills of North and South Carolina, with the majority of populations occurring on Fort Bragg Military Reservation in North Carolina. Currently the species is listed as Endangered in North Carolina and is designated as a Species at Risk (SAR) by the US Department of Defense. Previous studies have suggested that seeds may not be viable because they failed to germinate under controlled conditions. Our objectives in this study were to attempt germination of Pyxidanthera brevifolia seeds, determine the best temperature conditions for germination, and understand more about germination requirements to aid in future restoration efforts. Using seeds that had been stored at room temperature for six months, we performed a germination experiment at the NCSU Phytotron with six treatments, all combinations of three temperature regimes (low (18 C day / 14 C night), medium (22/18 C), and high (26/22 C)) and two light conditions (light and dark). We monitored the experiment for 13 weeks, recording the number of seeds germinating per dish and the number of days to germination for seeds in each treatment. We found that Pxyidanthera brevifolia produces germinable seeds and that there are significant effects of light and temperature on germination. Highest germination occurred under low temperature and high light conditions (78%); the combination of high temperature and no light produced the lowest germination (6%). Seeds exposed to light germinated significantly earlier at the coolest temperature, compared to medium and high temperatures. These results indicate that it is possible to germinate seeds of this rare plant and suggest that germination of Pyxidanthera brevifolia likely occurs in late fall and is dependent on adequate light availability.
43286999|Seedling morphology is relevant in classification, taxonomy, and vegetation studies to understand plant life cycles, germination succession and requirements, and developmental progression. However, most morphological studies of seedlings lack analysis of organ anatomy, impeding the comprehension of series of development and establishment in a particular environment. Here, we have taken a traditional anatomical approach to examine the stages of seedling development in Epiphyllum phyllanthus, a holo-epiphytic cactus of tribe Hylocereeae. The goals were 1) to offer a comprehensive description of growth series in E. phyllanthus seedlings based on morphological and anatomical analysis and 2) to examine the initial growth phases in the life cycle of this species to identify organ development and understand their adaptive significance in relation to seedling establishment. Our results include descriptions of seed morphology, embryonic features, and seedling vascularization pattern in the root, hypocotyl, cotyledons, and epicotyl. The morphological and developmental patterns in E. phyllanthus seedlings have potential phylogenetic and ontogenetic implications in the Cactaceae. Characters such as the presence of mucilage on the seed coat, the lack of seed operculum, and large cotyledons in E. phyllanthus are comparable to basal cacti, but the root anatomy is more similar to columnar relatives. At the familial level, there is an apparent trend in decreasing number of phloem and xylem poles in the stele of primary root, correlated with degree of specialization and advanced phylogenetic position: tetrarch to septarch-octarch in basal lineages, tetrarch Cereus-type in columnar species, to the diarch vascular system in Rhipsalideae and some species with cylindric/globose stem.
43286986|Habitat specificity of tree species has traditionally been determined by identifying synchronous abiotic characteristics and species presence on the landscape. On a local scale this identifies many species as specialists; however, on a regional scale, most tree species are classified as generalists because individual species are present across a wide-range of edaphic and topographic conditions. To improve our ecological understanding of habitat specificity in trees, we classified white oak (Quercus alba) based on two performance currencies: responsiveness to climate and maximum tree age. We sampled tree rings from both ridge and valley stands in the southern Appalachian Mountains to contrast the dendroclimatic response at these topographic positions. White oak had radial growth responses to Palmer Drought Severity Index, temperature, and precipitation that was not dependent upon topographic position (ridge vs. valley), suggesting that white oak is a generalist species. A dendroclimatic response that is not dependent upon topographic position should allow white oak to adapt readily to climatic shifts that span a range of environmental conditions. Tree age has served as a successful performance currency in relatively undisturbed forests; however, in the southern Appalachian Mountains where there is a long history of human disturbance, maximum tree age revealed more about regional logging history than about white oak habitat specificity. Understanding habitat specificity of plant species improves predictions of species' response to environmental change. Traditionally trees have been classified based on occurrence on the landscape; however, in heavily-impacted forests occurrence is a reflection of land-use history. Dendroclimatology offers a more accurate tool to assess a tree's habitat specificity and was successfully applied in several ridge and valley sites in the Appalachian Mountains to identify white oak as a generalist species.
27751798|The objective of this study was to provide stratigraphic data that could augment historic and recent ecological information concerning the cause of the 20th century vegetation shift from grassland to pine forest in a central Maryland serpentine barren, and potentially elucidate the role of fire, chromium mining, grazing, and other disturbances on serpentine vegetation. A 46-cm core was extracted from a shallow pond draining the watershed of Chimney Branch, underlain by serpentinite. Core chronostratigraphy was established by identifying two sharp spikes in Cr concentrations correlated with historic Cr mining activity peaks and an abrupt increase in pine needle abundance, when pine populations expanded around the coring site. Pine needle analysis reveals that Pinus virginiana (Virginia pine) has been present within a few meters of the coring site since ca. 1810, 120 years earlier than previously documented. A dearth of charcoal over the 200-yr period indicates there were no major fires at the coring site after 1820, although small ground fires within a few 10 s of meters cannot be precluded. Mean sedimentation rates between dated horizons reveal that sediment efflux was highest during the early to mid-19th century (0.510.35 cm yr1), synchronous with active Cr mining activity, and lowest in the past 50 years (0.19 cm yr1) when the area fell under state management and pine forest expanded. Metal concentrations were highest for Cr and Ni, followed in decreasing order by V, Zn, Cu, and Pb. Results from this study suggest that 1) while Pinus virginiana was present in the early 1800s in sheltered lowland sites chromite-mining and its erosive effects on soil development may have been a factor in suppressing pine expansion in the Chimney Branch watershed between 1820 and 1920. Hence, pine expansion may be a natural stage in the succession of serpentine vegetation related directly to increasing soil depth, with the pace of expansion influenced by fire or mining disturbance; and 2) variation in Cr concentrations combined with mining history and macrofossils, in conjunction with aerial photos and recent studies, can provide useful stratigraphic dates to establish ecosystem development within the past 200 years in a serpentine environment.
20063839|Pitch pines (Pinus rigida Mill.) colonize the shores of Cape Cod coastal plain ponds in periods of low water and, once established, inhibit the growth of resident herbaceous species, including rare endemics. The effects of flooding on P. rigida may vary with plant age and may be affected by previous exposure to flooded conditions. To determine the effects of flooding on pitch pine survivorship, we performed three sets of experiments. First, we examined the effects of relative flood depth--root flooding versus total submersion--on three-month-old seedlings. Second, we determined whether prior exposure to root flooding enhanced subsequent survivorship in flooded conditions one year later. Lastly, we compared the effects of root flooding on pines of different ages--three months, 15 months, and five years. We found that three-month-old P. rigida succumbed to total submersion in two to four weeks but tolerated root flooding for up to one year. Fifteen-month-old seedlings that had survived eight weeks of root flooding one year earlier were significantly more flood-tolerant than members of the same cohort that had never been flooded. Fifteen-month-old seedlings, as well as five-year-old saplings, suffered significantly more mortality after four months of root flooding than did three-month-old seedlings. The ability of young P. rigida, normally an upland plant, to survive in waterlogged soil appears to be due, in part, to morphologic modifications acquired in response to flooded conditions, including hypertrophy of lenticels on the stem and plagiotropism. Both these acquired modifications are known to help oxygenate root tissues through internal channels, avoiding cellular anoxia despite reduced oxygen availability in the rhizosphere. Overall, our results suggest that periodic flooding has historically played a role in preventing the colonization of P. rigida on coastal plain pond shores and that reduced flooding intensity may lead to more frequent encroachment of P. rigida in this habitat.
27751809|Spatial patterns of mistletoe seed deposition are behaviorally determined by frugivorous birds but the effects of gut passage on mistletoe seed germination has received little attention. Here we investigate the effects of several predictors and passage through the digestive tube of two bird species, Grey Silky-flycatcher (GSF, Ptilogonys cinereus) and Cedar Waxwings (CW, Bombycilla cedrorum) on seed germination of Psittacanthus schiedeanus (Loranthaceae). Fruits were collected from mistletoe plants growing on three host tree species, Liquidambar styraciflua, Acacia pennatula, and Rapanea myricoides. More mistletoe seeds from Liquidambar trees germinated than those from Acacia and Rapanea trees, regardless of fruit treatment. Fewer seeds defecated by GSFs germinated compared to those defecated by CWs or manually extracted. However, analyzed within a generalized linear modeling framework, host source and seed weight were the best predictors for the occurrence of germination. Seeds were retained longer in the guts of GSFs than seeds in those of CWs, and increased retention time reduced significantly mistletoe seed germination. This study demonstrated that gut passage affected seed germination responses of mistletoes of P. schiedeanus, and additional studies should examine this relationship for other mistletoe-bird interactions.
41475109|In New Hampshire, the Ossipee Pine Barrens is the largest and best example of a Pinus rgida-Quer cus ilicifolia dominated ecosystem remaining in the state. Because of long-term fire suppression in the 20<sub>th</sub> century, we hypothesized that undisturbed stands may be undergoing succession to more shade-tolerant Pinus strobus and hardwoods. To test this hypothesis, we sampled 41 sites within the barrens covering the range of soils, landforms, stand age, and vegetational variation present in the barrens. Current (2002) tree ( 10 cm dbh) and sapling (taller than 1 m, < 10 cm dbh) densities were measured by quadrat sampling. Past (1952) vegetation was reconstructed using reverse-growth equations derived from increment cores from trees alive in 2002 and forensic evidence such as stumps. Future (2052) vegetation was estimated using a simple transition model based on 1952-2002 compositional changes. Community types were classified using cluster analysis of 80 communities based on the 2002 and back-casted 1952 tree species abundances at the study sites. Cluster analysis of the 80 communities using tree relative densities produced four community types, dominated by 1) P. rigida, 2) P. rgida and Acer rubrum, 3) P. strobus and A. rubrum, and 4) A. rubrum, respectively. The frequency of the Pinus rgida community type was highest in 1952 and declined with time, with only 8% of sites predicted to support pitch pine canopies by 2052. The Pinus strobus-Acer rubrum community type increased between 1952 and 2002 as the Pinus rgida type declined, and should continue to increase in the future. The other two communities appeared to be transitional. Pinus rgida was even-aged on most sites, where forests averaged 97  42 years (SD) old. Many sites will transition to P. strobus and hardwoods as canopy pitch pines die, because P. rigida recruitment was not occurring in most stands.
20063787|Long-term studies are necessary to determine how various environmental and anthropogenic factors influence the rates of forest change. To study such changes a 2.02 ha permanent plot in the stand of Tsuga canadensis established about 1800 and located north of Lincoln Pond in the Edmund Niles Huyck Preserve, Rensselaerville, NY, was established in 1978 and resurveyed in 1986, 1994, and 2002. The species, stem diameter, injury type and location (nearest 0.1 m) for all living and dead stems  1 m tall were recorded. Overall, the stand decreased in density and increased in basal area, with similar proportional changes in each time interval. Tsuga canadensis, by far the most important species, increased its relative density and basal area, as did Quercus rubra. Fagus grandifolia decreased in both. Overall mortality rates decreased from 2.4% to 2.1% to 1.7%/yr during the three time intervals, primarily because of the decrease in density of small stems. Mortality rates of individual size classes and species were similar for all three time intervals. Minimum mortality rates occurred for stems newly reaching the canopy (11-30 cm dbh). Quercus rubra and Tsuga had low mortality rates and Fagus and Fraxinus americana high mortality for all time intervals. Previously described long-term trends (beginning with data from 1940) continued. The number of stems &lt 10 cm dbh decreased while the number of stems  25 cm dbh and total basal area increased. Deer browsing may be implicated in the decrease of small stems, which seems too continuous for climatic fluctuations to be responsible. The impact of beech bark disease is still apparent. Although the rate of Fagus decline has diminished in recent years, Fagus mortality is still higher than other species, especially for large stems. Snag densities, formation rates and deterioration rates remained nearly constant for stems  11 cm dbh, supplying that resource consistently for organisms requiring it.
20063824|Late Paleozoic pteridosperms are a paraphyletic groups of seed plants that were prominent elements of tropical ecosystems, primarily those of wetlands or the wetter portions of seasonally dry environments. Because the group is more a tradition-based, historical construct than a well circumscribed phylogenetic lineage, the wide variance in ecological roles and ecomorphological attributes should not be surprising. Pteridosperms can be the dominant canopy trees in local habitats, prominent understory trees, scrambling ground cover, thicket-formers, or liana-like plants and vines. Some species appear to have been weedy opportunists, although this ecological strategy seems to be a minor part of the wide spectrum of pteridosperm life habits. Most pteridosperms appear to have preferred wetter parts of the landscape, though not standing water, and relatively nutrient-rich settings (in comparison with groups such as tree ferns or lycopsids). Of the Paleozoic pteridosperms as traditionally circumscribed, only the peltasperms survived to become major elements in the Mesozoic. However, these plants may have been part of a derived seed-plant clade that also includes the corystosperms and cycads (see Hilton and Bateman, this volume), indicating that only the most derived of the Paleozoic pteridosperm lineages, those that appear to have evolved initially in extrabasinal settings, persisted into the Mesozoic.
10.2307/4126913|A recent conceptual model of grasslands in the US argues that, because of the discontinuous cover of plants in systems strongly limited by precipitation, the presence or absence of individual plants has significant effects on soil processes, with relatively small effects of species differences. In systems not strongly limited by precipitation, resource limitations are thought to vary in space and time, vegetation is more continuous, and species differences are relatively more important. We ask whether the model can be applied to grass species effects on potential net C and N mineralization in a southeastern US savanna ecosystem. These savannas have very sandy soils, strong soil resource limitations, and discontinuous plant cover, even though they receive
20063925|A method to significantly improve the germination and development of plantlets of Aplectrum hyemale was developed. Seeds of this terrestrial orchid were collected in a natural stand, surface disinfected and grown in vitro on a gellified growth medium in absence of symbiotic fungi. Seeds were sowed whole or after excision of the seed coat. Embryos that were removed from the seed coat showed a significant increase in germination and survival percentages compared to whole seeds. Embryos grew to form a ramified protocorm, irrespective of seed treatment, followed by plantlet formation. Plantlets were successfully acclimatized and transferred to soil conditions. Asymbiotic in vitro culture is therefore shown as a potential tool to produce viable plantlets for use in natural site restoration.
40207573|Forests of the Cumberland Plateau physiographic province have undergone significant change over the past century due to anthropogenic disturbances, and the magnitude and direction of this change will have important consequences for forest management and biodiversity conservation. Cove and upland forest communities on the Cumberland Plateau are in close proximity to one another, but have maintained distinct composition due to soil differences. Several anthropogenic influences common to other southern Appalachian forest communities, including fire suppression, predator removal, and introduction of pathogens, continue to drive change in these forests but remain relatively undocumented. In this 10-year study of these two major forest types, those disturbances were expected to homogenize cove and upland forests, with compositions increasingly dominated by generalist species, similar to trends elsewhere. Composition and structure were considerably altered in both communities over the course of this study, but non-metric multidimensional scaling showed that the cove and uplands remained distinct. Both communities were experiencing a steady replacement of Quercus species by Acer species, but A. saccharum and A. rubrum dominance were limited to the cove and uplands respectively. A. saccharum expansion in the coves is in contrast to trends reported in other studies of Appalachian forests. Replacement of Quercus species by Acer species was more advanced in the high-productivity cove forest; however, the trajectory of change was more consistent among upland forest plots. Documenting long-term status and trends in these forested communities will be critical for managing disturbance regimes and predicting consequences for regional biodiversity.
10.2307/3557532|We field tested a new method for sampling down coarse woody material (CWM) using an angle gauge and compared it with the more traditional line intersect sampling (LIS) method. Permanent sample locations in stands managed with different silvicultural treatments within the Penobscot Experimental Forest (Maine, USA) were used as the sampling locations. Point relascope sampling (PRS) with three different angles spanning the practical range of angles for such stands was used along with 40 m of LIS sample per sample point. Compared to LIS, the three angles resulted in similar number of pieces and volume of CWM from stands with different histories of repeated partial harvests. In terms of sampling efficiency, PRS was up to 4 times more efficient than LIS. These results, while limited to only one forest type and a relatively small sample, are the first published results available on the field performance of PRS.
20063859|Over decades, and especially on public lands subject to multiple uses, land use activities can affect forest composition or structure. We asked if current ground layer vegetation composition or stand structure (canopy openness, tree density, plus depth of the soil A layer) in 32 mixed pine-hardwood forest stands at Fort Benning, GA, reflects military use or fire frequency over the last 20 years. The 32 stands, half on sandy and half on clayey soil, were assigned to two military use categories (heavier, open to tracked vehicles, or lighter, with dismounted infantry training) and three fire frequency (# fires/20 yr) categories [low (0-2 fires), medium (3-4 fires), and high (5-6 fires)]. Ordination reflected abundance of grass and legume species, the proportion of pine in the canopy, canopy openness, and tree density and age; it revealed a relatively stronger influence of military land use and canopy composition, and weaker influence of fire frequency (over the past 20 years), on ground layer vegetation differences among the stands. Soil A-horizon depth, abundance of disturbance features, and tree density differed between lighter and heavier military use categories, but not among fire frequency categories. Our results suggest that mechanized military training has led to a loss of topsoil and convergence on abundant pines, grasses, and legumes, while a range of fire frequencies has led to an array of ground layer composition in stands with lighter military use. Under all land use scenarios examined, 70% pine canopy may be favorable for abundant grasses and legumes in ground layer vegetation.
10.2307/3088734|In both ornamental and forested environments, dogwood anthracnose has caused widespread dieback and decline of Cornus florida L., flowering dogwood, since the late 1970s. Early observations of this disease were more or less simultaneous with the peak of acid rain in North America. Aluminum is known to be toxic to some plants at low concentrations, and soil availability of Al, and hence plant uptake, may be increased by acid rain. Experimental treatment with simulated acid precipitation has been shown to increase the severity of anthracnose infection. In a preliminary study, we observed surprisingly high levels of Al in C. florida wood. Suspecting a possible link between Al and anthracnose, we hypothesized that Al concentrations would be higher in anthracnose-susceptible Cornus species. We also hypothesized that anthracnose-infected C. florida would have higher levels of foliar Al than uninfected trees. Finally, we hypothesized that if there was indeed a link between acid rain and anthracnose via Al uptake and toxicity, that younger wood should have higher concentrations of Al than older wood, reflecting increased soil availability of Al. To investigate the first hypothesis, we collected tissue samples from ten Cornus species from locations across North America for chemical analysis. The four large-bracted species, C. florida, C. nuttallii Aud., C. kousa (Buerger ex Miq.) Hance and C. canadensis L., accumulated Al at concentrations an order of magnitude greater than any of the small-bracted species we studied. However, C. florida and C. nuttallii are known to be highly susceptible to infection by dogwood anthracnose, while C. kousa and C. canadensis are considered resistant to infection. To investigate the second hypothesis, we collected leaves from infected and uninfected trees growing on the same site; Al concentrations in leaves from uninfected trees were actually 432 ppm higher than those from infected trees, suggesting that Al toxicity is not likely a factor in the severity of anthracnose infection. To investigate the third hypothesis, we examined tissue chemistry of both old and young wood. We found that Al concentrations in C. florida wood decreased from older wood to younger wood, contrary to what we would expect if Al availability (and hence plant uptake) had increased as a consequence of acid rain.
10.2307/3557535|A new survey of the Big Cypress National Preserve shows that the vascular flora consists of 145 families and 851 species. Of these, 72 are listed by the State of Florida as endangered or threatened plants, while many others are on the margins of their ranges. The survey also shows 158 species of exotic plants within the Preserve, some of which imperil native species by competing with them. Finally, we compare the flora of the Big Cypress National Preserve with those of the nearby Fakahatchee Strand State Preserve and the Everglades National Park. Although Big Cypress is less than half the size of Everglades National Park, it has 90% of the native species richness (693 vs. 772).
10.2307/3088757|We studied nectar production characteristics (volume, sugar concentration, and sugar output) of parental and interspecific hybrid plants of the dicot Aesculus and the monocot Iris. In Aesculus, the bird-pollinated A. pavia produced significantly larger volumes of significantly less concentrated nectar than did the bee-pollinated A. sylvatica ($7.81 \pm 0.46\>\mu l$ vs. $0.99 \pm 0.08\>\mu l,\>mean \pm SE$, and 28.9  0.4% vs. 50.3  0.5%); sugar output for A. pavia was also significantly higher than in A. sylvatica ($3.53 \pm 0.33\>mg$ vs. $0.84 \pm 0.04\>mg$). Plants sampled from a natural hybrid swarm were intermediate between the parental species with respect to nectar volume $(5.85 \pm 0.14\>\mu l)$ and sugar output $(1.76 \pm 0.04\>mg)$, but they produced nectar with significantly lower sugar concentration than both parental species (24.3  0.2%). In Iris, the bird-pollinated I. fulva produced significantly smaller volumes of significantly less concentrated nectar than did the bee-pollinated I. brevicaulis ($20.4 \pm 2.5\>\mu l$ vs. $56.6 \pm 6.0\>\mu l$, and 18.3  0.6% vs. 23.6  0.3%). The net result was significantly lower sugar output for I. fulva as compared to I. brevicaulis ($4.3 \pm 0.6\>mg$ vs. $14.7 \pm 1.7\>mg$). Regardless of which parental species served as the maternal parent, experimentally generated F
10.2307/3088712|Soil disturbance by pocket gophers (Geomys pinetis) in a longleaf pine ecosystem had a limited impact on plant community composition, in contrast to significant changes documented in grassland ecosystems. No species or functional groups (grasses, forbs, or legumes) increased on pocket gopher mounds relative to undisturbed plots. Seedling recruitment was low, annuals were uncommon, and exotics were absent, with or without fire or soil disturbances. As a result of resprouting, however, plant stem density and species richness of plots measured before fire, one month after fire, 13 months after fire, and 25 months after fire were qualitatively similar. Simulated root destruction treatments kept bare soil microsites open longer, but still did not make them suitable refugia for colonizing species. The resprouting response shown here may be common in other ecosystems where climatic conditions are extreme, clonal perennial plants dominate the flora, and a history of frequent fire has exerted strong selective pressure for a generalized resprouting response to disturbance.
41678787|Lepraria normandinoides is currently circumscribed to include three chemotypes that differ in the presence/absence of two structurally similar depsidones: fumarprotocetraric acid and protocetraric acid. Populations of these chemotypes are sympatric and morphologically identical. A molecular phylogeny was inferred from ITS1, 5.8S, and ITS2 sequence data generated from a geographically broad sampling of populations of L. normandinoides. Two strongly-supported clades were recovered that correlate to the depsidone producing chemotypes. Consequently L. normandinoides is restricted to the protocetraric acid producing chemotype and the fumarprotocetraric acid chemotype is formally described as L. oxybapha. Acid deficient populations are tentatively retained in L. normandinoides.
10.2307/3557546|Six species of non-indigenous, harmful plants were surveyed throughout North Carolina: Lonicera japonica, Rosa multiflora, Pueraria lobata, Ligustrum sinense, Ailanthus altissima, and Celastrus orbiculatus. On 417 randomly selected sites across the state, their occurrence was measured as linear presence along the edges of interstate highways, other federal highways, rivers, streams, and railroad and powerline rights-of-way. Their abundance was expressed as the percent of occurrence in the total length of measured transects. L. japonica occupied an average of 25.9% of all edge types, highest in the piedmont but fairly evenly distributed on edge types. L. sinense occupied an average of 7.5% of all edge types, highest along rivers and streams. R. multiflora occupied an average of 4.8% of all edges, highest along rivers and streams of the mountainous west. P. lobata occupied 2.4% of all edges, fairly evenly distributed on edge types. A. altissima occupied 1.7% of edges, especially high along railroad rights-of-way of the piedmont. C. orbiculatus occupied 0.6% of all edge types, highest along railroads of the mountains. Based on rates of accumulation of specimens in university herbaria, their rate of spread across the state was calculated and expressed as percent increase in counties reporting occurrences per year: R. multiflora = 8.63; P. lobata = 7.25; L. sinense = 5.38; A. altissima = 4.76; C. orbiculatus = 2.94. (Rate for Lonicera was probably highest but could not be calculated.)
10.2307/3088750|We estimated species composition and densities of vascular plant propagule banks in six eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) stands in the Catskill Mountains of New York. Soil samples were collected and observed in a glasshouse; germinants were identified and removed over a one year period. Yellow birch (Betula alleghaniensis) seeds, evergreen woodfern (Dryopteris intermedia) spores, and hay-scented fern (Dennstaedtia punctilobula) spores germinated in abundance from the propagule banks (means of 722, 2858, and $296\>m^{-2}$, respectively) even though hay-scented fern only occurred in the understory of one stand. Seed densities were intermediate and propagule species richness values were low compared to previous studies of northeastern forests. Existing vegetation was also characterized; hemlock was the dominant tree species in all stands (67-87% of basal area), with lesser abundances of red maple (Acer rubrum), yellow birch and/or American beech (Fagus grandifolia). Striped maple (Acer pensylvanicum), red maple, yellow birch, evergreen woodfern, shining clubmoss (Lycopodium lucidulum), and common wood sorrel (Oxalis acetosella) occurred in understories of most stands. Understory vegetation and propagule banks indicated potential stand replacement by evergreen woodfern and, eventually, yellow birch in the event of a major disturbance leading to hemlock mortality. However, hay-scented fern could become abundant if woody species are over-browsed by white-tailed deer.
20063747|Old-growth bottomland hardwood-Pinus taeda L. forests are rare in Arkansas, and the complex relationships between plant communities and environmental conditions have not been well described in these forests. To investigate these relationships, a digital elevation model was developed for a 16.2 ha old-growth bottomland hardwood-Pinus taeda forest in southern Arkansas. Overstory trees, saplings, seedlings, and herbaceous plants were analyzed in three 0.5 m elevation classes and by using indirect gradient analysis. Information was also collected on site factors (canopy cover, forest floor litter cover, and elevation), soil physical factors (bulk density and soil texture), soil moisture, and soil chemical factors (pH, electrical conductivity, organic matter, N, P, K, Ca, Mg, S, Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, and Na). Importance values for 35% of seedling species, 30% of overstory species, 22% of herbaceous species, and 8% of sapling species differed significantly by elevation class. Significant differences by elevation in species diversity, richness, and evenness were identified in the seedling stratum, while only sapling evenness differed by elevation. Seventy-four percent of the environmental characteristics produced significant differences by elevation except for soil texture (sand, silt, and clay), September soil moisture content, Mn, and Cu. Seventy percent of environmental variables were significantly correlated with elevation. Dominant environmental influences on species composition in all strata included elevation as well as many other correlated variables such as Fe, forest floor litter cover, bulk density, and Na. Results from this study suggest that differences in vegetation were primarily the result of subtle elevational variations. Restoration or management of these forests should carefully consider microtopographical influences.
10.2307/2997221|A five-class log decay classification system involving characteristics of bark, twigs, wood surface, log soundness (assessed by kicking the log), and log shape was developed for hardwood forests and applied to logs located on transects in second-growth Quercushardwood and mixed-hardwood forest stands in the University of Connecticut forest. The classification system may be applied to specific log sectors, or, to the entire log by making a quick mental tally of the decay class in successive log sectors along the entire length to reach an overall decay class for the log. Log decay involves a progressive change in decay characteristics. In developing the classification table, we recognized that certain decay characteristics may or may not be present in a sector of a given decay class along a log; and, further, that in certain situations, subcategories of the five major decay classes are warranted. Overall decay class of each log was determined quickly in the field and then compared to calculated decay class based on a volume-weighted summation of the decay class of each sector of the log (minimum sector size was 20 cm log length). The quick field-based overall decay class generally agreed with the carefully calculated decay class. The inclusion of forks off the main bole had little effect on the estimate of the overall amount of log material in our study; however, bole forks represented a large proportion of material in certain logs. The methods described herein allow rapid decay class categorization because they involve no dissection of logs (merely probing of the log surface texture and log solidity). Besides being useful for studies requiring classification of log decay, these methods are wellsuited to incorporation into standard systems of extensive forest inventory when a time-efficient examination of potential habitat diversity is desired.
40864969|A revision of Zephyranthes Herbert (Amaryllidaceae) in the Mexican portion of the Yucatn Peninsula Biotic Province is presented. Three species are native in the area, including the newly proposed, Zephyranthes orellanae Carnevali, Duno & J. L. Tapia, which is known from a narrow region of dry forests over rocky soils along the northwestern edge in the Yucatn state. Zephyranthes orellanae is related to Z. citrina Baker but is distinguishable by its narrower leaves. (0.9-1.2 mm wide vs. more that 3 mm in Z. citrina). Zephyranthes chlorosolen (Herb.) D. Dietrich is reported for the first time from the Yucatn Peninsula. The status of Zephyranthes citrina in the Yucatn Peninsula is assessed. The names Cooperia drummondii Herbert (= Zephyranthes brazosensis Traub) and Cooperia chlorosolen Herb. (= Zephyranthes chlorosolen) are lectotypified. Descriptions of all taxa and a key to their diagnosis are presented, as well as a map and iconography depicting all taxa involved. The conservation status of all three taxa is assessed against IUCN criteria.
10.2307/2997298|Populations of Frullania bolanderi were discovered on trunks of deciduous treesin an oak-northern hardwoods transitional forest in eastern New York State and a coastal spruce-balsam fir forest in northeastern Maine where this epiphyte, a rarity in eastern North America, was previously unknown. The New York station is in a selectively cut, old-growth remnant that survived from the onset of Euro-American settlement (late 1700s) surrounded by agricultural land for many of the ensuing years. Secondary forest developed later around the remnant as farming declined, beginning early in the 20th century. The forest in which F. bolanderi occurs in Maine was never cleared for agriculture, but conifers were harvested from it at least twice in the 20th century. These new data suggest that forest removal during settlement may explain the rarity of this plant in at least parts of the northeastern United States and adjacent Canada. It is a potential indicator species of old-growth forest in this region. Study of herbarium specimens establishes that F. bolanderi does not occur in Ohio as previously reported. New stations for it are cited for southern Quebec in the old-growth northern hardwoods forest of the Mont Saint Hilaire Biosphere Reserve near Montreal.
10.2307/2997218|The seedling emergence method was used to identify the species and growth form composition of soil seed banks along a range of geomorphic surfaces at seven riparian study sites in the nonglaciated Allegheny Plateau Physiographic Province of northwestern Pennsylvania. A total of 58 vascular plant species emerged from soil seed bank samples with an average of 13.1 ( 1.6 SE) species recorded across geomorphic surfaces. The extant herbaceous layer vegetation (all vascular plant species  1 m in height) was more species-rich (137 species) than the seed bank flora with an average of 25.2 ( 2.8 SE) species. The number of plant species that emerged from soil seed bank samples varied considerably and ranged from 5 species in a floodplain coniferous forest to 34 species in a backwater slough habitat. Non-woody, perennial species dominated both the seed bank and extant floras. Species richness in both the soil seed bank and the extant vegetation did not vary significantly across site inundation classes (low, moderate, frequent inundation). The low overall similarity between species composition of the soil seed bank and the extant vegetation suggests that only a subset of the herbaceous layer species that occur in Allegheny Plateau riparian forests relies on the seed bank as a mechanism for population regeneration and maintenance.
10.2307/4126949|Studies of the growth, survival, and sex ratios of dioecious species have been predominantly short-term. This research investigated growth rates, survivorship, and sex ratios among cohorts of Juniperus virginiana L. from 1963 through 2000. Males (M) and females (F) in six old-fields of different ages on the New Jersey Piedmont were analyzed, starting with the initial data on height and sex expression collected by John Small on labeled recruits from 1963 through 1976. These plants were relocated and censused during the summer and fall of 2000. No changes in sex expression were recorded between 1976 and 2000. The overall sex ratio was almost 1:1 (333 M, 332 F); only one of the fields showed a significant departure from 1:1. Males grew slightly, but significantly, faster in height than females, but relative growth rates dropped by approximately 50% for both males and females once they became reproductive. Female trees were on average 23 cm taller (and older) than males at first reproduction. Heights in those males and females surviving to 2000 were not significantly different. There was no effect of an individual's sex on its likelihood of dying, but plants that became established later were shorter, often non-reproductive, and had an increased risk of mortality. These long-term results strongly support genetically-determined sex ratios and a lack of major differences between males and females in growth rates and survival, which had been suggested by single-year studies elsewhere in the species' range.
10.2307/2996612|The clonal development and morphology of Acer pensylvanicum L were investigated using patch excavation and plot sampling in intact and thinned forests and in three clearcuts varying in age in central New York state The percent of stems in the intact and thinned forests and clearcuts that were clonal in origin varied from 47% to 85%; however, there was no pattern of increasing clonal growth in relation to thinning or clearcutting. Both sprouting and layering were more frequent in these forests than reported for sites more centrally located within the species range The results of this study suggest clonal growth is particularly important in maintaining and possibly expanding striped maple populations in sites subject to small-scale disturbances in central New York state.
43286985|Forest floor litter communities include detritivorous, predacious, and parasitic arthropods that feed on, or forage within, the decaying organic material. Although this substrate is heterogeneous, little research has investigated the preferential feeding tendencies of these arthropods. The objective of this study, conducted in the lowland rain forest of French Guiana, was to examine some of the factors that may influence foraging behavior. Plots were covered with either leaf or floral litter from three species of Lecythidaceae (Brazil nut family), and traps were set within and above each plot. Traps baited with floral litter yielded significantly more arthropods than those baited with leaf litter. Floral and leaf tissues were subsequently analyzed for moisture, fiber, sugar and nutrient concentrations. These analyses indicate that, relative to leaf litter, floral litter provides a quantitatively richer nutrient source available at lower energy expenditure, suggesting that these arthropods (mostly insects) may be operating under optimal foraging strategy.
10.2307/2997229|Germination of the cactus species Ferocactus peninsulae and Stenocereus gummosus, and their water requirements and germination responses to discontinuous hydration were studied. Both species germinate slowly and have low final germination percentages. Under laboratory conditions, a gradual decrease in substrate water content simulated a decrease in available soil water with time, a common phenomenon because of water evaporation after a rain in the desert. The experiments compared germination at continuous and discontinuous hydration under various regimes of gradual decrease in available water and with unlimited available water. In a desert environment, discontinuous hydration appears to be a facultative requirement for seed germination because: a) under conditions of gradual decreases in amount of water, continuously-hydrated seeds germinated no higher than on average 15%, b) these species germinated well under optimal conditions of unlimited available water (55 to 66%), which is rare in natural desert environments; and c) seeds subjected to discontinuous hydration had much higher final germination percentages than those hydrated continuously. These two cactus species have "low risk strategy" because: 1) to germinate they require a few days for inhibition and a threshold level of substrate moisture content when subjected to hydration, and 2) they are resistant to long dehydration periods and germinate rapidly after a subsequent rain.
41811880|Ice storms are one of the main causes of disturbance and mortality in oak forests and can occur more frequently than wind storms, fire, diseases, and insect outbreaks. The effects of the 2009 ice storm on the tree species were studied in an upland oak-hickory forest at Bernheim Forest, Kentucky. Approximately 14% of the trees showed some damage from the ice storm with Ostrya virginiana, Acer rubrum, and Quercus rubra being most susceptible to damage. Quercus velutina, Quercus alba, and Sassafras albidium were least Pole size trees were more vulnerable to damage than sapling and sawtimber. Trees found in the midstory, and on the eastern slope had more damage from the ice storm than the other trees. Immediately following the ice storm, seedlings showed a high mortality, and it took until 2011 before most species returned to pre ice storm levels. Seedling numbers did not return to pre ice storm levels on the ridgetop and western upper slopes, which are more vulnerable to drought. By damaging the A. rubrum more than the Quercus and Carya species, and opening the understory, the ice storm is reducing midstory canopy and may be changing the composition of upland oak forests.
40207585|Despite the recognized importance of root sprout production in northern populations of American beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.), further consideration of the relative role of regeneration from seed in this species appears warranted and timely. A careful examination of the literature revealed that seed- and sprouts-origin individuals co-occurred within all published study sites where the two were differentiated and that presence of a seedling bank may be the rule rather than the exception for American beech. We compared the effects of canopy gaps and root trenching on the growth and survival of a cohort of beech seedlings in Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest (HBEF) in northern New Hampshire, USA. Seedlings in gap plots became larger both above- and belowground. Foliar nitrogen concentrations were affected by both above- and belowground treatments and increased the most for seedlings in trenched gap plots. Seedling height and canopy treatment were important predictors of seedling survivorship with the highest survival in gap locations. The relationship between seedling height and survival was more complex. In the first two years, taller seedlings had a higher probability of dying, while after the second year taller seedlings were more likely to survive to be four-years old. The relatively high survivorship of seedlings at HBEF and their response to gap openings taken together with literature documentation of the long-term presence of seed-origin beech stems in the understory strongly suggest the presence of a beech seedling bank in this forest. This is one of a few manipulative studies on naturally regenerating American beech seedlings, and the first study to relate the likelihood of survival to seedling traits for this important species in the northern hardwood forest.
10.2307/2997253|The R.R. Reynolds Research Natural Area is a 32-ha second-growth forest with little human intervention for nearly 60 years. In this paper, we characterize the existing vegetation, which represents 60 years of successional change with no major disturbances, and report vegetative changes over a 5-year period, which suggest the future successional direction. Trees  q 9.0 cm DBH were inventoried in twenty 0.1-ha plots and placed into four species groups: pines, oaks, other overstory trees, and midstory trees. Loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) was the dominant tree species, accounting for 51% of the total basal area and having the largest mean DBH (56.5 cm) and height (35.7 m). Tree ages ranged from 50 to 140 years for the pines and from 40 to 150 years for the oaks. However, 70% of the pines became established in the 4 decades that followed harvest of the virgin forest in the 1910s, while the oaks showed two peaks of establishment (one after harvest and one 50 years before harvest). The pines displayed a bell-shaped DBH-class distribution, while the oaks displayed a gradual decline in numbers as DBH-class increased. In contrast, the other overstory trees and midstory trees had negative exponential distributions. Multiple occupancy was common within the canopy, which had a horizontal coverage of 97%. Canopy positions of the species groups were as follows: pines>oaks>other overstory trees>midstory trees. The growth of individual trees was positively related with tree size. Stand-level survivor growth was positively related with the basal area of the species group. Recruitment was greatest for the other overstory trees and midstory trees (totaling 6.2 trees ha
10.2307/3088738|Between 1993 and 1995 we sampled understory and overstory woody vegetation on 84 plots in Platanus/Asarum Wet-Mesic Bottomland forests to determine how these forests have responded to human disturbance. Four different types of disturbed stands were sampled (abandoned agricultural areas, clearcuts, group selections, and single-tree selections), and 80-100 year-old reference stands were sampled for comparison. Overstory vegetation differed in composition among these 5 stand types with abandoned agriculture, clearcut, and group selection plots exhibiting compositions very different from single-tree selection and reference plots. This was largely due to shifts in dominance by Acer saccharum and Liriodendron tulipifera across the five stand types. Although abandoned agricultural areas experienced more severe site disturbance from years of cultivation, they were similar in composition to clearcuts and group-selection openings. The mean species richness of abandoned agriculture, clearcut, and group-selection plots was generally greater than that of single-tree selection and reference plots. Abandoned agricultural areas and clearcuts had greater overstory species richness (summed across all plots), suggesting that larger canopy openings have allowed more shade-intolerant species to establish. Total species richness was greatest on abandoned agriculture plots due to an influx of dry-site, disturbance, and exotic species. However, these species did not tend to dominate sites. The dominance of A. saccharum in single-tree selection openings has led to the exclusion of other species, resulting in greatly reduced overstory species richness and diversity.
40207622|The contribution of sexual dimorphism to malebiased colony ratios observed in field populations of the federally endangered Lindera melissifolia was investigated. Growth characteristics and intraspecific relative competitive abilities were determined for first-year male and female L. melissifolia plants grown at varied densities and receiving three flooding treatments. In the no-flooding and 30-day-flooding treatments, stem height, stem diameter, and total leaf area for male plants were significantly greater than that of higher density male plantings and of female plants without respect to density. In both male and female plants, stem growth ceased and leaves were abscised in response to flooding. Although density effects in combination with hydrologic regime influenced intersexual competition, male-bias from competitive exclusion was not indicated. Growth characteristics for male plants grown alone suggest potential for greater interspecific competitive abilities than that of female plants. Therefore, male plants may be better adapted for colonizing suitable habitat, thus contributing to malebiased colony ratios observed in naturally occurring populations.
10.2307/3088674|The Torrey Range comprises southeastern New York, northern New Jersey and southwestern Connecticut. Twenty-five noteworthy vascular plant species are reported from the following genera: Agalinis, Amaranthus, Amelanchier, Aralia, Aster, Calamagrostis, Chasmanthium, Corallorhiza, Cuscuta, Gentiana, Glossostigma, Ligusticum, Lycopodiella, Mimulus, Platanthera, Polygonum, Pycnanthemum, Rhynchospora, Sabatia, Smilax, Suaeda, Symplocos, Tipularia and Trapa. Three of the species are listed as Federally endangered or threatened, 19 species are listed as rare in either New York, New Jersey or Connecticut, 11 species are at or near the northern limit of their distribution in the Torrey Range, three species are at the southern limit of their range, 20 species are native to northeastern United States and five species are non-native.
41811882|A recent survey in areas of the Amazonia and the Atlantic Forest in Brazil, and revision of the exsiccates deposited in herbaria INPA, SP and URM resulted in new records of Hymenochaetacea: eight for the State of Rondnia, one for Acre, Amap and Amazonas, three for Para and two for Roraima. Coltricia barbata, C. duportii, Hymenochaete porioides and H. unicolor are new records to the Brazilian Amazonia, while C. velutina is recorded for the first time after its description. A key to the Hymenochaete species known from Brazil is provided and the new combination Hymenochaete iodina is proposed.
20063928|Platanthera hookeri (Torr.) Lindl. is a little-studied and increasingly rare species of the Great Lakes--St. Lawrence and Acadian Forest Regions. Long-term studies are essential to provide an understanding of its population and flowering dynamics. Three representative populations, with a total of 54 plants, were monitored in Gatineau Park for up to 25 years (1981-2005). Six life stages were identified: seed/protocorm, juvenile, immature, flowering, vegetative and terminal. This paper deals with the juvenile stage, represented by a total of 16 transient plants, and 38 mature plants in the latter three stages. In the two larger populations, mature plant counts remained constant and most mature plants flowered almost annually for a period of years. Subsequently, the counts declined steadily and most plants flowered every other year. The third population experienced a continuous slow decline. The percentage of plants flowering in the longest-studied population was correlated positively with the total rainfall, and negatively with the mean temperature, of the June-July period of the preceding year. These three populations showed differences in behavior that probably were based on differences in age and habitat. Possible causes of mortality include forest succession, herbivory by White-tailed Deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and acid rain.
27751815|We examined nutrient cycling responses to prescribed fire on three sub-mesic, mixed-oak sites located in the Blue Ridge Physiographic province of the southern Appalachian Mountains: Alarka Laurel Branch (AL), Robin Branch (RB), and Roach Mill Branch (RM). Each study site was located within a sub-watershed that drained a first order stream. Our objective was to quantify the effects of prescribed burning on forest floor mass, nitrogen and carbon pools; and soil and soil water available nitrogen. Each site included a burned and unburned control area; both burned and control areas were sampled before and after burning. Within each plot, we sampled forest floor mass, carbon and nitrogen, soil and soil solution nitrate (NO3-N) and ammonium (NH4-N) concentrations before and after the prescribed burns. All prescribed fires were conducted in the dormant season and were low to moderate intensity. All sites lost a significant amount of forest floor mass due to burning; 82 to 91% of the Oi layer and 26 to 46% of the Oe + Oa layer. Soil NH4-N concentrations increased in surface soils (05 cm) only, immediately after burning, but return to pre-burn levels by mid-summer. Burning had no measurable effect on soil solution inorganic nitrogen concentrations. Low levels of solution NO3-N and NH4-N after burning and no change in stream NO3-N concentrations indicated that no inorganic nitrogen was lost from these sites.
41678794|An important concern of natural areas management is preserving rare taxa in the face of increasingly pervasive plant invasions. This is one study in an ongoing long-term botanical analysis of Big Everidge Hollow, a watershed containing old-growth forest within the Lilley Cornett Woods Appalachian Research Station on the Cumberland Plateau of eastern Kentucky. We report 23 new records from the site representing an array of life histories. Many of these species are scarce and difficult to identify; however, we also detected several non-native invasive species moving into the study site, which had previously been completely free of these species. The appearance of exotic species may have been facilitated by a recent wildfire that occurred in one portion of the watershed. This site remains one of the best examples of old-growth mixed mesophytic forest, and in our view, this nascent invasion poses a significant threat to the site's biological integrity.
10.2307/3088774|We studied species diversity and composition of herbaceous layer vascular plant communities under closed canopies and within gaps in a central New York conifer swamp. Our study site, Nelson Swamp, has high documented species richness and supports a large number of state-protected species. Understory cover and species richness at both the quadrat and gap scale were compared among closed canopy areas and gaps in three size classes. To assess differences in the understory environment among the three size classes, we compared light, hydrology, and microtopography. We also tested for correlations between gap species richness and light, wetness, and microsite heterogeneity to determine which aspects of the gap environment might influence vascular plant diversity therein. There was higher quadrat- and gap-level species richness in gaps than in closed canopy areas. Small gaps did not appear to offer a physical environment substantially different from non-gaps, as no differences in their understory communities were apparent. Mid-sized and large gaps had higher species richness, substrate heterogeneity, and water table fluctuation than small gaps. Based on the correlations, the individual factors influencing species richness at the gap scale were depth to water, water level fluctuation, and microtopographic variability, indicating the importance of hydrology over light as a species control. Although gaps and non-gaps shared many of the same species, there were distinct subsets of species that were more important in either type of community. Based on these subsets, closed canopy areas and large gaps can be viewed as two ends of a continuum corresponding to light and hydrology gradients. Out of all the species encountered, 10 percent were found exclusively in gaps, and none were found only under closed canopy. Thus, these gaps are not only sites of higher overall plant growth, but also areas that allow rare species to persist.
10.2307/2997222|Concentrations of NaCl higher than 1.0% (ca. 0.8MPa) caused a significant decrease in germination percentage of seeds of Aeschynomene virginica, and only 5.3% of the seeds germinated on filter paper moistened with a 2.0% (ca. 1.7MPa) NaCl solution. Incubating seeds in 2.0% NaCl for 5 days or longer caused a significant decline in germination/viability, and all seeds incubated for 20 or 30 days lost viability. These responses of A. virginica seeds to salinity are similar to those of other nonhalophytes and, therefore, help explain the absence of sensitive joint-vetch from brackish marshes.
27751828|Invasive plant species pose serious threats to ecosystem function and community diversity, dominating many natural systems through suppression of, competition with, and replacement of native species. This study examines the distribution of invasive alien plant species relative to vegetation, site characteristics, and disturbance indicators in a relatively unfragmented matrix forest block (8,000 ha) in southern New England and provides the first quantitative description of the forested vegetation of this region. Within 139 - 10  10 m sample plots, percent ground coverage was estimated for each vascular plant species and basal area determined for all woody species reaching breast height (1.4 m). Site conditions, including topography, soil moisture and fertility, and evidence of current and historical site disturbance, were assessed to identify factors influencing invasive plant abundance. Fifteen relatively distinct vegetation types were identified using NMS ordination and cluster analysis, including wetland forest, terrestrial open woodland, and terrestrial closed canopy vegetation types. Of the 209 species occurring in sample plots, only 10 (4.8%) were invasive. Most abundant were Berberis thunbergii, Celastrus orbiculatus, and Rosa multiflora, each occurring in 5% or fewer plots. Moist sites were invaded most frequently, especially those with high species richness, lower canopy cover, and those dominated by Acer rubrum or Pinus strobus. Site disturbance, particularly roads, trails, and former land use, also was correlated with invasive abundance. The low frequency of invasive plant species in our study area offers an exceptional opportunity to identify ecosystem characteristics inhibitory to invasive plant species and the opportunity to preserve a series of relatively unfragmented and uninvaded natural habitats in this region.
41262046|Population dynamics studies allow us to address three of the most basic questions essential to the creation of plans for species management and conservation. Specifically: what the population status is; what the stages or demographic processes that have the greatest impact on the population growth rate () are; and what the probabilities of quasi-extinction for the species of interest are. Despite the importance of this type of research, demographic studies on vascular epiphytes are scarce. Epiphytes are key elements in the functioning of the ecosystems in which they live, as they enhance biodiversity, establish numerous interactions with other plants and animals, and are direct participants in the flow of nutrients and water. In spite of the importance of this group, population dynamics studies have only been performed on 2 of the 83 families of epiphytes. The three main challenges for field research are the difficulty of accessing epiphytes in their native environments, the combination of the vertical and horizontal distribution of these species, and the additional consideration of addressing the effects of phorophyte dynamics on epiphyte populations. This paper is designed to be the practical complement to a theoretical background in the population dynamics of epiphytes. It addresses both study design and practical issues of field work in the interest of encouraging the development of demographic studies of this form of life.
10.2307/3088680|We investigated reproductive phenology and fecundity in a population of the facultative biennial Arabis laevigata var. laevigata over a 2-year period in its rocky deciduous woodland habitat in northcentral Kentucky, USA. In contrast to most facultative biennials, A. laevigata grows in a habitat that may remain stable for a long period of time. Bolting (flower stalk elongation) occurred in March, anthesis peaked in mid April, and seeds matured in June/July. Probability of bolting increased with rosette size, which was highly correlated with number of seeds produced. Only 150 of 233 (64.4%) bolted plants monitored in 1986 and 1987 survived and produced seeds. Adults in 1987 produced taller flower stalks, more siliques per plant, longer siliques, and more seeds per plant than did adults in 1986. Arabis laevigata is similar to other facultative biennials in that onset of reproduction is size-dependent, not age-dependent, and fecundity is positively correlated with rosette size at time of reproduction.
41475101|The goal of this study was to examine the taxonomy, ecology, molecular phylogenetics and biosystematics of two apparently closely related species and to elucidate congruent patterns from these often divergent sub-disciplines of systematics. Phylogenetic analysis of DNA sequences showed that Phacelia fimbriata and Phacelia purshii are sister species that demonstrate species-specific differences in germination but little morphologic or genetic differentiation. While a geographic region of sympatry exists, elevation differences preclude co-occurrence. The widespread P. purshii supports higher levels of morphological and genetic diversity compared to the narrow endemic, P. fimbriata. Gene flow between members of this closely related species pair is blocked by hybrid inviability whose expression occurs following normal pollen tube growth and apparent fertilization. Hybrid seeds are inviable, an effect likely caused by an embryo-endosperm incompatibility that, following fertilization, permits development of maternal, but not hybrid fruit and seed tissues. This reproductive barrier adds to our knowledge of an already diverse suite of isolating mechanisms in Phacelia subgenus Cosmanthus.
10.2307/3088748|Severe ice storms in early 1994 caused tremendous damage to the forests of southwestern Virginia. Two years later, an intensive survey was carried out at the Fishburn Forest of Virginia Tech to investigate the impacts of topography on the severity of ice damage to the forests, and to quantify the effects of ice-created gaps on forest regeneration. The random survey plots were stratified based on 15 recognized topographic categories. In each plot, gap area was measured and four small random quadrats were selected for seedling survey in both gap and non-gap understory. Species differ in their susceptibility to ice damage and change in species composition across different topographic areas. We created a community susceptibility index to evaluate forest susceptibility to ice damage. This index, calculated by weighting species composition, and their local susceptibility in the corresponding topographical category, was highly correlated to the severity of ice damage as indicated by gap size. In general, forests on steep slopes had the greatest susceptibility. Because of severe ice storms are frequent in the region, and their effects on forest turnover are topographic specific, they are likely to be a major factor in determining the dynamics of forest landscapes. Presence of gaps, gap size, and topography affected seedling density and height growth. However, the species composition in gaps did not differ from that in the non-gap understory and overstory elements were well represented in the seedling communities. This indicates that future forests may not differ from current ones. However, gap size may affect the rate of forest recovery.
43287011|The focus of this study is spatial and temporal variation in sex ratio and sexual dimorphism in the woody dioecious shrub Lindera benzoin (spicebush, Lauraceae). This species has been shown to express female-biased flowering sex ratios in a focal study population in Maryland. Sex ratio variation and sexual dimorphism in dioecious plants has attracted the focus of many short-term, single site studies, particularly in light of Fisher's (1930) elucidation of the selective pressures favoring the production of unbiased progeny sex ratios. As informative as such studies have been, long term, multi-site studies are necessary for full evaluation of the factors leading to differential expression of sex within and among populations. Female-biased sex ratios, relatively rare among plant species, are particularly difficult to explain when many studies, including ours of L. benzoin, show females to have higher costs of reproduction and lower modular growth rates suggesting a competitive disadvantage in comparison with males. This study focuses intensively on a single population in Maryland, and is augmented by flowering censuses, and plant size and growth estimates in populations at 11 nearby sites in Maryland, and four distant sites in Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia. Data were collected at most sites in the early 1990s and again in 2010, so that long-term variation in sex ratio could be explored. Results show tendencies for overall female-bias, for female bias in small size classes and male bias in large size classes, for an increase in the proportion of males within populations over time, and for sex ratios to be biased toward females in relatively recently established populations but unbiased or male-biased in older populations. Sexual dimorphism favoring males was consistent across sites, but no sexual dimorphism in herbivory by mammals or by foliage feeding insects was detected. These field observations combined with data derived from a separate but concurrent garden study suggest that early establishment of female-biased sex ratios may occur via a faster early growth rate and possible better tolerance of herbivory by females. This model further suggests that early advantages of females are followed by post-reproductive demographic changes favoring males, resulting in a tendency for sex ratios to shift toward maleness over time.
40207588|On September 2, 2004 Hurricane Frances (Category 3) passed directly over San Salvador Island, The Bahamas. This event offered the opportunity to gather baseline data regarding the impact of hurricanes on populations of the invasive Australian pine (Casuarina equisettifolia L.) in the Bahamas. Results of vegetation surveys within both forest stands and beach environments suggest that the overall impact of this hurricane was minimal. Less than 13% of forest individuals and 17% of beach individuals surveyed were damaged, and the majority of damage was restricted to just one location for both the forest and beach study sites. The most common damage type within the forest sites was "snapped" trees (8%) and this primarily occurred within trees ranging in size from 7-12 cm in diameter. Browning of the entire foliage was the most common damage type within the beach sites (9.3%) but this damage type only occurred within tree sizes less than or equal to 90 cm in height. Thus it appears that Hurricane Frances had a negligible effect on Australian pine populations as a whole on San Salvador Island and that this disturbance event will probably not limit future population expansion. It is suggested that more powerful or more frequent hurricanes would be needed to significantly affect Australian pine populations on San Salvador Island. Similar patterns in damage should be expected with comparable hurricane events on other islands in the Bahamas and for other tropical beaches in which this species has invaded.
27751822|In vitro culture techniques can be used to study the unique growth habits of plants as well as the ecological factors that influence seedling growth and development (i.e., in vitro ecology) such as adaptation to local environmental conditions. The in vitro seedling ecology of Calopogon tuberosus var. tuberosus from Michigan, South Carolina, and Florida was studied with emphasis on timing of corm formation and biomass allocation. In vitro seedling growth and development were monitored for 20 weeks. Corm formation was most rapid in Michigan seedlings, but was progressively delayed in southern populations. Similarly, biomass allocation to corms was highest in Michigan seedlings while south Florida seedlings exhibited the lowest corm biomass allocation. Shoot senescence in vitro also began earlier in more northern populations. The rapid corm formation and biomass allocation in seedlings from more northern populations represents an adaptive response to a shorter growing season. The relative differences in corm formation, biomass allocation, and shoot senescence in C. tuberosus seedlings suggest that in vitro common garden studies are useful to assess the degree of ecotypic differentiation among populations for a wide range of ecological factors. Additionally, these in vitro techniques can be transferred to numerous species worldwide.
25790856|Plant population growth and persistence are strongly influenced by germination and recruitment, which can be dramatically affected by seed dormancy, local site conditions, seed size and seed predation. Understanding factors that limit germination can help to explain low recruitment rates and is particularly important for species of conservation concern. Desmodium cuspidatum has declined dramatically in the northeastern United States and is currently listed as historic, threatened or endangered in all five New England states where it once occurred. Remaining populations exhibit low reproductive success and low recruitment rates, even though seed viability is nearly 100%. Requirements for optimal germination, including the breakdown of physical dormancy, effect of local site characteristics, and seed mass were largely unknown. In addition, while recruitment rates in co-occuring Desmodium species are reportedly higher than those of D. cuspidatum, germination rates in these species were unavailable for comparative purposes. Lastly, the effect of pre-dispersal seed predation, commonly observed in Desmodium species, was unknown. We performed a series of three controlled experiments to assess optimal conditions for germination (D. cuspidatum), the relationship between germination rate and seed size (mass, D. cuspidatum, D. glutinosum and D. paniculatum) and the effect of pre-dispersal seed predation on germination (D. canadense and D. paniculatum). Our results suggest that low recruitment rates observed in New England populations of D. cuspidatum are related to physical dormancy and local site conditions, whereby the highest germination rates are found when seeds are placed on bare soil, regardless of whether they are covered with leaf litter. Germination rates in D. cuspidatum were generally lower than those observed for two more common Desmodium species, D. glutinosum, and D. paniculatum and were positively correlated with seed mass in all three species. Seeds grown with field-collected soil had lower germination rates but higher nodulation rates than those grown in sterilized potting soil. Seed predation by weevils had no detectable difference on germination rates in D. paniculatum and D. canadense.
20063768|We examined forest vegetation-environment relationships in the central mountain range of Hispaniola to improve general understanding of tropical montane forests. Forest inventory data were collected in 1999 and 2000 from 245 plots established in the Armando Bermdez and Carmen Ramrez National Parks, Dominican Republic, over an elevation range of 1,100-3,075 m. Average tree density ( 10 cm dbh), basal area, and dbh were highly variable across the elevation gradient; species richness declined significantly with elevation; and the canopy height of broadleaved stands declined whereas the height of stands dominated by the endemic pine, Pinus occidentalis Sw., was relatively constant across the elevation gradient. Four major forest associations were identified using TWINSPAN: a low elevation broadleaved forest; a pine-broadleaved mixed forest; a mid-elevation cloud forest; and a largely monospecific pine forest that extends from the cloud forests to the summits of the highest peaks and dominates the leeward slopes of the mountains. Species composition varied continuously along the elevation gradient up to 2,250 m; however, above 2,250 m there was an abrupt shift from cloud forest to monospecific pine forests. Temperature, humidity, and fire history appear to regulate the position of this boundary, probably reflecting the position of the trade wind inversion. Ordination and logistic regression indicated that disturbance history and topo-edaphic factors influenced individual species distributions.
10.2307/4126937|The number (plant height) and arrangement of stem segments of the nearly 200 species of Cylindropuntia and Opuntia depend upon mechanical stresses at joints between stem segments in relation to the amount of internal components in joints that withstand joint failure. Stress tests were performed on terminal joints (joints between terminal and sub-terminal stem segments) of five species of Cylindropuntia and Opuntia. For these five cactus species, moment of inertia, maximum bending stress at failure, and bending moment at joint failure values ranged from 0.22 to
10.2307/4126916|Mnium arizonicum is a moss endemic to North America and in the northern Rocky Mountains it occurs most abundantly in the understory of subalpine tree islands formed by Abies lasiocarpa and Picea engelmannii. This species reproduces almost entirely through apical fragment regeneration and its expansion into lower elevation sites may be dispersal limited. Mnium arizonicum was experimentally dispersed along an elevation gradient as apical fragments and colony transplants. Individual performance was expected to interact with factors that vary with elevation such as habitat characteristics and competition intensity. Habitat characteristics were assessed at the site level by detailed site mapping and at the scale of the study area by restricted-random 5 m radius plots. The interaction between M. arizonicum and Hylocomium splendens was investigated for a switch from competition to facilitation along the elevation gradient. The experimental design included six elevation classes with three replicate sites and within each site two microsites (Picea tree base and Hylocomium carpet) each with three replicate plots. At sites where M. arizonicum was most abundant, it was excluded from the smallest tree islands with higher tree densities. In the region of the study area, the occurrence of M. arizonicum was most probable around tree bases located at 2000+ m with a thin (< 3 cm) litter layer and with one or more other bryophyte species present at the same tree base. The effects of microsite (Picea base versus Hylocomium carpet) on M. arizonicum performance were clearer in both life stages than the effects of elevation. Hylocomium microsites had consistently lower regeneration of apical fragments, but higher in situ effective quantum yield of adult transplants compared with Picea bases. Within the Picea base microsites, plots at intermediate elevations (1600-1800 m) received more light and were sub-optimal in terms of fragment regeneration, fragment sprout production, and in situ effective quantum yield of adult transplants. In the study area, the ability of M. arizonicum to extend its range into lower elevation sites was limited at intermediate elevations around tree bases that had deeper litter layers at intermediate elevation sites and in Hylocomium microsites by competitive pressure from this dominant forest floor moss.
20063939|Allozyme variation in the endangered plant Clematis socialis and a closely related species (C. crispa) was examined by horizontal starch gel electrophoresis. Two populations of each species were sampled for allelic variation at seven loci to estimate genetic diversity. The relative contribution of clonal growth and seedling recruitment to maintenance of C. socialis populations also was estimated from the electrophoretic results by calculating genotypic diversity. Both species possessed moderate levels of genetic diversity: mean expected heterozygosity (
20063771|Leaf surfaces of higher plants are colonized by diverse microorganisms. In the present study we report the isolation two strains of pink-pigmented methylotrophic bacteria (PPFM) designated Q4 & Q5. Both strains significantly stimulated growth and development of two rice cultivars, Japonica cv. CR76 and Indica cv. A301, cultured axenically on MS or B5 medium. Co-incubation of strains Q4 and Q5 with embryo-derived rice calli on B5 medium-devoid of exogenous phytohormones resulted in continued callus growth but inhibited plantlet regeneration. These results mimicked those produced by B5 medium supplemented with auxin and cytokinin. Co-culture of Q4 & Q5 as cobionts with 5 day old Japonica and Indica seedlings resulted in a significant (P  0.05) stimulation of four growth parameters; root development, stem growth, leaf development and biomass productivity, measured in 9 day growth period. The results of the in vitro experiments indicate that strain Q4 and /or Q5 inhabiting rice plant surfaces under cultivation could significantly stimulate the plants growth and development.
40207627|The author of Bromus pubescens is Sprengel (1807), not Muhl. ex Willd. (1809). A neotype is designated.
20063947|Ecosystems that naturally burn at short intervals nonetheless exhibit some variability in fire-return intervals. Prolonged fire suppression and exclusion, however, potentially increase this variability beyond some tolerable threshold. Therefore frequent fires at regular intervals are often argued as necessary to maintain herbaceous plant diversity in pine savannas. We measured plant community composition after eight- and nine-year fire-free intervals, preceded by 15 years of fires every three years, at two wet pine savanna sites (Wolf Branch and Sandy Creek) in southern Mississippi. Species composition was quantified after the frequent-fire period (1997), after eight years without fire at Sandy Creek and nine years without fire at Wolf Branch, and for two seasons after a prescribed burn in 2004 at both sites. Monte Carlo randomization tests revealed significant changes in species composition at both study sites. However, most changes were temporary. Numerous herbaceous species appeared to be significantly less common at the end of the fire-free interval, but this decline was reversed by the 2004 fire. Only Eriocaulon compressum, Dichromena latifolia, Polygala cruciata, and Rhexia lutea declined and remained infrequent after the 2004 fire. A few herbaceous species (e.g., Aristida palustris, Zigadenus glaberrimus, and Carphephorus pseudoliatris) benefited from the fire-free interval. The majority of long-lived species responded with increased flowering after the fire, and in some cases, increased flowering was delayed until the second growing season after fire. We conclude that most species in wet pine savannas can withstand periodic extended intervals between fires, and a few may even benefit from such variability. We suggest that adaptations such as fire-regulated dormancy and plasticity enable most plants in this system to tolerate naturally varying fire frequencies.
20063857|The box huckleberry (Gaylussacia brachycera) is a slow-growing, dwarf evergreen groundcover that is native to eight states in the Eastern United States. It is a rare plant with conservation status of rare to critically imperiled. Genetic relationships among 24 accessions of G. brachycera were determined using 66 polymorphic AFLP markers from 8 primer pairs. Accessions collected in western Virginia were the most distantly related to the other accessions, while accessions from Kentucky were the most variable. The information gained from this study will be useful to guide decisions regarding conservation, preservation, breeding, and re-introduction of this species.
43286982|Northern Wild Senna (Senna hebecarpa) is a native perennial wildflower that was once common in New England, but is now restricted to only seven extant populations in the region. The species thrives in moist alluvial soils along riverbanks and roadside ditches, and its decline has been attributed to forest succession, human development, and changes in hydrology. Given its increasing rarity, individual plants are becoming more isolated, which creates the potential for reduced pollination if the plant is self-incompatible or the potential for reduced fitness from inbreeding depression if it is self-compatible. Results from pollination experiments confirmed that the species is self-compatible, but requires a pollinator to effect pollination. Since the species is self-compatible and therefore capable of inbreeding, we examined the impact of selfing on fitness at both the level of parental fecundity and progeny success. Comparisons between fully selfed and crossed plants revealed that inbred plants had on average slightly lower fecundity, and that their progeny had on average slightly lower viability and fecundity. To better understand the impact of inbreeding on fitness we extended our analysis of individual measures of fitness to include cumulative effects. These results showed that when the small, marginally significant differences for individual fitness parameters were taken together over the course of successive life history stages the net result was that selfed plants produced significantly fewer viable progeny. This finding shows that S. hebecarpa is sensitive to a loss of fitness due to inbreeding depression, which has implications for its conservation.
20063758|Anatomy of wood and bark are described for all five species of Pittocaulon, the stems of which consist of a very thick, water storing pith surrounded by a thin-walled cylinder of xylem which is in turn surrounded by a thick, water-storing parenchymatous bark with a wide cortex. The samples examined came from a wide range of water availability, but showed only slight or no differentiation in vessel diameter or other characteristics that commonly track water availability closely. These observations are offered as supporting the hypothesis that the xylem of water-storing plants exists in a selective environment that is in many ways more similar to that of mesic plants than to that of sympatric conventional woody plants. It is hypothesized that the Young's modulus of the small amount of wood present is high, and that the parenchymatous cortex, which has collenchyma beneath the periderm in all species, contributes significantly to the support of the stems. The strata of the chambered pith in Pittocaulon may expand and contract with varying amounts of stored water. Pittocaulon praecox and P. velatum share a lack of sclerified elements in the bark and fusiform cell nuclei. Fibers and druses in the bark may be synapomorphies of the P. bombycophole + P. filare + P. hintonii clade.
10.2307/3088671|Both defoliation and higher leaf placement can reduce growth in herbaceous plants. We examined variation in relative growth rate (RGR) and reproduction in response to defoliation and leaf height in Trillium grandiflorum at 4 sites in northern Wisconsin, USA. Plant biomass and the probability of flowering increased with increased leaf height. Analyses of covariance revealed that experimental defoliation and leaf height separately and independently reduced individual RGR, and accounted for about 42% of the total variance in RGR. Defoliation in 1998 had no effect on flowering in 1999, but leaf height in 1998 was positively associated with the likelihood of flowering in 1999. RGR and plant responses to defoliation varied among sites. We conclude that defoliation and leaf height reduce RGR over short time scales.
41262015|Effective conservation strategies for rare clonal plant species require knowledge of their population-level genetic diversity. We used data from genetic markers (Inter-Simple Sequence Repeat (ISSR), and Sequence Characterized Amplified Region (SCAR)) to estimate the number of genetically distinct individuals and the spatial extent of such genets within study populations of the federally endangered Alabama leather flower (Clematis socialis). We found high clonal diversity in C. socialis in spite of the limited seed set and seedling recruitment previously reported for this species. ISSR analyses of plants from the six known populations of socialis yielded 54 distinct multilocus genotypes from 74 sampled plants. Although the populations are separated by an average of 60 km, related genotypes were relatively evenly distributed among all populations. Within populations, the majority of C. socialis genets extended less than 1 m in diameter, but two large individuals spanning 11 m were identified. Based on observed growth data, the 11 m result suggests that C. socialis genets can live for at least 55 years. The size and relative longevity of C. socialis genets have likely slowed the loss of genetic diversity in this rare, clonal species. Additionally, we estimate that population loss and fragmentation of C. Socialis populations have been relatively recent: within two to three generations. Finally, our data indicate that without sexual reproduction, rare genets are likely to go extinct and genetic diversity will decline unless populations are managed to prevent this outcome. In order for conserved populations to persist, research on how management activities simultaneously affect sexual and clonal reproduction in these populations is necessary.
20063743|Identical scale and bark stem surface injuries are present on surfaces of fourteen species of long-lived columnar cacti in both North and South America. The purpose of this research was to determine the amounts of injuries on south-, east-, north-, and west-facing stem trough surfaces for two species of columnar cacti, Neobuxbaumia tetetzo and N. mezcalaensis, from the Tehuacan Valley (18 N latitude) of central Mexico. Stem surface injury levels on south (equatorial)-facing surfaces were twice that of north (polar)-facing stem surfaces for both cactus species. Calculations indicate that twice as much total annual direct sunlight occurs to south-facing cactus surfaces than on north-facing surfaces at 18 N latitude. In general, surface injury levels for east-facing and west-facing plant surfaces were usually intermediate between the high levels of injury for south-facing surfaces and the low levels of injury for north-facing surfaces. It should be noted that published results from columnar cacti growing at 32 N latitude have about four times more stem surface injuries and four times more direct sunlight exposure on equatorial-facing surfaces than on polar surfaces. So, for columnar cacti at 18 and 32 latitude, the ratios of injuires were coincident with ratios of sunlight on equatorial and polar surfaces. Overall, the results of these studies are consistent with the hypothesis that sunlight, possibly UV-B, cause injuries to stems of long-lived, columnar cacti.
10.2307/2997300|A literature survey of internal oil secretion in Lamiaceae revealed that only Brazoria and Physostegia have greatly enlarged foliar mesophyll idioblasts. These have been regarded as specialized oil storage cells that evolved independently of oil cells in other angiosperm families. Resin sections and scanning electron microscope preparations of mature Physostegia virginiana (L.) Benth. leaves showed that each idioblast is an unusually large ellipsoid cell, which is dead at maturity. Idioblasts occur in all mesophyll layers but are most common in the mid-stratum, often abutting a bundle sheath or even occurring as part of it and bulging conspicuously into the mesophyll. Freehand leaf sections treated with Sudan IV showed one small oil drop per idioblast, a similar oil drop in other mesophyll cells, and a larger oil deposit atop each of the many small capitate secretory epidermal trichomes. Oil accumulation is common among leaf cells, therefore we speculate that the idioblasts may primarily serve a defensive function, one as yet unknown, possibly during leaf development.
10.2307/3557556|Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) banding patterns were used to examine the genetic relationships among the long-haired barrens chickweed (Cerastium velutinum var. villosissimum), members of the Cerastium arvense complex, and Cerastium species native to Europe. Cerastium velutinum var. villosissimum is genetically similar to the widespread C. velutinum and this association clustered with C. arvense spp. strictum and C. viride. Cerastium fontanum, C. glomeratum, and C. tomentosum, species native to Europe, were distinct from the North American group. Cerastium velutinum var. villosissimum is globally endangered, is genetically more similar to C. velutinum than other members of the North American C. arvense complex and is deserving of conservation efforts.
41262041|Hybridization in plants can be common, may lead to increased genetic variation, and in some instances the formation of new species. For endangered species, hybridization can introduce novel genetic variation and potentially increase genetic diversity. In contrast, hybridization can negatively affect an endangered species or population by introducing maladaptive alleles into locally adapted lineages or lead to the homogenization of once distinct lineages. We used microsatellites, AFLP markers, and morphological data to identify potential hybridization between the endangered Roan Mountain bluet (Houstonia purpurea var. montana) and its commonly occurring congener (H. purpurea var. purpurea). We used these data to clarify the taxonomic relationship of these varieties and to assess population structuring of the Roan Mountain bluet. The results showed that these lineages are distinct and few individuals exhibited admixture in several populations. Additionally, the results showed there is genetic population structure among the remaining populations of H purpurea var. montana, which is consistent with other mountaintop species. Our results show that Roan Mountain bluet populations should be protected to maintain genetic diversity and monitored to assess future hybridization, and additional studies that comprise a greater population sampling would provide more information.
40207616|The micromorphology of the seeds of six species of Hypoxis (Hypoxidaceae) from eastern North America (east of Texas) was studied with low vacuum, scanning electron microscopy using the backscatter detector. The shape of the cells of the seed coat and the configuration of the cuticle appeared characteristic for a particular species. The species may be placed into three main groups. The first group, those with shiny black, papillate cells, includes H. curtissii and H. hirsuta. The second group, those with shiny black, rounded-inflated (colliculate) cells, comprises H. juncea and H. rigida. The third group of H. sessilis and H. wrightii is characterized by brown seeds with wrinkled, detached cuticles. The seeds of H sessilis are unique among the eastern North American species in having iridescent seed coats. The widespread occurrence of these seed coat characters among both American and African species suggests that phylogenetically informative characteristics of the seed coat of Hypoxis are affected by a high level of homoplasy.
20063870|Genetic diversity is not well understood for many species inhabiting isolated, fragmented systems. We evaluated genetic diversity for the mixed mating, native prairie forb, Lithospermum canescens (Michx) Lehm. (hoary puccoon), at an isolated tallgrass prairie site in southern Minnesota. Leaf tissue was collected from nearly all individuals inhabiting three disjunct patches and AFLP (amplified fragment length polymorphism) was performed on each individual. A high level of genetic diversity was maintained (Nei's Genetic Diversity, h = 0.31), and diversity was similar among the separate populations (
41262012|In this study, the morpho-anatomical features of Hatiora salicornioides (Harworth) Britton & Rose, Rhipsalis floccosa Salm-Dyck Pfeiffer, Rhipsalis elliptica G. Lindb. ex K. Schum. and Epiphyllum phyllanthus (L.) Haworth. were studied during different phases of stem development. Primary (more developed) and terminal (less developed) segments showed variations of anatomical features as exhibited by the epidermal cells in surface view and transverse section. Features of the vascular system, e.g., the occurrence of non-lignified parenchyma in bands (H. salicornioides) or in small groups (R. floccosa and R elliptica), as well as pericycle fibers and lignified cells in the medullar region, were only observed on the primary segments. Nevertheless, based on our anatomical analysis of stem segments in different developmental phases, we conclude that some characters described and used in systematic interpretations should be revised, mainly in the vascular (secondary xylem; non-xylematic vascular fibers) and dermal systems (epidermis in surface view and transverse section).
41262030|To understand how plant communities respond to fluctuations in hydrology, we conducted a natural study on five riverine islands located within the lower Mississippi River. Specifically, we addressed whether species richness and diversity peak at intermediate elevations of flooding and whether plant assembly on these islands follow a niche-derived continuum pattern or develop due to chance processes. Elevations of islands were standardized into 1 m zones providing replicate island gradients of flood frequency and intensity. We examined effects of changing frequency and duration along the gradient and between years, and changes in intensity due to flow based on island side (main channel sides had greater intensity floods). We analyzed diversity data using nonparametric general linear models and compositional dissimilarity using Sorenson's index. Less frequent, more intense disturbances decreased both landscape level and local diversity with the frequency and intensity (alone) of floods affecting community composition. Both temporally and spatially, ' average' disturbances beget higher diversity, supporting the intermediate disturbance hypothesis. Compositional data support multiple controls of community assembly. Clear gradients due to niche drivers were found in relation to typical flooding regimes and so specific species have adapted to various frequencies and intensities of disturbance. However, chance played some role throughout the gradient, resulting in either very high similarity or very low similarity where diversity was low and generally low similarity (not different from random), albeit also more permutations of communities, where diversity was high along the gradient.
10.2307/4126936|Goldenseal, Hydrastis canadensis L., is harvested from forests in the eastern U.S. for its rhizome, which is considered to have medicinal properties. While listed as rare or threatened in many states, its status in Ohio has not been assessed. To establish the status of historic goldenseal populations, we assessed 71 sites where voucher specimens had been collected from 1845 to 1998. Of these sites, 13% were deforested and no longer supported populations. Goldenseal was found on 65% of the remaining forested sites. Nearly half of documented goldenseal populations have become extinct, suggesting an overall decline of goldenseal in Ohio. The major cause of extinction appears to differ among Ecoregions, with deforestation important in the Eastern Corn Belt Plains, herbivory by white-tailed deer in Erie/Ontario Drift and Lake Plain, and overcollection in the Western Allegheny Plateau.
10.2307/3088690|On the Lake Wales Ridge in south-central Florida, we studied plant species composition, seed bank composition, and recovery strategies in thirteen wiregrass flatwoods stands ranging from one to over thirty years postfire. Postfire recovery mechanisms were characterized for 54 species. Wiregrass flatwoods have been characterized historically by fire-return intervals of 1-10 years, which create an open savanna with scattered slash pines. Plant cover reached its maximum only a few years after fire, and litter cover gradually increased with time-since-fire. In long-unburned stands, tall shrubs were abundant and herbs were scarce. The frequency and cover of the two most structurally important species in the community significantly varied among postfire age groups; wiregrass (Aristida beyrichiana) frequency was lowest in long-unburned stands, but average cover of saw palmetto (Serenoa repens) increased with time-since-fire. Plant species presence remained relatively constant across all stands. Estimated species richness and diversity did not change significantly with time-since-fire. Species composition of the seed bank did not closely resemble the aboveground community composition. Most species present in the seed bank (63%) were not found growing in any stand. Most wiregrass flatwoods species (89%) are capable of vegetative recovery and many (54%) were found to recover only vegetatively after fires. Although few significant shifts in plant species presence were detected along a gradient in fire history that spanned thirty years, important structural changes occurred, which eventually can have substantial impacts in fire suppressed communities. Species that recover vegetatively after fires, but are not present in the seed bank, could be lost from long-unburned flatwoods.
10.2307/2997233|The fossil pollen record of Mishow Marsh, Hunter Island, Bronx County, New York City provides evidence of corn (Zea mays) planting between 1075 and 1285 A. D. Arboreal pollen changes, about the time of corn planting cessation, indicate Siwanoy native Americans planted the field with hickory (Carya spp.). Dutch and English colonial settlers protected forests in the locale to maintain a source of wood and for feeding livestock, however, the Island's forest was cut for the British Navy during the American Revolution. Soon after 1812, John Hunter created a gentleman's farm on the Island including forested tracts along the shores and on field edges. Following the purchase of Hunter Island in 1888, the New York City Parks Department supported social agencies clearing trees in field edges to build campgrounds as well as along the south shore to form a beach. In 1908, the chestnut blight eliminated American chestnut (Castanea dentata) from the forest and soon afterward, a hickory bark beetle infestation decimated the hickory population. An arboreal survey in 1934 showed that the Mishow Marsh watershed contained a field and a forest dominated by oak (Quercus spp.) and yellow poplar (Liriodendron Tulipifera). The Island was converted to a day use picnic area in 1943, which removed all the woody plants with stems less than ten centimeters in diameter. Reduced funding after 1964 led to picnic facilities removal which increased forest redevelopment on the Island. A resurvey of the Mishow Marsh watershed in 1988 revealed oak and yellow poplar remained dominant in the old forest and a hickory and sassafras (Sassafras albidum) stand grew in the field
43287001|A new species from Colombia, Scaphyglottis dariensis, is described and illustrated. A key to Scaphyglottis species found in the Darin Gap is presented.
41262029|Individual species are expected to shift their distributions in response to global climate change. Species within existing communities may respond to climate change individualistically, resulting in the formation of novel communities, or may instead shift as intact communities. We examined whether montane plant communities in the northeastern United States have shifted their elevational range as intact assemblages or individualistically in response to recent regional climatic and environmental change. We used non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) to examine changes in plant community composition and species distributions using vegetation surveys repeated five times between 1964 and 2006 across an elevational gradient (549-1158 m) on Camels Hump Mountain, Vermont, USA, in conjunction with an analysis of local climate change. We found evidence that species elevational distributions and community compositions have shifted in response to a 0.49C per decade warming. These species responses were complex and largely individualistic at some elevations, while at other elevations species in a given community tended to respond similarly. The magnitude of community compositional change was largely dependent on location with respect to the ecotone between northern hardwood and boreal forests. While climate change likely contributed to the large shifts in species within NMDS space, these shifts may also be a response to invasive earthworms at low elevations and to prolonged exposure to acid deposition at high elevations. Though we found evidence of shared species responses within communities, future species responses may become increasingly divergent as the magnitude of climate change increases causing species-specific environmental thresholds to be reached and as the synergistic effects of multiple anthropogenic perturbations rise.
10.2307/2996593|Wood anatomy shows close correlation with ecology: A. kauense, A. sandwicense (stem), and A. virescens, which occur in dry localities, show xeromorphic wood patterns. The most mesomorphic woods are those of the bog species A. grayanum and root wood of A. sandwicense. The wood of A. caliginis is xeromorphic, despite the bog habitat of the species, a fact explainable if A. caliginis is a recent entrant into the bog habitat Libriform wall thickness appears correlated with habit. Quantitative features of stem woods of Argyroxiphium are comparable to woods ranging from desert to moist montane forest areas in California. The similarities to woods from each Californian habitat are correlative to the relative moisture availability of the respective Hawaiian habitats of the Argyroxiphium species.
20063872|Boltonia decurrens is a plant that occurs only on floodplains of the Illinois River and in the area where the Illinois, Missouri and Mississippi Rivers merge. The number of naturally occurring populations has declined over the past 100 years. Boltonia decurrens is on the federal list of threatened species, and is listed as threatened in Illinois and as a species of concern in Missouri. Decline of the species is generally attributed to the loss of suitable habitat due to the alteration of the hydrology of the Illinois River. Without regular flooding, which provides appropriate habitat for the species, a B. decurrens population is replaced within three to five years by a variety of herbaceous species; its survival is dependant upon seedling establishment to renew extant populations and to colonize new sites. In this study, we assessed the effects of achene pattern (aggregated or random) and density (high, medium and low) on the germination of B. decurrens' achenes in the presence of three competitors: Polygonum pensylvanicum, Aster pilosus and A. lateriflorus. Percent germination of B. decurrens' achenes was significantly higher in random compared to aggregate treatments, indicating that there was no positive effect of conspecific aggregation of achenes on germination nor a negative effect of nearby competitor achenes. Boltonia decurrens' germination was highest at low density in the random treatment, compared to the same density in aggregated achenes, thus suggesting the possibility of an autoallelopathic effect. Although B. decurrens' germination was not affected by the presence of competitors, there were significant differences in germination among species: Aster lateriflorus had higher percent germination than P. pensylvanicum, A. pilosus or B. decurrens, and germination of B. decurrens was significantly higher than P. pensylvanicum, or A. pilosus. Data from this study will provide insights into the role of competition during germination in floodplain communities and be useful to conservation personnel when they evaluate potential sites for reintroduction or plan control measures to target the species that pose the greatest threat to B. decurrens at a population site.
41262039|The present study describes the occurrence of mucilage ducts within Polygalaceae. Polygala angulata DC. is a species from the Brazilian cerrado that possesses secretory ducts in the stem angles of primary growth. First, a schizogeneous process and later, a lytic process both take place in the course of secretory duct formation, characterizing the development of the glands as schizolysigenous. Histochemical tests confirm the mucilage nature of the exudate. The presumable functions of this gland are associated with xeromorphic adaptation of this species to the cerrado environment.
43287003|Fourteen species of Phallales known to occur in the tropical region of the Atlantic Forest in Brazil are discussed. New records are reported for the country (Laternea dringii), Southeastern Brazil (Abrachium floriforme), Northeastern Brazil (Clathrus columnatus and Mutinus argentinas), and the states of Paraba (M. caninus and Staheliomyces cinctus), Rio de Janeiro and Esprito Santo (Phallus indusiatus). Descriptions and illustrations of the new records and a key to the phalloid fungi from this region are presented.
10.2307/3088770|Remeasurement of woody vegetation on permanent plots in western Great Smoky Mountains National Park indicated that understory composition and dominance have changed over the past two decades (between 1977-1979 and 1995-2000). We observed heavy mortality of Cornus florida L., likely as a result of infection by Discula destructiva Redlin, a destructive fungus that causes dogwood anthracnose. Mortality was highest in smaller size classes and seedling density generally decreased. Cove and alluvial forests, where heavy shading favors dogwood anthracnose, had the highest mortality. While still high, mortality in oak-hickory and oak-pine forests was lower than that of cove and alluvial forests. Cornus florida density more than doubled on three plots located within an area that burned in 1976, likely as a result of sprouting and reduced shading in these fire-thinned stands. Over the same two decades, the importance of Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr. greatly increased in cove, alluvial, oak-hickory, and oak-pine stands. Changes in understory composition in conjunction with the widespread loss of C. florida may greatly impact numerous ecological relationships in these forests, including calcium availability, nutrient cycling, and food source availability for wildlife.
10.2307/3557552|Fire effects on canopy, shrub/sapling, and ground-cover species composition, structure, and diversity patterns were examined following two burns in a dry sandstone barrens remnant in southern Illinois. Vegetation was monitored at a fire treatment site and a nearby fire-free control site for three years following the first fire and two years following the second fire. Fire effects were most pronounced in the ground-cover stratum and least in the tree stratum. At the fire treatment site, tree species richness was unchanged while tree density (stems
27751829|The influence of forested hillside seeps on local biodiversity is not well known in the glaciated northeastern USA. We documented the physical and vegetative characteristics of fifteen forested seeps and adjacent uplands to determine their contribution to local biodiversity and to improve existing regional seep classification methods. We determined the uniqueness of plant species using the Indicator Value Method, a method that combines individual species' relative abundance with its relative frequency of occurrence to produce a score (0100%) based on the ability of that species to be associated within a defined group. We used nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) to address species-site relationships. Hardwood seeps were always located on slopes from 812 and were between 5 and 800 m2 in area. Conifer seeps were also located on similar slopes, but were typically larger (900 to 3600 m2) and within areas of lower topography or 'benches' on a hillslope. Herbaceous layer diversity (H) was highest in hardwood seeps, highlighting their contribution to local biodiversity in headwater catchments. We found nine indicator species for hardwood seeps ( = 0.01), of which the highest scores belonged to Chrysosplenium americanum Schwein. ex Hook. (Indicator value = 83%), Viola cucullata Ait. (82%), and Circea alpina L. (77%). We found 11 indicator species in conifer seeps, with Osmunda cinnamomea L. having the highest score (83%). The NMDS ordination suggests that differences among hardwood and conifer seeps were correlated primarily to overstory composition. However, within site differences suggest a response to species diversity (H and J), percent bryophyte cover, and site hydrology. The indicator species identified here correspond with those from other New England states. However, further refinement of existing northeastern natural community classifications is necessary to reflect the unique understory composition. Although none of the species found was rare, the species present in these communities augment local and regional biodiversity. The results of this assessment provide further evidence that small, forested seeps support distinct vegetation communities within forested ecosystems.
41811879|Knowledge, both of the historical range of spruce-dominated forests and associated site conditions, is needed by land managers to help define restoration goals and potential sites for restoration. We used an existing digital database of witness trees listed in deeds from 1752 to 1899 to compare characteristics of red spruce (Picea rubens Sarg.) sites to nonred spruce sites to gain an understanding of historical spruce-dominated forests in West Virginia. The analysis revealed that red spruce witness trees were found at significantly higher elevations than non-spruce witness trees across the study area. However, spruce witness trees in the Western Allegheny Mountains subsection were found at significantly lower elevations than non-spruce witness trees. Indicator species analysis determined red spruce to be associated with toe slopes, benches, and valleys, although most locations were on side slopes. Across the entire study area, red spruce witness trees were more likely to be found on northeastern aspects and on acidic and frigid soils of the Mandy series. Historically, red spruce was associated with American beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.), birch (Betula L.), and hemlock (Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carrire). This information should be used to guide red spruce restoration efforts and shows that a range of ecological settings should be considered when setting goals and implementing active management.
10.2307/2997315|Flowering dogwood, Cornus florida L., is currently threatened throughout much of its range in eastern North America by the fungal pathogen Discula destructiva Redlin, the causal agent of the sometimes fatal disease dogwood anthracnose. We documented the occurrence of C. florida and assessed the extent of mortality by dogwood anthracnose in forests of the nonglaciated Allegheny Plateau in northwestern Pennsylvania, near the northern periphery of the species range. Classification analysis of plots with C. florida identified three oak-dominated community types in which C. florida occurred as a minor (importance value from 3.0 to 9.8) small tree: a Quercus rubra-Acer rubrum community; a Quercus alba-Q. rubra community; and a Q. coccinea-A. rubrum community. Oak communities supporting C. florida primarily occurred on silt loam soils on lower to upper slopes of southwesterly aspect. Density of C. florida (living and dead stems 2.5 cm dbh/ha) varied across community types and was greatest in the Q. rubra-A. rubrum community (128 stems/ha) and lowest in the Q. alba-Q. rubra community (44 stems/ha). Sixty-nine living and dead stems of C. florida were tallied across community types. Of this total, all living C. florida trees (n = 24) had symptoms of dogwood anthracnose and all dead trees (n = 45) had died as a result of the disease; healthy, non-diseased trees were not encountered. Lack of non-diseased individuals across community types suggests that C. florida may either become an extremely rare element of Allegheny Plateau oak forests or eventually be eliminated from the region.
20063908|Competition is an important factor structuring plant communities. Competitive hierarchies may facilitate prediction of the outcome of interactions among multi-species mixtures, but their utility depends upon invariance along environmental gradients. We examined interactions among four common old-field herbaceous dicots (Dactylis glomerata, Festuca elatior, Trifolium pratense, Plantago lanceolata) with pairwise monoculture and polyculture competition experiments at two levels each of light and water. We constructed competitive hierarchies for unique treatment combinations based on competitive effect and response scores. Biomass production and relative yield were affected by presence and identity of neighbor species and inter- and intraspecific competition were typically not distinguishable. Competitive effect and response scores were inversely correlated, but depended on treatment factor as well as levels within factors. Competitive rankings among these four common plant species varied along resource gradients, although the extreme ends of the hierarchy were relatively stable: under most conditions P. lanceolata was most competitive whereas F. elatior was least competitive. Results lay the groundwork for assessments of multispecies mixtures under field conditions along broader environmental gradients.
40207602|Stems in Sesuvium portulacastrum L. (Aizoaceae) increase in thickness by forming successive rings of cambia that formed concentric rings of xylem alternating with phloem. The cambium is semi-storied and exclusively composed of vertically elongated fusiform initials while cambial rays were absent in the early part of the secondary growth. In the older stems some of the fusiform cambial cells undergo further division and develop into vertically upright rays. The first ring of cambium formed thick walled lignified elements centripetally and phloem centrifugally for a definite period. A second ring of cambium is developed from axial parenchyma cells located outside the phloem produced by the previous cambium. Prior to the complete differentiation of new cambial ring, these parenchyma cells divide bi-directionally to form additional parenchyma cells (referred here as secondary cortex) to the outer and inner side. Cells formed outside to the new ring formed secondary cortex, which served as a site for the future cambium. Inner cells differentiated later on into conjunctive tissue between two successive rings. In the newly formed cambium, alternate small segments of the cambium gave rise to conducting elements of xylem towards the center and phloem towards the periphery while the other segments formed thin walled parenchyma on both the sides. Secondary xylem was composed of vessel elements, fiber tracheids and libriform fibers with nuclei whereas secondary phloem consisted of sieve tube elements, companion cells and parenchyma with no rays in the young stem.
20063748|The environmental basis for variation in canopy composition was investigated in an extensive old-growth forest at Mont St. Hilaire, Quebec, Canada. Based on 144 permanent plots, spatial variation in canopy tree species and the effect of environmental variables on canopy composition were examined using canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). Slope and the amount of direct solar radiation received during the growing season, both of which are good indicators of soil moisture, were the main factors explaining plot-to-plot variation in canopy composition. Quercus rubra, Betula papyrifera, Ostrya virginiana and Pinus strobus predominated on plots with high insolation and steeper slope, while species such as Acer saccharum, Fagus grandifolia, Betula alleghaniensis, and Tilia americana occurred on sites with gentler slope and lower insolation during the growing season. Additionally, plots with greater dominance of Acer saccharum in the canopy had higher soil nitrogen availability, and plots with greater dominance of Fagus grandifolia had lower Ca availability.
20063808|Great Gull Island, Suffolk County, New York was surveyed for vascular plants in 2002. The island's past and present flora consists of 207 species, 148 genera, and 55 families; the largest families are the Asteraceae (35 spp.) and the Poaceae (34 spp.). Fifty seven percent (119 spp.) of the flora is not native. The greatest change in the flora since the 1970s has been the addition of 16 species of composites and 12 species of grasses. The island's long history of human impact is reviewed, especially the impacts upon the flora resulting from management of the island as a wildlife preserve for nesting birds. Significant changes in the island's flora and vegetation have occurred during the past two decades.
10.2307/3088742| The ultrastructure of Chlamydomonas applanata Pringsheim is described and compared with that of Chlamydomonas acidophila Negoro. The oval cells (7-8 by 3-4 m) have a distinctly polar structure with two anterior flagella, emerging under an elliptical papilla, and a posteriorly located nucleus. The chloroplast is parallel to the long axis of the cell and occupies most of the cellular volume. It bears a single, large pyrenoid bisected by one pair of thylakoids and ensheathed by starch granules. Mitochondrial segments are prevalent in the subplasmalemmal area. The vacuome consists of 3-4 interconnected peripheral vacuoles and two contractile vacuoles located below the flagellar apparatus. Vacuolar volume increases significantly in stationary cells. The endoplasmic reticulum is extensive and in contact with most cellular components. In the vicinity of the nucleus two to three active dictyosomes are present. Smooth vesicles over 132 m in diameter emerge from the transdictyosomal face, while small coated vesicles bud off peripherally from the cisternae. The functions of the Golgi apparatus and the golgian vesicles are discussed. 
20063889|Alliaria petiolata is an invasive herb impacting forests throughout the eastern United States. We studied the impacts of glyphosate, bare ground, and summer precipitation on A. petiolata cover and density in two forest stands of different ages at Hueston Woods State Park, Preble and Butler Cos., OH. Fifty 1  1 m plots were established in each stand and 25 plots per stand were treated with glyphosate each November 2000-2004. Cover and density of A. petiolata rosettes and adults were measured multiple times each year from 2000 through 2005. Percent bare ground was estimated using a point frame in May 2003. Adult cover in May was significantly lower in sprayed vs. unsprayed plots in three of five years; in the other two years adult cover was very low in both sprayed and unsprayed plots. However, spray treatment did not significantly affect May rosette cover across years. ANCOVA revealed that May 2003 bare ground positively associated with density of A. petiolata rosettes in May 2003, but bare ground was not significantly associated with October 2003 rosette density. Variation across years in both October rosette density and May adult density of A. petiolata was significantly associated with precipitation the previous June; wetter Junes were followed by higher densities. Despite sustained suppression of adult A. petiolata in plots sprayed with glyphosate, new rosettes appeared each spring at densities comparable to unsprayed plots, which we attribute to seed dispersal from outside of the plots. Bare ground had minimal effect on A. petiolata populations. Evidence that A. petiolata density was positively affected by June precipitation suggests that management efforts should be focused in years of wet summers.
25790851|The Paullinieae tribe (Sapindaceae) has stems with structural variation highly specialized and unique to this tribe: divided vascular cylinder, compound vascular cylinder and corded vascular cylinder. In Brazil, these stems are used in wood marquetry. The present study is the first to explore the ontogeny of the corded stem through the analysis of Thinouia restingae, an endemic species in Brazil. A normal vascular cambium arises as a continuous cylinder and functions for a long time producing secondary phloem centrifugally and secondary xylem centripetally. New cambia are formed by the pericycle giving rise to the peripheral vascular cylinder. The variant cambia are circular and have cambial activity similar to the regular cambium. Morphologically, the corded type is similar to the compound type. However, while the ontogenesis and presence of pith is found in the compound type, these features are absent in the corded vascular cylinder. Overall, we found that the corded stem of Thinouia restingae differs from other cable structures present in Sapindaceae by its macromorphology, tissue structure, and developmental timing. The commercial-importance of Sapindaceae wood gives our findings particular significance in that our study serves as a first step toward incorporating developmental data into the identification of the wood of lianas commercially.
10.2307/4126922|All three genera of Sarraceniaceae possess pit membrane remnants in perforations: the abundance of pit membrane remnants parallels the number of bars per perforation plate: most in Heliamphora, fewer in Sarracenia, fewest in Darlingtonia. Heliamphora perforation plates were reported earlier, so Darlingtonia (monotypic) and two species of Sarracenia are considered here. The majority of perforations lack extensive pit membrane remnants, but occasional meshwork-like remnants can be seen at the lateral ends of a number of perforations. Perforations intermediate in size and morphology between perforations and lateral wall pits (pit membranes nearly intact, but containing numerous pores) often occur at upper and lower ends of perforation plates. Pit membrane remnants of this type have been reported in scalariform perforation plates of families thought to be closely related to Sarraceniaceae (Clethraceae, Cyrillaceae, Ericaceae). Species of all four families in which pit membranes are present occur in highly mesic or bog habitats.
25790859|We documented microhabitat occurrence and growth of Lonicera japonica to identify factors related to its invasion into a southern Illinois shale barren. The barren was surveyed for L. japonica in June 2003, and the microhabitats of established L. japonica plants were compared to random points that sampled the range of available microhabitats in the barren. Vine and leaf characters were used as measurements of plant growth. Lonicera japonica occurred preferentially in areas of high litter cover and species richness, comparatively small trees, low PAR, low soil moisture and temperature, steep slopes, and shallow soils. Plant growth varied among these microhabitats. Among plots where L. japonica occurred, growth was related to soil and light conditions, and aspects of surrounding cover. Overhead canopy cover was a common variable associated with nearly all measured growth traits. Plasticity of traits to improve invader success can only affect the likelihood of invasion once constraints to establishment and persistence have been surmounted. Therefore, understanding where L. japonica invasion occurs, and microhabitat interactions with plant growth are important for estimating invasion success.
10.2307/3088769|The pollination biology and flower visitors of Lobelia spicata, an herbaceous prairie perennial, were examined, and this species was found to be xenogamous, self-compatible, and gynodioecious. Hermaphroditic individuals are protandrous, produce nectar, and have secondary pollen presentation (i.e., pump mechanism). Female individuals do not produce nectar. No significant differences were found between the fruit set of open-pollinated hermaphroditic and female flowers. In hermaphroditic bagged flowers seeds were produced (i.e., undeveloped fruits) suggesting self-pollination; however, this was determined to be the result of geitonogamous pollination by thrips. Autogamy is not likely in this species because there is no overlap between the staminate and pistillate phases. This species is pollinated mainly by bees from the genus Augochlorella. Overall, this study shows that L. spicata shares many common characteristics with other species of Lobelia (i.e., L. cardinalis and L. siphilitica) such as protandry, self-compatibility, no autonomous self-pollination, similar flower phenology (i.e., pistillate and staminate phases), and secondary pollen presentation (i.e., pump mechanism). In contrast to these other species, L. spicata blooms early, has smaller flowers, and attracts smaller pollinators.
40207589|Small and large-scale perturbations can have important impacts on a wide range of biota. Hurricanes are a dominant perturbation in tropical ecosystems. A 1500 ha seasonally dry tropical forest reserve in Quintana Roo, Mexico, was analyzed for epiphyte composition across different serai stages and forest types, including mature forest, tintal wetland area, and secondary vegetation. One-kilometer belt transects (6000 m) were sampled in each forest type before and after Hurricane Wilma. The surveys revealed twenty three species of vascular epiphytes, primarily from the Bromeliaceae and Orchidaceae families. Immediately following Wilma, fewer than half of previously recorded individuals were observed, while overall species composition differed little. The wetland area sustained losses of 64%, and the mature forest lost 28% of epiphyte individuals. However, the epiphyte communities in the wetland area contained greater than 50% of all observed individuals both before and after the hurricane, thus representing the largest new source pool. Under a changing climate regime of increasing hurricanes, vascular epiphytes of the Yucatan Peninsula may suffer disproportionate losses compared with understory plants. Ultimately, epiphytes must be studied within the framework of community ecology in order to understand the severity of these losses.
40207617|The anatomy of the stigma and style of three species of Oxalis (O. articulata, O. hispidula, and O. paludosa), belonging to different sections (Articulatae, Ionoxalis, and Corniculatae) was studied using light, scanning, and transmission electron microscopy. The stigma morphology of each of the different flower morphs of the three species (longistylous, medistylous, and brevistylous flowers) was compared in this work. The stigma is dry and has multicellular and multiseriate papillae. The morphology of the papillae does not differ between flower morphs. According to the Ca concentration in pre-anthesis, anthesis, and post-anthesis, we hypothesize that the stigmas of the different morphs are equally receptive. Oxalis style is solid type. The cytoplasm of the transmitting tissue cells is dense with few vacuoles and abundant organelles. The transmitting tissue cells have large amounts of intercellular substance, mainly at the corners. This substance has moderate electron density in the species O. articulata and O. hispidula and shows some laxer areas in O. paludosa. The transmitting cell wall of the two first species has wall ingrowths like fingers with low electron density that protrude into the cytoplasm. The ultrastructural characteristics of the transmitting cells allow to characterize three of the sections of the genus.
10.2307/2996580|The 50+ species of dogwoods exhibit a Laurasian distribution pattern with centers of diversity in eastern Asia, North America, and Central America, plus a few scattered species in Africa, Europe, and South America. The genus is treated here sensu lato although some earlier treatments split it into nine genera. Foliar micromorphology, using SEM, shows a wide range of variation in several features. Epidermal cells vary from flat or slightly convex to papillose. Cuticle is smooth to striated or coronulate. Epicuticular wax may be present or absent. The basic and most common trichome is the flat, symmetrical, unicellular, dolabrate type often with calcium carbonate crystals on the surface. Six trichome modifications are formed by the asymmetry and orientation of the two arms and the elongation of the arms and basal stalk. These trichome modifications are considered to be derived (apomorphic) and form various vestiture types (strigillose, strigose, pilose on the veins, or pilose throughout) possibly reflecting adaptations to different environmental pressures and/or insect predation. The characters were coded for presence/absence and subjected to phylogenetic analyses at both the subgeneric and species levels to determine if the micromorphological characters correlated with current hypotheses of relationships within Comus. Although the results suggested that there was little phylogenetic information at the subgeneric level, analyses generated unique hypotheses of species relationships within subg. Comus, Cynoxylon, and Syncarpea.
40207576|Despite concern over potential detrimental effects of non-native invasive species on human and natural systems, the factors controlling regional distributions of invasive species remain unresolved. Few studies have evaluated the influence of both environmental factors and disturbance history on invasive species distributions, or assessed synthetically the importance of landscape-level disturbances like historical land-use, forest harvesting, and contemporary forest fragmentation. We analyzed vegetation, soils, and recent and historical land-use and landscape context for forests across central and western Massachusetts to identify controls on invasive species distributions. Almost half (49.3%) of 148 randomly selected sites had at least one non-native invasive plant present, and invasive species occurred more frequently on former agricultural sites than in continuous woodlands. We used logistic regression to model the probability of finding the four most common species: Japanese barberry (Berberis thunbergii DC), glossy buckthorn (Rhamnus frangula L.), multiflora rose (Rosa multiflora Thunb. ex Murr.), and oriental bittersweet (Celastrus orbiculata Thunb.). Soil richness was the most important predictor of invasive presence, with rich soils (i.e., lower C: N) being more likely to have these species. The structure of the current forested landscape (i.e., the amount of forest within a 10 km buffer around a site) is also important, with sites that are surrounded by more forest being less likely to have invasives. After accounting for variation in C: N ratios and the structure of the current forested landscape, historical land-use was not a significant predictor of non-native species occurrence; however, C:N ratios may be influenced by historical land-use and by current vegetation, thus complicating interpretations of this edaphic variable. Recent forest harvesting increased the likelihood of invasive occurrence for some but not all species. Overall, our results suggest that regional patterns of invasive plant distributions result from a complex function of edaphic conditions, and present and historical land-uses.
20063958|The distribution of canopy trees can impose within-site patterns of soil properties and understory plant composition. At ten sites spanning a soil parent material gradient in northern Arizona Pinus ponderosa-Quercus gambelii forests, we compared soils and plant composition among five canopy types: openings, Pinus ponderosa single trees, Quercus gambelii single stems, dispersed clumps, and thickets. Soil texture on average did not differ significantly among canopy types, whereas Oi horizon thickness and weight, 0-15 cm soil loss-on-ignition, and gravimetric soil moisture differed significantly among three or more canopy types. Understory plant richness per 4 m ranged from five species below P. ponderosa to 12 species in openings, with richness below Q. gambelii single stems significantly greater than below Q. gambelii thickets. C graminoids (e.g., Aristida purpurea) inhabited openings, while C species like Poa fendleriana also occurred below trees. The forbs Thalictrum fendleri and Lathyrus laetivirens were strongly associated with Q. gambelii dispersed clumps and thickets. We also conducted an experimental planting with T. fendleri that was consistent with these correlational results, with outplanted T. fendleri seedling survival 2-7 times greater when planted below Q. gambelii compared to openings. Previous research and our results suggest that understory species associated with Q. gambelii canopies vary regionally, but there are consistently some associated species. Canopy types affected understory vegetation similarly across soil parent materials, not supporting a hypothesis that positive plant interactions changed along soil gradients. Our results suggest that forest management that manipulates both the density and the pattern of trees, together with the growth forms of Q. gambelii trees, can induce within-site spatial patterns of soil properties and understory species.
10.2307/4126923|We investigated the reproductive biology of the alien invasive vine Vincetoxicum rossicum (Asclepiadaceae) and evaluated pollinator visitation rate in the field, evidenced by missing pollinaria, to flowers of isolated plants and those of plants in dense monocultures. Flowers in dense monocultures were visited less frequently than those on isolated plants surrounded by old-field grasses. Visited flowers were more likely to produce fruit and those fruits contained more polyembryonic seeds. However, a greenhouse experiment in which we cross- or self-pollinated flowers revealed no difference in fruit set, seed production, seed weight or embryony. This suggests that the higher fruit set and greater polyembryony of visited flowers in the field was not the consequence of visitation, but may have been the result of floral visitors having chosen the most vigorous flowers. Day-old flowers emasculated in the greenhouse experiment occasionally produced a fruit, indicating that the germination of self-pollen begins the day a flower opens. The ability to produce large numbers of selfed seeds is no doubt advantageous to this highly invasive asclepiad.
10.2307/3088691|The composition, structure, and dendroecology of a mature pine-hardwood forest was studied at the George Washington Birthplace National Monument, eastern Virginia. Loblolly pine, sweetgum, holly, blackgum, and several oak species dominate the forest. Blackgum trees dominated recruitment from 1840 to 1900, based on current age structure. All other tree species are less than 100 years old. A compilation of major and moderate radial growth releases revealed multiple disturbance events in most decades from 1870 to 1990. A dramatic increase in the radial growth of blackgum occurred in the late 1880s, probably in response to selective logging of pine and hardwood timber species. This disturbance stimulated the recruitment of blackgum followed by loblolly pine and other hardwood species. A decline in blackgum recruitment occurred during the 20th century. The existing loblolly pine range in age from 64 to 105 years old, and this species stopped recruiting in 1935. The loblolly pine standardized (ARSTAN) chronology was positively correlated, and blackgum negatively correlated, with current and previous year temperatures. There were no correlations with Palmer drought severity index or precipitation. Seedlings and saplings of all species are scarce, with the exception of holly, a highly shade tolerant, understory tree species. Loblolly pine trees in the overstory may exhibit future declines due to their relatively short longevity, insect attack, and windthrow. Given current conditions, the future stand composition most certainly will contain less loblolly pine and more hardwoods, including sweetgum, blackgum, and holly.
10.2307/3557555|Macrozamin and cycasin are very toxic azoxyglycosides of the Cycadales. Caterpillars (Lepidoptera) and weevils (Coleoptera) feed on cycad root, stem, leaf, and reproductive tissues. Azoxyglycosides may have played an important ecological role as antiherbivore defenses. We evaluated the association between herbivory and the amount of azoxyglycosides in the Cycadales using phylogenetic independent contrasts. We hypothesized that herbivory types should be related to the presence of macrozamin and cycasin, thus herbivory should be lower in species with higher concentrations of azoxyglycosides. We gathered information available on the literature of these two characters as well as life form, geographic distribution, height, and seed volume for the majority of cycad species, in order to assess correlated evolution and control for possible allometric effects. Herbivory types and macrozamin were negatively correlated, suggesting a possible defensive function for macrozamin against herbivores. No significant correlation was observed between cycasin percent and herbivory type. However, when analysed using phylogenetic independent contrasts and thus removing the historical effect, the association did not hold. This suggests that the presence of metabolites in plants may have evolved for some other reason, and has been mantained among cycads perhaps by phylogenetic inertia. The presence of macrozamin should then be explained as an exaptation, playing today an important role in defense against herbivores. Furthermore, this analysis showed that macrozamin has independently and repeatedly (Bowenia, Macrozamia, Stangeria) increased over evolutionary time.
20063898|We surveyed freshwater and oligohaline portions of tidal river systems in Delaware, the eastern shore of Maryland, and southern New Jersey for native and introduced Phragmites australis populations. Populations of native P. australis occur along the major rivers of the eastern shore of Maryland, particularly the Choptank and Nanticoke Rivers, and were common along river and creek edges and typically less dense than introduced P. australis. In contrast, few native populations occur along rivers in Delaware and southern New Jersey where introduced P. australis dominates. These differences in distribution of native P. australis could be due to the magnitude of human impacts and the timing of invasion of introduced P. australis into these systems. The presence of so many populations of native P. australis on the eastern shore of Maryland is unique today as the subspecies has all but disappeared from much of its historical range along the Atlantic Coast.
10.2307/4126912|Species of Opuntia are a diverse group of plants with a wide variety of morphologies and growth habits. All Opuntia species have segmented stems that form joints at the constriction points and exhibit varying degrees of resistance to being separated from the plant. Bending stress (due solely to the weight of the branches) was the predominant stress (mean bending stresses were 167 and 383 kPa for O. ficus-indica and O. parryi var. parryi, respectively) between stem segments. Axial, shear, and torsion stresses were relatively low compared with bending stresses for both species. Data of O. ficus-indica and O. parryi var. parryi show that 23.6 and 25.3% of tensile portions of joints were composed of lignified xylem cells, respectively, while compressive portions of the same joints had only 10.8 and 14.7% lignified xylem cells, respectively. The relative radial positions of lignified xylem cells for compressive, tensile and lateral portions of joints for O. ficus-indica and O. parryi var. parryi were analyzed. In general, lignified xylem cells were closer to the external surface in tensile tissues than in compressive and lateral tissues of joints. Thus, lignified xylem cells are located in a position to provide a high level of resistance to bending. Maximum bending stresses were positively related with amounts of lignified xylem cells in joints for both species. For O. ficus-indica the best-fit line was y = 1.48 x + 24.2 (P = 0.012) with an r
10.2307/2996609|Sanguinaria canadensis L. is a rhizomatous understory perennial herb that varies considerably in clone size, leaf size and allocation to sexual reproduction among local populations. Permanent plots were established in a high-light site with large, many-leafed plants and a low-light site with small, few-leafed plants. Within these plots, a reciprocal transplant study was performed to separate local evolutionary differentiation from environmentally determined differentiation. Also, half the plots in each site were fertilized to explore effects of soil fertility on vegetative growth and sexual reproduction. Plants from a third high-light site were used in a potting study to explore combined influences of elevated sunlight and fertilization on vegetative growth and sexual reproduction. Fertilization resulted in plants with proportionally fewer small and more large leaves in high-light permanent plots and had no effect on plants growing in low-light permanent plots. Fertilization increased leaf number and total leaf area, but had no influence on seed production in the potting and reciprocal transplant studies. Unshaded plants had significantly more leaves and greater total leaf area in the potting study. Also, in the high-light site of the reciprocal transplant study, both fertilized and unfertilized plants (especially fertilized plants originating from the high-light site) had more leaves and a higher total leaf area per plant than plants growing in the low-light site. Light intensity did not influence seed production in the potting study; however, more seeds were produced on plants growing in the high-light site than in the low-light site. Mortality was high for plants transplanted into the low-light site and for fertilized plants growing in shade in the common garden study. Clonal growth as measured by leaf size and leaf number in S. canadensis is highly plastic and responds vigorously to increased sunlight and to fertilization when under high-light conditions. In contrast, sexual reproduction exhibits relatively little plasticity. We suggest that local populations of S. canadensis rapidly respond to increases in light and nutrients associated with disturbance through increased clonal growth. This rapid response to environmental variability may partly explain the patchy spatial distribution of S. canadensis populations.
41475103|An assessment of variation in the complex of species related to Polystachya foliosa has revealed a novel circumscription of this species. Our evidence indicates that the name P. foliosa is only correctly applied to plants from the Amazon basin, the Guiana shield, and the West Indies. The name Polystachya caracasana is here used for many other populations of the species formerly referred to P. foliosa, thus making the latter a more narrowly circumscribed taxon. The two species are easily distinguished by flower size, labellum details, and vegetative traits. A key to distinguish these two species is provided. Full descriptions, discussions of synonymy, relevant iconography, and specimen citations for both taxa are also presented. Lectotypes are designated for P. cingulata Schltr., P. guatemalensis Schltr., P. minor Fawcett, P. panamensis Schltr., and P. weigeltii Rchb.f.; a neotype is designated for P. stenophylla Schltr., and epitypes are proposed for P. foliosa and P. panamensis.
10.2307/2997239|Tracheary elements of roots and rhizomes of five species of Araceae, subfamily Philodendroideae, representing five of the seven tribes of the subfamily, were studied by means of SEM, using macerations supplemented by sections. All except Zantedeschia albo-maculata and possibly Anthurium scherzerianum proved to have vessels in rhizomes as well as roots; only vessels in roots have been previously reported for the family. Perforation plates of rhizomes differ little from those of roots, although in some of the species pit membrane remnants are more conspicuous in rhizome perforation plates. The welldefined perforation plates of Anthurium may be related to conduction when water is available in terrestrial and epiphytic habitats that dry seasonally. Likewise, the root vessels of Zantedeschia may be related to rapid conduction during wet periods. Vessel elements of subfamily Philodendroideae represent features regarded as primitive, most notably, similarity between perforations and lateral wall pits, and the presence of pit membrane remnants in perforations. Pit membrane remnants likely are little impediment to conduction in moist tropical understory localities where most aroids grow.
10.2307/2997265|Aristida tuberculosa is anannual grass of impoverished old fields on the southeastern coastal plain. Mature florets have hygroscopic awns and self-bury; florets that do not implant usually do not germinate, or seedlings fail to establish. We examined the influence of soil fertility on mass allocation in Aristida plants and florets, and the consequences of relative investment in caryopsis and awn for self-burial on litter and bare substrate. In the greenhouse, soil fertility did not influence mean per-floret mass or awn length, but fertilized plant florets had lighter caryopses and greater relative investment in awn than unfertilized plant florets. In field-collected propagules, caryopsis mass and awn length were inversely related to soil fertility; mean per-floret mass and relative investment in awn and caryopsis did not differ among fields. Relative investment in awn and caryopsis did not influence floret burial in field or greenhouse trials. Litter cover did enhance burial in both the field and the greenhouse; florets buried deeper in the heavier litter of the most fertile field site. We conclude that, although soil fertility influences floret biomass allocation in Aristida, relative allocation to awn and caryopsis does not influence floret performance.
10.2307/2997311|Ontogeny and anatomy of the pericarp were studied in Rhus aromatica Ait. var. aromatica of subgenus Lobadium and in R. glabra L. of subgenus Rhus. The exocarp sensu stricto in both species originated from the outer epidermis of the ovary wall and remained single-layered. However, in a mature, desiccated fruit, the exocarp was united with the outer mesocarp, and this united-layer was physically detached from the rest of the fruit, thus forming a thin, papery peel. The vascular bundles together with the inner mesocarp, which remained parenchymatous in R. aromatica and became sclerified in R. glabra, was attached to the future stone in R. aromatica but detached from it in R. glabra. The endocarp sensu stricto of both species originated from the inner epidermis of the ovary wall. At anthesis, the proto-endocarp was 3-layered; one and two weeks after anthesis in R. glabra and R. aromatica, respectively, it had become distinctively 4-layered, and the innermost layer had elongated 5-10 times. Five weeks after anthesis in R. aromatica but only three weeks after anthesis in R. glabra, all layers except the outermost crystalliferous one were fully elongated and had begun to lignify. In both species, the crystalliferous layer remained parenchymatous, did not elongate, and contained crystals. The similarities in ontogeny and anatomy of the pericarp in these two species support the opinion that Lobadium should be kept as a subgenus within Rhus, rather than being elevated to the generic level. However, more taxa of Rhus need to be studied before the taxonomy of the genus can be clarified.
20063781|Wetland vegetation is strongly dependent upon climate-influenced hydrologic conditions, and plant composition responds in generally consistent ways to droughts. However, the extent of species composition change during drought may be influenced by the pre-existing structure of wetland vegetation. We characterized the vegetation of ten herbaceous Carolina bay wetlands on the South Carolina Upper Coastal Plain during a period of average rainfall and again near the end of a four-year drought. We hypothesized that, as a group, bays dominated by less robust plant species (characteristic of open-water pond and depression meadow vegetation types) would show greater compositional change than bays dominated by dense, robust-form clonal graminoids (characteristic of grass and sedge marsh vegetation types). Aquatic species decreased during the drought in all wetlands, regardless of vegetation group. Compared to grass/sedge marshes, pond/meadow wetlands acquired more species, particularly non-wetland species, during the drought. Pond/meadow wetlands also had greater increases in the abundances of species that require unflooded conditions to establish. Prior to the drought, all wetlands were ponded almost continuously, but during drought the pond/meadow wetlands had shorter and more variable hydroperiods than the grass/sedge marshes. Thus, vegetation change may be partly confounded with hydrologic conditions that provide greater opportunities for species recruitment in pond/meadow bays. The results suggest that Carolina bay vegetation dynamics may differ as a function of dominant vegetation and climate-driven variation in wetland hydrologic condition.
41678809|Acadia National Park is a center of plant diversity in northeastern North America. The Park's varied habitats and flora are sensitive to a number of natural and anthropogenic perturbations. Stressors such as invasive plants, pest and pathogens, ozone, acidic fog and sulfur deposition, nitrogen deposition, heavy metals, fire and fire suppression, over-browsing, visitor use, hurricanes, and climate change have all had effects on the Park's habitats and plant species at some point and it is unclear how many of these Stressors are currently affecting the flora of Acadia National Park. We discuss the botanical diversity of Acadia, assess the natural and anthropogenic Stressors and threats affecting the Park's flora, and summarize critical information gaps to better assess the known Stressors and threats to the flora. Understanding these Stressors and threats is critical to making informed management decisions to preserve the botanical diversity of Acadia and other regional parks.
10.2307/2997280|During summer of 1994, 328 0.1 ha circular plots were sampled to determine the volume of coarse woody debris (CWD) and standing dead density and basal area in 53 mature or older Pinus ponderosa stands in the Front Range and Southwestern mountains of Colorado. Standing dead volume was estimated using height derived from living trees in the plots. Generally, CWD amounts were lower in these forests than have been reported for Pinus ponderosa forests in Arizona and New Mexico and other forest types in North America. Mean volume for all plots was 15.9 m
27751789|Previous phylogenetic analyses of Lepidium included only a few accessions of L. montanum, L. flavum, and L. fremontii to represent western North American species. Two additional species endemic to southwest Idaho have posed both taxanomic and conservation questions regarding their species status. Lepidium papilliferum was originally described as a variety of L. montanum, is morphologically similar to L. montanum, and is found in small scattered populations in southwest Idaho. The plant is restricted to specific edaphic conditions known as slick spots where high clay content creates conditions amenable to L. papilliferum, but to few other species. Resolving whether the populations of L. papilliferum merit species status distinct from L. montanum is a vexing question and phylogenetic analyses can assist in resolving this issue. Like L. papilliferum, L. davisii has specific edaphic requirements and is found in playas, areas similar to slick spots, but larger and with deeper soils. Unlike L. papilliferum, L. davisii is morphologically distinct from L. montanum and has posed less of a taxonomic quandary. Previous phylogenetic studies have shown that American species of Lepidium are derived from an ancestral allopolyploid species. In this study we have expanded previous analyses to include L. papilliferum, L. davisii, and several accessions of L. montanum along with published sequences of ITS, cpDNA, and PISTILLATA first intron. The western North American species form a monophyletic group with L. davisii sister to the remainder of the clade. Within this clade, L. papilliferum and L. fremontii are each monophyletic and sister to each other, but are imbedded within a paraphyletic L. montanum.
41262033|We evaluated the impact of chronic deer over browsing on the diversity and abundance of understory forbs and shrubs within a forest stand in the Allegheny High Plateau Region of Pennsylvania by comparing vegetation inside a 60-year-old exclosure to vegetation within an adjacent reference site. This is the oldest known exclosure in the Eastern Deciduous Forest. Browsing caused the formation of an extremely low diversity herbaceous understory dominated by a single fern species, caused the local extirpation of shrubs, and drove forbs to extremely low abundance (< 0.2% cover m vs. 43% inside the exclosure). Our results confirm previous findings that demonstrate that browsing has caused 60-80% declines in herb and shrub richness regionally. Because many of these species have low dispersal and reproductive rates, we predict longterm legacy effects if deer numbers are ever reduced. Our results combined with other studies provide information on shrub and herb abundance in the absence of browsing that may serve as a baseline to compare potential community recovery in the future.
10.2307/3088749|Females of dioecious species could respond to pollen-limitation by extending their flowering period, by maximizing stigmatic surface area, or by producing stamens. Our objective was to determine female response to pollen availability in Amaranthus cannabinus (L.) Sauer, a dioecious annual. Plants from two southern New Jersey tidal marsh populations (fresh, FW; salt, SM) were grown under spring greenhouse conditions until initiation of flower development. Females of each population were then paired as to height and vigor, and one of each pair was placed in a closed greenhouse room without males. The other females, surrounded by males, were placed in a comparable greenhouse room. One month later at harvest, seed-bearing plants were senescing, while pollen-deprived plants were green with clusters of turgid stigmas at the base of almost every petiole and branch as well as at the end of branches. There were no changes in sex expression; those females without pollen produced only female flowers. There were no significant differences in total biomass between treatments but striking differences in resource (biomass) allocation. Pollen-deprived plants allocated 61% (FW) and 37% (SM) more biomass to reproductive structures other than seeds. For plants from both populations, the pollen-deprived plants allocated at least 68% more to stems, and 37% (FW) and 57% (SM) more to leaves. Confirming the earlier senescence of the pollinated plants, leaf drop at the time of harvest was 24% (FW) and 33% (SM) greater. Overall, females of freshwater and salt marsh populations showed a similar pattern in their allocation responses to pollen availability.
10.2307/2997245|Buffalograss [Buchloe dactyloides (Nutt.) Engelm.] has been widely used in central North America for reseeding depleted rangelands and for erosion control, and recently it has received attention as a turf species. However, due to its shade intolerance and inability to compete under high rainfall conditions, its ability to increase unaided in northeastern North America was unknown. This paper describes the growth of a population initiated by an accidental introduction in 1977 of buffalograss diaspores into a heavily trampled site with a shallow compacted soil at Rutgers University. In 10 years, buffalograss was found 123 m from the point of the introduction and was the primary plant cover on 20% of a 0.1 ha grass-forb area. Expansion of the population occurred through both clonal spread and seedling establishment. In 1986, a total census produced a wide range of clonal size classes, and seedling recruitment that year was estimated at 6 per m
27751799|Barrens were areas of scrub oak and prairie plants that were noted by Government Land Office (GLO) Surveys in Illinois. Surveyors described four vegetation types: prairie, barrens, scattering timber, and forest. Since settlement, these vegetation types have nearly disappeared. We used GIS and the GLO survey notes for Jersey and Greene Counties in southwestern Illinois to locate and estimate the area of barrens present at the time of the surveys. Using these estimates it was possible to determine that barrens covered about ten percent of each county. The larger barrens areas were surrounded by prairie and located in the more level eastern portions of the counties. Carya spp., Quercus marilandica, and Q. stellata were more abundant in barrens than in other vegetation types. Surveyor-designated prairies were located both on prairie soils (argiudolls) and forest soils (hapludalfs). Barrens, scattering timber, and forest were all found on forest soils and on steeper slopes than prairies. The distribution of vegetation types suggests that barrens represent an expansion of woody vegetation onto especially vulnerable prairie sites during the Little Ice Age (1450 to 1850 AD).
41475117|The occurrence of colleters in Eudicotyledons is probably significantly underestimated as a consequence of the scarcity of structural studies directed towards them and the difficulties to determine their function. The present work aims to report the occurrence of colleters in Cariniana estrellensis and describe their morphological and functional aspects; for this, leaves at different stages of expansion were collected and studied using light, and scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The young leaves of C. estrellensis are involute and have colleters along the margins. These colleters appear to be functional in very young leaves and produce pectic secretions that spread over the entire leaf surface. The colleters are clavate and sessile, and have a central axis composed of parenchymatic cells as well as a secretory epidermis covered by a cuticle. The central cells have vacuolate cytoplasm with few organelles and reserve substances. The cytoplasm of the epidermal cells has numerous dictyosomes during the secretory phase, with few plastids and mitochondria. The secretions coating on the leaf surfaces appear to contribute to maintaining the water balance of the young leaves, thus the main function of the colleters in this species appears to be to protect the leaves from excessive transpiration loses.
10.2307/4126928|Seedling establishment of woody plants in recently abandoned plowed fields provides an opportunity to study how site factors and the surrounding landscape influence vegetation development. From 1992-98 at four former agricultural fields in central New York State, we measured seed input and seedling emergence in relation to seed source strength, and seedling emergence, survival and growth in relation to environmental factors, for two tree species, Acer rubrum and Fraxinus americana, and two shrubs, Cornus racemosa and Viburnum dentatum. In these young former agricultural fields, seed input of the wind-dispersed trees to the fields was much greater than the vertebrate-dispersed shrubs (
10.2307/3088647| We describe Ceratozamia matudai geographic distribution, its basic demographic parameters, and the association of these parameters with environmental factors. A species survey and a review of herbarium collections indicated that C. matudai occurs only on the pacific slopes of the Sierra Madre of Chiapas, Mxico. Two censuses (1998-1999) were performed in a Pine-Cupressus forest in the core zone of the Triunfo Biosphere Reserve, and a Montane Rain Forest in its buffer zone. Neighboring floristic composition, soil depth, and slope around marked and mapped C. matudai individuals in each site were described. This species showed a clumped local distribution on shallow soils on steep slopes. Individuals showed differences in amount of leaf production, trunk diameter, and height between sites. Neighboring species composition affected seedling mortality. Because of its low numbers and limited range we recommend a status change in its IUCN category to endangered. As with other cycads, C. matudai can reach high market values. Ex-situ propagation of this and other species may provide incentives among local peasants for conservation of the natural populations and its habitat. 
20063930|Allometric equations and biomass allocation were determined for the aboveground wood, branch, twig, and leaf components of the invasive tree Acacia auriculiformis in south Florida prior to and after a major hurricane event. A destructive harvest was used and plant partitioned biomass was quantified for 35 trees prior to landfall of hurricane Wilma (October 2005), followed by an assessment of 29 hurricane impacted trees (representing all ontogeny classes) three months later. Allometric equations were developed to estimate plant partitioned biomass using diameter at base and diameter at breast height as predictors of biomass components, leaf area, leaf area ratio, and leaf weight ratio. Diameter at base was the best predictor of biomass allocation in all regression analyses. Hurricane force winds did not alter biomass of major woody components; however significant losses were observed in twig biomass and all measured leaf parameters. The replacement of damaged foliage resulted in overcompensation of leaf area and leaf area ratio. Similarly, leaf biomass, and leaf weight ratio also increased following the hurricane, but levels were lower than pre-hurricane observations. This research facilitates the prediction of A. auriculiformis biomass using non destructive sampling protocols while quantifying its resiliency and compensatory abilities following hurricane disturbance.
43287002|Trindade is an oceanic archipelago situated roughly 1140 km east of Esprito Santo State, Brazil. It reaches an altitude of 620 m a.s.l. and covers approximately 10 km. Less than 5% of the island is covered by forest and approximately 60% by herbaceous vegetation. Several new and endemic plant taxa were described in the 1960' s, and some of these had not been registered since then. From 1700 to 2005 the Island suffered from large populations of feral mammals, especially goats. Within the framework of a vegetation regeneration survey following goal eradication, our specific objective was to search for the putatively extinct species. Six field trips were undertaken from 2009 to 2012, resulting in more than six months of effective search time on the Island. Two of the three putatively extinct species were rediscovered, both ferns: Asplenium beckeri and Elaphoglossum beckeri. Peperomia beckeri remains known only from the holotype. Most likely the rediscovered species regenerated through the spore bank. Due to the elimination of goats and to conservational efforts, and in light of the observed expansion of the populations, the reestablishment of these rediscovered species on Trindade Island seems guaranteed.
10.2307/3088670|We studied the effect of deer browsing on prairie forbs under conditions of high deer density (30 to 42 deer km<sup>-2</sup>) on a single remnant tallgrass prairie in the Illinois Department of Natural Resources' Heidecke Lake Fish and Wildlife Area in northeastern Illinois. Almost no grasses or sedges were browsed and the frequency of browsing of graminoids was nearly the same in deer exclosure and reference plots. In contrast, deer browsed 3.5% to 18.9% of the standing crop of forb stems depending upon time of sampling. Deer selectively browsed 26% percent of the 100 species of forbs sampled in at least one of nine samples taken over three growing seasons. However, most species (17 of 26 selected species) were selected in only one sample. Highest browsing intensity occurred during late June and early July. Flowering stems of 3 species of forbs were significantly less abundant in the reference plots than in the exclosure plots, indicating a potentially adverse effect of deer browsing on the reproductive success of these prairie forbs. Deer are most likely to influence prairie vegetation by causing a shift in plant species abundance and competitive abilities in a way that favors grasses over forbs and reduces prairie plant diversity.
10.2307/2997322|The vascular flora of Ellis Island, a 11.1 hectare (27.5 acre) island in New York Harbor, consists of 247 species within 164 genera and 69 families. The largest families in the flora are the Poaceae (45 species) and Asteraceae (39 species). Twenty five families represented in this flora are comprised exclusively of non-native species. Species of extra-regional origin, 60.3% of the flora, are a major component of the natural vegetation. A list of the 247 species of vascular plants identified is included.
20063890|Ailanthus altissima tree seedlings were excavated from each of two habitats: (1) a forest adjacent to a trail and stream and (2) a non-forested steep, barren slope adjacent to a major highway. Each seedling root system was examined for colonization by mycorrhizal structures using light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. The roots were colonized by one or more endomycorrhizal fungi with Arum-type colonization. Endomycorrhizal colonization of the seedlings from the non-forested site (65.2%) was significantly greater than that of the seedlings from the forested site (37.9%). Colonization by intercellular hyphae and vesicles was significantly greater in the non-forested habitat than the forested habitat. This exotic invasive species may benefit from the rapid colonization of endomycorrhizae in more extreme open environments.
20063927|Rudbeckia fulgida var. sullivantii (Sullivant's Coneflower) is a target species for conservation and restoration at the Midewin National Tallgrass Prairie in Will County, northeastern Illinois, due to its classification as a Regional Forester's Sensitive Species by the United States Forest Service (USFS; i.e., a species for which population viability is a concern because of a significant current or predicted downward trend in population numbers/density or in habitat capability that would reduce a species' existing distribution). We collected data on the reproductive ecology of this species including its breeding system, seed set, and flower visitors at seven populations in northeastern Illinois from 2002-2004, to support a conservation plan for the species on USFS lands. We found that R. fulgida var. sullivantii is mostly self-incompatible. Percent seed set ranged from 26.1 to 69.5 with the great majority of populations having over 45 percent seed set. Insects from 32 families were identified as flower visitors to R. fulgida var. sullivantii. Six out of seven populations had between 18-22 insect families and one population had 11 insect families as flower visitors. We concluded that the reproductive ecology of Rudbeckia fulgida var. sullivantii is not the leading cause for its decline in northeastern Illinois.
10.2307/2997231|Sixteen permanent plots in the Arnot Forest in upstate New York, originally surveyed in 1935 and resurveyed in 1985, were measured in 1993 and 1996 to examine recent changes in forest structure and composition resulting from tree mortality, growth and recruitment. Tree density  5 cm dbh) declined significantly forest-wide between 1985 and 1993 (1275 to 1079 stems/ha) in this ca. 110-yr-old, even-aged forest because the high mortality of several dominant species (especially sugar maple, American beech and basswood) was not matched by recruitment. A small but nonsignificant decline in basal area also was observed during this interval (31.7 to 30.5 m
43286987|Long-term changes in biomass and demography of a second-growth forest in central New York were quantified based upon remeasurement of 16 permanent plots (0.4 ha) originally established in 1935. We hypothesized that as the average age of the forest overstory reaches 125 years, biomass, structure, and composition would be approaching steady state. Aboveground live biomass (AGB) of the forest continued to increase steadily and significantly from 1985-2008, reaching 233 Mg ha. Empirical observations closely matched predictions by the Forest Vegetation Simulator (FVS) from 1935-2008, and the FVS projected peak in AGB of 247 Mg ha at age 174 years. Aboveground net primary productivity averaged 772 gm yr and wood production was significantly higher on well-drained than more poorly-drained upland sites. Recent changes (1993-2008) in composition and structure continued long-term trends with increasing biomass of sugar maple, red maple, white ash, eastern hemlock and red oak, while beech and basswood declined, owing to effects of exotic pests. Until recently, beech was the only species exhibiting abundant regeneration in the forest, through vegetative sprouting. In the future, mortality from exotic insect pests is likely to alter trends in biomass, composition and structure of this forest and probably others in the region.
41475107|Light affects all aspects of plant growth and development from seed germination to senescence. While there has been intensive investigation of the effects of blue and red light on development and tropisms, much less is known about the specific effects of green light exposure in plants. Several recent studies demonstrate that monochromatic green light has a number of physiological effects including antagonizing light-mediated growth inhibition in hypocotyls and reversing blue-light-induced stomatal opening. In this paper, we report on the effects of green light pulses on phototropism in both light-and darkgrown seedlings of Arabidopsis thaliana. Green light had no effect on either red-light or blue-light-based phototropism in roots. However, in hypocotyls of dark-grown seedlings, pulses of green light significantly reduced blue-light positive phototropism while the growth rate was increased. In contrast, in hypocotyls of light-grown seedlings, green pulses significantly increased positive phototropic curvature while there was no significant effect on growth rate. The observed effects of green light may occur by perception through the phytochromes or via a novel undiscovered green light receptor. Taken together, these results suggest that care should be taken when green illumination is used as a "safe" light in studies of plant development. While green light effects may be more subtle compared to red and blue effects, monochromatic green illumination can influence the growth and development of seedlings.
10.2307/2996601|The vegetation of the only known remnant of what was once one of the largest inland Atlantic white cedar peat swamp complexes in the world (the Drowned Lands of Orange County, New York) is documented. Although logging and drainage have significantly affected this wetland, a small portion of the cedar swamp has remained somewhat intact. It is the southernmost locality for Sphagnum contortum K. F. Schulz, S. quinquefarium (Braithw.) Warnst., and S. wulfianum Girg. in New York. This community type is critically imperiled in both New York and New Jersey.
20063809|The first New York State record for Juncus diffusissimus Buckley (Juncaceae) is reported from Suffolk County, Long Island. An historical account of the species' original range and post-1900 migration in the United States is presented. The nativity status of J. diffusissimus and several other species that have spontaneously migrated into new territories in eastern United States during the past 100 years is discussed.
20063962|Recognition of infraspecific taxa in Pteryxia terebinthina (vars. albiflora, californica, foeniculacea, and terebinthina) is controversial. Multivariate analysis of variance, principal component analysis, and discriminant analysis of 265 specimens representing the morphological variability and geographic distribution of the species complex were conducted to test the validity of these infraspecific taxa. Results show that var. terebinthina can be recognized by its unique fruit wing structure. There are statistically significant differences among the remaining varieties for most of the characters previously used to recognize these varieties, but all of these characters are overlapping among the taxa. No clearly separated clusters are revealed in the principal component analysis and discriminant analysis does not allow reliable recognition of the varieties. We therefore propose that this species complex be recognized as containing two varieties, foeniculacea and terebinthina.
40207577|We investigated the influence of fungivorous soil invertebrates on seedling emergence from soil mesocosms buried in a ruderal grassland. Two out of three tested plant species, Centaurea nigra and Origanum vulgare, had a higher seedling emergence when we added the fungivorous collembolan Protaphorura fimata to mesocosms, compared to a control treatment where we excluded soil mesofauna by using defaunated soil and preventing re-colonization from the ambient soil. P. fimata increased seedling emergence to a similar extent as a treatment of the seeds with the fungicide Aathiram. In contrast, a treatment designed to allow re-colonization of defaunated soil from the ambient soil did not result in increased seedling emergence compared to the control treatment. In a third plant species, Anthriscus sylvestris, overall seedling emergence was too low for any significant treatment effects to be detected. This study corroborates the findings of a previous experiment carried out in the laboratory to explore the influence of P. fimata on seed mortality under controlled environmental conditions and shows that there are similar effects on seedling emergence under field climatic conditions.
20063871|The genus Populus comprises some of the most commercially exploited, pioneer forest trees distributed throughout the northern-hemisphere. The high level of morphological diversity, extensive inter-species hybridization, and low level of DNA sequence variation among species in this group have impeded the progress of taxonomic and phylogenetic studies. We used nuclear genomic data based upon inter simple sequence repeat (ISSR) variability, a highly variable class of molecular markers to determine the genetic relationships among species of the genus Populus. Species of the section Populus (Leuce) clustered together suggesting monophyly of the section Populus. The Eurasian members of section Populus (P. alba, P. davidiana, and P. tremula) showed closer genetic relationships to each other than to two North American aspens (P. tremuloides and P. grandidentata) of the same section. In contrast to previous phylogenetic studies, P. nigra showed a close genetic relationship to species of the section Tacamahaca. This relationship is in agreement with various phenotypic traits, interfertility and chemistry of bud exudates and serves as evidence for introgression between P. nigra and species of the section Tacamahaca. Overall, the genetic relatedness estimates based on nuclear ISSR data were congruent with phylogenetic trees based on other molecular (RFLP and DNA sequence) and morphological data, but provided better resolution in assessing the genetic relatedness among closely related taxa, and provided genetic evidence for previously suspected introgressions.
10.2307/2997279|In many forests of the northeastern U.S., canopy gaps are the predominant mode of disturbance and thus regulate future forest structure and species composition. We examined radial growth trends in canopy and subcanopy sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.) trees growing in gaps and non-gap areas in three second-growth, Allegheny northern hardwood forest stands in central New York. Our objective was to determine if a recent diffuse disturbance of the canopy caused by beech bark disease stimulated growth of sugar maple trees in gaps and throughout the forest. Annual radial growth (mm/yr) of canopy gap-edge trees and subcanopy trees in gaps was significantly greater than that of canopy trees and subcanopy trees in non-gap areas. During the period of beech bark diseaseinduced canopy decline, non-gap subcanopy trees exhibited an annual radial growth 30% higher and a radial growth rate (mm/yr/yr) four times greater than during the years prior to the disturbance. In contrast, canopy trees not adjacent to gaps showed no change in radial growth coincident with the disturbance. These results suggest that in forests with significant canopy deterioration, differences in tree growth between gap and nongap environments can be expected; however, positive growth responses among sub-canopy trees may not be limited to the area directly in gaps and instead may occur throughout the forest.
10.2307/3088701|The avoidance of inbreeding is thought by many to be a strong selective force leading to the evolution of dioecy. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of inbreeding on Amaranthus cannabinus (L.) Sauer (water hemp), a dioecious annual. Inbred and outcrossed lines were established in the greenhouse for three New Jersey populations of water hemp, one salt marsh population and two freshwater marsh populations. After two generations of crosses, inbreeding depression was observed in the percentage of germination, leaf size, and plant height. However, the response to inbreeding varied considerably among and within the three populations. Overall, inbreeding depression was low, suggesting that the avoidance of inbreeding was not a strong selective drive for the evolution of dioecy in A. cannabinus. Another selective factor that more likely contributed to the evolution of dioecy in water hemp is increased reproductive efficiency through sex-specific selection.
10.2307/4126939|By the late 1980s the composition and structure of forest stands in the southern Appalachian spruce-fir zone were altered by insect infestations to Fraser fir. The response of red spruce, the sole remaining coniferous forest dominant, to this disturbance was followed over twenty years (1983-2003) in an old spruce-fir forest at Mt. Collins, Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Although diameter growth of canopy red spruce (>30 cm dbh) at six plot sites was considerable (mean 10-yr increment 2.1 cm; 1993-2003), red spruce mortality increased sharply (mean
10.2307/4126954|This historical and extant vascular flora of greater New York City is a literature review supplemented with field work and examination of herbarium specimens held in New York State. For the historical and modern periods combined, 2177 species in 779 genera and 161 families were found in New York City. The City retains 57.4% of its native plant species diversity with 779 extant native species compared to 1357 ever recorded. Extirpations have disproportionately affected native vs. non-native species. Staten Island (Richmond County) has the greatest diversity of the five boroughs with 154 families and 1633 species known from both the historical and modern time periods combined, as well as the greatest number of extant species (921), and the greatest number of native extant species (621). However it has lost approximately 35% of its native flora in the last 70 years. Brooklyn (Kings County) has the lowest diversity of any borough with 695 native and alien species known from both the historical and modern periods combined. Manhattan (New York County) and Brooklyn have lost more than 75% of their native species. Queens County has lost the greatest number of native species (585). In New York City since the mid-19th century, 46.4% of all native herbaceous species have been extirpated, while 22.9% of native woody plants have been lost. In the last 70 years, extirpations have continued even in natural areas protected in parks. Strategies are recommended for preserving New York City's significant native plant species diversity.
10.2307/2996596|Old-growth bottomland hardwood and slough forests of the Congaree Swamp National Monument, Columbia, SC, were exposed to winds of up to 155 km/hr during Hurricane Hugo in September 1989. Liana distribution and population changes were examined in ten 1 ha plots in 1989-90 and 1994. Prior to the hurricane, vines were not randomly distributed among host tree species. In the bottomland hardwood communities, Liquidambar styraciflua L. and Fraxinus spp. supported relatively more vines, and Ilex spp., Carpinus caroliniana Walter., and Nyssa spp. had fewer vines than other tree species. Liquidambar styraciflua was more likely to host Rhus radicans than were other tree species. Small trees with lianas suffered disproportionally greater damage from the hurricane than small trees with no lianas; trees of all sizes that supported three or more lianas were more likely to be damaged. Declines in liana populations appear to be related to high tree damage and to hydrologic regime. In sloughs, declines in liana stem density were greater than the levels of canopy damage would predict. Large woody vines that survived grew slowly over the four years following the hurricane.
20063740|Schinus terebinthifolius, or Brazilian pepper, is an exotic invasive plant found throughout much of peninsular Florida. It rapidly colonizes disturbed areas, often forming dense monotypic stands, and displaces native vegetation. In the current study we examined a potential mechanism by which Brazilian pepper has become a major invader of Florida's ecosystems. In laboratory bioassays and greenhouse experiments, germination and biomass accumulation in two native Florida plant species, Bidens alba and Rivina humilis, were negatively affected by irrigation with aqueous extracts of Brazilian pepper leaves. This study illustrates a potential mechanism through which one plant may gain a competitive advantage over another.
43287007|Scale and bark injuries (a condition called epidermal browning) have been shown to occur on stem surfaces of 21 species of tall, long-lived cactus species throughout the Americas. The amounts of surface injuries are highly correlated with amounts of sunlight exposures. Epidermal browning causes cactus morbidity and mortality of saguaro cacti. For this study, rates of morbidity and mortality of saguaro cacti (Carnegiea gigantea (Engelm.) Britt and Rose) were determined for 1061 plants from 50 desert field plots. From 2002 to 2010, 16.5% of all saguaros died (increased mortality). During the same period, the percentage of cacti with few epidermal injuries decreased from 25 to 9%, with a 16% increase in initial morbidity. Over this same period, about 10% of the population had a rapid increase of epidermal browning (rapid morbidity). Thus, marked increases in morbidity and mortality occurred over the eight-year period. WEKA, a standard machine-learning program, was used to determine the characteristics of saguaros that predispose them to (1) die, (2) initiate morbidity (start of epidermal browning symptoms) and (3) initiate rapid morbidity (a rapid increase in epidermal browning). Decision trees were created using the C4.5 algorithm, a top-down method that repeatedly chooses the question that produces a maximal information gain. Amounts of epidermal browning on north-facing troughs alone predicted cactus mortality with 89.1% accuracy. Initial morbidity was predicted with 80.2% accuracy with data of south-facing troughs and crests only. Rapid morbidity (less than 20% epidermal browning in 2002 and more than 50% by 2010) was predicted with a very large tree with 79.6% accuracy. For example, rapid morbidity is predicted by more than 3.1% epidermal browning on left troughs on south-facing surfaces in 2002 with 80% accuracy. Moreover, rapid morbidity was also predicted if east-facing crests had more than 3.9% epidermal browning in 2002. Overall, decision tree analysis was very effective at predicting changes in mortality and morbidity for the population of 1061 saguaros from 2002 to 2010. Data from trough surfaces were more effective than data from crests for predicting mortality and morbidity.
27751806|Three species that occur in montane forests in Eastern Brazil are described here. Behuria capixaba occurs in the state of Esprito Santo and Ossaea loligomorpha in Bahia, while Miconia dorsaliporosa occurs in both states.
20063918|Two hundred and sixty-one vascular plant species were documented for Yucca House National Monument and surrounding lands including seven new records for Montezuma County. This work was part of a biological inventory throughout the National Park Service as part of the Natural Resource Challenge, a legislative and administrative mandate. The study area is in the Montezuma Valley, where most land is in private or tribal ownership, and opportunities for plant surveys are limited. The flora includes three species tracked by the Colorado Natural Heritage Program: Centaurium exaltatum (Griseb.) W. Wight ex Piper (desert centaury), Penstemon breviculus (Keck) Nisbet & R. C. Jackson (shortstem beardtongue), and Penstemon lentus Pennell (handsome beardtongue).
41678808|Quercus macrocarpa Michx. (bur oak) is the key pioneer species as forests establish at the prairie-forest ecotone in western Minnesota, but invasive Rhamnus cathartica L. (European buckthorn) is an abundant and increasing secondary tree. Here we contrast microsite utilization and growth as a function of light and soil moisture for Q. macrocarpa and R. cathartica saplings at an ecotonal forest in an effort to establish the roles these two species are likely to play in near-term forest dynamics. Compared to Q. macrocarpa, R cathartica saplings are found, on average, in darker microsites (P < 0.001) with higher soil moisture (P < 0.001), though the range of light levels at which saplings were seen to occur is much larger for Q. macrocarpa than for R. cathartica. We fit a variety of models which predict sapling growth and compared fits using AICc. With our best fitting models, light, size, and soil moisture together explain approximately half of the variation in growth among R. cathartica saplings and two-thirds of the variation in Q. macrocarpa. Most similar studies utilize models that include an a priori assumption that growth will asymptote with increasing light availability, but we find no evidence to support the use of asymptotic models. All top ranked models include light and sapling size, but the calculated importance of both light and soil moisture is dependent on the choice of growth metric, a disturbing finding given the variety of metrics utilized in the sapling growth literature. For neither species does the addition of soil moisture significantly improve growth models if the growth metric used is absolute radial stem growth increment, but soil moisture becomes important when absolute basal area increment is the growth metric for Q. macrocarpa, and when relative growth increment is used for either species. Limited success of R. cathartica in light, dry microsites suggests that the invasive tree may be near its climatic limit at our ecotonal forest site. At the same time, the relative success of the species in the dark understory of our warm dry forest suggests that near-term warming, with an expected increase in continental-climate drought, is unlikely to limit R. cathartica across the bulk of forests it has invaded in North America.
10.2307/2997256|The Coastal Lowland Ecozone of New York State has been greatly dissected and altered from its natural state. Robins Island represents one of the few undeveloped and relatively intact ecosystems remaining in this ecozone; it offers a unique opportunity to study the region's natural processes. The plant communities of Robins Island were inventoried using a combination of belt transects and quadrats. A total of 12 natural, non-lacustrine plant communities ranging in size from 0.1 to 108 hectares were identified on Robins Island: three forest, two shrubland, two grassland, three palustrine, and two sparsely vegetated communities. The Bayberry-Phragmites community contained a combination of xeric (e.g., Myrica pensylvanica) and hydric (e.g., Phragmites australis) species that have not been reported in other natural circumstances. The island's other communities were similar to descriptions of other regional plant communities, although Robins Island's communities were relatively depauperate. Based upon a detrended correspondence analysis, variability among each community's transects ranged from high to low; this variability was associated with the random sampling design, inherent heterogeneity, physiographic characteristics, and edge effects. The island's flora consisted of 215 Species of vascular plants representing 151 genera and 60 families; seven species were rare or endangered in New York State and 30% of the flora was non-native and naturalized. The flora showed a greater similarity to neighboring Shelter Island (Sorensen's similarity index [SSI] = 55%) than to the adjacent north and south forks of eastern Long Island (SSI = 36 and 38%)
40864967|The absence of WBTs and wood polymorphisms in some species of the Caryophyllales may be related to the particular area of plant analyzed. The present research has the objective of studying the photosynthetic and nonphotosynthetic stems of different species and stages of differentiation to register wood polymorphisms and to understand the distribution and occurrence of WBTs. Wood polymorphism was observed in the nonphotosynthetic stem of young and adult plants of Opuntioideae and Cactoideae and is also found in the photosynthetic stem of young plants of some species of Cactoideae. Cactoideae present WBT/fibrous dimorphic wood that can be related to cambial variation associated with growth habits and plant development. As expected, in the photosynthetic stem of the adult columnar cacti the wood is monomorphic fibrous in which WBTs were not found. This wood contains a great amount of fibers due to necessity of the mechanical support. In contrast, the globular species do not possess fibers in this area of the stem in either adult or young plants. Opuntia monacantha Haw. had non-fibrous wood in which WBTs were observed in the axial system and in the inner parts of the rays. Fiber clusters were present in the axial system. This wood represents a variation in the wood types described for Opuntioideae. Also, in O. monacantha, cells similar to the WBTs were observed in the pith, which can be interpreted as variation in the morphogenic processes during the ontogeny of the plant, probably a case of homeosis. Monomorphic fibrous wood without WBTs was found along the entire stem of Pereskia bahiensis Gurke. This feature has been observed in other pereskias, and in addition to the others, indicates its proximity to the ancestral cacti.
10.2307/3088665|We sampled 23 stands of older second growth hardwood forest on level, low elevation uplands of the undissected Lower Coastal Plain of Virginia. Our stands differed from upland forests of the dissected Upper Coastal Plain, where hardwood forests are dominated by Quercus alba, Fagus grandifolia, Liriodendron tulipifera, and Q. falcata. In the Lower Coastal Plain most of our stands were dominated by Acer rubrum and Liquidambar styraciflua, neither of which was important in the Upper Coastal Plain forests. Both detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) ordinations separated our 23 Lower Coastal Plain stands into two groups: a 10-stand mesophytic Group I, in which Acer and Liquidambar share dominance with Q. alba, Fagus grandifolia, and Pinus taeda; and a 13-stand more hydrophytic Group II, with Acer and Liquidambar sharing dominance with Liriodendron tulipifera and various hydrophytic oaks (Q. pagoda, Q. michauxii, Q. phellos, and Q. laurifolia). This Group II still differs from floodplain forests of the Upper Coastal Plain, where dominants are Fraxinus pennsylvanica, Ulmus americana, Acer rubrum and hydrophytic oaks, but not Liriodendron tulipifera. Differences between our Groups I and II were not correlated with growth season soil moisture levels. Altered water tables from ditching and drainage of surrounding developed areas since the forests were established may explain the discrepancy, or length of wintertime soil saturation, which we did not measure, may be a major determinant of stand composition. Non-floodplain forests of the undissected Lower Coastal Plain are intermediate between upland forests of the Upper Coastal Plain and floodplain forests along the streams that dissect the Upper Coastal Plain, filling a portion of the mesic to hydric gradient poorly represented in the strongly dissected Upper Coastal Plain.
10.2307/3557544|Poor survival of oak regeneration has been attributed to fire suppression and the physiological limitations imposed by the increasing dominance of competitors, especially red maple (Acer rubrum L.). We examined the physiological responses of red maple, chestnut oak (Quercus prinus L.) and scarlet oak (Q. coccinea Muenchh.) seedlings following a prescribed fire in an upland oak-pine forest in eastern Kentucky. Immediately following fire, seedlings on burned sites had significantly greater foliar concentrations of N, P, K, and Mg than seedlings on unburned sites; this effect of treatment diminished over the first growing season. Seedlings on burned sites also demonstrated significantly higher photosynthetic potential and had greater relative growth rates of diameter and height through the second and third growing seasons post-fire. Among species, chestnut oak consistently had the greatest foliar concentrations of all nutrients, with red maple being intermediate and scarlet oak the lowest. Both oaks had significantly greater maximum photosynthesis than red maple, but there were no significant differences among species for diameter or height relative growth rates. Treatment by species interactions indicated that red maple seedlings were significantly taller than oaks on the burned site, while there were no differences in height among species on the unburned site. Although a single fire improved the performance of all species, our results suggest no improvement in the status of oak regeneration based on post-fire seedling physiology and growth.
10.2307/2997223|Archival information was searched for evidence of lightning strikes and subsequent ignitions in Pennsylvania forests. Between 1912-1917, twentyeight different tree species were struck by lightning 2553 times igniting 77 individual trees. These data probably underestimate the number of ignited fires due to rugged terrain, inefficient fire reporting, and minimal fire control resources of this early era. Lightning strikes occurred most often between June-August, peaking in July with 877 strikes. These data provide direct evidence that lightning strikes and tree ignitions occur relatively frequently in Pennsylvania forests. Recent data provide substantial evidence for large areas burned by lightning ignitions during drought years in the past thirty-seven years
40207584|We examined relationships involving the abundance of Carex pensylvanica Lam., a native sedge that can form dense mats in northern hardwood understories, and three types of disturbances: forest management, deer herbivory, and exotic earthworm activity. Stands managed using even-aged silvicultural systems in areas with high deer densities (> 20 deer km) had greater C. pensylvanica cover than stands managed using even-aged silvicultural systems in areas with lower deer densities (10-20 deer km), or unharvested second-growth communities. Stands managed using uneven-aged silvicultural systems were not significantly different from any other treatment group, regardless of deer density. There was a significant management X deer X earthworm interaction, and earthworm density had a positive relationship with C. pensylvanica cover in most management history X deer density combinations. High levels of disturbance associated with at least two of the three factors considered in this study were associated with high C. pensylvanica cover, but patterns across any single variable were inconsistent. These results elucidate the intricate nature of invasive plant dynamics, and provide a baseline for more detailed studies of the causal mechanisms underlying sedge mat formation in northern hardwood forests.
10.2307/3557542|Saguaros (Carnegiea gigantea), tall, long-lived cacti may live up to two hundred years or more. Scaling and barking injuries occur on stem surfaces of saguaro cacti. These same scaling and barking injuries occur on fourteen species of tall, long-lived columnar cacti in both North America and South America. Previous studies have shown that scaling and barking injuries occur initially on equatorial-facing surfaces and may eventually cover all surfaces of unshaded cacti. Extensive barking is associated with death of saguaros. For the present study, rates of scaling and barking stem surface injuries and the mortality rate of a population of 253 saguaro cacti were determined over a twelve-year period of study. Seventeen percent of the saguaro population had few surface injuries throughout the period. Thirty percent of the population showed a marked increase (more than half of the cacti in this group showed a mean increase in barking of 80%) in scaling and barking injuries over the 12-year period. Twenty-six percent of all cacti had more than 90% scaling and barking on stem surfaces throughout the period. Rates of scaling and barking injuries (morbidity) are high considering the long life span of saguaros. Finally, 27.3% of the saguaro population died over the twelve-year period. Twenty-five percent of the cacti that died over the period exhibited few surface injuries in 1990 while 65% of the cacti that died over the period had 98% scaling and barking on stem crests in 1990. A mortality rate of 27% over 12 years (2.3% annually) is very high considering these cacti may live for long time periods.
20063910|We investigated the spatial patterns of several woody species that colonize disturbed sites, including the native Juniperus virginiana and the exotic Lonicera maackii. Our study site was on a road cut in northern Kentucky, USA, that faced NW and consisted of nine contiguous 25-m quadrats. The positions of all woody plants  50 cm in height were measured. Spatial patterns were quantified and compared with Ripley's K and the pair correlation function, which analyze the distribution of interplant distance at varying scales. For each woody plant, we also measured height, soil depth, and photosynthetically active radiation (PAR); the latter two measurements were taken at the four cardinal directions. Ripley's K showed that J. virginiana was distributed randomly, while L. maackii was clustered. Both J. virginiana and L. maackii were distributed independently of each other. Smaller L. maackii individuals clustered with larger ones, but this pattern was not seen in J. virginiana. Neither species appeared to associate with the other species. Mann-Whitney tests showed that L. maackii was found in areas of lower light than J. virginiana but there was only a weak indication of differences in soil depth means between these two species. These two species colonize disturbed sites in very different manners. L. maackii potentially facilitates establishment of its own species, whereas J. virginiana seedlings can only establish at some distances from parent trees. The different physiological requirements and growth forms of the two species appear to explain the lack of interaction between them. Though this project was limited to one study site, the methods can be used for multiple site analysis or on sites of varying size.
10.2307/2997276|Permanent plots in the Zuni Pine Barrens (Isle of Wight County, Virginia) were sampled for four years to quantify population dynamics and dominance shifts in response to fire and to compare these effects among different moisture regimes. Fire caused an average 38% aboveground mortality in the overstory, 84% in the sapling/large shrub layer and nearly 100% in the understory, followed by a 3 to 11 fold increase in understory density. Regeneration in this study was predominantly by vegetative means, shrub species accounted for 90% of the postfire density and 80% of the increase in density. In the xeric barrens, Pinus palustris gained dominance of the overstory and sapling layer at the expense of Quercus laevis. In the subxeric barrens Pinus serotina remained dominant throughout the study. The same overstory species (P. serotina/P, taeda, Acer rubrum/P, serotina) remained dominant throughout the study in wetter forests, but sapling layer pines were eliminated from the sample in the majority of these stands. In both barrens sites, the same species dominated the understory before and after the fire, and these species increased in number significantly more than others. Increases occurred only in the first year after fire. In wetter areas, most prefire dominant understory species were no longer important components of the communities after the fire, and several of these species decreased in number. Most postfire understory dominants were previously inconspicuous or absent from the wetter communities and these species increased significantly more than others. Increases in density in wetter areas occurred in both the first and second year after fire. These areas also had greater increases in species richness. Following fire, the Zuni Pine Barrens overstory was similar to those of southeastern pine' barrens, while the understory closely resembled those of New Jersey pine barrens.
10.2307/2997303|We tested the hypothesis that tip-up mounds of exhumed rootsand soil created by treefalls provide a better site for the survival and growth of hemlock (Tsuga canadensis L.) than the areas immediately surrounding the mounds. The xeric and unstable conditions of tip-up mounds may impede the establishment and growth of hemlock relative to surrounding areas. The size and steep walls of tipup mounds, however, may deter deer from accessing the tops of mounds, thereby allowing hemlocks to escape browsing. Nine years after a catastrophic blowdown in the Allegheny National Forest in northwestern Pennsylvania, we found that hemlocks on the mounds were larger, more abundant, and browsed less often than hemlocks found off of the mounds. The increased growth and survival of hemlocks on tip-up mounds was likely caused by decreased browsing pressure
10.2307/2997241|A detailed study of floral morphology and anatomy of three genera comprising a narrowly circumscribed dicotyledonous family Bonnetiaceae is presented. Flowers are subtended by bracteoles and possess a perianth that is clearly differentiated into a 5-parted calyx and corolla composed of rather thick members. The androecium contains numerous stamens that are united at the base to form a short tube or collar or the stamens are pentadelphous and grouped at the base into five bundles that are positioned in the petal planes. Stamen fascicle traces are reported for the first time in flowers of Bonnetiaceae and are shown to originate close to, or adnate to, the median petal trace. Occasionally, two fascicle bundles arise side by side from a common gap as double bundles. Anther morphology and attachment is variable. Ploiarium possesses nectariferous discs that alternate with the stamen clusters. The presence of nectariferous tissue in Archytaea is variable. Nectaries can be supplied by double bundles, supporting the view that the nectaries of Plioarium and Archytaea represent transformed stamens. Gynoecia are compound, superior, and 3-carpellate or 5-carpellate. Styles range from divided to the base to undivided, and uniformly have a papillate stigma and a central canal filled with transfusion tissue. Placentation changes from axile to essentially parietal at midlevel of the ovary. Ovules are bitegmic, and contrasted with the putatively closely related Theaceae in which the elongated inner integument forms the micropyle, the outer integument projects well beyond the inner one. In addition to the degree of style fusion and carpel number, other important differences among genera of Bonnetiaceae are found in anther wall structure and floral vascular patterns. Major features of variation in the floral vascular system relate to the number and degree of independence of sepallary and petal traces; degree of independence of the androecial vascularization; the organization of the central ovarian vascular system; and the condition of the stylar vasculature. Comparisons are made among the flowers of Bonnetiaceae, Theaceae and Clusiaceae.
10.2307/2997274|The pattern and structure of forest vegetation in small boulder-floored streamless hollows vary as a function of the type of surficial deposit and topographic position on a scale of tens of meters. Data collected for a 50 m long belt transect across a 20 m wide boulder stream showed that tree species characteristic of mesic sites were most abundant near the center of the boulder stream. In addition, the lowest values of absolute tree density were recorded near the center. Some tree species were found to display noticeable differences in distribution. For example, black birch was much more abundant on the boulder stream than along its margins, whereas chestnut oak, although abundant at the margins, rarely occurred on the stream. Because boulder size reached a maximum in the lowest part of the hollow cross section (i.e., the center), it was not possible to decide whether the main effect was the nature of the substrate or the topographic position (i.e., higher levels of moisture in the lower part of the cross section and lower levels of moisture in the higher parts). To distinguish these effects, a second transect was established across one side of a much wider boulder stream that showed large lateral variation in boulder size. Data collected for this transect showed that for several tree species the main factor affecting distribution was topographic position (i.e., near to or distant from the lowest part of the hollow cross section). However, black birch showed an affinity for areas underlain by large boulders, regardless of their topographic position.
10.2307/3088759|Since its discovery in 1977, the fungal pathogen Discula destructiva (Redlin) has depressed flowering dogwood (Cornus florida L.) populations throughout most of its native range. We examined the impacts of the Cornus florida-Discula destructiva disease complex in an old-growth forest and a second-growth forest focusing on long-term trends in flowering dogwood mortality and how those trends were manifested across a range of ecological communities. The study sites were located on the Cumberland Plateau of southeastern Kentucky and were similar in terms of climate and topography. In the second-growth forest flowering dogwood stem density declined significantly from 120 stems/ha in 1992 to 62 stems/ha in 1998 (48%, 8% per year), coincident with our expectations for dogwood anthracnose-related mortality. However, in the old-growth forest, flowering dogwood stem density declined uniformly over a much longer period: 106 stems/ha (1979), 68 stems/ha (1989), and 42 stems/ha (1998; 60%, 3.1% per year). Dogwood anthracnose was not known to be present in eastern Kentucky between 1979 and 1989; therefore, it cannot be implicated as the agent individually responsible for all of the flowering dogwood mortality in the old-growth forest. In both forests, dogwood stem density and mortality were concentrated in the xeric forest communities. This concentration of mortality in drier communities and the long-term trend in mortality contradict prevailing ideas about the impacts and site characteristics of dogwood anthracnose. Observations of the degree of anthracnose infection among mature stems, saplings and seedlings suggest that the current decline in the flowering dogwood population will continue into the next generation. This study demonstrates that seemingly clear trends in anthracnose-related mortality may be blurred by long-term mortality trends.
10.2307/3088683|A 22-site chronosequence was used to study old-field successional communities in Transition Hardwood forests of Durham, NH. Sites ranged from recently abandoned fields to hemlock forests greater than 200 years old. Trees, shrubs, and herbs were sampled in nested quadrats, and importance values were calculated. Increment borings were used to determine site ages. Five woody community types were identified using cluster analysis and ordination: 1) Gray Dogwood and 2) Juniper-Blackberry-Sweetfern (both early-successional, 14-23 years since abandonment), 3) White Pine and 4) Oak-Viburnum (both mid-successional, 50-150 years since abandonment), and 5) Hemlock (late-successional, 100-200+years since abandonment). Six herb stratum associations were found: 1) Kentucky Bluegrass and 2) Goldenrod-Dewberry-Buckthorn (both early-successional), and 3) Pennsylvania Sedge, 4) Wild Sarsaparilla, 5) Canada Mayflower, and 6) Canada Yew (all mid-late successional). Photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) declined exponentially over the 200-year chronosequence, and the temporal importance of woody species in the understory was associated with particular forest floor light levels. Actual succession at individual sites with similar soils may also be modified by previous land-use history, differential seed availability, and post-agricultural disturbance.
40207620|Mangroves are a diverse group of plants that inhabit tidal zones in the tropics and sub-tropics. Some mangrove species occupy the lower tidal zone in which the substrate is anoxic for long time periods while some mangroves inhabit the upper tidal zone in which the substrate should be less anoxic. The purpose of this study was to determine if twenty-four species of mangroves have a mechanism of internal airflow to provide air to roots within anoxic substrates. Results show that 11 species pressurize air in leaves and move this air internally in aerenchyma tissues in stems and eventually to roots while 13 mangrove species do not move air internally from leaves to roots. Quantitative data showed that the internal airflow from leaves to roots for these 11 mangrove species was correlated with 1) number of cork warts on leaves, 2) volume of aerenchyma tissues within leaves, and 3) the volume of aerenchyma tissues in stems relative to the number of leaves on stems. Higher values of these three parameters were negatively related (y = 64.8
41262032|Canopy gaps create distinct microenvironments within the broader forest environment and provide a mechanism for regeneration and recruitment. In this study, we investigated patterns of sapling richness and composition in 40 canopy gaps in a secondary, mixed Quercus forest on the Cumberland Plateau in Tennessee. We found that sapling richness was high, with 34 species represented in canopy gaps. A species-gap area curve revealed that sapling richness increased steadily with gap sizes up to ca. 200 m , but then tended to level off. While minor components in the main forest canopy, Acer saccharum, Fagus grandifolia, and Acer rubrum were the most widespread and abundant species in gaps. Our analyses of floristic composition using ordination (NMS) and randomization techniques (MRPP) clarified the mechanisms responsible for structuring patterns of gap composition and species-environment relationships, including the effects of individual factors (gap formation mechanism, gap size, aspect, and soils) and their collective impacts. Snag-formed gaps were smaller in size and most common on southern exposures with stony loam soils. Gaps formed by uprooted trees were larger and most common on north-facing slopes with shallow, gravelly loam soils. Gap composition varied along these gradients. Saplings of current canopy dominant genera (Quercus and Carya) were largely restricted to small gaps on xeric sites, suggesting that gapphase succession will result in a transition from a QuercusCarya system to one with a much stronger AcerFagus component.
10.2307/2997292|The characteristics of shrub and grass paramo communities were examined at a site in Podocarpus National Park, southern Ecuador Forty-one 3 x 2 m plots were established within these montane communities (3250-3385 m elevation) to determine how the composition and structure of the vegetation vary along an elevation gradient Detrended Correspondence Analysis was used to examine plant community patterns and the environmental factors associated with them. Three vegetation communities were recognized in the ordination analyses: grass paramo, shrub paramo, and high-elevation patches of shrubs Although the majority of herbaceous species occurred in a wide range of habitats, the distribution of woody species varied markedly with elevation. Because this site is located further south than paramo communities described previously, it contains an unusual combination of species. Nearly 120 species of vascular plants occurred, the majority of which are locally rare Many of the families and genera, however, are common throughout the Neotropical highlands
40865069|To study the effects of prescribed burning on long-unburned scrubby flatwoods in Cedar Key Scrub State Reserve, FL, USA, we carried out a site analysis to determine if two controls and two treatment sites at preburn conditions did not differ regarding soil, slope, fuel characteristics, plant species structure and composition, and fire history. Sites had the following characteristics: (a) three sites had the same type of soil and the other site a similar one, (b) 0-2% slope, (c) they had not been burned since 1955, and (d) they did not receive mechanical treatment. Therefore, only fuel characteristics and species structure and composition needed to be tested. We installed a grid of 150 } 150 m in each site to quantify moisture content, abundance, and cover. Samples of dry and live fuel were taken in 20 points selected at random to estimate moisture content. We also recorded the abundance and cover of 31 herb and woody species in 50 quadrats (4 m) selected at random in each site. Moisture content of dry and live fuel did not have significant differences between control and treatment sites. Species richness, diversity, evenness, and species-area curves indicated structural and compositional difference among sites. Similarity coefficients showed some structural similarities among sites. Since these indices drew contradictory results, we performed a cluster analysis, a discriminant analysis, and an F-ratio test to study whether there were differences or not among sites. We found that control and treatment samples grouped in one cluster. Out of 52 variables, only the median abundance of Vaccinium myrsinites Lam. was significantly different between control and treatment sites. Therefore, control and treatment sites were estimated to be ecologically similar, and this methodology could be used for testing control sites for fire ecology research.
20063818|More than one hundred years have now elapsed since the reconstruction of Lyginopteris oldhamia documented the existence of the previously unrecognized major group of extinct seed plants that we now call seed ferns (Oliver and Scott 1904). This recognition by Oliver and Scott (1904) may well have been the single most important element ushering in a new era of botanical inquiry by placing fossils at the center of plant phylogenetic studies. Originally envisaged as an evolutionary link between ferns and modern seed plants, seed ferns are united by the combination of large and often highly dissected leaves, and seeds that are borne on the leaves (Stewart and Rothwell 1993, Taylor and Taylor 1993).
20063950|During the past 25 years, we have documented the occurrence of 17 orchid species from Atlantic coast barrier islands from North Carolina to New York, including Calopogon tuberosus, Corallorhiza wisteriana, Cypripedium acaule, Epipactis helleborine, Goodyera pubescens, Habenaria repens, Listera australis, Malaxis spicata, Platanthera cristata, Pogonia ophioglossoides, Spiranthes cernua, S. lacera var. gracilis, S. laciniata, S. odorata, S. praecox, S. vernalis, and Tipularia discolor. For each species, we present data on localities of extant orchid populations, fluctuations in population size, flowering dates, habitat preferences, threats to some populations, results of herbarium and literature searches, and our opinion on the status of orchid species reported by others but not observed by us in the field. Spiranthes vernalis is the most common orchid on mid-Atlantic coast barrier islands. Other species occurring in large (&gt 1000 individuals) populations include Platanthera cristata, Spiranthes cernua, S. praecox, and Tipularia discolor. Four orchid species occur in moderately large (50 to 100+ individuals) populations but have limited distributions, including Calopogon tuberosus, Cypripedium acaule, Epipactus helleborine, and Pogonia ophioglossoides. When analyzed by locality, several regions of high orchid diversity can be identified, including False Cape, Virginia, and the region between and including Nags Head Woods and Kitty Hawk Woods on Bodie Island, North Carolina. These orchid "hot spots" occur in regions that provide a high diversity of habitats.
25790854|Plant uptake of soil organic N in addition to inorganic N could play an important role in ecosystem N cycling as well as plant nutrition. We measured in situ plant uptake of organic and inorganic N by the dominant canopy species in two contrasting temperate forest ecosystems (bottomland floodplain forest, subxeric sandhills long-leaf pine forest). Seedlings of Acer rubrum L. and Pinus palustris Mill. in floodplain and sandhills forests, respectively, were treated with isotopically-enriched organic N (N-[2]-C-glycine) or inorganic N (NH) to examine in situ uptake. We also measured soil organic and inorganic N concentrations to assess the availability of N for plant uptake. Neither species took up organic N as intact N-[2]-C-glycine, but significant root N enrichment in both species indicated that N mineralized from labeled glycine was taken up. Free amino-N dominated the total 2 M KCl-extractable N in floodplain (57  3%) and sandhills soils (75  3%), followed by NH then NO in both soils. Up to 13% of glycine label was mineralized to NH at both sites, suggesting that the majority of label was immobilized or adsorbed in the soil. Recovery of NH label also indicated strong soil immobilization, particularly in sandhills soils after 24 hours. Although uptake of intact organic N did not occur in either species, N mineralized from glycine was taken up by plants in these two contrasting temperate forested ecosystems.
41262047|A naturally occurring, reproducing population of Betula nigra L. (River Birch) has been collected for the first time on Long Island, NY, in a recharge basin located in Huntington Station, Suffolk Co. This is the first verifiable collection for both the county and the island and represents a new and disjunct population for the species. A review of reported past occurrences in the literature for Betula nigra on Long Island is discussed.
10.2307/4126918|In January of 1998, a severe ice storm hit much of eastern Ontario, western Quebec, and the northeastern United States. The objective of this study was to determine whether this disturbance could result in short-term changes in canopy dominance by different tree species. We measured canopy loss in 1998 of 2,919 trees in 164 forest plots distributed across the Ottawa, Ontario region. In 2000, we measured branch sprouting in the same trees. We found a positive cross-species relationship between the proportion of stems damaged by the ice storm and the proportion of stems showing branch sprouting in response to damage (r = 0.498, P = 0.01). Prunus serotina and Acer rubrum showed exceptionally high sprouting-to-damage ratios, whereas Fagus grandifolia and Populus tremuloides showed exceptionally low ratios. Mean percent crown loss and mean number of branch sprouts on damaged stems were also correlated across species (r = 0.404, P = 0.04). Prunus serotina and Quercus macrocarpa showed exceptionally high mean number of branch sprouts and Carpinus caroliniana showed exceptionally low mean number of branch sprouts compared to other species. No conifer species showed any branch sprouting. We predict that due to these different sprouting-to-damage ratios, species such as Prunus serotina, Acer rubrum, and possibly Quercus macrocarpa, may become better represented in the forest canopy while Fagus grandifolia, Populus tremuloides, and conifer species may become less well represented in the canopy in the short-term. These changes in canopy dominance may be prolonged if ice storms become more common due to climate change.
10.2307/2997220|Since the 1940's, fire suppression has contributed to changes in the plant species composition of oak-pine communities in the Cumberland Plateau, exemplified by a lack of oak regeneration and an abundance of fire-sensitive species. Returning fire to these communities could promote oak regeneration by inhibiting regeneration of fire-sensitive species. We examined the effects of two single fires (1993 or 1995) and a repeated fire (1993 and 1995) on herb, shrub and tree strata, including sprouting response, on an oak-pine ridgetop in eastern Kentucky. Overstory (>10 cm dbh) species composition was dominated by Quercus spp., whereas the midstory (2-10 cm dbh) was dominated by red maple and blackgum. Oak regeneration was well-represented in the herb layer, but was not nearly as prolific as red maple. Single and repeated fire reduced stems 2-10 cm dbh by 60 to 80%; stump sprouting by individual trees was promoted by fire. On the twice-burned site there were fewer red maple and blackgum sprouts per hectare than on a site burned in 1995, despite greater numbers of sprouts per tree. Species richness in all strata was increased by fire, from 19 species on the unburned site to 35 species on the twice-burned site. Our data suggest that periodic prescribed fires may reduce regeneration of red maple and other non-oak species sufficiently to promote chestnut oak regeneration; regeneration of more shade intolerant species, including scarlet oak and the hard pines, would require a disturbance of greater intensity.
10.2307/4126955|Aposematic coloration, use of conspicuous colors to advertise unpleasant qualities to potential predators, is well documented in the animal kingdom. However, similar use of warning coloration in plants to advertise physical armaments (spines, thorns, or prickles) has been, until recently, unreported. A preliminary survey of physically armed plants in southeastern Ohio (USA) revealed a high incidence of aposematic coloration-the presence of physical armaments colored differently than the structure on which they are borne. Furthermore, aposematic coloration was found in a wide variety of taxonomically diverse vascular plants. Future research into the possible role of aposematic coloration in vascular plants could greatly expand our knowledge of plant/herbivore interactions.
20063967|Corrections to the previously published vascular flora of the Caumsett State Historic Park are made here. We have deleted one genus and five species, and added three families, five genera and 16 species. The new totals for the Caumsett flora are: 104 families, 334 genera, and 635 species.
10.2307/3088711|Plant communities on barrier island dunes can undergo succession but they are also subject to abrupt state changes. At the Virginia Coast Reserve (VCR) Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) site, state changes are hypothesized to be principally controlled by changes in the position of free surfaces (land, sea, and fresh groundwater). The objectives of the current study were to quantify aboveground plant biomass (total and by species) along a chronosequence of dunes on Hog Island (part of the VCR-LTER site) over a six year period and to look for patterns that may relate to the position of the free surfaces (particularly groundwater). Harvest samples of aboveground vegetation were obtained in early August in 1993, 1996 and 1999. Generally, aboveground biomass decreased on all dunes over the six-year period. However, the magnitude of the decrease was least on the oldest dune, where Schizachyrium increased. The results suggest that typical succession, with biomass increasing progressively, is not occurring on Hog Island dunes. Correlation analysis indicates that the position of the groundwater free surface may play a major role in determining aboveground biomass levels. Other factors possibly involved are salt and sand deposition by storms, herbivory and changes in biomass allocation aboveground versus belowground.
10.2307/3088668|Several studies in the literature have relied on public land survey (PLS) notes from the 1800's to reconstruct historical blowdown rates in eastern deciduous-conifer forests, but assessment of contemporary blowdown regimes in the region has not received much attention. We used an approach similar to the PLS method, and sampled 105 km of transect to determine whether oak (Quercus) dieback led to extensive secondary blowdown of patches $\geq\!\!500\>m^2$ in 50- to 100-year-old oak-hickory forests in the Missouri Ozarks. Few studies of wind disturbance have focused on even-aged, second-growth stands, even though such stands predominate in eastern deciduous forests. From 1986-1996, blowdowns $\geq\!\!500\>m^2$ disturbed 1.42% of the landscape; for patches 0.05-2.5 ha, only 0.63% of the landscape was disturbed. Although extensive oak dieback occurred in the 1980's and 90's, most of the decline was distributed diffusely through stands, and coarser patches of windthrow were uncommon. Shade-intolerant scarlet oaks (Quercus coccinea Muenchh.) dominated the pre-disturbance canopy and were the dominant treefalls, but two-thirds of new regeneration in blowdowns consisted of white oaks (Quercus alba L.), hickories (Carya spp. L.), and flowering dogwoods (Cornus florida L.). Blowdowns appeared to leave the understory intact, favoring future dominance by species with intermediate shade tolerance.
10.2307/2997291|Ice damage to canopy trees was surveyed after a major ice storm on Virginia Tech's Fishburn Forest in the central Appalachian Mountain region The survey site was stratified according to aspect, slope, and slope position, and sample plots were randomly chosen within each topographic category In general, Virginia pine (Pinus virginiana Mill) and pitch pine (P rigida Mill) were the most damaged, and blackgum (Nyssa sylvatica Marsh.) was the most resistant species Although yellow buckeye (Aesculus octandra Marsh) and yellow poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera L.) were basically undamaged, they were restricted to the topographic areas where ice damage was generally less severe Within a species, susceptibility varied according to topographic features In general, the greatest damage occurred on steep slopes and eastern aspects, and the least damage occurred on toeslopes (foothill and valley bottom) Some species, such as red maple, varied greatly in their susceptibility to ice damage between topographic categories, while others, like blackgum, varied little Dominant canopy individuals generally had less damage than co-dominant and intermediate individuals These results suggest that damage by ice storms is patchy at local scales, and that the distribution of damage may be predictable
20063965|Species of mangroves cover large areas of shoreline in the tropics and subtropics. Mangrove plants are associated with increased marine productivity and biological diversity. Many mangrove species have roots that occur in tidal seawater/anoxic substrate. For these mangrove species, leaves and stems must provide oxygen to roots for root respiration.--The purpose of this research was to: (1) document the path of internal airflow, (2) describe and quantify tissues of internal airflow, and (3) determine if the amounts of aerenchyma in leaves, stems, and roots are relatively constant among plants of Rhizophora stylosa. Cork warts of leaves (average of 10.1 cork warts per mm of leaf surface) are sites of air uptake. Cork warts deliver air to aerenchyma tissues near adaxial leaf surfaces (30% of total leaf volume). Air becomes pressurized within illuminated leaf blade aerenchyma by hygrometric pressurization and this air enters the petiole aerenchyma. In turn, the petiole aerenchyma joins the stem aerenchyma (5.5% of total stem area). Air descends the stem aerenchyma and then passes to the inner aerenchyma of stilt roots (about 15% of root cross-sectional area). Air descends in the inner aerenchyma of roots and eventually enters the smallest roots growing in anoxic substrates. From these terminal portions of roots, air ascends the outer aerenchyma of roots (73% of root area) where it may be released to the substrate via lenticels. If the amounts of aerenchyma in all leaves, stems, and stilt roots for whole plants are well correlated, it would further suggest that the relative amounts of these organs are specially suited for internal airflow. Data from 13 plants show that total aerenchyma volume of all leaves was highly correlated with total volume of aerenchyma in all stems for whole plants. Moreover, total volume of aerenchyma in all stems was highly correlated with total volume of outer aerenchyma in all roots for whole plants. Taken together, these data document the path of internal airflow in plants of Rhizophora stylosa and indicate that leaf, stem, and root growth are well regulated in plants of various sizes in accordance with this internal airflow.
40865073|Notes on some species of Graphis s. str. occurring in the coastal plain of southeastern North America are presented. The use of the name G pavoniana in the region is discussed. The following species are newly reported from North America: G. hyphosa (Georgia, South Carolina), G. intermedians (Georgia, Florida), G oxyclada (Florida) and G. pincola (Georgia, Florida). Graphis intermedians is also newly reported for the Neotropics. Two species with anthraquinone pigments in the lirellae are described as new to science: G. hodgesiana and G. tamiamiensis.
41475126|Ecophysiological studies that investigate species sorting across environmental gradients provide insights into the mechanisms underscoring tree distribution patterns. We examined pine functional traits by measuring a suite of physiological parameters including needle water content, spectral reflectance, transpiration decline, and leaf morphology to explore pine stratification patterns across the elevation gradient of the San Bernardino Mountains in southern California. The high and low elevation species demonstrated moisture and solar radiation tolerance. The lowest elevation species, Pinus attenuata Lern., maintained low transpiration rates under drought stress and had high concentrations of photosynthetic pigments indicating high photosynthetic capacity. Pinus coulteri Don was the most stress intolerant pine as demonstrated by high transpiration rates. Although Pinus lambertiana Doug, dominated cooler north-facing slopes, its lower transpiration rates suggested that it was well adapted to moisture stress. Pinus contorta Doug, was a typical high elevation stress tolerant tree growing under high incident solar radiation, heavy snow pack, and severe winds. Our results suggest that water availability and solar radiation intensity are the major factors influencing southern California pine distributions.
20063877|Ice storms are recurrent disturbances that alter forest succession and forest structure throughout North America. However, long-term effects of ice storms on tree growth are largely unknown. Following a 1994 ice storm in Delaware, the Delaware Forest Service established seventy-five study plots to sample four species of trees (southern red oak [Quercus falcata Michx.], white oak [Quercus alba L.], loblolly pine [Pinus taeda L.], and yellow poplar [Liriodendron tulipifera L.]) affected by the ice storm. The objective of this study is to identify multi-year species-specific responses to the 1994 Delaware ice storm using tree ring data collected statewide four years following the disturbance. A ground survey classified affected trees into damage class categories based on the percentage of crown limbs broken. Dendrochronology was used to identify the radial growth response of the four species studied across four damage classes (control, light damage, moderate damage, and severe damage). Yellow poplar was most susceptible to ice storm damage followed by loblolly pine, red oak, and white oak. In general, severely damaged trees experienced the greatest reduction in annual radial growth. Yellow poplar had the fastest recovery rate following the storm, followed by white oak, red oak, and loblolly pine. The results of this study suggest that species have differential growth responses to ice storms that is in part attributable to the species' ability to produce epicormic branches.
27751821|In Ipomoea hederifolia L. (Convolvulaceae), internal/intraxylary phloem originated as isolated strands from the procambially derived cells after the formation of protoxylem and protophloem. Bands of internal phloem were apparent in the sixth internode after the development of metacambium. In the relatively thick stems several small arcs/segments of internal cambium ensues from the parenchyma cells between the protoxylem and internal protophloem. Though all the segments were active, some of them (two of them located opposite to each other) were relatively more active. Bidirectional differentiation of these segments gave rise to secondary xylem centrifugally and secondary phloem centripetally, resulting inverted vascular bundles. Rest of the internal cambium segments were unidirectional and formed only secondary phloem centripetally. Like external vascular cambium, the internal cambium was non-storied. Structurally, secondary xylem and phloem was composed of axial and radial system in which rays were mostly uni- to biseriate. Secondary xylem produced by the internal cambium was more or less similar to the xylem formed by the external successive cambia. Secondary phloem produced by the internal cambium was composed of sieve tubes, companion cells, axial and ray parenchyma cells. Simple sieve plates of internal phloem were mostly arranged on transverse end walls in contrast to compound and obliquely placed sieve plates of external phloem formed by the successive cambia.
10.2307/2996583|The vegetation structure of the streamside forest along Hickory Creek in northeastern Illinois was recorded five times during the period 1977 to 1995. In 1977, lowland parts of the forest subject to frequent flooding were dominated by Fraxinus pennsylvanica, Crataegus mollis and Ulmus americana, gradually progressing vertically to an unflooded upland forest dominated by Quercus rubra, Crataegus mollis and Acer saccharum. Over the 18 years of recording, the lowland, flooded section of the forest showed replacement of Crataegus mollis by Ulmus americana. In the unflooded upland, Crataegus mollis was generally replaced by Acer saccharum. Mean tree diameter growth over the period was 2.78 mm yr
41262042|Physaria filiformis, a threatened species of calcareous glade communities, blooms profusely within the Rocky Barrens Conservation Area (Missouri) under a program of controlled burns. Flowers visited by insect foragers in 2008 and 2009 had a mean > 35 and > 50 germinating grains on their stigmas respectively and a mean of 1.96-2.0 pollen tubes entering their ovaries (mean of 4 ovules/ovary). Results of controlled hand-pollinations conducted in situ in 2009 showed that this species had a negligible rate of self-pollination (mechanical autogamy) and showed classic Brassica-type, early-acting selfincompatibility. Each dissected flower had nectar glands and each seasonal population was visited by insects representing four insect orders; Coleoptera, Diptera, Lepidoptera and Hymenoptera. The most commonly collected floral foragers found to carry the pollen of the host flower were male and female native bees representing 38 species in the Andrenidae, Apidae, Colletidae, Halictidae, Megachilidae and the naturalized Apis mellifera. Only four of these species (11%) were collected in all three years, but these four accounted for slightly more than a third of all individual bees collected. None of the bees were known specialists on flowers of the Brassicaceae and only two species were habitat (glade) specialists. As P. filiformis is an obligate out-breeder but a generalist entomophile we suggest that future management plans include conservation and management of adjacent non-glade habitats to sustain the diverse range of pollinators.
20063907|The impact of invasive plant species on native plants is largely assumed to be negative, but supporting evidence is sparse. A common control method of non-native plants is herbicide application, but little is known about the effects of these chemicals on non-target plant populations, or differences in these populations before and after control measures are taken. We examined the response of the forest floor plant community to herbicide-mediated reduction of Alliaria petiolata in an old-growth and a second-growth forest stand in Hueston Woods State Park, Preble and Butler Counties, OH. Fifty 1  1 m plots were established in each stand, and 25 plots per stand were treated with Round-up each November 2000-2004, which reduced cover of adult Alliaria petiolata but did not suppress recruitment. Percent cover of herbs and woody plants 0.85 m tall was assessed in May and June, 2000-2005. To determine compositional differences between sprayed and unsprayed plots in each stand we ordinated plots based on peak cover of each species using nonmetric multidimensional scaling, tested for differences in community composition with a multiple response permutation procedure, and compared total cover of growth forms with Kruskal-Wallis tests. Five years of Alliaria petiolata control only modestly affected the forest floor vegetation. Neither species richness nor diversity differed significantly between sprayed and unsprayed treatments in any year of the study. Community composition differed each year between stands, but treatments differed significantly only in 2002 (in the second-growth stand), and marginally in 2004 and 2005 (in the old-growth stand). Treatment affected cover of some growth forms during the study, but only in some years: in the second-growth stand sprayed plots had significantly greater cover of spring perennials and graminoids in 2003 and marginally lower cover of annuals in 2005; in the old-growth stand sprayed plots had marginally more spring perennials in 2005. Wintergreen species, particularly the exotic annual Stellaria media, had lower cover in sprayed plots in the old-growth stand in 2005. We attribute the compositional differences we observed in the forest floor community to competitive impacts of Alliaria petiolata, but suggest that effects were modest due to the persistence of rosettes in the sprayed plots.
20063932|Urban forests represent patches of biodiversity within otherwise degraded landscapes, yet these forests are threatened by invasion by exotic plant species. We investigated the response of a forest understory to removal of four common exotic species: Elaeagnus umbellata Thunb., Lonicera japonica Thunb., Ligustrum sinense, Laur., and Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camus in a forest within the city of Raleigh, NC, USA. In the summer of 2001, we initiated a removal experiment with three treatments. In the "repeated removal" treatment, all understory vegetation was initially removed by clipping and new exotic seedlings were repeatedly removed every 2 weeks throughout the study period. The "initial removal" treatment involved a one-time understory vegetation removal with no further weeding. Control plots had no intervention throughout the study period. We conducted vegetation surveys of the plots prior to treatment initiation and in April and August of 2002 and 2003. With a non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMS) ordination, we were able to discern differences in species composition between the repeated removal treatment and the other two treatments. However, using repeated measures ANOVA, we found no significant differences in native species richness, cover, and abundance among treatments during most sampling periods. We also used a seedbank study to determine that while some early successional species were present, no native shrubs and few native trees emerged from the seedbank. These results suggest that (1) repeated removal is required to decrease the importance of exotic species, especially if the site is in close proximity to a source of exotic propagules; and (2) subsequent to exotic removal, native species may not recover sufficiently without supplemental plantings. Therefore, restoration plans for urban forests should incorporate both long-term monitoring and native plant re-introduction to achieve a diverse native community.
20063856|Psittacanthus is the only genus in the family Loranthaceae that is considered a significant pest of woodlands and farmlands in Mexico and Central America, but relatively little attention has been given to the reproductive biology and pollination of natural populations. We present quantitative information on the floral morphology, breeding system, flowering phenology, nectar production, floral visitors, and pollinators of the mistletoe Psittacanthus calyculatus in Tlaxcala, Mxico. Its flowering phenology extends from April to October, with a major peak in July. Flowers last 5 days and produce abundant nectar (2.34  0.175 l per flower) with a constant sugar concentration (ca. 22%) throughout flower life span. Hand self-pollinations showed that this species is partially self-compatible (44% fruit set), whereas emasculated flowers produced no seeds. Hand out-crossed flowers produced a similar number of fruits (96%) compared to unmanipulated control flowers visited by birds and insects (84%), showing no evidence for pollen limintation. Four hummingbird species were frequent visitors of mistletoe flowers, but they varied in visit duration and number of probes per flower. Artificial pollination of flowers with stuffed hummingbirds of the four species suggested that Hylocharis leucotis was the most effective pollinator.
10.2307/3088732|Survivorship was studied over an 8.5-year period in a population of the facultative biennial Arabis laevigata var. laevigata in a rocky deciduous woodland (Scott's Grove) in northcentral Kentucky, where most individuals of this species are associated with rock outcrops. Of the 2,269 seedlings marked in 1986 and 814 in 1987, only 101 (4.5%) and 35 (4.3%), respectively, survived 1 year, and only 24 (0.78%) of the 3,083 plants bolted before they died. In a separate study, only about 64% of the plants that bolted produced seeds. Thus, only about 15 (0.49%) of the 3,083 plants marked as seedlings in 1986 and 1987 actually reproduced. Cohorts exhibited a Deevey Type III survivorship curve. Small plants had a greater probability of dying than large ones. Survival was higher in microsites (on and near rock outcrops) with a thin, patchy leaf litter than in those with a moderate leaf cover; plants were not found in sites with a thick and persistent litter cover. Rosette herbivory also was a cause of mortality. Plants at Scott's Grove may flower in their second, third, fourth, fifth, or even a later year of life. Survivorship of A. laevigata in its woodland rock outcrop habitat is similar to that of facultative biennials of various other habitat types.
27751825|Previous work with Quercus gambelii (Gambel's oak), a widespread oak species from the mountains of the western United States and northern Mexico, showed high juvenile density (&lt; 3 cm in DBH [diameter at breast height] or less than 150 cm in height), but few or no small (35 cm in DBH) tree sized plants, suggesting a recruitment bottleneck. We postulate that there could be several factors preventing the recruitment of juveniles into the adult population, including reduced light levels, herbivory, competition for soil resources, or a combination of these factors. In this study, we evaluated the response of leaves of Q. gambelii to various light levels. Surface light levels and leaf gas exchange rates were measured for sun (open) and shade (understory) Q. gambelii seedlings in Q. gambelii communities in the Lincoln National Forest, New Mexico, USA. Mean daily photosynthetic flux densities (PFD) in the understory during the monsoon period (wet season) were 40  46 mol m2 sec1, or 6% of the open community levels (622  461 mol m2 sec1); and 124  109 mol m2 sec1 or 15% of open community levels (835  597 mol m2 sec1) after the monsoon. Light response curves indicated that sun plants had significantly higher maximum photosynthetic rates (Amax = 23.42  2.58 mol CO2 m2 sec1) than shade plants (Amax = 11.21  1.68 mol CO2 m2 sec1). At higher light levels, photosynthetic rates were significantly greater for sun plants than shade plants, however at lower light levels, no significant differences in photosynthetic rates were found. The light compensation points (Lcp) for the sun and shade plants were significantly different at 23.3  2.9 and 13.7  8.1 mol m2 sec1, respectively. Respiratory rates of the shade plants were significantly lower than the sun plants. There were no significant differences in mean stomatal conductance or transpiration rates for sun or shade plants at the maximum light levels (2000 mol m2 sec1) measured. Reduction of photosynthetic rates below the canopy by reduced light levels may prevent juvenile plants from entering the adult population, but coupling reduced photosynthetic rates to a second inhibitory factor such as competition for soil resources or browsing by Cervus elaphus (elk = red deer) would reduce the possibility of recruitment even lower.
43287017|Ice storms can break limbs from the crowns of trees, thereby reducing the photosynthetic capability of damaged trees while increasing the availability of light to neighboring trees. I quantified the effect of damage to canopy trees of red oak (Quercus rubra L.) and white oak (Quercus alba L.) following a 2008 ice storm in Massachusetts. Radial growth decreased with increasing canopy loss, but growth increased with increasing loss of limbs from canopy neighbors. The net effect on growth was usually negative, but was positive even for some heavily damaged trees. The relationship was also linear, suggesting that the categories of damage used in previous studies were not necessary. Susceptibility to ice damage tended to decrease with increasing stem diameter, a trend not seen in previous studies. The results from this and earlier studies show that initial damage and subsequent radial growth are influenced by several factors. To quantify the community and ecosystem effects of ice storms, the complexities of damage and recovery must be taken into account.
10.2307/3088678|Quantitative and qualitative data are presented for stem wood of one species each of Azima, Dobera, and Salvadora and for root wood of Salvadora. The liquid-preserved material of Salvadora permitted analysis of interxylary phloem: abaxial to most strands a "residual meristem" adds sieve-tube elements and companion cells to each strand, crushing earlier-formed phloem. Current opinion that Salvadoraceae are a sister family to Bataceae is supported by wood anatomy: they share such features as bands of mostly nonsubdivided axial parenchyma cells, wide multiseriate rays, and and storied structure. Nonbordered perforation plates, found also in other Capparales, are newly reported for Salvadoraceae. Koeberliniaceae have tracheids, Bataceae fiber-tracheids, thought more primitive than the libriform fibers of Salvadoraceae. Wood of Azima is moderately mesomorphic, perhaps because it grows near beaches where saline or brackish water is available to roots; Dobera and Salvadora have highly xeromorphic wood. The terms "foraminate included phloem" and "concentric included phloem" are misnomers and must be rejected.
10.2307/3088669|The objectives of this study were to determine (1) if decaying logs provide critical habitat for any vascular plants in Adirondack northern hardwood forests; and (2) whether environmental factors that vary at the stand-scale influence the role of decaying logs as vascular plant habitat. Herbaceous ramet densities and woody seedling/sapling basal area were characterized on well-decayed logs and adjacent forest floor microsites in three northern hardwood stand types: old-growth, partially-cut, and 15- to 29-year-old shelterwoods. No common herbaceous species were restricted to the log microsites, although Dryopteris intermedia had greater densities on logs. Betula alleghaniensis, Tsuga canadensis and Abies balsamea all attained greater basal areas (stems $\leq 15.0\>cm$ diameter at the root collar) on decaying logs, while Acer pensylvanicum, Acer saccharum, Fagus grandifolia and Viburnum alnifolium had greater basal areas on forest floor microsites. Average $(\pm\>1\>SD)$ total basal area of woody stems was greatest in the shelterwoods $(1775\pm615\>mm^2\>m^{-2})$, compared to the partially-cut $(714\pm266\>mm^2\>m^{-2})$ and old-growth $(503\pm657\>mm^2\>m^{-2})$ stands. Betual alleghaniensis accounted for a substantial proportion of the basal area in the shelterwoods. In these shelterwood stands B. alleghaniensis basal areas were not statistically discernible between the forest floor and log microsites (P = 0.07). However, in partially-cut stands, B. alleghaniensis basal area was greater on the decaying log microsites (P = 0.05). In the old-growth stands, no B. alleghaniensis stems > 2 cm diameter were sampled. This study indicates that decaying logs provide early establishment sites for some tree species and the fern, D. intermedia, in northern hardwood forests. While B. alleghaniensis favored logs as establishment sites in the partially-cut stands, this species was capable of widespread establishment throughout the shelterwood stands. Even though B. alleghaniensis readily germinated on decaying logs, its recruitment into larger sapling size classes appeared to be consistently limited by factors varying at the stand level (e.g., light levels).
40864968|Mangroves are a diverse group of plants that inhabit tidal zones in the tropics and sub-tropics. Some mangrove species occupy the lower tidal zone in which the substrate is anoxic for long time periods while some mangroves inhabit the upper tidal zone in which the substrate should be less anoxic. Recent research has shown that about 12 species of mangroves from the Americas and from Australia transport air internally from openings in leaves called cork warts, as air enters leaves it collects within leaf aerenchyma (special air spaces within leaves) where the air expands when heated by sunlight. Aerenchyma in leaves is connected to aerenchyma in stems and stilt roots that lead to small roots in the substrate. Eventually, youngest root tissues are aerated while they grow within the anoxic substrate. Data of this study show that cork warts and leaf aerenchyma develop during leaf initiation in both shoot terminals of branches as well as in viviparous seedlings. The number of cork warts per leaf is similar for leaf primordia and for fully enlarged leaves for both Rhizophora species. Tissue sections of leaves of less than 30 mm 2 area show an area of more translucent cells. Leaves with a surface area of 200 mm 2 show a distinct aerenchyma tissue in which cells have no contents. For such leaves the depth of aerenchyma was 54 m with a total leaf depth of 230 m. Fully enlarged leaves had an aerenchyma depth of about 81  while the total leaf thickness was about 660 m. For all leaves above 30 mm 2 , aerenchyma comprised 25% of total leaf volume. Densities of cork warts were the same for emerging leaf primordia as for fully enlarged leaves. The results of this study show that cork warts and aerenchyma develop in leaf primordia of both terminal buds and viviparous seedlings. Aerenchyma and cork warts become active once they emerge from their stipular coverings.
40865068|An oak (Quercus spp.)-dominated forest characterized the precolonial vegetation of most of the North American mid-Atlantic region, according to the palynological and written records. There is some evidence, however, of herbaceous communities, especially along estuaries, in very poor soils such as serpentinites, and in areas affected by disturbances caused by windthrows or native Americans. Numerous herbaceous plant taxa, such as Ambrosia spp., grasses (Poaceae) and sedges (Cyperaceae), are native, and predated the arrival of people on the continent. In this palynological study, I found evidence of extensive herbaceous plant communities along the Holocene floodplain of the Delaware River, near Trenton, NJ, between 3,000 and 8,500 years ago, providing evidence for the habitat of these taxa over long periods of time. The plant communities were dynamic, on the scale of millennia, and compare well with current riverine plant communities. This is some of the first evidence for these plant communities existing for millennia in eastern North America in a non-estuarine habitat.
40207570|Knowledge about the factors restricting reproduction in many rare wetland plant species is limited. One such species is Lobelia boykinii. We conducted a study of L. boykinii to determine which factors most influence its reproductive success. We examined the species' breeding system, population dynamics, degree of pollen limitation, importance of sexual versus asexual reproduction, and the role of fungal and herbivore damage on fruit production in three Carolina bay populations in North Carolina. Pollen manipulations revealed that L. boykinii is an obligate outcrosser and that sexual reproduction is pollen-limited. Population size and density, which influence pollinator attraction, can fluctuate greatly over years in the same population. The three populations differed with respects to population size and density, capsule production, vegetative reproduction, and ramet survival, and differences are partially attributable to variation in the degree and timing of herbivory and fungal damage. Herbivory ranged from < 1% to 55% of flowering shoots. Fungal infection decreased fruit production only when it coincided with the period of floral development. Our results indicate that focusing on one ecological factor to prevent extant populations from going extinct is insufficient. Multiple intrinsic and extrinsic factors influence L. boykinii's reproductive success, and populations differ in which factors most strongly influence reproduction. Given this suite of constraints, management strategies should include maintaining as many of the largest remnant populations as possible.
10.2307/2997317|We examined edge effects within a forest along old field boundaries in a mixed deciduous/hemlock forest community in upstate New York. Species composition and community structure of both forest understory and treefall gap vegetation were analyzed in two ways: first, we used belt transects to quantify changes in the understory community with distance from the forest edge, and second, we compared species composition of treefall gaps both near and distant from the edge. Exotic species and locally rare species were significantly more abundant at the forest edges than in the forest interior, while tree seedlings were less common at the forest edge. Species composition of treefall gaps near the old field/forest edge differed from composition of treefall gaps in the forest interior during most of the growing season. Treefall gaps at the forest edge, as a group, were compositionally more heterogeneous than treefall gaps distant from the edge.
20063759|Riparian corridors promote dispersal of several species of exotic invasives worldwide. Dispersal plays a role in the colonization of exotic invasive species into new areas and this study was conducted to determine if the invasiveness of Dioscorea oppositifolia L. (Chinese yam) is facilitated by secondary dispersal of vegetative diaspores (bulbils) by water. Since seed production of this plant has not been observed in the United States, bulbils represent the only means of dispersal to new habitats. Dispersal was monitored by placing aquatic traps, tethered bulbils, and painted bulbil caches in a tributary of Drury Creek, Giant City State Park, Illinois. Results indicate that high-energy flow in the creek accelerated secondary dispersal of bulbils downstream and onto the floodplain. The longest recorded dispersal distance was 206.2 m downstream. Dispersal distance of tethered bulbils was not related to rainfall or flow velocity in the creek; however the total number of bulbils trapped was positively related to flow velocity. We conclude that secondary dispersal by water in streams can facilitate dispersal of vegetative bulbils of this exotic species.
10.2307/4126934|The Tennessee milk vetch, Astragalus tennesseensis Gray, and the leafy prairie clover, Dalea foliosa (Gray) Barneby, are cedar glade endemics with disjunct populations in formerly glaciated Illinois dolomite prairies. We explored the effects of geographical isolation on the levels and distribution of genetic variation in these rare species. Isozyme analyses were conducted using leaf tissue from 19 populations (429 individuals) of Astragalus tennesseensis and 10 populations (240 individuals) of Dalea foliosa throughout their geographical ranges in Illinois, Tennessee, and Alabama. Across all A. tennesseensis populations sampled, 13 out of 15 loci (87%) were polymorphic, (14-57% within populations), averaging 2.6 alleles per polymorphic locus. In D. foliosa, 11 out of 20 (55%) loci were polymorphic, (0-30% within populations), averaging 2.0 alleles per polymorphic locus. Across loci, levels of observed and expected heterozygosity in A. tennesseensis (
20063964|Underground systems of Asteraceae species from the Brazilian Cerrado. The aim of this study was to describe the underground systems structure, the origin of the shoot buds, and to identify the storage reserve of seven Asteraceae species in order to understand the adaptive strategies of these species in burned Cerrado areas and their higher frequency in the floristic surveys for herbaceous and undershrub layers of this biome. The subterranean systems types--diffuse underground system, rhizophore, tuberous roots, and xylopodium--varied among the studied species, but all of them have high shoot bud-forming potential. Fructans of the inulin type were detected as storage substances. The presence of these characteristics on the underground systems could explain the frequency of these species in the floristic surveys from the Brazilian Cerrado, in which fire and seasonal drought are frequent. It is possible that the belowground bud banks in the Cerrado biome are as important as demonstrated in North American prairies where fire is also frequent. However, in the Cerrado, as demonstrated here, there are types of underground systems other than rhizomes that are usually described in the prairie. Understanding the anatomical features of these plants is one of the steps to appropriate conservation management of these species in the Cerrado.
10.2307/2997219|Plant communities of wet pine savannas of the southeastern United States exhibit among the highest species richness known in North America. The factors that limit species richness in these communities, however, remain poorly understood. In this study, local species richness was measured as a function of distance to Pinus elliottii trees in a wet savanna in southern Mississippi in 1997. Species richness within 0.25-m
20063917|The pinyon pines (Pinaceae, Pinus subsections Cembroides and Rzedowskianae) are a widely distributed group of site generalist species that dominate many of the middle to upper elevation semi-arid regions of North America. We investigated the physiological and morphological response of Pinus cembroides var. bicolor Little across an elevational gradient in the Davis Mountains of west Texas to test the hypothesis that variability in needle morphology, relative water content, and transpiration allow this species to exist across a range of elevations and local site conditions. Results from our study showed significant increases in P. cembroides needle length, mass, and area and plant water status (relative water content and transpiration) with elevation. Our findings suggested that this species is able to adapt to changes in local environment over short distances, which is an important factor responsible for the wide distribution of pinyon pines in North America.
10.2307/4126926|Species diversity is generally considered to have a unimodal relationship with productivity where diversity reaches a maximum at intermediate productivity due to abiotic limitation at low productivity and competitive exclusion at high productivity. Various patterns in this relationship have been detected in understory communities of U.S. eastern deciduous forests, raising questions about the effects of abiotic limitation and competition in these communities. We examined vegetation structure and species distribution patterns in the forest understory community of two topographically similar watersheds to evaluate the predicted roles of abiotic limitation and competition along a productivity gradient. Canonical correspondence analysis identified a dominant compositional gradient that was strongly correlated with moisture, light, and herbaceous-layer cover. Given these relationships, the first axis of the ordination was taken as a reliable index of productivity. Contrary to expectation, species richness increased monotonically along the gradient rather than reaching a maximum and then declining which suggests that species are not excluded by light competition at the high-productivity end of the gradient. Other vegetation patterns, however, indicated both abiotic limitation in regions of low productivity and competition at high productivity. Patterns in species' distributions also suggested resource limitation at low productivity, but they showed mixed evidence of competition at high productivity. Taken together, these patterns in vegetation structure and species' distributions imply that while competition may occur among herbaceous-layer species, particularly at high productivity, competitive exclusion remains low. This may be because the traits that permit survival under tree canopy shading reduce the effects of light competition with other understory species, or because understory productivity is not high enough to induce intense light competition among herbaceous-layer species.
10.2307/2997216|We investigated the reproductive biology and breeding system of Gonolobus suberosus. Individual plants produced an average of 25.5 flowers distributed among 3.85 inflorescences, and these flowers were open and receptive to pollen for 2-10 (mean 4.61) days each. Natural levels of pollination were determined by counting the numbers of pollinaria removed and pollinia deposited for 352 flowers. Many flowers (30%) had at least one pollinarium removed, but only 4% had one or more pollinia deposited. This low rate of natural pollination probably contributed to the low fruit-set observed, as only one of the 352 flowers matured a fruit. Like most other members of the Asclepiadaceae, G. suberosus is genetically self-incompatible. Of 110 artificial cross-pollinations, 13 (11.8%) were successful, versus none of 110 artificial self-pollinations. Fluorescence microscopy revealed that self-pollen tubes grew normally and entered the micropyles of ovules within the ovary. Thus, it appears that G. suberosus possesses a late-acting form of self-incompatibility, as previously documented for several species of Asclepias.
10.2307/3088735| Past and current dieback of Cercidium microphyllum, a dominant, drought-deciduous tree in the Sonoran Desert, was investigated at Tumamoc Hill, Tucson, Arizona, USA. Logistic regression predicted that the odds of a Cercidium plant being alive should decrease with increasing circumference, association with the columnar cactus Carnegiea gigantea, and occurrence on steep slopes. Slope azimuth, parasitization by Phoradendron californicum, and distance to nearest Cercidium within 5 m did not significantly affect the odds of survival. Carnegiea was a source of background mortality rather than a primary cause of dieback. Of the >1,000 living and dead plants sampled, 7.7% had died within the past 5 to 7 years. An additional 12.8% died in the more distant past. Diebacks tended to occur during severe deficits in annual, especially summer, rain. More than half of the dead plants in the sample were 50 cm in girth. In current and past diebacks on Tumamoc Hill, it seems likely that severe drought interacted with natural senescence of an aging population, weakening large, old trees and hastening their deaths. 
10.2307/4126940|Allelopathy between plants, whereby one species influences another by chemical means, has been speculated upon since the Greeks. During the second half of the twentieth century, southern California was the focal point of allelopathic research by several influential investigators. Frits Went suggested Encelia farinosa, a common desert shrub, inhibited annuals from growing under its canopy by chemical inhibition. Reed Gray and James Bonner conducted further investigations. Cornelius H. Muller questioned the allelopathic explanation for Encelia, but later felt chemical inhibition was the cause for vegetation patterns found in both southern Californian coastal sage scrub, primarily around Salvia leucophylla and Artemisia californica, and Adenostoma fasciculatum (chamise) chaparral. Various investigators challenged Muller's conclusions, but Muller remained convinced allelopathy was an important ecological variable in southern California's shrublands. Muller's passionate belief in his scientific models led him to ignore contrary evidence, yet his dedication to science and the education of his students inspired many. Allelopathy remains a controversial topic today despite hundreds of investigations because of the difficulty in isolating all the possible variables affecting plant growth.
41678805|Few records concerning pre-blight seed production of forest grown American chestnut (Castanea dentata) exist. As blight resistant American chestnut becomes available to use in restoration efforts, many conservation groups are interested in reintroducing the species as a wildlife food resource. As part of a long-term ecological study involving a disjunct population of American chestnut in Wisconsin, we examined seed production of mature forest grown trees in fall 2005 and 2006. Eleven large diameter (> 23 cm DBH), overstory position, fruiting American chestnuts were selected and measured for height, crown spread, crown volume, and dbh. Because seed predation is intense on this species, we indirectly measured seed production by counting the large opened and spiny cupules (i.e., burs) beneath the tree canopy, along with any cupules remaining on the tree. Castanea dentata typically produces three seeds per cupule, allowing for a reasonably accurate estimate of seed production, and cupules are rarely moved by seed predators. One half of the total projected canopy area was sampled plus an additional meter beyond the canopy edge. This method requires no estimation for losses due to predation or trap damage as found in traditional seed trap experiments. Mean seed production per m of basal area was 69,489 in 2005 and 74,825 in 2006. A significant relationship between total number of seeds produced and DBH was found in 2005 but not in 2006. Using basal area measurements from the stand, we would expect 1.0410 seeds produced per hectare with 2758.5 kg ha of mast production. Based on a sample of seeds we were able to collect from the forest floor, mean seed weight was 2.65 g ( 0.039 SE). Overall, the results indicate that the decline of American chestnut after infection by the chestnut blight likely had a very significant impact on the availability of important wildlife food resources in stands where the species was dominant.
10.2307/2997268|Literature onold-growth and second-growth forest vegetation of the Kentucky Karst Plain of Kentucky and Tennessee is reviewed, and this and other information is synthesized into a conceptual model that shows the various types of climax "associations" along a topographic-moisture gradient. Further, the model shows the relationship of the forest vegetation to (deep-soil) barrens and xeric limestone prairies, and to the agricultural activities of the anthropogenically-dominated landscape of this physiographic region
43286995|Climate change is of increasing concern in coastal forests where rising sea levels could lead to dramatic shifts in ecosystem composition. To investigate how inundation may impact coastal ecosystems, we examined the sensitivity of Quercus virginiana Mill., a dominant tree in the southeastern U.S., to increased soil salinity and examined whether high salinity could increase its susceptibility to freezing damage (10 C). In a greenhouse, we examined the effect of three salt treatments (0-6 ppt) on acorn development and sapling physiology. We examined samples collected from two populations: inland Florida (FL) and coastal North Carolina (NC). We found that higher salt concentrations did not affect acorn germination, but did retard emergence. In the sapling stage, high salinity was more detrimental to plants from the FL population, causing greater declines in photosynthetic rates, water use efficiency, and dark quantum yield. FL plants also demonstrated a lower freezing tolerance than NC plants but freezing temperatures did not exacerbate effects of salt stress. Our data demonstrate important population-level differences in the salt and freezing tolerance of Q. virginiana. Since salt tolerance is important to the recruitment, growth, and survival of coastal Quercus species, this research can help with future conservation and management of this important species.
20063762|Biomass partitioning and allocation to chasmogamous (CH) and cleistogamous (CL) reproduction were investigated in the invasive, summer annual Microstegium vimineum in relation to light conditions. This shade-tolerant grass weed of Asian origin forms dense populations in the understory of moist deciduous forests in eastern North America. In autumn each flowering tiller produces one terminal raceme with CH spikelets and 2 to 7 sheath-enclosed axillary racemes with CL spikelets at the uppermost nodes. In a greenhouse, plants were reared from seed families collected from individuals in subpopulations of shady (2 to 8% full sun) or sunny, edge habitats. At maturity, tillers of the shade subpopulation showed greater allocation to leaves, but reduced allocation to CH and CL, compared to those from the sunny subpopulation, suggesting adaptive differentiation to light conditions in the field. Maternal family (within subpopulation) had a significant effect on CH allocation and the mean mass of CH and CL seeds. For mature tillers collected directly from the field habitats, allocation to CH and CL was lowest, and allocation to leaves was greatest, in deep shade. CH and CL allocation averaged 16% and 11%, respectively, in the sunny habitat, but only 6% and 7% in the shady habitat. There was no evidence of a trade-off in allocation to CH vs. CL in field-collected or greenhouse tillers; in fact, there was a significant positive correlation of CH with CL allocation. The ability to grow and allocate limited resources to seed production in CH and CL spikelets under deep shade where other herbs are uncommon, is crucial to the success of M. vimineum as an aggressive colonizer of disturbed forests.
40865065|Anisophylly can be defined as the unequal growth of two leaves in a pair from a single branch node. It occurs in several opposite-leafed taxa, even in those with apparently no phylogenetic proximity. We have intended here to classify and describe the anisophylly found in ten species of Melastomataceae from two genera, Leandra and Miconia, using morphometric data. We developed a method to quantify the level of anisophylly in these species, using a parameter called "Anisophylly Index" (AI), with values ranging from nearly 0 (isophyllous) to 1 (strongly anisophyllous). A comparison between the leaves from the erect and lateral branches of Leandra barbinervis showed that this species has incomplete lateral anisophylly; i. e., only the lateral branches are anisophyllous, and in these only the pairs positioned in a dorso-ventral position are unequal, while pairs positioned in a horizontal position are isophyllous. The lateral branches of all species showed incomplete anisophylly. There is no apparent relation between anisophylly levels and area of the leaves. Anisophylly seems to be related to an increase in the efficiency on light capture, and perhaps is controlled by auxins. Its occurrence does not imply a gain or a loss of photosynthetic area of the anisophyllous pair, when compared to the isophyllous pairs in the lateral branches because total leaf area is equal (Table 1). Since the incomplete lateral anisophylly found in Leandra and Miconia is a character whose expression may vary according to environmental conditions and also between different regions of the same plant, it can not be considered as a reliable taxonomic character.
10.2307/3088756|We studied variation in self-fertility among individuals of Asclepias incarnata ssp. incarnata L. from two populations in Virginia. Many self- (range = 20-110) and cross-pollinations (range = 20-200) were performed on each of 18 plants, nine of which set fruit following self-pollinations. For the self-fertile plants, mean fruit-set from self-pollinations (10.0%) was significantly lower than that from cross-pollinations (35.1%), but the relative success of self- versus cross-pollination varied between plants. Fruits produced from self-pollinations contained significantly lower total seed mass and a higher proportion of unfilled seeds than did those from cross-pollinations. Pollen competition experiments were also performed, in which individual flowers received both self- and cross-pollinations in stigmatic chambers leading to different ovaries. The results showed no evidence of increased abortion of self-pollinated fruits under conditions of competition with cross-pollinated fruits within the same flower or between flowers within umbels. Instead, the success of self-pollinations appeared to increase in flowers that had also received cross-pollinations. These results are surprising, given the high outcrossing rates previously reported in natural populations of A. incarnata ssp. incarnata.
20063931|Three dominant legume species (Tephrosia virginiana (L.) Pers., Rhynchosia reniformis DC., and Centrosema virginianum (L.) Benth.) found in frequently burned longleaf pine woodlands were grown in a garden plot and treated with a factorial arrangement of shade treatments () and burning () treatments. Nitrogen fixation was measured using
43286997|Crocanthemum dumosum is a globally rare plant endemic to the northeastern United States. The species is considered vulnerable to extinction due to its limited range and low population numbers. This taxon is often confused with its wide spread relative C. canadense, and its recognition as a separate species is often questioned. Within the range of C. dumosum there are three other species that belong to the genus Crocanthemum. In this study, we used AFLP markers to evaluate genetic variations among populations of the four Crocanthemum species found in the southern New England region with special focus on the genetic relationship between C. dumosum and C. canadense. The AFLP data showed that the four Crocanthemum taxa in the southern New England region had high among population and low within population genetic diversity. UPGMA clustering and principle coordinate analysis clearly separated C. bicknellii and C. propinquum from each other and from C. dumosum and C. canadense, indicating significant differences in their genomes and further supporting their distinction as separate species. However, C. dumosum nested within the same cluster as C. canadense which suggest their genomes are very similar. Based on the results from our molecular data and that of the previous morphological analyses, we find insufficient evidence to support the distinctiveness of C. dumosum from C. canadense and we recommend that it be considered as a subspecific variant of C. canadense. Furthermore, we suggest that these findings be taken into consideration during review of C. dumosum conservation status.
10.2307/2997301|The expansion of Alliaria petiolata into a broadrange of habitats in New Jersey was examined by comparing demographic and reproductive characteristics in four habitats that differed in availability of moisture and light. Plants behaved as strict biennials in all sites in all years. Survivorship, seed weight, and seed germination were lower in the drier habitats. The timing of flowering was later (1-2 weeks) in the drier habitats, although it did not appear to affect fruit maturation (as estimated by fruit abortion) which occurred during the drier months in all sites. Fecundity as measured by seeds/ fruit and fruit production significantly differed among the populations although seeds/plant did not differ. Fruit abortion, which differed among the populations and among years, may be most influenced by environmental fluctuations rather than any characteristics intrinsic to the sites. The allocation of resources (biomass) to reproduction was greatest in the most disturbed site. A common garden experiment using seedlings from the two most contrasting sites suggested that variation in most traits (flowering phenology and resource allocation) was primarily a response to the environment. However, survivorship was more affected by seedling origin. This research suggests that A. petiolata responds to the broad range of habitats primarily by phenotypic plasticity. While A. petiolata had lower survivorship in the drier habitats, its phenotypic variation in demographic and reproductive characteristics may have allowed successful range expansion.
43286990|The shores of the Delaware River south of the Fall Line in Pennsylvania were once lined with coastal plain forests; however, this forest type is nearly gone from the state due to human activity. One remaining example is Delhaas Woods, a 239-acre coastal plain forest located in Bristol Township, Bucks County. Because of the rarity of this type of habitat in Pennsylvania, a study was developed to characterize the vegetation and community assemblages present at this locality. Site visits were conducted throughout the summer and fall of 2009 resulting in a vascular plant inventory of 373 species, including 297 (80%) native species and 41 (11%) species of concern tracked by the Pennsylvania Natural Heritage Program (PNHP). Oldenlandia uniflora, not previously known to occur in Pennsylvania, and Listera australis, a species new to Bucks County, were recorded. Vegetation transects were conducted using the point-quarter method for tree canopy analysis and the area-plot method for shrub and herbaceous layer analysis, and the resulting data were used to describe and delineate the community assemblages present in Delhaas Woods, two of which, Red Maple-Magnolia Palustrine Forest and Sweetgum-Oak Coastal Plain Forest, are state-ranked rare community types. Preliminary soil investigations were conducted. Locations of PNHP-listed plant species were mapped and management actions were suggested to preserve the integrity and diversity of this unique landscape and biodiversity hot spot.
10.2307/3088702|Froelichia floridana (Amaranthaceae) is an annual herb native to sandy soils in the central and southeastern United States. We analyzed the biogeographic patterns of this species to answer a series of questions regarding its historical dispersal and recent range expansion, and the relationships of a disjunct population in southern Ohio using a combination of genetic analyses based on Inter-Simple Sequence Repeat markers (ISSR) and herbarium studies. Amounts of genetic diversity showed a marked reduction in marginal populations in the far north and northeast of the species range, corresponding to areas where herbarium records show the species has become naturalized during the past 100 years. Our analysis suggests the recognition of three biogeographic lineages within this polymorphic species complex: a Great Plains lineage, an associated Midwestern Mississippian lineage, and an Atlantic Coastal Plain lineage. These lineages have been loosely recognized as taxonomic varieties: the western lineages as F. floridana var. campestris (Small) Fern., and the eastern lineage as F. floridana var. floridana (Nutt.) Moq.; however, our data suggest that the continued recognition of these varieties is not warranted. The disjunct population in Ohio, formerly believed to be a remnant of a once larger distribution and presently state-listed as a rare species, shows patterns of genetic diversity and differentiation comparable to recently established marginal populations in other states, and was most likely derived from the Great Plains or Midwestern lineages.
43287031|Globally rare serpentine barren ecosystems support unique communities, but in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States, these systems are threatened by forest encroachment in the absence of disturbance. Serpentine barrens are commonly highstress environments with low water and nutrient availability, as well as high heavy metal content. Forest encroachment into barrens is often preceded by prolific growth of the vine, Smilax rotundifolia L. To better understand how S. rotundifolia is able to colonize these inhospitable environments, the water relations of this species were examined along a gradient from serpentine barren to encroaching forest. These data were compared to the water relations of dominant C grasses in the barrens. Diurnal measurements of stomatal conductance and leaf water potential were made in June, July, and August 2012 at three study sites in southeastern Pennsylvania. Predawn water potential was often highest for S. rotundifolia growing in serpentine barrens, indicating higher soil moisture availability in these areas relative to the encroaching forest. However, no evidence of water stress in diurnal measurements of stomatal conductance or water potential was detected for S. rotundifolia along the barren to forest gradient. Similarly, neither of the C grasses exhibited signs of water stress, and both grasses maintained high stomatal conductance in the afternoon, relative to S. rotundifolia. The C grasses are likely to have a competitive advantage over S. rotundifolia, in terms of their ability to maximize carbon gain over the course of a day and growing season, but these species are liable to suffer if they become overtopped by S. rotundifolia. Smilax rotundifolia was not limited by water availability during the 2012 growing season, calling into question the common assertion that serpentine barrens impose plant moisture stress. Given its height advantage, S. rotundifolia is likely to effectively compete with serpentine barren vegetation in the absence of disturbance or active management.
10.2307/3088660|West Hills County Park, in Huntington Town, Suffolk County, Long Island, New York, is an 855-acre tract that comprises forested uplands and valleys as well as stables, picnic- and campgrounds. The park includes Jayne's Hill (400 ft above sea level), the highest point on Long Island. A large number of plants in the park are rare in, or absent from, Long Island. Many of these plants are native to southeastern North America and are also found together in the southern Appalachian Mountains. It is the purpose of the study to document the flora of the park, document the local history of land use, and to compare the climates of central Long Island and western North Carolina. The vascular flora comprises 72 families, 178 genera, and 291 species, of which 200 species are native and 91 are exotic to North America. Thirteen North American species are exotic to New York State. Flowering plants (Division Magnoliophyta) form the bulk of the flora. There are 66 families, 167 genera and 275 species. Dicots (Class Magnoliatae) account for 59 families, 140 genera and 237 species. Monocots (Class Liliatae) account for seven families, 27 genera and 38 species. There are only eight conifer (Division Pinophyta) species, in four genera and two families. Ferns (Division Polypodiophyta) comprise three families, five genera, and five species. Club-mosses (Division Lycopodiophyta) are the only other group of spore-bearing vascular plants present; they comprise one family, one genus, and three species. Four species are new to the flora of New York State, they are: Galax aphylla, Asarum shuttleworthii, Symplocos tinctoria, and Oxydendrum arboreum. Sagina decumbens (Ell.) Torrey & A. Gray is listed as E (endangered) in NYS, according to Mitchell and Tucker (1997); and listed as G5 (globally secure) S1 (critically imperiled in NYS) by The Nature Conservancy. Most of the plants new to or rare in New York were imported from North Carolina to Long Island (L.I.) in the root balls of Rhododendron maximum specimens that were planted in great numbers on the site in the 1920's. The provenance of these exotics was the Olmsted Nursery, Asheville, North Carolina. Although Olmsted rhododendrons were planted extensively on Long Island, the West Hills site has the richest concentration of L.I. exotics that are native to North Carolina. It is likely that the microclimate below Jayne's Hill is less extreme, with fewer freezes, than the rest of Long Island.
20063744|Although popular and scientific literature frequently assumes a strong connection between El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) and good displays of spring-flowering annuals in the southwestern United States, such assumptions are based on anecdotal, short-term evidence. The goals of this study were to identify good wildflower years as objectively as possible, to assess the correlation between El Nio and good displays of spring-flowering annuals, and to examine the influence of rainfall amounts on good wildflower years. The terms "good displays" and "good wildflower years" refer to times or places when populations of showy spring-flowering annuals (often called winter annuals) are abundant, robust, and diverse. In the deserts of southeastern California and southern Arizona, good wildflower years occurred about once every 5 to 7 years in the 20th century. The connection between good wildflower years and traditionally defined El Nio episodes was weak, but when El Nio was redefined in a phenologically meaningful way as any calendar year in which the average Southern Oscillation Index (SOI) between July and December was negative, 21 of 27 good wildflower years in the combined deserts were associated with El Nio. Good wildflower years were 3.6 times more likely after redefined El Nio years than after other years. Rain in the months before good wildflower years was at least 30% greater than the long-term average in the Mojave Desert and at least 50% greater in the Sonoran Desert. A diverse flora of spring-flowering annuals occurred in the region during the late Wisconsin and early Holocene, which was a period of wetter, milder winters and cooler summers. Perhaps some species of spring-flowering annuals persist today in the arid southwestern United States only because frequent El Nio conditions recreate the cool, moist conditions of the late Pleistocene.
40865064|A revision of the Mexican species of the genus Cohniella is presented. Each species is fully described and illustrated. Furthermore, species entries include specimen citation, discussion of diagnostic features and biogeography. A key to the Mexican species of Cohniella is presented. Two new species, Cohniella leptotifolia Cetzal & Carnevali and Cohniella yucatanensis Cetzal & Carnevali, are proposed. Cohniella brachyphylla (Lindi.) Cetzal & Carnevali is morphologically and distributionally recircumscribed. Finally, as part of our ongoing studies in this genus, a non-Mexican species related to C. ascendem, Cohniella teres, is synonymized under Oncidium helicanthum Kranzl. for which the combination Cohniella helicantha (Kranzl.) Cetzal & Carnevali is newly proposed. We provide a key to three closely related, easily confused species, aguirrei, ascendens, and C. helicantha.
10.2307/2997264|The New Texas serpentine barrens is a rare, naturalsavanna in southeastern PA that is rapidly succeeding to forest, probably as a result of fire exclusion. We tested the hypothesis that the invasive tree, Pinus virginiana, is modifying soil conditions in a way that may promote conversion to forest. We analyzed soil (1) next to P. virginiana of different ages and sizes and at varying distances from these trees and (2) in early successional savanna sites versus late succession forest sites. Mineral soil depth and litter depth increased with size of and proximity to trees and from savanna to forest, suggesting that P. virginiana exerts strong effects on soil at the tree scale that lead to similar changes at the stand level. Individual P. virginiana also appear to increase organic matter and Ca:Mg ratio, a key indicator of serpentine infertility. These soil chemical trends, however, were not replicated at the stand level: forest soils actually had similar or lower nutrient and organic matter levels than early successional savanna and exhibited no difference in Ca:Mg ratio. Differences between soil development trends on the two scales may be related to slower decomposition rates in pine forest compared to grassland, although much more complex mechanisms may also be involved. Although P. virginiana does not, at the stand level, appear to ameliorate soil chemical imbalances endemic to serpentine soils, its positive influence on soil depth alone could promote further succession towards forests typical of non-serpentine sites in the region.
43287029|Plum Island, New York, has one of the highest concentrations of rare plants in the state and supports a high diversity of native plant species. The island's varied topography and diverse ecological communities have contributed to the diverse flora; for much of the past 100 years, approximately 90% of the island has remained undeveloped. The vascular flora consists of 414 species within 270 genera and 92 families. Largest families include Asteraceae (61 spp.), Poaceae (60 spp.), and Cyperaceae (26 spp.) and largest genera include Carex (9 spp.), Cyperus (8 spp.), and Juncus (7 spp.). Twenty three species are listed as endangered, threatened, or rare in New York. Of these 23 species, 17 are extant, having been observed in the field during this study and six are considered extirpated. Plum Island provides a significant refugium for biodiversity and should be preserved and protected.
10.2307/2997261|For the Pseudotsuga-Lithocarpus forests of California and Oregon, this study presents the first documentation of stand dynamics in permanently marked plots. Two 0.25 ha plots of old-growth forest in Mendocino County, California were inventoried in 1981 and 1995. These plots were dominated by Pseudotsuga menziesii (Pinaceae), Lithocarpus densiflorus (Fagaceae) and Arbutus menziesii (Ericaceae), and contained nine additional tree species. During the 14 yr interval, Lithocarpus accounted for 98% of recruitment of new stems, and had greater recruitment into taller height classes and a much lower mortality rate in the understory than did Arbutus or Pseudotsuga. Lithocarpus was also the only species filling canopy gaps. However, its relative basal area increased only 3% because death of canopy trees partially offset growth. There was no recruitment of Arbutus or Pseudotsuga. Arbutus suffered mortality and extensive crown die-back, and its density and relative basal area dropped. Mortality of small stems reduced Pseudotsuga's density, but no canopy stems died and growth increased Pseudotsuga's relative basal area 4%. These results indicate that in the absence of fire, Arbutus decreases and Lithocarpus increases in importance, and due to Pseudotsuga's great potential longevity and size, these forests remain co-dominated by Lithocarpus and Pseudotsuga.
41678803|Chamaecrista chamaecristoides is an enantiostylous shrub endemic to the coast of Mexico that is being heavily impacted by human activities along the Gulf of Mexico. Chamaecrista chamaecristoides is considered a key species of the sand dune communities, particularly for its role as a nurse species and in dune stabilization. While certain aspects of its population biology have been well studied, others, such as its reproductive biology, have been overlooked. Understanding the factors that contribute to the successful reproduction of this species is crucial for its maintenance in natural populations. In this study, we examine the floral and reproductive biology of C. chamaecristoides. Specifically, we evaluate flower morphology and phenology, the breeding system and the identity and foraging patterns of floral visitors. Our results show that flower morphs are morphologically identical; however, position, size, and pollen production vary between stamens within each flower, suggesting functional differentiation. Furthermore, plants differ in their proportion of right-and left-styled flowers over the flowering season. While this could promote cross-fertilization by favoring pollen transfer among individuals with opposite floral-morph ratios, the presence of a stamen adjacent to the style, its selfcompatibility and the absence of inbreeding depression all compromise the role of enantiostyly as an outcrossing strategy in this species. Finally, even though flowers are visited by at least ten different floral visitors, reproduction of C. chamaecristoides depends heavily on only three species that together account for more than 70% of the total number of visits. Overall, our results suggest that C. chamaecristoides is highly dependent on a small subset of the community of floral visitors and that it has evolved floral strategies to reduce pollen loss and enhance the efficiency of pollen transfer. For these reasons, future conservation strategies must also consider the preservation of suitable habitat for the somewhat limited pollinator community of this species.
41475102|A new species within the Tillandsia utriculata complex is described based on specimens from the dry forests of northwestern Chiapas in the vicinity of Ocozocoautla. To determine whether the apparent differences in size and proportions of the inflorescence between those populations and similar species were objective and significant, a Principal Component Analysis (PCA), a Discriminant Analysis (DA), a Multivariate Analysis of Variance (MANOVA), and a Canonical Analysis (CA) were performed using 13 morphometric characters from the inflorescence; in the analyses, the new taxon was compared to  utriculata, a species with similar floral morphology, and T. cucaensis, which is similar in habit and inflorescence architecture. Morphometric differences were found between the new taxon and the other two species; in addition, the new taxon differs from T. utriculata by having whitish-lepidote leaves, adaxially nerved leaf sheaths with violaceous tinges, and inflorescences with pink peduncle, axis, and rachises. Moreover, a phylogenetic analysis using 40 morphological characters was conducted to find out which species are related to the new taxon. It was found that it is more related to T. utriculata than to T. cucaensis', this finding suggests that the similarities with the latter species are probably either the result of convergent evolution or of an ancient hybridization event. A conservation status assessment of the species was performed according the IUCN criteria, which allowed us to evaluate it as Critically Endangered.
27751805|A new species, Geranium mutisii, from La Guajira in Colombia is described and illustrated.
27751811|We established an experiment designed to compare effects of Microstegium vimineum (Japanese stiltgrass) on seedlings of three native hardwood species to investigate the hypothesis that competitive effects of M. vimineum on juvenile trees will vary across different tree species. Growth and survival of Acer rubrum, Liriodendron tulipifera, and Quercus rubra first-year seedlings were compared in plots with and without M. vimineum in three planting beds under 50 percent shade. The tree species studied are abundant and of particular interest in the Central Hardwood Region. A. rubrum and L. tulipifera seedlings experienced reduced growth in several foliar characteristics in the presence of M. vimineum. Q. rubra did not exhibit any differences in foliar characteristics between plots with and without M. vimineum, however there was a reduction in Q. rubra stem weight as a result of the presence of M. vimineum. The differential responses of A. rubrum, L. tulipifera, and Q. rubra to the presence of M. vimineum observed in this study support the hypothesis that effects of this exotic species will vary across tree species. As a result of reductions in the growth of A. rubrum and L. tulipifera, the presence of M. vimineum in forest understories may reduce the rate at which seedlings of these species are recruited into larger size classes.
20063894|Serpentine grasslands support a unique endemic flora composed of many rare species that are tolerant of the inhospitable soil conditions characteristic of ultramafic soils. In the eastern United States, rare plants of many serpentine grasslands are being displaced as a result of invasion by Pinus species and consequent changes in environmental conditions. Community structure and function of symbiotic soil arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) also may be affected by Pinus succession. This study examined changes in soil properties, AMF communities, and plant growth in serpentine grassland soils that have been invaded by Virginia pine (Pinus virginiana Mill.). Sites representing three vegetation types (grassland, pine savanna, and pine woodland) were assessed at the Soldiers Delight Natural Environmental Area, Maryland, USA. In comparison to grassland sites, soil pH and concentrations of Ca, Mg, and Ni were reduced in pine woodland soils. Savanna soils exhibited an increase in Mg and Ni concentrations relative to grasslands. In greenhouse experiments, Mg toxicity imposed the largest limitation to plant growth on these serpentine soils, expressed most dramatically in savanna soils, where Mg concentrations were as high as 1,575 g
40865062|The stem anatomy and pattern of secondary growth in Ungulipetalum filipendulum (Mart.) Moldenke, Cissampelos andromorpha DC, Disciphania hernandia (Veil.) Barneby, Odontocarya vitis (Veil.) J. M. A. Braga, and O. tamoides (DC.) Miers are described for the first time. Their morphology shares features of wood anatomy in common with other Menispermaceae, highlighted by wide rays, pitted tyloses and enlarged vessel pits near the perforation plates. However, unlike other members of Menispermaceae with successive cambia, a single vascular cambium remained functional and showed normal secondary growth. Other characteristics distinguish them from species having stems with successive cambia, such as parenchyma proliferation, new axial segments and type of parenchyma. In fact, it is thought that this pattern of secondary growth indicates that the stem will not develop successive cambia. Since the absence or presence of successive cambia has phylogenetic importance, a methodology which focuses on the patterns of secondary growth may improve the morphological accuracy of stem classification in this family.
20063957|The understory conditions of eastern hemlock stands in the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area have been altered by canopy decline caused by an exotic insect pest, the hemlock woolly adelgid. We consider the response of bryophytes to these changes, particularly increased availability of understory light and coarse woody debris (CWD). Pre-adelgid surveys and environmental measurements were taken at a network of 72 permanent plots in 1994 and 1995. Re-measurement of understory variables was conducted in 2003 and 2006. Bryophytes have responded to adelgid impacts through a sustained increase in plot-level richness, mainly achieved through a greater frequency of species occurring on CWD and to a lesser extent on bare soil in the plots. Greater gains in species richness took place in plots closer to the streams. Bryophyte responses to understory light availability and shrub density suggest that light availability may be more important for species maintenance than for species colonization. Orthodicranum montanum (Hedw.) Loeske had the greatest increase in frequency, occurring in two-thirds of all plots on one or more substrata by 2006. Several nitrophilous species had appeared by 2003 and 2006 including Brachythecium rutabulum (Hedw.) Schimp., which has now colonized almost one-third of the plots since the hemlock woolly adelgid invasion. Bryophytes are a significant component of the understory vegetation in eastern hemlock stands and this study is the first to document the dynamic nature of their response to hemlock woolly adelgid impacts.
43286984|Our collective knowledge of the natural history traits of our native species is commonly lacking, and this deficit puts us at a disadvantage as we try to predict responses of species, communities, and ecosystems to current, widespread environmental changes wrought by human activities. Erythronium americanum Gawler is a common spring ephemeral in the forests of the eastern United States and it plays an important role in biogeochemical cycling and food webs. Yet, there remain unresolved questions about its developmental patterns and therefore capacity to respond to environmental change. In this study, I collected 30 corms with no roots that had recently formed from droppers and 30 older corms in the spring, replanted them adjacent to Plexiglas for viewing, and monitored their development semi-annually for two years. Older corms produced a second set of roots during the summer. Young corms formed roots during the first summer of their existence. Both old and new corms only formed droppers in the spring following transplanting. Not all second year corms produced droppers. Corms that formed droppers did not persist when a new corm was formed at the end of the dropper. These results indicate that Erythronium americanum faces a delay in its response to environmental changes, and not all young corms respond significantly within two years even though most young corms can form droppers.
10.2307/3088703|Passiflora incarnata L. (Passifloraceae) is native to the southern United States and common in old fields and roadsides. This herbaceous, perennial vine has hermaphroditic flowers yet is self-incompatible. Large bees pollinate these flowers that produce fruits that may be eaten by mammals. Although the mode of sexual reproduction suggests the potential for long distance dispersal of genes, this species also displays extensive vegetative reproduction from rhizomes. Vegetative reproduction may reduce the amount of genetic variation within a population and increase differentiation among populations. We report on the macrogeographic allozymic variation within P. incarnata. Plants were collected from three regions in South Carolina (SC) and Georgia (GA). Genetic data were collected from nine polymorphic loci with starch gel electrophoresis of allozymes. In our sample of 168 plants from SC and GA, we observed 82 different multilocus genotypes. Plants with the same multilocus genotype were collected within and among regions. Genetic data indicated that there was little genetic differentiation among regions. These data suggest that there is extensive long distance transport of genes and that the species may rely heavily on sexual reproduction to establish new habitat.
10.2307/3088650|Previous studies have revealed that the Federal-Threatened species, Helenium virginicum, is endemic to 30 sinkhole ponds in Virginia; that it is distinct from three other lineages of the H. autumnale species complex; and that a population in Missouri is scarcely different from H. virginicum in morphology and ecology. We evaluated the phylogeography of 12 populations of the H. autumnale species complex by comparing the ITS-1 and ITS-2 regions of the nrDNA with three outgroups. Phylogenetic analysis placed the Missouri population in a monophyletic group (with 84% bootstrap support) with H. virginicum populations. The sequence of one population in Virginia differed by only one base from the Missouri population, while two Virginia populations growing within 200 m of each other differed by five bases. We used these sequence data, along with the morphological and ecological data from previous studies, as a basis for including the Missouri population in H. virginicum. We suspect that the biogeographic disjunction of H. virginicum between Virginia and Missouri is a real pattern, and we discuss our reasons for this conclusion.
10.2307/3088743|This study examined the environmental factors that control recruitment patterns within a population of overcup oak (Quercus lyrata Walt.) in a seasonally flooded karst depression located in southeastern Tennessee. The population was censused using 240 plots in which demographic and environmental variables were measured in 1997 and all tagged individuals were re-censused in 1998. We hypothesized that seed and seedling distribution and abundance would reflect adult canopy cover, whereas sapling recruitment would reflect flooding and light patterns superimposed upon this original distribution. The initial spatial distribution of seeds on the forest floor of Sinking Pond in the fall was a reflection of seed rain directly beneath reproductive adults. However, immediately following this seed rain, the spatial pattern of viable seeds changed, reflecting factors associated with the microtopography of the pond and litter depth. Light is an important factor in the distribution and abundance of the larger (0.5-1.5 m) overcup oak saplings. The temporal and spatial heterogeneity of light associated with treefall gaps and the spatial heterogeneity of microtopography (and its associated affect on the duration of inundation and litter depth) act as a filter, resulting in the differential survival of discrete clumps of saplings. This dynamic has resulted in even-aged clumps of overcup oak adults within the population. Sites currently favorable to survival of adult trees were shown to be unfavorable to juveniles, resulting in a spatial segregation of seedling and saplings from the parent population. Our data indicate that there are no individuals in the sub-canopy or canopy that are less than 40 years old, and that saplings are currently unable to reach the sub-canopy adult state. Therefore, it appears that this population is currently experiencing a lack of recruitment into the canopy. We found no evidence to suggest that such recruitment gaps are a repeated phenomenon in the population. Therefore, we propose that this population may now be experiencing not just a gap in recruitment, but perhaps a regeneration failure. We propose that the flooding duration in Sinking Pond has increased within the last 50 years, to the point where it has become the primary factor limiting recruitment in this population. We conclude, therefore, that light as a factor in regeneration increases in its importance in response to the severity of flooding only up to a point, beyond which flooding becomes the overriding factor controlling regeneration.
10.2307/3088728|Climatic variation is recognized as a major driver of vegetation patterns across broad geographic regions and areas of steep topography. However, few studies have evaluated the potential influences of local climatic variation on vegetation patterns or dynamics. We investigated the relationships between microclimatic variation, vegetation structure, and leaf phenology on a topographically level sand plain that is characterized by a forest mosaic with abrupt transitions to shrublands dominated by scrub oak (Quercus ilicifolia). The timing of bud break, leaf phenology, and height of scrub oak are strongly related to variation in temperature across the study site. Moderate maximum and minimum temperatures occur beneath forested canopies, whereas nearby shrublands experience frequent late-spring frosts and shorter frost-free growing seasons, resulting in chronic dieback of developing leaves, slow growth rates, and reduced stem height. Our results indicate that extreme radiational cooling in open areas on level, xeric sites may result in the development of 'frost pockets' similar to those that occur in topographical depressions and may contribute to slow establishment of a forest canopy after disturbance. Such frost-prone areas may have become more common as a result of historical cutting and burning and may contribute to the persistence of scrub oak stands that support several rare species and are high priorities for conservation.
27751830|The vegetation and vascular flora of the Bartlett Arboretum Forest, Stamford, Connecticut is described. Based upon abundance, frequency, and diameter at breast height (dbh) data from sixty-one, 100 m2 random quadrats collected in summer 2007, calculations of a species area curve, clustering of quadrat data and Importance Values (IV) were performed. Analysis shows a forest dominated by Fagus grandifolia (IV, 64.17), followed by Acer rubrum (IV 37.41), and Betula lenta (IV 33.84). The vascular flora is documented from collections made from fall 2006 through fall 2008 as well as herbarium records. A total of 351 vascular plant species from 95 families are recorded. The most represented families are the Poaceae (31 species), Asteraceae (30 species), Rosaceae (16 species), and Cyperaceae (16 species). These four families comprise 93 species and 26.4 percent of the flora. Exotic species comprise 26.7 percent of the flora with 94 species. Two species, Eurybia radula and Sibbaldiopsis tridentata are listed as endangered in the state of Connecticut.
40207621|Seeds of Ricinus communis are primarily dispersed by autochory and secondarily dispersed by ants, which are attracted to their lipid-rich elaiosome. The aim of this study was to determine how the conditions to which Ricinus seeds are submitted after these two types of dispersal affect their germination. We examined the germination responses of freshly harvested and one-year-old seeds to combinations of light (present or absent), temperature (alternating or constant), and elaiosome (present or absent). We also checked the soil for persistent seed banks. The seeds presented different germination responses but germinated in all conditions to which they were submitted. More specifically, germination of fresh seeds was higher in the environmental conditions to which they are submitted after being dispersed by ants, although seeds with elaiosome germinated in greater number. Germination of old seeds was not enhanced in alternating temperatures and/or presence of light, as would be expected for seeds that make up persistent soil seed banks. This, and the fact that we found only a few viable seeds in the soil, indicates that Ricinus does not form seed banks. Nevertheless, we observed massive seedling emergence after soil disturbance and, therefore, the existence or not of seed banks is not yet clear and deserves further investigation. This study shows that the generalist germination behavior of Ricinus seeds guarantees that they germinate under various environmental conditions.
41262019|Dispersal ability is as integral to plant conservation as habitat integrity. If plants fail to disperse into disjunct habitats, those habitats remain unoccupied no matter how suitable. A decrease in herbaceous species richness from primary to secondary forests in the eastern United States may reflect the poor dispersal ability of ant-dispersed species previously extirpated by forest clearing, so much so the presence of ant-dispersed herbs may act as a proxy for ecosystem integrity. We examined the correspondence between forest stand age and the abundances of an ant-dispersed herb, Hexastylis arifolia, and a wind-dispersed herb, Goodyera pubescens. Vegetation was sampled in various-age forest stands in the Bent Creek Experimental Forest in the southern Appalachian Mountains, USA, and variance in H. arifolia and G pubescens presence and abundance was assessed as a function of tree age and density. Both plants were absent from plots where trees were < 20 years, and H. arifolia did not occur in stands < 34 years. Hexastylis arifolia abundance increased significantly with proximate tree age whereas G. pubescens abundance did not. These results suggest G. pubescens propagules colonize re-established understory habitat relatively quickly whereas H. arifolia propagules may fail to access habitat in secondary forests decades after it becomes suitable. This exemplifies the difficulty ant-dispersed plants exhibit in tracking suitable habitat and suggests that deforestation and fragmentation limit their function in understory herbaceous communities.
20063837|We examined Illinois and Wisconsin remnant prairie data to determine regional patterns of species composition as influenced by landforms with different topographic positions and soil properties resulting from glacial history. Three data sets were used, including 84 sites from Wisconsin sampled in the 1950s; 216 sites from Illinois sampled as part of the Illinois Natural Areas Inventory (INAI) in the 1970s; and a subset of 29 INAI sites resampled in 1998. These data sets are the best characterization of remnant prairie vegetation in the two states after most of the original prairies were lost. Data were analyzed using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), principal components analysis (PCA), and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). CCA was used only for the INAI sites resampled in 1998 that had a complete set of soils data. Results from all analyses were similar. We determined that an interaction between topographic position and soil texture, which affected moisture availability, was most important in influencing species composition and abundance in Illinois and Wisconsin remnant prairies. Separation of dominant prairie species in Illinois and Wisconsin followed similar patterns, if differences in community designation for similar vegetation types were considered. However, Wisconsin and Illinois sites separated on DCA axis 2, which was negatively correlated with calcium and phosphorus. The first DCA ordination axis for INAI prairie sites was correlated with a topographically-based Integrated Moisture Index (IMI). For the 1998 INAI data, PCA was used to reduce soil variables to fewer dimensions and resulting axis 1 scores were used in stepwise multiple regression analysis to determine relationships between environmental variables and DCA ordination axis scores. The IMI was the first variable entered in the stepwise multiple regression model; however, PCA axis 1 stand scores based on soil variables did not meet criteria for entry into the model. For all data sets, including the CCA ordination of the resampled INAI sites, there was a secondary separation at the dry end of the moisture gradient between hill prairies and dry sand prairies, which was related to differences in soil texture and availability of calcium and phosphorus. In general, soil nutrients and texture were less important than topographically controlled moisture availability in determining prairie species composition and abundance at this scale of analysis.
10.2307/2997285|We studied the pollination effectiveness of hummingbirds and bees, and the breeding system and nectar production rate of Penstemon pseudospectabilis M E Jones in the Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona With pink rather than red flowers, a corolla tube as long as a hummingbird bill but wide enough to admit bees, and hummingbird-typical nectar sugar composition, P. pseudospectabilis may be adapted for pollination by both hummingbirds and bees Manual outcrossing yielded more than twice as many seeds/flower as manual selfing When all visitors were excluded most plants produced some seeds through autonomous self-pollination (7/flower), but seed set increased more than two-fold when flowers were manually selfed Flowers visited only by small, mainly halictid bees had seed set similar to the hand-self treatment (significantly better than no visits), whereas those visited mainly by hummingbirds and honeybees had seed set comparable to the hand-outcrossed treatment The daily nectar production rate of 3 96 mg sugar/flower was relatively high for hummingbird flowers of the western United States (typical range: 2-4 mg sugar/flower), rather than being intermediate between hummingbird and bee flowers Hummingbirds visited an observation patch at least hourly Our results support a previous conclusion about a "mixed pollination system" in this species, and provide an example of a Penstemon species which is significantly self-incompatible and attracts high-energy pollinators (hummingbirds), but retains the ability to self-pollinate and profit from small bee visitors.
41475118|We recircumscribe Lophiaris carthagenensis (Jacq.) Braem, a species from northern Colombia and Venezuela, and L. oerstedii (Rchb. f.) R. Jimnez, Carnevali & Dressier, from northeastern Mexico to southwest Honduras and Nicaragua. Furthermore, we elevate Oncidium oerstedii var. crisptflorwn Schltr. to the status of species as Lophiaris crispiflora (Schltr.) Balam & Cetzal, for populations treated formally as L. carthagenensis of eastern Honduras and central-northeastern Nicaragua to northwest of Panama. Lophiaris carthagenensis is distinguished from L. crispiflora and L. oerstedii by the white or greenish flowers with red brown, wine or magenta spots, characters of the callus, and its disjunct distribution. Finally, we describe and illustrate a new natural hybrid, Lophiaris X oerstelurida Cetzal & Balam. The proposed hybrid is known from a specimen collected in the Colonia Reforma, Acacoyagua, Chiapas, Mexico. Previously, this specimen had been incorrectly proposed as the first record of L. carthagenensis for Mexico; however, the floral morphology suggests it is a natural hybrid between L. oerstedii and L. lurida (Lindl.) Braem.
20063806|Fungi are a significant source of seed mortality. Although the seeds of pokeweed, Phytolacca americana, are known to contain antifungal compounds, it is unknown if these compounds confer the presumed benefit of increased persistence of P. americana seeds in soil compared to seeds of potential competitors. We buried seeds of P. americana with seeds of a sympatric species, Chamaecrista fasciculata, that is not known to exhibit antifungal properties. Half of the buried seeds were treated with a fungicide. After three months, seeds were exhumed. Treatment of buried seeds with fungicide significantly increased the number of intact C. fasciculata seeds recovered (82% recovered with fungicide addition, 39% recovered from controls). Recovery of intact P. americana seeds was 100% for both control and fungicide treatments. Results from a complementary experiment using non-buried seeds in a growth chamber experiment confirmed that P. americana was much less susceptible to fungal attack compared to C. fasciculata. Our work demonstrates that the antifungal properties of P. americana significantly improved survival of P. americana seeds in the seedbank. Moreover, this increased survival may promote P. americana persistence in communities where species without antifungal properties, such as C. fasciculata, also exist.
41678791|Odocoileus virginianus Zimmerman (white-tailed deer) populations at Valley Forge National Historical Park in southeastern Pennsylvania have ranged from 70 to 93 deer per square km over the last decade. In 2010, we surveyed 30 fenced (to exclude deer) and unfenced paired plots established in 1992 to evaluate differences in woody and herbaceous vegetation. In addition, a broader collection and analysis of overstory and understory vegetation data were conducted in the two dry Quercus spp. forests and one mesic Liriodendron tulipifera L. forest that contain the fenced and unfenced plots. The understory of the Liriodendron stand had 72% cover of Microstegium vimineum, (Trin.) A. Camus, an exotic grass. Across all three stands, sapling and seedling densities were low to moderate (500 and 10,000 stems ha" 1 , respectively) and were primarily shade tolerant Acer rubrum L. and Nyssa sylvatica Marsh. The numbers of Quercus seedlings and saplings were low to nonexistent in all stands. Similarly, the unfenced plots had low densities of seedlings and saplings, especially Quercus. The 18 year-old fenced plots contained 33,133 seedlings ha" 1 , but lacked tree saplings. The fenced seedlings were dominated by A. rubrum, Sassafras albidum, (Nutt.) Nees, N.sylvatica and Fraxinus americana L. in two of the stands and Quercus montana L. in one of the Quercus stands. Shrub cover averaged 51% in the fenced plots (mainly Lindera, Viburnum, Ligustrum and Lonicerd) and 5% in the unfenced plots. Moreover, Microstegium cover was very low in all fenced plots, possibly due to the high shrub cover. Fenced plots also had higher plant species diversity (Shannon Index and richness). The results of this study suggest that the long-term exclusion of O. virginianus resulted in increased tree seedling number, shrub cover and diversity, and low Microstegium cover, but was inconsistent in stimulating Quercus regeneration and sapling recruitment.
40865061|The taxonomy and phylogeny of the perennial North American Apiaceae subfamily Apioideae endemic to western North America (north of Mexico) have posed great challenges to systematists. Available classifications based on morphological characters are in general inconsistent and unsatisfactory, and cladistic analyses based on these data are limited to only a few taxa and a small number of characters. In this study, we scored 54 morphological characters from 123 taxa of North American Apioideae (representing 111 species in 21 genera) to construct an estimate of phylogenetic relationships and to compare the results obtained with those inferred for the group through previous studies using molecular data. The morphological and combined (morphological and molecular) datasets were analyzed using maximum parsimony (with equal, proportional, and successive approximations weighting strategies and Goloboff fit criterion applied to the morphological characters) and Bayesian approaches. Phylogenetic trees derived from morphological characters are largely congruent with those derived from molecular data, upon the collapse of weakly supported branches. The least number of most parsimonious trees is derived from the combined analysis when morphological characters are given proportional weights, and these trees are fully congruent with those derived from molecular data alone. The results revealed that many morphological characters used previously to delimit genera are highly homoplastic, such as the presence of a carpophore, stylopodium, pseudoscape, and dorsal wings, the number of vittae, and the orientation of fruit compression. The results also supported the monophyly of the group, in accordance with previous molecular studies. Three major clades and several wellsupported subclades are tentatively circumscribed, thus facilitating future phylogenetic and revisionary studies.
41678801|Trichomes on the leaves and florets of 17 Mexican species of Vernonanthura and Vernonia (Tribe Vernonieae, subtribe Vernoniinae) were studied using light and scanning electron microscopy (SEM), to assess their taxonomic value in distinguishing between these two genera. Earlier studies of North American Vernonieae by Jones and colleagues (Faust and Jones 1973, King and Jones 1975) showed that trichome morphology and their presence on leaves and reproductive structures could be taxonomically informative, but this work included few Mexican taxa. Glandular and nonglandular trichomes, each with several variants, were found in the two genera. Glandular trichomes were particularly abundant on the florets and the achenes while the nonglandular were more common on the leaves. A cluster analysis shows two main species groups based on trichome traits. The first group linked species lacking glandular trichomes in vegetative or reproductive organs, whereas in the second the species were grouped by the occurrence of uniseriate and glandular trichomes. Within this second group, two species possess unique features: Vernonanthura cordata has long uniseriate subtype b trichomes while in Vernonia greggii there are T-shaped trichomes on the leaf abaxial surface. Our results also showed that trichomes were useful in differentiating species with similar ecological and/or geographical features (e. g., Vernonia larsenii and V. lindheimeri), but were of limited taxonomic value at the generic level in distinguishing Vernonanthura from Vernonia. These two genera share various trichome types, but L-shaped trichomes were only found in Vernonanthura. An ongoing study of the Mexican Vernonieae may reveal informative trichome characters at different taxonomic levels, such as among subtribes, or between species of other more distantly related genera.
20063790|A total of 243 new species records, 60 new generic records, and 11 new family records were documented for Canyon de Chelly National Monument, bringing the known flora of the Monument to 771 species. This work is part of an inventory carried out throughout the National Park Service as part of the Natural Resource Challenge, a legislative and administrative mandate. Four species are on or proposed for the Navajo Nation Endangered Species List. Additions to the flora include Carex specuicola, a Listed Threatened species, and Zigadenus vaginatus, both on the Navajo Endangered Species List. Astragalus chuskanus, Cirsium chellyense, Lupinus caudatus subsp. cutleri, and a white-flowered form of Mertensia oblongifolia are endemic to the Monument and surrounding area.
20063897|Relationships between current community composition and the soil seed bank were investigated within a maritime forest on Virginia's Eastern Shore. Forty families, 48 genera, and 52 species were documented in the current community. Three overstory species (Liquidambar styraciflua, Acer rubrum, and Pinus taeda) were dominants and comprised 72% of all overstory trees sampled. Analysis of stem size classes indicated that P. taeda was not recruiting and would eventually be replaced by hardwoods. Ilex opaca, Toxicodendron radicans, and Lonicera japonica comprised the majority of cover in the understory. The forest was in a mid-successional seral stage. In comparison, 31 families, 43 genera, and 45 species were identified from the seed bank. Seed bank composition was largely distinct from the aboveground community, although seven tree species that emerged from the seed bank were present in the overstory. Dissimilarity between the present community and seed bank indicated that replacement of existing species is likely to occur from future seed rain, especially from bird-dispersal. Presence of invasive species within the overstory, understory, and seed bank may alter forest succession.
10.2307/2997249|Carex mitchelliana M.A. Curtis, a historically rare plant species, is known from fewer than 100 populations in the eastern and southeastern United States. To ascertain the extent and distribution of genetic variability within this taxon, ten populations distributed from New York to Alabama were characterized by starch gel electrophoresis coupled with substrate specific staining and allozyme analysis. Patterns of variation observed resembled those previously described for the entire Carex crinita Lam. species complex. Values obtained for several parameters of population genetic structure (e.g., percentage polymorphic loci) suggest that Carex mitchelliana is more variable than the other taxa in this species complex despite its restricted distribution and lower abundance. Nei's unbiased genetic identity and gene diversity analysis revealed genetic divergence between Gulf State and geographically marginal Atlantic Coastal Plain populations; although harboring less genetic diversity, Atlantic Coastal Plain populations were differentiated for alleles unique to this species at two loci. Preservation of genetic diversity in this taxon requires maintenance of that component attributable to genetic differences observed among populations, as well as between the two geographic regions. Populations from throughout the distribution of this taxon including both regions, should be preserved.
10.2307/2996597|Many studies report that herbaceous species diversity higher in primary forest than mature secondary forests, but this pattern has not yet been demonstrated in forests overbrowsed by white-tailed deer. We compared the diversity of herbaceous and tree seedling species in 5 primary and 5 mature secondary riparian zone forest stands in northwestern Pennsylvania, a region which has been overpopulated with white-tailed deer for the past 65 years. We sampled study plots with 16 1-m
10.2307/4126930|This study described the vascular flora of five Florida shell middens: Fort George Shell Ring, Guana River State Park Shell Ring, Tomoka State Park Shell Midden, Green Mound, and Turtle Mound. These protected middens were located on state or National Park property. The vascular flora consisted of 190 species within 159 genera in 81 families. Poaceae and Asteraceae were the largest families and the largest genera were Cyperus, Quercus, Smilax, and Solidago. Native species composed 95.3% of the flora. Soil salinity and daily flooding affected the distribution of vascular plants at tidal midden sites. Calcareous soils influenced species distribution at upland shell midden sites. Each taxonomic entry in the checklist is accompanied by site location.
40207624|Forest fragmentation and abandonment of lands managed for agriculture are widespread processes in eastern North America that might promote the expansion of exotic pests. We studied populations of Rhamnus cathartica L. (European buckthorn), an invasive alien plant in North America, in maple-beech forests, abandoned agricultural fields, and unmanaged conifer plantations in central New York State. Surveys and neighborhood functions were used to examine demography and spatial distribution. Populations of R. cathartica in maple-beech forests were sparse (112 ha), dominated by seedlings and saplings, and strongly aggregated in space. Populations of R. cathartica in plantations, by contrast, were dense (7,717 ha), not strongly concentrated at the low end of the diameter distribution, and less strongly aggregated than those in other habitats. Old fields included a high density of R. cathartica plants (5,912 ha), which were predominantly seedlings and strongly aggregated. Seedling density was positively related to availability of light at our forested plots, and plants were clustered near walking trails at three of four maple-beech plots. At all old field and two of four plantations, seedlings were spatially associated with fruiting R. cathartica, suggesting that they served as recruitment foci. Further, seedlings also were associated with non-fruiting adult R. cathartica at 2 of 3 old-field and 2 of 4 plantation plots. Unmanaged conifer plantations with numerous canopy openings may permit colonization and population growth of R. cathartica. Management for closed-canopy forest and the elimination of plants, particularly fruiting conspecifics, serving as recruitment foci are potentially successful approaches toward control of R. cathartica.
20063926|Gynodioecy is a dimorphic breeding system in which male-sterile individuals (i.e., females) coexist with hermaphroditic individuals in populations. Previous studies of two species of Lobelia in North America have documented gynodioecy in parts of their ranges and here, we document gynodioecy for a single population of L. siphilitica and in two populations of L. spicata from western Massachusetts. Our objectives were to (1) determine sex ratios in natural populations of these species, (2) use controlled pollinations to investigate the capacity and extent of self fertilization in hermaphrodites and (3) compare the relative fertility and magnitude of sexual dimorphism in floral morphology between females and hermaphrodites. The frequency of females was only 3% in L. siphilitica, whereas both populations of L. spicata contained 12% females. Hermaphrodites in both species were self-compatible and estimates of mating system parameters confirmed mixed mating in L. spicata. Females of L. spicata had higher fruit and seed production compared to hermaphrodites and there was significant floral size dimorphism. In contrast, there was no sexual dimorphism and no differences in fruit and seed set between females and hermaphrodites in L. siphilitica. We also used herbarium records to document that flowering of these two congeners is well separated temporally in the Northeast and that northeastern collections of L. spicata, but not L. siphilitica, flower significantly later in the season compared to herbarium specimens collected from outside this region. Further, herbarium collections were used to test previous hypotheses concerning the validity of infrageneric classifications in Lobelia spicata; specifically, we confirmed that L. spicata var. campanulata is a male-sterile form of this species.
41475106|Gametophyte morphology and development of the federally listed American hart's tongue fern Asplenium scolopendrium var. americanum L. was examined and compared to the old world variety Asplenium scolopendrium var. scolopendrium. The North American variety is critically threatened and many populations in the Southeastern US have gone extinct while the number of plants in all northeastern populations is plummeting. The ultimate goal of this work was to compare gametophyte biology of these two varieties to understand better potential characters that may help separate plants in North America from those in the old world and generate a better picture of the biology of the North American populations. The two varieties differed significantly in gametophyte ontogeny, morphology, and propensity for sexual and asexual reproduction. Gametophytes of the American variety germinated earlier, grew significantly slower, and produced sporophytes much later (166 d vs. 119 d) than the old world variety. In addition, A. scolopendrium var. americanum produced copious gametophytic outgrowths that were capable of developing into functional, independent thalli while A. scolopendrium var. scolopendrium does not. The combined data set aids in understanding the origins of the American variety as its gametophyte biology is similar to several other taxa which now persist in climatically-moderated rockhouse habitats in eastern North America.
10.2307/3557525|Wetland plants native to eastern North America commonly invade farms cultivating cranberries (Vaccinium macrocarpon). Twenty-two of these taxa have established disjunct populations in the Pacific Northwest, on wet soils in cranberry farms. Fourteen disjunct populations are, at present, entirely restricted to cranberry fields within Oregon, Washington, or British Columbia, and were apparently unintentionally transferred to the west coast with commercial cuttings of cranberry plants. This is a plausible explanation for the origins of several other eastern taxa invading undisturbed wetlands in the Pacific Northwest, adjacent to agricultural areas (e.g., Lysimachia terrestris, Glyceria canadensis, Juncus canadensis, and Hypericum boreale).
41475125|The success of rare plant conservation programs depends upon understanding the ecological factors that regulate seed dormancy and germination. In this study, we characterize the germination niche with respect to temperature and light of three imperiled perennials that are endemic to rock outcrops in the southeastern United States: Astragalus bibullatus, Claytonia ozarkensis, and Conradina verticillata. Our results show that a majority of seeds for each species are unable to germinate at habitat temperatures prevailing after dispersal in early summer. Seeds of the rockface endemic Claytonia ozarkensis germinated to high rates in darkness at 5 C, suggesting germination is confined to winter and that seeds are unable to persist beyond one germination season (transient seed bank). For Conradina verticillata, 44% of seeds germinated without cold stratification, while the remainder required cold stratification and light to overcome physiological dormancy. Following cold stratification, Conradina verticillata seeds germinated in light at cool (15/5 C) but not at warm (30/15 C) temperatures, although overall seed viability was low (26%). Seeds of Astragalus bibullatus germinated to low rates (< 10%) in seasonal temperature sequences, confirming that this species forms a persistent seed bank. Seeds of Astragalus bibullatus lost viability following heat shock for 30 min at 125 C, but germinated to > 50% following mechanical scarification and incubation at 30/15 C. Results from this study can be used to maximize germination for ex situ and reintroduction programs, and provide insight into managing wild populations.
40864976|This study documented and described a recently located (2003) and significant Piedmont prairie site (Troy Prairie) from Montgomery County, NC. From 2006-08 a complete floristic inventory was conducted. In addition, 75 quadrats (1 X 1 m) were sampled for species frequency, and 12 quadrats were sampled at 3 depths (0-10 cm, 11-20 cm, 21-30 cm) for soil chemistry to determine pH, and extractable P, K, Ca, Mg, Zn, and Mn. A total of 163 vascular plant species were identified, including 62 monocots, 97 dicots, three ferns, and one lycopsid. There were 57 (35%) graminoids and 39 (24%) Asteraceae. Of the Asteraceae, Helianthus schweinitzii (Schweinitz's sunflower) is Federally endangered, while Solidago gracillima and 5*. radula are both rare-listed for NC. Only five individuals of H. schweinitzii were found in this study of an estimated 100 in 2003. Eighty-seven (53%) species had previously been reported as occurring in prairie-like associations. Andropogon gerardii and Rubus sp. had the highest frequency at 48%. Troy Prairie is one of only three known A. gerardii populations in North or South Carolina > 0.5 ha. The site contains upland to hydric conditions, and 42 (26%) of the species listed were obligate to facultative wetland. The mean soil pH was very strongly acidic (4.9). Phosphorus, K, and Ca levels were low for all three sampled depths for both upland and hydric sections, while there were medium levels of Mg. A portion of the site is under current consideration for a highway improvement project.
20063942|Stems of grass support much of the world's food supply during grain maturation. The purpose of this study was to determine the mechanical properties of stems and to determine if thick-walled, sclerenchyma cells are the main components that resist stem bending for 42 species of grass plants. During tests, stresses were imposed on grass stem segments to more than 90% of the maximum elastic load. Anatomical analyses were also performed to determine relationships between mechanical properties and geometric/anatomical characteristics of grass stems. Data show that more than 59% of all sclerenchyma cells in stems occur in the outer one-fifth radius of stems. Values of outer diameter, inner diameter, and stem density varied by factors of 10 or more, values of modulus of elasticity ranged from 0.1 to 32 GPa (a factor of more than 300 times) and values of maximum bending moment from 0.0005 to 2.0 N-m (a factor of 4000 times). Results of stress tests show that maximum bending moment was highly correlated with section modulus so that maximum bending stress values varied by only a factor of 8. Values of maximum bending stress varied from a low of 1.0E07 to a high of 8.0E07 Pa among the grass species tested with a mean and standard deviation of 3.3 and 2.3E07 Pa, respectively. Data of this study also showed that maximum bending moments of the 42 species were correlated well (y = 0.028x + 0.0001, r = 0.64) with the areas of thick-walled sclerenchyma cells in stems. Taken together, these data show that maximum bending stress values of all 42 grass species were nearly identical and that sclerenchyma cells in stems provided the major support for stem integrity at the upper limit of imposed stem stresses. To our knowledge, this study is the first to compare the geometric, mechanical, and anatomical characteristics of over forty species of grasses to provide a unifying view of grass stem resistance to mechanical stresses.
20063895|By the middle of the
10.2307/3088673|The rediscovery and history of Ledum groenlandicum Oeder (Rhododendron groenlandicum (Oeder) Kron & Judd) in New Jersey is reported.
20063851|Annual plants are important colonizers of the bare sandy areas that typify the pioneer zone of many coastal beaches. The spatial distribution of the potential seed rain in autumn, transient seed bank in early spring, and seedling recruitment in late spring were examined for the summer annuals in a 40  45 m section of beach on Staten Island, NY. The relationship of the dominant perennial, Ammophila breviligulata, to recruitment was also explored. Estimated seed rain was very high, showing species-specific distribution patterns along the shore-to-land gradient for Triplasis purpurea, Cenchrus tribuloides, and Heterotheca subaxillaris, the most abundant native annuals. Seed rain and spring recruitment for T. purpurea and C. tribuloides were greatest in regions of the beach where A. breviligulata was less abundant. Recruitment of T. purpurea and C. tribuloides, but not H. subaxillaris, was negatively associated with living A. breviligulata. Summed over all annuals, recruitment was 73.6  5.2 seedlings
20063853|Lysimachia asperulifolia Poir., rough-leaf loosestrife, is a federally endangered species that is restricted to longleaf pine savanna -- pocosin ecotones in North and South Carolina. Potential causes of the limited fruit and seed production typical of this species and possible effects of prescribed fire on these causes were examined. It was determined that insects rarely visit flowers and that the visitors, Augochlorella spp. and Lasioglossum spp., are not effective pollinators. However, results of artificial pollinations do not support the hypothesis that pollinator limitation alone restricts seed production. Levels of fertility and S allele diversity may vary across natural populations and, combined with ineffective pollination, enforce restricted fruit and seed production. Pollen fertility, amount of flowering, and number of fruits produced in natural populations did not increase following prescribed fire. Restricted seed germination further limits recruitment of genetic variation into populations. Pollinations and propagule dispersal among populations are precluded by habitat fragmentation. Alternative courses of action designed to increase fruit and seed production and seedling recruitment are recommended to those developing loosestrife conservation plans.
10.2307/2997277|The soil seedbank of a threatened shale barren community was monitored for one year to determine the regeneration potential of the site following restoration efforts by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources. Sixty-four soil samples were collected from sixteen 50 m
27751810|Fleshy-fruited plants are an important component of the invasive flora of the northeastern United States, but few studies have examined how avian frugivory may benefit such plants. European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) are one of the most abundant avian frugivores in New England, and if effective seed dispersers for fleshy-fruited invasive plants, starlings may participate in a mutualistic interaction which benefits both the invasive plants and birds involved. Here, we investigate the role of European starlings in facilitating the germination of three invasive, fleshy-fruited plants with which they co-occur: Elaeagnus umbellata, Celastrus orbiculatus, and Rosa multiflora. For each plant species examined, less than 20% of the seeds ingested by captive starlings were not voided, and assumed to be destroyed as the result of passage through the digestive system. Starlings retained the seeds of E. umbellata 29 (mean)  19 (SD) min, C. orbiculatus 43  20 min, and R. multiflora 27  9 min. We also examined whether ingestion of seeds by starlings affected the germination of E. umbellata and C. orbiculatus seeds. Seeds that were cleaned by hand or regurgitated by birds had the same likelihood of germinating, and were significantly more likely to germinate than were seeds contained in intact fruit. Defecated C. orbiculatus seeds germinated significantly less well than hand-cleaned or regurgitated seeds, but better than those that were contained in intact fruits. We also found that C. orbiculatus seeds ingested by starlings required significantly less time to germinate than those contained in intact fruits. This study shows ingestion by starlings improves germination for both E. umbellata and C. orbiculatus seeds, and that starlings retain seeds long enough for seed dispersal to occur. Studies to determine the extent to which starlings feed on these plants, and the distances which seeds are moved, are needed.
20063842|The ecological factors affecting chasmogamous flower production by Viola striata, a perennial herb widely distributed in temperate forests of the northern and eastern United States and southern Canada, were studied in a natural setting. Forty semi-permanent quadrats were established at two sites in southern Ohio where populations of V. striata are abundant. Investigations were conducted from April to mid-June in 2002 and 2003. The number of chasmogamous flowers produced per individual per quadrat was recorded and the percentage of flowers becoming fruits per plant was measured as an indication of reproductive success. For each quadrat, canopy openness and soil properties (N, K, P, Ca, Mg, pH, and moisture) were documented and their effects on chasmogamous flower production were evaluated. Chasmogamous flower production was correlated in some, but not in all cases with light availability one to two weeks before the population reached the peak of blooming. Multiple correlations showed that phosphorus and calcium were important in all significant cases while light, magnesium, nitrogen and pH were important in some cases. Chasmogamous flower success was highly variable ranging from 1 to 100% of success in fruit set possibly due to differential pollinator activity.
10.2307/3088649|The exotic tree Ailanthus altissima is known to invade open and disturbed sites. As a shade-intolerant species, it is not generally identified as a potential invader of forests. Nevertheless, Ailanthus saplings dominate several natural gaps within Montgomery Place South Woods, a small old-growth hemlock-hardwoods forest in the Hudson Valley region of New York State. Within these gaps, the height, diameter, and extension growth of the tallest Ailanthus saplings are significantly greater than those of the tallest native competitors. Although Ailanthus is absent from fully shaded areas, relative radial growth rates of saplings throughout Montgomery Place are not strongly affected by light availability. Pole-sized Ailanthus within South Woods exhibit a history of high annual radial growth, with means for individual trees ranging from 1.96-3.70 mm/yr. These results support the hypothesis that Ailanthus established in old-growth gaps can reach the canopy by virtue of rapid growth during a single period of release. Ailanthus thus exhibits a "gap-obligate" strategy of forest recruitment.
40864973|The distribution of woody plant in wetlands may be influenced by topographic microsites that differ in flooding duration, substrate composition, moisture retention, canopy cover, nutrient availability, and seed trapping ability. In order to assess the effects of microsites on woody plant regeneration in Bonita Swamp, a wetland in Western New York, we conducted an assessment of 15 microsite types, a survey of 400 trees, and a woody seedling count using nineteen 100 m quadrats in a 4.3 ha study area. Acer X freemanii E. Murr., Fraxinus pennsylvanica Marshall, and Ulmus americana L. dominated the overstory and the often inundated swales occupied 50.3% of the soil surface. Relative to area occupied by each microsite, seedlings were found more often than expected on elevated moss, near elevated moss/soil, near log/root, and swale microsites with 66% of woody seedlings occurring in swales. Acer X freemanii and Fraxinus pennsylvanica occurred more often than expected in the swales. Seedlings appear to prefer moss substrates over soil and wood substrates. Hydrochory may explain the preference of seedlings for "near" microsites onto which wind, water currents and receding spring flood waters deposit floating seeds. Mean percent canopy cover did not vary over the different microsite types, over different species, or between the first and second year (or older) seedlings. Woody seedlings that were two years old or older were found at significantly higher relative elevations and were much less frequent than first year seedlings indicating high mortality and the importance of elevation to survival and establishment. The elevations of microsites are important to woody plant regeneration in this system.
27751792|Two species of Aletris occur in southern Florida: the yellow-flowered A. lutea and white-flowered A. bracteata. It is uncertain whether A. bracteata found in southern Florida is a distinct species or a variant of one of the other species found in the southeastern United States. Plants with intermediate flower colors are present in southern Florida populations, indicating environmental and/or genetic variation of A. bracteata or hybridization between A. bracteata and A. lutea. The morphology, phenology and habitat of flower color morphs of Aletris were examined in four populations of A. lutea and six populations of A. bracteata in southern Florida, as well as five populations of A. bracteata on Andros Island, Bahamas, the type locality for A. bracteata. Plants with intermediate flower color dominated five of the six A. bracteata populations in southern Florida. These plants were morphologically most similar to A. bracteata from the Bahamas. Although A. bracteata and A. lutea differed in flowering phenology in southern Florida, flowering times in some populations overlapped in March, allowing for hybridization. Florida A. bracteata plants were self-compatible and autogamous, but seed set for open-pollinated plants was higher than for self-pollinated or autogamously-pollinated plants. We hypothesize that A. bracteata and A. lutea are distinct species but that some hybridization between them has occurred in southern Florida.
10.2307/2997243|We documented current forest conditions and 39 years of change in community composition and structure in an old-growth, mixed conifer forest in the northern Sierra Nevada. In 1996, we remeasured and mapped a 4-ha stand, originally established by ES. Baker between 1954 and 1961. For trees  9.5 cm dbh in 1996, total tree density was 721 stems/ha, and total basal area was 75.3 m
40207623|The plant community of a coastal beach typically shows great spatial heterogeneity in distribution and abundance. Solidago sempervirens (seaside goldenrod) is a large perennial that can potentially impact the many smaller annual plants, both native and exotic, that comprise the primary vegetation in the pioneer zone. The primary question addressed was: do plants of two native and two alien annuals nearer to S. sempervirens show a detectable reduction in density and size compared to those further away? Populations of Triplasis purpurea and Cenchrus tribuloides (native grasses), and Digitaria sanguinalis and Mollugo verticillata (ruderals), were surveyed in quadrats at distances of 20-200 cm from S. sempervirens individuals at Miller Field Beach, Staten Island, NY. Densities of both native grasses and D. sanguinalis, but not M. verticillata, showed significant reductions closest to S. sempervirens. Size of C tribuloides was significantly reduced close to S. sempervirens. Intraspecifc density had an effect on T. purpurea size, but not proximity to S. sempervirens. Because the opportunistic weeds were not greatly affected by S. sempervirens, it is suggested that the effect of seaside goldenrod on this beach community, whatever the mechanism, is primarily manifested by a reduction in the density of the native species T. purpurea and C. tribuloides. Seaside goldenrod joins American beachgrass (Ammophila breviligulata) as another perennial apparently structuring annual coastal plant communities.
20063873|Although solitary bees and flies are important pollinators, little information is available on the nectar rewards of flowers they visit or their consumption of them, because small quantities of nectar are difficult to extract and measure. We studied five such plants in deciduous forests and agricultural fields in west-central Indiana, USA: three native forest herbs [Claytonia virginica L., Dentaria laciniata Muhlenb. ex Willd., Erigenia bulbosa (Michaux) Nutt.] and two exotic agricultural weeds [Barbarea vulgaris R. Br., Stellaria media L. (Vill.)], which often grow in close proximity. Using spectrophotometry, we measured daily sugar accumulation (in caged flowers) and standing crops (in uncaged flowers) at two sites on four dates per species. Dentaria laciniata was the most rewarding species (mean daily accumulations: 185-404 g sugar/flower), followed by moderately rewarding B. vulgaris and C. virginica (24-113 g sugar/flower) and low-rewarding E. bulbosa and S. media (7-38 g sugar/flower). The presence of species with similar rewards in both habitats suggests that generalist bee and fly species can be expected to forage in both. Each flower species showed much variation in mean sugar accumulation per flower among population samples and among individual plants. Solitary bees were the most common visitors to all species (47 to 81% of visitation), followed by flies and honey bees. Insects consumed much, but not all (45 to 90%) of daily nectar accumulation by the five species. The more sugar a flower population secreted, on average, the higher its standing crop; visitation did not reduce rewards to a common level.
10.2307/3557519|The Trillium pusillum complex, comprising at least six suggested taxa, has a confused taxonomic history. Allozyme electrophoresis of seven loci from 15 populations of T pusillum revealed genetic differentiation among populations but not enough to clearly subdivide the complex into species or varieties. Cluster analysis, using the unweighted pair group method and Nei's genetic identity values, revealed that populations of T. pusillum var. texanum and var. ozarkanum clustered separately from T. pusillum var. alabamicum and var. virginianum. We found high levels of genetic variation both within and between populations. Values of F
10.2307/3557526|The watershed of Fairview Lake was surveyed for vascular plants in 2000 and 2001 as part of a biodiversity survey of the area. Fairview Lake lies at the foot of the Kittatinny Ridge in southwestern Sussex County, New Jersey. The ridge is dry, but the talus and soils at the base of the slope are moist and support a diverse flora. Three hundred twenty four species of vascular plants were found in the watershed surrounding the lake. Four species were found that are rare in New Jersey: Callitriche palustris, Carex brunnescens, Satureja vulgaris, and Polygala paucifolia.
43287012|The adult genet sex ratio of a wild population of the dioecious woody shrub Lindera benzoin (spicebush) in Maryland has shown a persistent female-bias over a time span of over 17 years. Female-biased sex ratios are relatively rare in dioecious plants, and are not easily explained by costs of reproduction, which are often higher in females. In fact, data from reproductive adults in this population showed modular growth favoring males, which led to questions concerning the source of female-bias. Using seeds collected from 20 maternal plants in 1992, a garden study was conducted from 1993-2003 in which periodic flowering censuses were conducted, and plant size parameters were recorded. The plants were grown in a relatively tightly packed array which likely forced early intraspecific competition. The results suggested that L. benzoin females may compensate for differential costs of reproduction via larger initial seed size and early growth rate, but that sexual dimorphism in such a highly competitive scenario can favor males even more dramatically than in typical field conditions. Despite larger early size and faster growth in female seedlings, males showed clear advantages over females in the postreproductive period and mortality was much higher in female genets. Sex ratios were close to the same level of female bias seen in the wild population around the time of initial flowering, but trended toward maleness as post-reproductive stage genet mortality ensued. Explanations for the development and persistence of female bias include larger seedling size that may give females a competitive advantage over males in the prereproductive stage, which under certain circumstances may lead to greater survival of female seedlings. Variation among habitats in herbivory and other environmental factors that influence survival and sex expression could ameliorate the competitive advantage of males associated with their lower reproductive costs.
10.2307/3088775| Dendrochronological methods were used to identify the disturbance history of a Late Woodland Seneca Iroqouis settlement in northwestern Pennsylvania. The impacts of aboriginal disturbance on the landscape are widely speculative and few studies have attempted to characterize these disturbances. Increment cores taken from a 426 year old white oak forest remnant yielded information on the disturbance regime on this site during Native American (Late Woodland 1550-1700; Historic 1700-1800) and European (post 1800) settlement periods. Disturbances during the early and late native periods were more synchronous and of lower intensity (increase in growth rate) with a disturbance free interval (DFI) of 26.2  4.0 years and 11.0  0.7 years (mean  SE), respectively. The shorter return interval during the later native period is attributed to the increased population pressure at this site due to immigration of natives in the face of European expansion from the eastern seaboard. The disturbance regime following European settlement is significantly longer with a DFI of 28.5  2.8 years, representing the selective removal of merchantable timber for the sawmill located at the site. Although investigated, no climatic variables showed significant correlation with tree growth to explain these patterns. This study represents a rare opportunity to document the changes in disturbance regime between two drastically different cultures and land uses. 
10.2307/2997288|Ecology of the endangered species Solidago shortii VII. Survivorship and flowering, and comparison with common, geographically-widespread Solidago species Survivorship and flowering of plants at three population sites and vernalization and photoperiod requirements for flowering were determined for Solidago shortii (Asteraceae), a federal-endangered species endemic to northeastern Kentucky. Of 1344 seedlings marked at site 12 in May 1989, ca 58% and 2% of the plants were alive at the end of their first and ninth growing seasons, respectively None of the marked plants at this site flowered in 1989 or in 1990; only 1-13% of those alive each year flowered in 1991-1997 All of the 29 and 25 seedlings marked at sites 2 and 11, respectively, were dead by the end of their fifth growing season; none of them flowered Survivorship curves differed significantly among and within sites Solidago shortii does not require vernalization to flower, and it is a facultative short-day plant Survivorship and flowering requirements of S. shortii do not differ from those reported in the literature for common, geographically-widespread Solidago species
10.2307/3088745|Wet hardwood flats in eastern North Carolina and southeastern Virginia occur on hydric mineral soils of poorly to very poorly drained marine terraces on the coastal plain. Since 1900, large tracts have been cleared and drained for agriculture, pine silviculture, and suburban development, while nothing quantitative has been published on their composition. The objectives of this study were to quantitatively characterize the canopy and subcanopy composition of intact interfluvial wet hardwood forests and estimate the extent of remaining forest over its historic range in southeastern Virginia and eastern North Carolina. North Carolina Natural Heritage Program inventories, air photos, interviews with county foresters, and field reconnaissance were used to locate sites (n = 25), estimate remaining area, and quantitatively characterize the canopy and woody subcanopy composition of remaining stands. Soil texture of the upper 50 cm and soil drainage class were compared with the composition of stands. Wet hardwood flats supported 5-12 canopy species per stand and tended to be dominated by either Liquidambar styraciflua (sweetgum), Acer rubrum (red maple), and/or Nyssa biflora (swamp blackgum) or by a mixture of these species and one to five Quercus (oak) species. Although oaks occurred in almost all sites, oak dominated stands (total oak IV > 25) constituted only about one third of the sites. The woody subcanopy stratum was less rich than the canopy and varied widely in composition: some taxa tended to be common among sites (e.g., Ilex opaca, Carpinus caroliniana, Vaccinium spp., Persea borbonia) but were rarely very important (determined by relative density), while other taxa were relatively uncommon (Clethra alnifolia, Asimina triloba) but were important where present. Neither textures of soil strata in the top 50 cm nor soil drainage class (poorly vs. very poorly drained) appeared to be associated with composition, suggesting that wetness may be controlled more by geomorphology than soil drainage capacity.
27751816|Evaluating the factors that regulate woody plant invasion into grassland is important for understanding the process of succession, for predicting potential impacts of global change on grassland ecosystem structure and function and for informing the restoration and management of grasslands. In this study we investigate factors influencing seedling establishment and spatial distribution of an invading native woody plant (Ulmus rubra Muhl.) across a heterogeneous successional grassland landscape in eastern Kansas. Using data collected from a landscape-level seedling census of an abandoned hayfield undergoing succession, we relate U. rubra stem abundance to landscape gradients in topographic position, soil texture, soil fertility, plant productivity, and proximity to seed sources. We also present results from a fertilization experiment to more directly evaluate the potential effect of grassland fertility and productivity on U. rubra invasion, independent from other potential causal factors that covary with soil fertility and plant productivity across the natural topographic gradient. In the landscape census, U. rubra stem densities were greatest in low-productivity micro-sites located at higher elevations in the landscape on hill-slopes and ridges. Highly productive micro-sites at low positions in the landscape and dominated by the introduced rhizomatous hay grass, Bromus inermis, contained few if any U. rubra stems despite close proximity to a seed source. In the fertilization experiment, fertilization increased plant biomass, but reduced U. rubra stem densities, confirming the suppressive influence of high productivity on U. rubra stems in the landscape. In control plots of the fertilization experiment, U. rubra stem density was negatively correlated with distance from seed source, a pattern that was obliterated by fertilization, illustrating the interaction of habitat productivity and dispersal limitation in regulating current patterns of establishment and distribution of invading U. rubra seedlings at the site. We suggest that current patterns of woody plant invasion in this region are very different from what likely occurred historically prior to settlement, due to major anthropogenic shifts in ecological context. This altered context includes the suppression of wildfire, legacy effects of prior agricultural activity and increased availability of woody plant propagules across the region.
10.2307/2997313|In annual plant communities of coastal ecosystems, the potential exists for both intraspecific and interspecific interactions. Two native annual grasses, Triplasis purpurea and Cenchrus tribuloides, commonly co-occur along the shore of Staten Island, New York. T. purpurea matures variable seeds within leaf sheaths along tillers: heavier, non-dispersed seeds occur at lower nodes, while lighter, dispersible seeds occur at upper nodes. Interplant distances recorded in the field were very low between T. purpurea individuals (9-28 mm), but were greater between T. purpurea and C. tribuloides. However, field collections late in the growing season revealed that the presence of two C. tribuloides neighbors within a 10 cm circle around a target T. purpurea individual significantly reduced dry mass and seed output of the target. In an interspecific competition experiment in the greenhouse at a density of two plants per pot, one C. tribuloides significantly reduced the dry mass and reproduction of one T. purpurea. The T. purpurea individuals that emerged from lighter, upper-node seeds of parental plants had lower dry mass and seed production than those from heavier, lower-node seeds. The per unit mass effect of C. tribuloides on T. purpurea mass was highly significant for T. purpurea from upper-node seeds. With its larger seeds and seedlings, C. tribuloides is clearly a superior competitor. Differences in the dispersibility of seeds from upper and lower nodes of T. purpurea, and the subsequent size of the seedlings emerging from them, may favor variable seed mass in the competitive environment of this coastal system.
10.2307/2996610|The flowering phenology, flower production, and insect visitation was determined for Anaxagorea crassipetala in a lowland rain forest study population containing fifty-two trees over 1.5 cm DBH. Flowering of each tree was monitored daily; 71% of the trees in the study population flowered producing a mean of 31.1 flowers/day. Flowers are cauliflorous, pendant, 2.4-2.7 cm long, with three prominant creamy-white, fleshy, outer petals, which represented 63% of floral biomass. Typical of cantharophily, flowers were protogynous, fruit-mimicking with a spicy, fruity fragrance. The perianth formed an enclosure, and rewards consisted of a protected location, stigmatic exudate, and petals capable of being used as a brood substrate. Anthesis commenced at first light, 05:05, lasting nearly 24 h. The receptive female phase preceeded the brief pollen-dispersing phase that began 0.5 h before the corolla and androecium shattered, ending anthesis. Four species of Coleopterans were floral visitors, 3 Nitidulidae and 1 Staphylimidae. Visitation rates peaked with population flowering, but decreased to zero after 33 days. A weevil (Cyrionyx sp.) was observed on buds and petals, and 1014 buds (43.7% of total) aborted, the result of a weevil larvae feeding in each bud. Fruit flies (Diptera: Drosophilidae) were frequently observed on buds and petals. At anthesis fruit fly larvae were feeding in 100% of outer petals, but no beetle larvae were found. None of the Coleopteran floral visitors carried a pollen load and none of the 1306 flowers was pollinated.
25790863|Native grasses and forbs are an important component of the longleaf pine (Pinus palustris Mill.) ecosystem; however, information about re-establishment of these species in a restoration context has become available only recently. Understanding the effects of herbicides on non-target native plants can advance the use of herbicides as an effective restoration tool in the control of competing vegetation and in maintenance of seed production fields. The objectives of this study were to determine the effects of several commonly used herbicides on non-target species of grasses, legumes, and composites native to the longleaf pine ecosystem of southwestern Georgia. We assessed the pre- and post-emergent properties of nine herbicides on ten species of grasses, legumes, and composites. For each species, we examined phytotoxic responses to two rates (low rate and high rate) of herbicide at three stages of plant growth: 0 (pre-emergent), 30, and 60 d post-emergent. Plants were visually rated for leaf damage 30 d after herbicide application to assess the phytotoxic effects of the herbicides. Plants were then harvested, dried, and weighed. Regardless of herbicide application rate or age of plant, legumes were extremely vulnerable to applications of aminopyralid, triclopyr, and hexazinone. Most pre-emergent grasses were vulnerable to triclopyr when applied at the high rate. Most 30-day-old grasses were killed when treated with the high rate of hexazinone. Our results indicate that several native species are more sensitive to herbicide application than expected based on the below maximum label rates used and the specificity implied on the herbicide labeling.
20063909|We examined the ability of Houstonia montana, a rare plant endemic to the Southern Appalachians, to grow in two markedly different habitat types. Most known populations of H. montana occur on rock outcrops with little soil development and sparse vegetation. In contrast, a few populations occur on grassy slopes with continuous soils and dense surrounding vegetation. We compared growth and life-history traits of two rock-outcrop and two grassy-slope populations. Houstonia montana was a dominant vascular plant species in all four sites, with 20-37% ground cover on grassy slopes and 4-6% on rock outcrops. Growth began earlier in the season and plants were taller on grassy slopes than on rock outcrops. In contrast, reproductive potential, numbers of leaves, and ratios of leaves:height were markedly higher in one grassy slope site but showed no consistent pattern between habitats. Foliar nitrogen:phosphorus ratios varied widely and indicated N limitation in at least one grassy slope site and P limitation in one rock outcrop site. However, mycorrhizal colonization did not differ between habitat types. Houstonia montana exhibited variation in growth and nutrition across sites that may be unexpected for an apparently stress-tolerant plant. Our results suggest that the ability of H. montana to thrive in grassy sites depends upon rapid early-season growth, and they also raise questions about potentially important genetic variation among populations.
20063761|We investigated the effects of self-fertilizing and within-population outcrossing in two populations of Hypericum cumulicola, a perennial herb endemic to xeric scrub habitats on central Florida's Lake Wales Ridge. To examine the relationship between pollen source and reproductive performance, we compared fruit set, seed set, percent germination and net fertility (mean number of seedlings produced per flower within a pollination treatment) of hand-pollinated selfed and outcrossed flowers. There were no significant effects of categorical pollen source (self, near outcross, far outcross) on fruit set, and logistic regression showed no effect of interplant distance. Overall and at one of the two populations, far outcrosses had higher seed set than selfs and we found a weak but significant positive correlation between outcrossing distance and seed set. Percent seed germination was unaffected by pollen source. Net fertility was significantly correlated with outcrossing distance overall and at one of the two sites. These results show that pollen source may influence reproductive performance in Hypericum cumulicola, but the effects are fairly weak and inconsistent among populations, suggesting that outcrossing distance is not an important factor affecting small-scale population dynamics of this species.
43287009|Chusquea Kunth and Rhipidocladum McClure species (Poaceae, Bambusoideae, Bambuseae) are the only two genera of woody bamboos whose distributions reach the southernmost portion of the Andes mountain range. The identification of woody bamboos relies mainly on vegetative characters. In the present work, foliage leaf blade anatomy of Andean woody bamboo species occurring in Argentina and neighboring areas is described. Eight species are surveyed: Chusquea culeou E. Desv., C. deficiens Parodi, C. lorentziana Griseb., C. montana Phil., C. quila Kunth, C. valdiviensis Phil., Rhipidocladum neumannii Sulekic, Rgolo & L. G. Clark and R. racemiflorum (Steud.) McClure. Leaf blade abaxial epidermal and cross section characters of each species are described and an identification key based on anatomical characters is provided. Anatomical evidence that support the idea of C. quila and C. valdiviensis as different species is presentted and information on useful charecters to distinguish between them is provided. Also, taxonomic position of R. neumannii is determined based on anatomical features. Finally, the taxa studied are compared in tables based on leaf anatomical characters of taxonomic value.
20063801|Intraspecific genetic variation in plants is frequently associated with adaptation to local environments. Detection of ecotypic differentiation can promote an understanding of a species' distribution and be an important consideration in restoration efforts. We performed a classical reciprocal transplant study using four natural populations of Hydrastis canadensis to test for localized adaptation. Hydrastis canadensis exhibited plasticity in response to site quality variation, and at the site level there was no evidence of local genetic adaptation or differential performance of plants derived from distinct source populations. However, the four H. canadensis sources responded differentially to microsites within the transplant site. A second study examined the importance of including multiple sources when introducing new populations for restoration purposes by comparing H. canadensis performance in populations that were mixtures of three natural sources versus populations that were monocultures of each natural source. We found that populations established with plant material from single sources performed better than those established with multiple sources. Collectively, our findings indicate that restoration efforts should involve multiple sources dispersed over multiple sites as a bet-hedging strategy to increase the likelihood of suitable source-site compatibility. However, within a given restoration site, these sources should be spatially separated, such that numerous populations are introduced, each comprised of only a single source.
10.2307/3088688|Fine root standing crop was estimated for different microtopographic positions within a forested wetland in Alabama. Sequential soil cores (to a 20 cm depth) were collected in two successive years to explore annual, seasonal and spatial patterns of standing live and dead fine root mass. Nylon mesh screens were used in the second year to determine if microtopographic position influenced rates of new root production. Samples were collected from 20 replicates each of three microsite types: well-drained hummocks, flats with intermediate drainage, and poorly-drained hollows. Overall live root mass was lower in the second year of the study, possibly because of greater flooding then. Within each year, microsites did not differ significantly in mean live root mass; however, hummocks had significantly less seasonal variation than did flats or hollows. When microsites were compared across years, seasonal fluctuations in live root mass overlapped more strongly in the second year. Dead root mass was significantly less in hollows than in hummocks in both years. Screen data showed that hummocks had the greatest productivity. Overall, results show that some spatial and seasonal patterns of root distribution are similar across years, while others change from year to year, possibly in response to hydrology.
40207605|We document a decrease in abundance of Cornus florida due to dogwood anthracnose over a ten year period in upland forest of southern Illinois. Ninety seven permanently marked 0.04 ha plots were sampled in 1994 and 2004 in LaRue Pine Hills/Otter Pond Research Natural Area (RNA) in Southern Illinois. Topographic site characteristics measured were slope aspect, position, angle, elevation, terrain shape, landform, and topographical shading indices. Abundance measurements were tree basal area, tree density, sapling density, and seedling density. The abundance of C. florida and co-occurring woody species were quantified in five overstory dominance types including Pinus echinatal Quercus velutina, Quercus velutina, Quercus albal Quercus species, Quercus rubra, and Mixed Mesophytes. Between 1994 and 2004, the total tree basal area increased by 7.5% while tree density decreased by almost 20%. The overall composition of the tree and seedling layers did not change significantly, but the sapling layer showed a significant change in composition. The greatest change was the decrease in density of Cornus florida by 54% in the tree and seedling layers and 78% in the sapling layer. The greatest decrease in C. florida density was on mesic sites with low slope position and high topographic shading. The decrease in C. florida was likely due to Discula destructiva, the fungal pathogen that causes dogwood anthracnose. Increases in Asimina triloba and Sassafras albidum saplings, and seedlings of Acer rubrum, Liriodendron tulipifera, Ostrya virginiana, and Sassafras albidum along with decreased seedling density of Quercus alba suggests that the loss of C. florida may lead to future shifts in the composition of these forests.
10.2307/2996600|The vascular flora of the Outer Banks, Ocracoke Island to Virginia, consists of 741 species within 413 genera and 138 families. Sixteen of the species are listed as rare or endangered in North Carolina Polygonum prolificum (Small) B. L. Robinson is a new state record. Thirty-seven species of southern affinities reach their northern range limit on the Outer Banks, whereas only three northern species reach their southern limit. Species of foreign origin, though numerous in the flora, are nonetheless only a minor component of the natural vegetation. Each taxonomic entry in the checklist is accompanied by an annotation which includes the locality and habitat in which each taxon occurs, frequence of occurrence, range extensions, rarity status, and pertinent synonyms.
10.2307/2996584|Changes in the composition and species diversity of trees in the floodplain forests of the lower Chippewa River since the time of settlement (ca. 1850) were studied. General Land Office survey records were used to compare tree diameters and species composition of presettlement riverbank trees with those presently occurring. The developmental sequence of tree species in floodplain forests was examined using a series of islands of different ages. Eight dams have been constructed on the upper Chippewa River, and they have had an effect on seasonal flow and meandering in the lower reaches. The present riverbanks are more stable than prior to dam construction, and changes have occurred in the composition of their forests. Contemporary floodplain forests have larger trees than at the time of settlement in ca. 1850 and are less diverse. They are dominated by silver maple, which is three times as abundant as it was prior to settlement. Silver maple has replaced cottonwood and black willow as major colonizing species and presently occurs in all size classes in these forests.
10.2307/3088724|Mass seeding and senescence in 2-year population cycles previously were documented in the primarily monocarpic species Polymnia canadensis. In the present study, small individuals of this species died in competition with large ones in field trials. These results suggested that intraspecific competition followed by synchronous semelparity in a dominant age-class could result in mass flowering and senescence and thus could play a role in population cycling in P. canadensis. It was also found in some trials that other environmental factors such as drought could eliminate small individuals, perhaps sometimes in interaction with competition.
27751831|Seventeen noteworthy species of vascular plants are reported from the Torrey Range, encompassing southeastern New York, northern New Jersey, and southwestern Connecticut: Adlumia fungosa, Amaranthus spinosus, Aplectrum hyemale, Arthraxon hispidus, Bartonia paniculata, Carex reznicekii, Carex shortiana, Carlina vulgaris, Gamochaeta purpurea, Hydrilla verticillata, Lamiastrum galeobdolon, Lepidium latifolium, Menyanthes trifoliata, Metasequoia glyptostroboides, Nipponanthemum nipponicum, Phragmites australis ssp. americanus, and Ribes missouriense.
27751797|Forested bottomland conservation areas in the midwestern and southern United States are subject to an increasingly diverse range of demands for recreational use and other ecosystem services, many dependent upon the maintenance of specific plant communities. Historical land use and other disturbances have shaped present vegetation composition, but these impacts are poorly understood. This study examined historical land use records, dendrochronological evidence, and pre- and post-tornado vegetation, with and without salvage logging, to assess forest composition changes over approximately 125 years at Mermet Lake Conservation Area in southern Illinois. This site has land use history, vegetation cover, and a management mandate common to many large river bottomland forests in the Midwest and southern USA. The vegetation of the area prior to Euro-American settlement was primarily a forest dominated by Taxodium distichum (L.) Rich. and Nyssa aquatica L. A period of drainage and conversion to agriculture began ca. 1900 and was followed by public ownership as a conservation area since 1950. Management during this latter period was characterized by partial hydrologic restoration and complete fire suppression. The post-agriculture forest was dominated by oaks (Quercus spp.) with a transition to mixed mesophytic and bottomland hardwood forests. Following a tornado, composition and diversity within the developing stand varied along a wind intensity gradient but tended toward increasing dominance of mixed mesophytic species at the expense of Quercus. Subsequent partial salvage logging further increased vegetation complexity in response to mineral soil exposure and creation of microtopographic variation. Grading and seeding of skid trails following salvage operations produced compositionally distinct vegetation communities. Increasing prevalence of the invasive exotic Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camus., especially on salvaged plots, is expected to continue to impact vegetation communities at Mermet Lake. Our results suggest that historical alterations in site hydrologic conditions, from pre-drainage to drainage to partial hydrological restoration, in combination with associated land use changes, produced drastic changes in forest community composition over the last century. Managers of this and similar bottomland forest areas need to consider disturbance regime changes and appropriate silvicultural strategies needed to create or maintain the historical range of vegetation types associated with sometimes disparate conservation objectives
10.2307/2997273|The genetic relationships among three closely related taxa of the Sagittaria graminea complex from southern Mississippi, southeastern Louisiana, and the Florida panhandle were analyzed using isozymes. The present study investigates local populations of the three taxa, S. platyphylla, S. graminea var. graminea, and S. graminea var. chapmanii. In addition, three populations of S. lancifolia (not a member of the graminea complex) were included in the analysis. Over 400 individuals were analyzed from 15 populations using nine enzyme systems encoding 13 putative loci. All populations of S. platyphylla were uniform, sharing a single, multilocus genotype. Likewise, all but five of the 150 individuals sample from the S. g. graminea populations were isozymically identical. In contrast, the three populations of S. g. chapmanii were very diverse with a total proportion of polymorphic loci of 53.9%, a mean genetic identity of 0.784, and a mean G
10.2307/2997284|Chlorophyll fluorescence and CO
10.2307/2997321|This study spans a period of 25 years, 1973-1998. It combines present data with findings reported in 1978 and 1979. Vascular plants growing along 10 miles of the Bronx River Parkway Reservation between Bronxville north to the Kensico Dam Plaza in Valhalla are recorded. Plants are categorized into five major groups: Vascular Cryptogams, Gymnosperms, Monocotyledons, Woody Dicotyledons and Herbaceous Dicotyledons. Reported are 128 families, 387 genera, and 785 species of which 279 or 35.5% are nonindigenous. This finding is 5.5% higher than the 30% alien species reported for New York State. Invasive aliens remain very constant; they represented 10.5% of the listed species in 1978 and 10.6% 20 years later. Moreover, 91.7% of these foreign invaders have been on the Reservation for at least 25 years. Nevertheless there is great concern regarding their presence; they tend to displace local flora, change ecosystems, upset biodiversity and need to be controlled.
40207607|The 1998 ice storm, which impacted many parts of eastern Canada and the northeastern United States, resulted in significant damage to forests. The intensity of the damage was quite variable both between stands and between individual trees. Using visual assessment of tree crown health and dendrochronological techniques we examined the response to the ice storm of sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.) dominated forests in Gatineau Park, Quebec. Crown health assessment indicated that most of the heavily damaged trees showed some recovery in the years following the ice storm. However, dendrochronological analysis of the dominant sugar maples suggested that the most damaged individuals had still not returned to pre-ice storm stem growth levels six years following the ice storm. Combined, the crown health and dendrochronological analyses suggest that following the storm, in heavily damaged trees, resources were allocated to crown foliage production on remaining branches at the expense of stem growth.
10.2307/3088717|The range of variation within the genus Amaranthus L. (Amaranthaceae) is described for a number of stem characters including: morphology, epidermis, primary stem vasculature and mechanism of secondary growth. The results provide new characters (phyllotaxy, complexity of leaf vascular supply and relative amount of secondary growth) that support (1) a new infrageneric classification (subgenus Amaranthus vs subgenus Albersia (Kunth)Gren. & Dodr.), and (2) the separation within the "hybridus" complex of cultivated amaranths (A. caudatus L., A. cruentus L. and A. hypochondriacus L.) from their presumed wild ancestors (A. hybridus L. subsp. quitensis (Kunth) Costea & Carretero, A. hybridus L. subsp. hybridus and A. powellii S. Wats. subsp. powellii respectively).
10.2307/3088704|The flowering plants of central French Guiana comprise 1918 native species, including 549 species of herbs, 44 species of vines, 45 species of subshrubs, 269 species of shrubs, 245 species of lianas, and 766 species of trees. The habitat of the flowering plants of central French Guiana is primarily terrestrial. A total of 1653 species or 86% of the flora occurs in this habitat. However, the reproductive cycles of a majority of the flowering plants of central French Guiana take place in the crowns of trees. When the number of species of trees is added to the numbers of epiphytes, hemi-epiphytes, and aerial endophytes, tree crowns are the site of about 68% of the flowering plant reproductive activity in this forest. Heterotrophic vascular plants, with 36 species, make up 1.9% of the flora; 98.1% of the flowering plants of central French Guiana are autotrophs. Because of differences in definitions and lack of standardization in sampling, it is difficult to make valid comparisons with studies made in other geographic areas. We address the first problem by providing a glossary of terms used to describe the life form, habitat, and nutritional mode of plants and urge others to develop standardized sampling protocols.
10.2307/4126942|The lichens, bryophytes and vascular flora of the High Line, an abandoned elevated commercial railroad comprising 4.2 hectares, consisted of 161 vascular taxa within 122 genera and 48 families. The largest families in the flora were the Asteraceae (36 species) and Poaceae (24 species). The largest genera were Solidago (5 species) and Aster and Potentilla each with 4 species. Native species, 50.9% of the flora, were a major component of the natural vegetation.
20063805|Eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) occurs throughout much of the Appalachian Mountains, extending from southern Quebec and Ontario southward to Georgia and along the Appalachian Plateau to Alabama. Eastern hemlock is one of the most dominant trees in Appalachian forests. Near its southern boundary in central Alabama, eastern hemlock occurs in small, isolated populations restricted to cool, moist slopes with north to east aspects and low and middle slope positions. Ten stands of eastern hemlock, believed to be the southernmost populations, were studied in order to determine reproductive viability and habitat characteristics. In each of the stands, eastern hemlock dominates the canopy and is present in a wide range of size and age classes. Eastern hemlock is most abundant in seedling size classes and the number of individuals generally decreases with increasing size. Population size, age, and vertical structure indicate that eastern hemlock stands at the species' southernmost boundary contain viable populations that are regenerating, even if highly localized. During the late Pleistocene and early Holocene, eastern hemlock likely had a broader distribution in the southern Appalachian Mountains. The remnants of this larger distribution are now restricted to steep slopes where a combination of sandstone outcrops, seepage, and springs maintain adequate microclimatic conditions needed for regeneration of the species.
41811878|Pioneer Mothers' Memorial Forest is a unique largely undisturbed, mixed mesophytic hardwood forest in south-central Indiana, USA. We report on 26 years of change in community composition and structure; plots were previously sampled in 1978 and 1989. In 2004, we re-measured trees  5 cm in diameter for 153 permanent plots, as well as downed woody debris, and standing dead trees. In 1978, density was 718 stems ha and basal area 26.2 m ha, but by 2004 density had decreased to 493 stems ha with an increase in basal area to 31.4 m ha. Large density decreases were attributed to Acer saccharum, Sassafras albidum, Juniperus virginiana, and Cornus florida mortality, while basal area increased largely because of Liriodendron tulipifera and A. saccharum growth. The stand exhibited a reverse-J diameter distribution, but density in the lower diameter classes, < 15 cm, greatly decreased over time. The overstory (trees  25 cm) was dominated by A. saccharum, L. tulipifera, Quer cus spp., and Fagus grandifolia. The understory was dominated by A. saccharum, which also accounted for > 60% of the ingrowth over the observed period. Diversity exhibited a significant decline between 1978 and 1989 and a negative trend overall. Annual stand mortality averaged 2.2% since 1978, with a U-shaped distribution of high mortality rates in the smallest and largest diameter classes. Most plots (62%) experienced multiple canopy tree deaths, but were not sufficiently large to allow for the ingrowth of Quercus spp. Very few members of shade-intolerant species that dominated the canopy were able to attain canopy status, excepting L. tulipifera stems characterized by good growth rates (mean 7 mm yr) . Down woody debris and standing dead trees were moderately abundant in varying states of decay across all diameter classes. Without any major disturbance or understory disturbance, shadeintolerant species, notably Quercus and Cary a spp., will likely be very limited in the stand, and the forest canopy will eventually be dominated by A. saccharum and F. grandifolia. This study highlights the importance of long-term studies of forest species composition and structure to understand forest ecosystem dynamics.
10.2307/3088692|This study examined the composition of woody species in a mixed mesophytic forest in the central Appalachian region with respect to both time and different disturbance regimes. Species composition and diversity were assessed from 1856 to 1997 on a tract of land that currently is part of the Fernow Experimental Forest in north-central West Virginia. Additionally, the effect of different silvicultural disturbances are described using inventory data from four silvicultural demonstration areas initiated in 1948. These areas included a commercial clearcut, diameter-limit harvesting, single-tree selection, and an area that has not been artificially manipulated since initial logging around the turn of the century (ca 1907). Witness tree data from early land surveys (1856 and 1915) conducted in the same watershed were used to gain some insight into species frequency prior to and after initial logging. A forest inventory conducted in 1922 provided a more detailed description of the vegetation in the vicinity of the post-1948 stand data. The Shannon-Weiner Diversity Index was calculated based on species importance values for all time periods and management activities. Detrended correspondence analysis was used to assess differences in composition related to time and management activity. Data from old-growth (1856), early second-growth (1915 and 1922), and more mature second-growth stands were well separated in ordination space. A decline in species diversity from a high in 1922 to a low in 1997 appears to be driving this separation. Diversity declined primarily due to a reduction in evenness, which was significantly correlated with increasing importance of Acer saccharum. Relative A. saccharum importance is increasing in both the overstory and understory for all disturbance regimes. The increasing dominance of this species with time, regardless of stand age or disturbance regime evaluated, may be unprecedented and suggests new silvicultural techniques are needed to maintain the diversity of central Appalachian forests.
41262022|We investigated how grass competition is influenced by which species are involved, and the levels of grazing, water (W) availability, and nitrogen (N) availability, as a way to understand how competition influences the dynamics of prairies. We conducted a DeWit greenhouse competition experiment in fall 2003 with these three common C grasses native to Oklahoma prairies: little bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium), sideoats grama (Bouteloua curtipendula), and indiangrass (Sorghastrum nutans). These grasses were subjected to three clipping treatments to simulate grazing, two W treatments, and two N treatments. We found that: (1) for little bluestem, different aspects of growth were reduced by intraspecific competition, by interspecific competition with sideoats grama, and by the high clipping treatment, but both W addition and N addition increased growth; (2) for sideoats grama, growth was reduced by clipping, but W addition, N addition, and W addition X low clipping increased growth, and (3) for indiangrass, growth increased with W addition and with N addition, but was reduced by intraspecific competition. We conclude that grass seedlings were more affected by the identity of the competitor species and by clipping than by levels of W and N, that intraspecific competition dominated over interspecific competition, and that species X clipping was the most significant interaction effect.
10.2307/3088694|Convolvulus arvensis L. is considered one of the worst weeds in the world by agriculturists and horticulturists; it has at least 84 common names. Bindweed is native to the Mediterranean region of the Old World, where it and a morphologically similar species, scammony (C. scammonia L.), both still are used medicinally. Although the first literature on C. arvensis referred to medicinal uses, it was also dispersed for ornament and by accident. Herbarium vouchers and literature were used to map the first occurrences of C. arvensis in each state. Bindweed was first reported in North America (Virginia) in the 1730s, and was sold commercially by mail in and from Pennsylvania by 1807. Over the decades, the reputation as a medicinal plant became lost. It was not until the 1880s that C. arvensis came to be considered a naturalized weed in North America, but efforts to eliminate this twining herb were not made until the early 1900s. Almost 100 years of battling this medicine-turned-pest have failed to effectively control the species.
10.2307/3088646| Alopecurus carolinianus is a widely-distributed native winter annual grass that grows in the same cultivated floodplain habitat as the narrowly-endemic winter annual Lesquerella lescurii (Brassicaceae). Most seeds of A. carolinianus buried under nonflooded conditions and exposed to seasonal temperature changes had an annual dormancy/nondormancy cycle, being dormant in spring and nondormant in autumn. However, 1-16% of the seeds exhumed in spring could germinate at 15/6 and 20/10C. Nondormant seeds were not induced into dormancy by a 12-wk period of burial at 5C; mean monthly minimum temperatures were about 1-3C when buried seeds entered dormancy. Seeds flooded in October, November, or December under natural temperature conditions germinated to 61-99% at 15/6, 20/10, and 25/15C the following May, but those flooded in February, March, or April germinated to only 1-23% at these temperatures. Thus, flooding prior to the time that temperatures are low enough to induce dormancy could result in many seeds being capable of germinating in spring. Plants flowered under short and long days and had little or no vernalization requirement for flowering. Consequently, plants from spring-germinating seeds can complete their life cycle if not destroyed by soil cultivation. The species has a small, relatively short-lived persistent seed bank. In contrast, buried seeds of L. lescurii have an annual dormancy/nondormancy cycle with dormancy induced at temperatures of 20/10 and 15/6C in October and November (Baskin et al. 1992). Lesquerella lescurii also has a large, long-lived seed bank, which ensures persistence at the site if no seed production occurs in spring. Although flooding may destroy all A. carolinianus plants from autumn-germinating seeds, it also prevents many seeds from entering dormancy. Production of seeds by A. carolinianus plants from spring-germinating seeds would help ensure persistence at the site and compensate for lack of prolonged seed viability. 
20063779|Although prescribed fire is thought to benefit fire-adapted species, unequivocal evidence for the existence of fire-adapted species is lacking in many systems. We present the results of a comparative ecological study of fire-dependent flowering in the genus Pityopsis (Asteraceae). We constructed a phylogeny of the genus based on published morphological data and then mapped fire-dependent flowering on the resulting topology. We examined relationships between floral induction, tree and groundcover canopy coverage, and presettlement fire frequency within each species' preferred habitat. Results of our investigations supported the following hypotheses: 1) Fire-dependent flowering occurred in one infrageneric taxonomic group (sect. Graminifoliae) but not in the other (sect. Pityopsis); 2) Fire-dependent flowering occurred in habitats or microsites that contained a dense groundcover canopy during years without fire, and 3) Fire-dependent flowering was more likely to occur in areas of relatively high fire and lightning frequency in the United States. The phylogenetic analysis suggested that the two sections of Pityopsis did not form separate monophyletic groups. Furthermore, the character used to distinguish sections in previous taxonomic treatments (i.e. basal rosette present at the time of flowering) may, in fact, be equivalent to fire-dependent flowering. We hypothesize that fire-dependent flowering is a form of adaptive phenotypic plasticity that was retained in the Graminifoliae section and permitted exploitation of a fluctuating competitive environment within a variety of different fire-prone savannas in the southeastern United States.
27751824|When resources are limited, plants must partition their energetic resources among life history traits such as maintenance, growth, and reproduction. Thus reproduction in a given year may result in lowered growth rates or reproductive rates in subsequent years. This is known as the Principle of Allocation or the Cost of Reproduction hypothesis. In this study, flowering, fruiting, and leaf output were evaluated during two consecutive growing seasons in a population of Sanguinaria canadensis in Fairfax, Virginia. The objective of this field study was to determine if the energetic investments by plants that reproduced in two consecutive years (2003 and 2004 growing seasons) were sufficient to reduce reproduction and leaf size as compared to plants that only reproduced in a single year (2004 growing season). The study area is situated on the west campus of George Mason University on a slope of 11.9% and is divided into three 10 m  100 m rows, with each row separated from the adjacent row by an unsampled 10 m  100 m row. Row one is at the base of a hill parallel to a stream. Row two is at mid-hill and row three at the top of the hill. Sanguinaria canadensis plants were marked individually and reproductive output (including number of inflorescences, fruits and seeds) were measured in both 2003 and 2004. Leaf surface areas were measured utilizing a grid system and a digital camera processed in a freeware computer program by Scion Corporation. Results supported the Cost of Reproduction hypothesis. Reproduction during two or more consecutive years negatively affected leaf size and reproduction as compared to the effects of reproduction during one year. Specifically, plants that produced flowers in 2003 and 2004 showed a reduction in leaf surface area (P &lt; 0.0001) as compared to plants that produced flowers in 2004 only. Also, plants that produced fruit both in 2003 and 2004 had significantly smaller leaf surface areas (P = 0.0155) as compared to plants that produced fruit only in 2004. These are consistent with previously published studies on the cost of reproduction in spring ephemerals, although this is the first such study on S. canadensis. A row effect was observed which was potentially caused by pH levels. However, despite the row effect, reproduction and leaf area continued to show significant differences over the two years of the study. Thus we state with confidence that, in this case, when a bloodroot plant produces fruit, there is a cost in future flower, fruit, and seed production, as well as in its future photosynthetic surface area.
10.2307/3088727| Understory vegetation in stand-initiating ( 7 year clearcuts) and understory-reinitiating (> 125 year mature second-growth) oak-dominated forest stands in southeastern Ohio was examined relative to topographic aspect, micro-environmental conditions, and sampling season to explore patterns of understory dynamics and stand development following management disturbance. Plots were established on upper and lower slopes across a range of aspect positions and sampled in spring and summer to capture topographic and seasonal changes in herb layer dynamics. Micro-site light, temperature, and physical soil properties differed significantly with stand age whereas fertility and moisture varied with aspect. Species richness was greater in clearcut than mature forest stands, associated with greater resource availability and spatial heterogeneity. Herb richness and abundance were greater on NW- and SE-facing slopes and lower slope positions, corresponding to greater soil moisture and fertility. Greater frequencies of non-native species were also found in resource rich, clearcut plots. Canonical correspondence analysis showed stand age, aspect, and fertility to strongly influence herb layer composition. Non-metric multidimensional scaling showed compositional divergence of spring vs. summer and clearcut vs. mature forest herb samples. Composition of clearcuts and mature forests differed markedly in June, suggesting that management influences may be more pronounced in summer herb communities. Most studies of understory dynamics in eastern forests fail to account for spatial and temporal variations in site and vegetation characteristics, however, understory disturbance response appears strongly linked to these ecosystem properties. A better understanding of these factors is needed to fully understand the effects of forest management on herb layer communities in our eastern forests. 
10.2307/3557533|Gaps are often important microhabitats for recruitment of herbaceous plants. In the Florida scrub, fires create gaps by top-killing resprouting shrubs. These natural gaps are aboveground gaps (without aboveground vegetation) that may also be complete gaps (if belowground roots and rhizomes are absent). Within three types of gaps (natural gaps, experimental aboveground and experimental complete gaps), we studied seedling recruitment and survival of spontaneous species and seven sown herbs for two years. We created aboveground gaps by clipping vegetation and complete gaps by removing shrub roots and rhizomes. These gaps occurred in two Florida scrub habitats: rosemary scrub and scrubby flatwoods. We also explored factors that can affect recruitment patterns in gaps, such as soil moisture, root water retention and light availability. In addition, we tested effects of supplemental watering on sown seeds in the field since drought in 2000 and 2001 suppressed natural seedling recruitment. The watering treatment increased recruitment in all types of gaps. Over half of all gaps were colonized, but there were few seedlings. Recruitment was highest in watered, complete gaps in scrubby flatwoods, where the soil moisture levels were higher and light levels lower than in the other gap types. Seedlings of a single spontaneously recruited species (Lechea deckertii) were more abundant than sown species. Locally common gap specialists were more abundant than generalists. Because many of these gap specialists are endangered plant species, understanding how disturbances create microsites for their regeneration is critical for conservation and management of the Florida scrub ecosystem. In small-scale conservation projects, artificially created gaps may substitute for post-fire gaps when prescribed burning is impossible.
10.2307/3088761| Dendrochronological techniques were applied to white oak (Quercus alba L., Fagaceae) from an old-growth, mixed mesophytic forest in southeastern Ohio (Belmont County) in order to determine the relationship between climate and radial-growth rates. Using increment cores and slabs, we created both master ring-width and basal area increment chronologies spanning 374 years (1625-1998). Both ring widths and basal area increments were significantly (P  0.05) correlated with growing season (April-July) precipitation and drought severity. Additionally, numerous current growth year and previous growth year monthly climatic conditions (precipitation, temperature, and drought severity) were significantly correlated with radial-growth rates. Analysis of extreme climatic events such as droughts revealed that significant (P  0.05) declines in radial-growth rate can be expected and may result in sustained (5 years) growth declines. We conclude that climate signals are sufficiently strong to be detected even in old-growth white oak trees growing under the complacent conditions typical of upland, mesophytic forests of the Ohio Valley. 
20063843|This review focuses on the development of our knowledge of the interactions among vegetation, soil forming processes, topography, and human actions in shaping the forests of the central and southern Appalachians. It proceeds from a review of the studies that led to and cemented the topographic paradigm in forest ecology in the 1940's to a review of the studies of soil development in the region during the 1960's and 1970's. This is followed by a review of how the incorporation of the emerging understanding of edaphic and biogeochemical factors affected studies of vegetation in the Appalachians over the last three decades, with emphasis on studies which have been particularly useful in beginning to unravel the interactions among microenvironment, vegetation, and soil. I then consider a suite of natural factors (storm damage, canopy herbivory, fire) and human disturbances (agricultural intensification, atmospheric deposition) that impact the interactions between forest vegetation and the soil system, and speculate on how viewing the Appalachian ecosystems from a more integrated landscape perspective might affect future attempts to unravel the Gordian Knot.
41678795|A survey of Ozark chinquapin in northwest Arkansas showed the tree to be widespread but uncommon, locally concentrated on sandstone benches and upper slopes in karst terrain. The remains of pre-blight chinquapin trees were mapped and measured on two 200 ha sites in Benton and Washington counties. Tree density was estimated at about 1 tree per ha, consistent with published upland witness tree surveys. 108 relatively intact logs were documented, representing about half of the total large chinquapins estimated to have grown on the two sites. Most of these grew as single-stemmed trees up to 20 m in height and 40 cm in diameter. The predominance of single-stemmed trees may indicate the relative absence of fire in pre-blight forests. The lack of subsequent sprouts from the base of large trees and the abundance of living sprout clones not associated with old trees indicates most sprouts are old seedlings. Tree rings were used to reconstruct stand history on six 20 X 60 m plots. Release of adjacent trees showed that blight arrived in 1957. Stand recruitment was concentrated in an extended period from 1920 to 1940, with a few older trees dating to the mid 1800' s. Estimated ages for chinquapin logs seemed to pre-date oak and hickory recruitment, suggesting release of suppressed understory stems. Tree rings were used to determine the diameter of trees on the plots in 1955. Height-diameter projections were used to compare the stature of the stand with reconstructed remains of chinquapin logs, demonstrating that Ozark chinquapin was growing as a canopy-dominant tree at the time when blight arrived.
41475123|Physaria ludoviciana (Nuttal) O'Kane & Al-Shehbaz (silvery bladderpod) is a state endangered species in Illinois, Minnesota and Wisconsin, the eastern edge of its range. Our goal was to investigate its seed biology (production, dispersal, seed bank longevity, afterripening, seed longevity after storage using germination and emergence, and seedling establishment). This information will be useful for conservation efforts of this endangered species. Over a ten-year period, various seed biology parameters were measured. Infructescences were counted to estimate seed production with 110-744 seeds per reproductive plant. Soil samples were collected at various distances to estimate dispersal where seeds dispersed less than a meter, and also at various times to estimate longevity in the seed bank where only 4% as many seeds were found in November as in June. After-ripening tests used seeds imbibed every two months after harvest for ten months where germination rates increased when imbibition was delayed at least six months. Germination and emergence of stored seed was measured to estimate longevity. Seeds stored at 4  C and 40-50% relative humidity remained viable for at least six years. For establishment and plant density, seedlings, vegetative plants, and reproductive plants were counted. For establishment, densities were 0-11 seedlings m. This seed biology information could be applied to conservation efforts for this endangered species.
20063789|Rubus spectabilis is a bird-dispersed shrub that produces both red and orange fruits. Although it has been the subject of several previous studies, the factors responsible for the maintenance of the polymorphism have not been identified. I hypothesized that the fruit color polymorphism in R. spectabilis is maintained by enhanced conspicuousness of bi-colored displays, created when the two color forms occur close together. To test this hypothesis, I constructed experimental displays of different relative abundances of red and orange fruits and presented them to free-ranging birds in British Columbia, Canada. Trials were conducted in different habitats and at different times during the fruiting season to test whether avian fruit color preferences were spatially or temporally variable. Results showed that birds did not prefer bi-colored displays and that removal rates of different colored fruits were similar in space and time. Therefore, processes other than enhanced conspicuousness of bi-colored displays must account for the maintenance of the fruit color polymorphism.
20063912|This study relates contemporary patterns of species composition, stand structure, and tree regeneration in a mature western Indiana forest, Kieweg Woods, to the complex of Euro-American settlement impacts and regional environmental change. We established permanent plots at this 5 ha flat upland site to initiate a longterm program of forest monitoring; this paper reports on the results of the first stand census, as well as placing them in historical context by examining both General Land Office survey records for the surrounding landscape and the dendrochronology of several of the stand's mature trees. Reconstruction of presettlement vegetation indicates that this site was transitional between open Quercus-Carya assemblages found at the margins of prairie and the more mesophytic Fagus grandifolia-Acer saccharum forests associated with the dissected topography of the Wabash River valley. Contemporary stand composition reflects this mix of species, but with Quercus spp., Carya spp. and Liriodendron tulipifera dominating the canopy and Acer saccharum and Fagus grandifolia comprising most of the subcanopy. Dendrochronological analysis indicates that the largely shade-intolerant canopy members were recruited during a major growth release in the late nineteenth century, probably due to logging, while the subcanopy has formed under a regime of minimal disturbance. These patterns suggest an impending successional turnover in canopy composition, and highlight the role of settlement impacts in remnant forests as having altered the presettlement linkages among disturbance and site conditions, and thereby reformulated the set of species' life history characteristics best suited to dominance in the contemporary landscape.
20063741|Corydalis flavula (Raf.) DC. is a rare winter annual in Michigan, restricted to two counties in the southwestern portion of the state. Corydalis flavula density, capsule and seed production, and composition and structure of the associated groundlayer and overstory, were recorded 18-26 May 1998 in six 5,600
20063960|This study describes the principal changes in the flora of the Cayuga Region over the past 200 years. The region's flora has been thoroughly documented by botanists at different times but the changes have not before been synthesized. The region studied is approximately 10,000 km surrounding Ithaca, NY, USA. The plant diversity of the Cayuga Region of New York has increased substantially over the past two centuries, as the gains of non-native plant species have far outnumbered the losses of natives. Of 1,265 vascular plant species native to the region, only 43 have been lost, despite large changes in land use and habitat areas. None of the species losses represent global extinction. There are no clear correlates or predictors for the species that disappeared. They were not all rare, nor were they predominantly in one kind of habitat, or from particular plant families. The majority of the 777 non-native plant species in the extant flora are rare or scarce within the Cayuga Region, and only a small number are of concern as aggressive invaders. Most of the non-natives are Old World herbaceous species of open, unforested habitats.
41262018|The development of post-agricultural forests provides a unique opportunity to understand the mechanisms controlling plant community assembly. In particular, identifying traits associated with colonization can point to the causes of community development. The trait of association with the soil pH gradient has not yet been explored in this context. I test whether acidophilic species are more frequent in post-agricultural forests and discuss several possible explanations for this pattern. Species with low pH optima clearly tended to be more frequent in post-agricultural forests, yet the mean pH of post-agricultural forest soils did not differ from adjacent forests that had never been cleared. Calciphilic species nevertheless could remain absent from postagricultural forests if they depended on high-pH microsites that agriculture had destroyed, or they could be less able to tolerate the lower nutrient status of post-agricultural forest soils. Alternatively, acidophilic species may have more effective dispersal. The abundance of acidophilic species in post-agricultural forests evidently warrants further investigation.
10.2307/2996586|Japanese barberry nas become a common component of understory vegetation in deciduous forests throughout central and northern New Jersey and adjacent areas of Pennsylvania and New York. A survey was carried out by soliciting data from the public concerning the occurrence of the plant in forest preserves in the New York metropolitan region. The resulting information showed that this exotic species is present within the forest interior in at least 43 protected forest areas. In the majority of these areas, the species occurs in extensive patches of moderate to very high density. Although known to some resource managers, the spread of this exotic species into intact forest has not previously been reported. The widespread growth of B. thunbergii may threaten the ability of small to moderate-sized forest reserves to serve as a refuge for native plant species.
10.2307/3088716|Species of the group Caryophyllales have four carboxylation variants ($C_3,\>C_4$ NADME, C
10.2307/3557522|Trillium grandiflorum is a widely distributed, non-clonal, long-lived, white-flowered perennial herb. We examined the pollination biology and self-compatibility of Trillium grandiflorum in five populations distributed across northern Wisconsin and the western Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Self-pollination was almost entirely ineffective in producing seeds in all populations, suggesting strong self-incompatibility. Natural seed set varied slightly across populations, with an average of 71% of ovules fertilized per fruit. At the population level, seed set was not limited by receipt of pollen. At the plant level, seed set per flower first increased, then decreased in response to an increasing density of flowering plants within 2 m. This suggests that neighboring flowers facilitate pollinator visitation at low densities then compete for visits at higher densities. Observed pollinator visitation rates support this interpretation. The presence of self-incompatibility and the absence of clonal spread could make Trillium grandiflorum vulnerable to disruptions in pollinator service.
10.2307/3557551|We explored the extent to which bedrock and aspect influenced soil and vegetation patterns in the Holyoke Range, an east-west oriented basalt ridge in the Connecticut River Valley of Massachusetts. Pairs of plots were sampled at 53 locations along the contact zone between arkose and basalt, 29 pairs on the south and 24 pairs on the north side of the range. For each plot we measured slope, plot aspect, soil pH and soil nutrients, the importance value for trees, within-plot frequency for shrubs and recorded presence/absence for herbaceous taxa. Soil on basalt had a higher pH and was richer in nutrients, particularly exchangeable Ca and Mg than soil on arkose. Principal Components Analysis of plots using soil variables indicated that those associated with bedrock accounted for 51% of the variance while soil differences related to aspect accounted for 22%. The multi-response permutation procedure indicated significant differences in distribution in all vegetation layers with respect to both bedrock and aspect. Species richness on basalt was significantly higher for both trees and herbaceous plants, and was also higher on the south side of the range for herbaceous plants. Of the 89 species present in more than 5% of the plots, 32% had significantly different distributions with respect to bedrock alone, 21% differed significantly with respect to both bedrock type and aspect while only 9% differed significantly with aspect independent of bedrock. The largest differences were in the herbaceous layer. Canonical correspondence analysis using soil and site variables indicated that for all vegetation layers the strongest gradient was related to bedrock.
27751800|Taxonomic determinations of previously unidentified specimens collected in 1974, and of a few newly collected taxa, have enabled us to add seven genera and 29 species to the recorded flora of the Park. Further field and laboratory work have allowed us to delete one family, one genus, and four species. Diospyros virginiana (Ebenaceae) has been deleted from the flora after intensive efforts failed to verify a 1974 visual record. The new totals for the Caumsett flora are: 103 families, 340 genera, and 660 species. One addition, Rumex pulcher, is new to New York State.
10.2307/3557547|The flora of Black Rock Forest in Cornwall, New York, contains 688 species of vascular plants. Between 1990 and 1998, vascular plant specimens were collected in the Forest as part of a series of studies of the vegetation and flora. The flora includes ten state rarities. Of the six species in the Forest considered imperiled in the state, Aristolochia serpentaria and Utricularia inflata are extant; Juncus debilis, Malaxis bayardii, Sisyrinchium mucronatum, and Spenopholis obtusata var. obtusata have not been relocated.
43287025|This five-year study (2007-2011) investigated the impacts of canopy thinning, deer fencing, acorn production, and deer density on tree seedling recruitment in contrasting Quercus-Carya forests to explore the fate of mast and non-mast seedlings in different understory environments. It was conducted at the Mashomack Preserve on Shelter Island near the eastern end of Long Island, NY where tree regeneration in mature forests is very sparse due to extremely high deer (Odocoilus virginianus) populations. Forest thinning increased seedling density (mainly Q. alba L., C. glabra (Mill.) Sweet, Acer rubrum L. and Ostrya virginiana (Mill.) K. Koch) in both fenced and unfenced plots for the duration of the study. Fenced plots had higher total seedling density and taller white Q. alba seedlings than the unfenced plots. Four Quer eus plus one Carya species had at least one mast year between 2007 and 2010 and generally during different years with variable impacts on seedling establishment. Acorn/nut production for all species was lowest in the fall of 2011 following nearly two years of drought. Quer cus alba seedling density increased dramatically following a 2007 mast year, but had no further increase after a 2010 mast year. Deer density estimates ranged from 82-129 per km in 2007 to 2010, but dropped to 29 per km in 2011 associated with very low mast production. There was 100% removal of 260 exposed Q. velutina Lam acorns placed in both deer fenced and unfenced areas throughout the preserve, suggesting an important role of small mammals or birds. The results of this study suggest that mast year, canopy thinning and deer fencing, either individually or in concert, played a positive but variable role by increasing Quer cus and Carya seedling establishment and sustainability.
10.2307/4126935|Eastern Leatherwood (Dirca palustris L., Thymelaeaceae) is a sporadically occurring understory shrub of shady Acer saccharum-Tsuga canadensis-Betula allegheniensis stands in the northwestern Great Lakes states. Temperature during the pollination season (late April and early May) varies greatly between years and presumably limits pollinator activity. In addition, very limited light availability poses the question of how stable flower production, fruit set, and fruit production are through time when vegetative growth must also be supported from a limited pool of photosynthate. We compared reproductive performance characteristics among natural stands in Upper Michigan, USA across seven years. In addition, we inquired whether small or deeply shaded shrubs tended to be less consistent fruit producers. Fruit set fluctuated considerably over the period, but several conspicuously good and poor years did not correspond to temperature patterns. Flower production was largely stable at the stand level over the seven year period, with increases in years 2000 and 2001. Fruit production was a function of shrub size and did not differ between years or between stands. At an individual level, small and deeply shaded individuals tended to have one or two conspicuously good fruiting years against a background of low fruit production; sunlit and larger individuals were more consistent fruit producers. Fruit production was not related to the previous year's fruit crop. Shrub size and, secondarily, light availability were the important determinants of fruit production, implying that stand age and history govern the population recruitment of leatherwood.
20063746|We compared the ground-flora (vascular plants 1 m tall) composition and structure of floodplain and upland landforms, and examined the influence of environmental factors on ground-flora composition and structure, in an old-growth headwater forest in the Western Glaciated Allegheny Plateau Ecoregion of Ohio. Soil pH, percent organic matter, sand content, and clay content were significantly higher on the floodplains than on the uplands, while the upland landforms were characterized by higher percentages of silt. Percent total nitrogen and concentrations of NO -N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Mn and Zn were all significantly higher on floodplain landforms than on upland landforms. While species richness and diversity were similar between landforms, ground-flora composition and structure were different. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) associated graminoids and forbs with floodplains, while woody species were associated with uplands. Multi-response permutation procedure (MRPP) demonstrated that floodplains had higher cover of Impatiens capensis, Laportea canadensis, Leersia virginica, and Urtica dioica. Conversely, uplands were characterized by higher cover of Acer saccharum, Fagus grandifolia, Fraxinus americana, Parthenocissus quinquefolia, and Polygonatum pubescens. This study provides much-needed information on the vegetation-environment relationships of headwater riparian forest ecosystems that may be useful for riparian restoration in north-central Ohio.
20063802|Microstegium vimineum (Japanese stilt grass) is an invasive grass in the eastern half of the United States which can form dense monocultures in forest understories, displacing native species. Although the loss of native species has been observed in the field, the actual competitive ability of this grass has not been examined. Microstegium vimineum was grown under controlled environment, greenhouse conditions in competition with Lolium perenne ssp. multiflorum (annual rye grass) and Muhlenbergia mexicana (Mexican muhly) in varying density ratios in full and low light treatments. Microstegium vimineum had a greater aboveground biomass, relative growth rate, and reproductive output than both competitors in both light treatments. The high competitive ability of Microstegium vimineum, especially in low light conditions, reflects its highly aggressive nature in forested or other landscapes of eastern North America.
27751823|Understanding the linkages among population spatial, demographic, and genetic structure is a priority for threatened or endangered species, particularly when the physical or biotic landscape influences key processes such as pollinator behavior or plant establishment, growth, and flowering. We investigated spatial, demographic, and genetic structure, and followed activity of insect visitors within a large population of a federally endangered herb, Echinacea laevigata (C.L.Boynton & Beadle) S.F.Blake, distributed among microhabitats from an open powerline right-of-way across a narrow dirt road and into adjacent forest. Population and genetic structure differed among the microhabitats, but these differences were not due to clonal growth. Most genetic variation was within rather than among microhabitats. Plants differed in size (number of leaves) and the percentage of flowering plants among microhabitats, with smaller plants and lower flowering in the edge, larger plants and intermediate flowering in the forest and powerline, and smaller plants, but higher flowering, along the open road. Observations of insect visitors suggest activity of potential pollinators can interact with demographic structure contribute to, or reinforce, genetic structure in the population. Collectively, results of this research indicate that microhabitat effects on population structure and pollinator activity should be considered in species management plans for E. laevigata.
10.2307/2997267|Helenium virginicum is a narrow endemic seasonal wetland plant that is listed as a can-didate for endangered or threatened status by the Federal government, and is listed as endangered by the state of Virginia. We investigated the breeding system of one population of this rare plant to gain insight into its limited distribution and abundance, and to guide development of management strategies. Experiments revealed that, like most members of the Asteraceae, H. virginicum is self-incompatible. In a common garden where water and nutrients were not limited, 28 plants from a single H. virginicum population each were both selfed and outcrossed from a large pooled sample of pollen. A mean seed set per head of 76.8% was found in outcrossed heads, compared to only 0.8% in selfed heads. Sporophytic self-incompatibility also was determined based on stigmatic pollen tube inhibition. A self-incompatible breeding system may put small populations of H. virginicum at risk of local extinction due to the limited availability of compatible mates, and should be considered when designing effective conservation and management strategies.
41475119|Impatiens capensis Meerb. (1775) has been naturalized in the British Isles since the early 19 th century. Though native to North America, the species is now established along waterways of lowland Britain and continues to increase its distribution across northern and central Europe. There have been two homonyms of I. capensis for a further two plant species with different sporophytic chromosome number. Impatiens capensis Thunb. (1794) is native to southern Africa, has a sporophytic chromosome number of 2n = 14, and now carries the accepted scientific species name I. duthieae L. Bolus (1921). Impatiens capensis Boj. ex Baker (1883) is native to Madagascar, has a sporophytic chromosome number of 2n = 14, and now carries the accepted scientific species name I. flrmula Baker (1883). Karyological analyses of plants from three geographically separated I. capensis Meerb. populations from the River Thames Valley proved the sporophytic chromosome number of 2n = 20 and estimated the mean sporophytic unreplicated nuclear DNA amount of 2C  1.55 pg, which corresponds to a genome size of approximately 1.51264 Gbp per nucleus.
27751817|Three hundred and ninety-one vascular plant taxonomic entities within 61 families and 219 genera were documented for El Morro National Monument, an area of 419 hectares. These include 140 new non-horticultural records for El Morro and 60 records that had not been recorded in either Cibola County or nearby Valencia County. The checklist includes 55 entities that are exotic to El Morro. One species tracked by the New Mexico Natural Heritage Program, Besseya arizonica (Arizona coraldrops), occurs at El Morro. El Morro is dominated by juniper (Juniperus monosperma) woodland, with ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) in mesic sites, and shrublands in drier sites.
20063951|This vascular flora of Central Park, New York County, New York State is based upon field work by the authors in 2006-2007 combined with three
20063892|Demography, growth, and flowering of Dionaea muscipula (Venus' fly trap) were studied during three years (2003-2005) following prescribed fire. Data were collected in permanent quadrats where the developing vegetation was either repeatedly clipped or allowed to grow. Clipping increased light availability at the soil surface. Over the study period, seedling establishment and flowering declined with increasing time since the last prescribed burn. Seedling densities did not differ between clipped and control quadrats, although greater numbers of seedlings grew to adult size in control quadrats and this significantly influenced population size-class structure. Clipping had no effect on leaf number or senescence, but plants in control plots were larger and had marginally longer petioles. The plant populations initially mapped in 2003 showed a continuous decline throughout the study and this decline was punctuated by temporary senescence linked to drought conditions. Drought-induced senescence had a persistent influence on plant size. Relatively higher seedling recruitment to the adult population in control quadrats produced an overall population increase of 18% as compared to a 17% decline in the population from clipped quadrats. Dionaea muscipula may have limited ability to respond to increased light availability due to leaf development constraints and repeated drought-induced senescence. Fire-dependence may best be defined in terms of seedling establishment and stimulation of flowering. Consistent soil moisture is critical to Dionaea muscipula but the species has characteristics that allow persistence across a wide range of vegetation trajectories.
20063745|Leaf litter has a major impact on soil microenvironmental conditions and so can be an important influence on seedling recruitment and hence plant community structure. We conducted a greenhouse experiment to examine the impact of leaf litter from temperate deciduous forests on the emergence and growth of tree seedlings in relation to seed size. Our treatments were bare (no litter), shallow (1-2 cm deep, 140
10.2307/2997319|Montia linearis (Portulacaceae), native to the western United States, is reported from a recurring population in Suitland (Prince Georges County), Maryland. The species is now known from four states west of the Mississippi River: Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, and Tennessee. Given this distribution and evidence for weediness in its native range, additional occurrences in the eastern and south-central United States are to be expected. Although it seems likely that Montia linearis has been introduced into the eastern United States via human activity, this cannot be established at present: phylogenetic analyses of Portulacaceae indicate that long-distance dispersal has played a significant role in the biogeographic history of this family.
41262044|Bark-stripping, or partial cambial mortality, is characteristic of Rocky Mountain bristlecone pine (Pinus aristata). The cause of this phenomenon is unknown, but previous work has shown a correlation between stripping and wind directions. We examined bark-stripping patterns in ten Pinus aristata stands in Colorado. For every strip, we recorded its relative position on the trunk and the direction of the strip top and bottom. Strips were assigned to one of 10 classposition types based on their relative lengths and positions. Mean top and bottom strip directions ranged from  225 to due north (0). Site aspect ranged from 98 to 249 , whereas estimated wind direction ranged from 261 to 30. Almost all of the small strips were on the lower half of the trunk. The directions of small strips near trunk bases were widely dispersed, whereas small strips higher on the trunk were more narrowly dispersed and oriented close to wind direction. Patterns of stripping and of abrasion of pencils fastened to trunks suggest that most strips that develop into larger ones are initiated by wind abrasion and extend primarily upward. Our findings are consistent with the model of Matthes et al. (2002) for the formation and possible function of bark-stripping.
10.2307/4126956|Cardamine impatiens L. is reported for New Jersey for the first time. Its life history is reviewed, and hydrochory is hypothesized to be a major component of seed dispersal. An efficient dispersal system combined with prolific reproductive traits suggests invasive behavior, and warrants continued monitoring of this species.
41678802|Epitypes are designated for the Mexican species Hechtia schottii and Hechtia stenopetala. Complete descriptions of the two taxa are presented as well as specimen citations and iconography depicting relevant characteristics of the species and plants in habitat. The first species, known only from the States of Campeche and Yucatn, was based upon pistillate material (old fruits and immature pistillate buds) and leaf fragments; the epitype adds the staminate flowers and complete leaves. The second species, restricted to the Veracruz State, was based upon a plant with old, open fruits; the epitype adds the staminate flowers and leaves.
20063800|Harperocallis flava is a federally listed endangered plant narrowly endemic to the Florida panhandle. A lack of knowledge about Harperocallis population dynamics currently hinders conservation planning. Our objectives included describing ramet size, reproductive status, and mortality and recruitment rates in natural populations of H. flava. In 1998, we established permanent plots and marked individual ramets at six sites representing two habitat types in Apalachicola National Forest. At each site, we established  3 plots of varying size (0.12-1.8 m) to include 300 ramets / site. In the first year we tagged, recorded reproductive status of, and measured individual ramets (# of leaves, longest leaf length). In 1999 and 2000, new ramets were tagged and all tagged ramets were remeasured. Analysis of variance methods were used to detect site, year, and habitat effects on response variables. Total number of ramets sampled varied between sites and declined from year to year. The proportion of ramets bearing reproductive structures was low (0.01 to 0.10) and varied with site and year. Logistic regression indicated that larger ramets were more likely to produce reproductive structures, and that smaller ramets suffered higher mortality. There were significant habitat and year effects on mortality; recruitment differed between years. The relatively short duration of this study precluded examination of potentially important fire effects. A rhizomatous habit and unexpected levels of crayfish-induced mortality suggest that knowledge of population structure and processes at larger scales is needed to develop effective monitoring and management strategies for H. flava.
20063961|Sex expression was examined in two island populations of the monoecious Taxus canadensis at the Apostle Island National Lakeshore, USA. Long-term observations of tagged plants supported earlier published conclusions based on comparisons among populations of the effect of size and age on sex expression, measured as standardized phenotypic gender. As populations of plants increased in size and age, strobilus ratios became more male-biased and gender concordance increased. Male-biased plants remained male-biased and female-biased plants remained female-biased; gender switching was not a feature of either of these populations. The two Taxus canadensis populations were mapped to examine spatial dispersion of plants and plant attributes, such as size, strobilus production, and gender. Frequency distribution of gender in both populations was significantly bimodal supporting earlier studies; this conclusion held even when small (typically male) plants with unstable gender were excluded from the analysis. Distribution of T. canadensis in both populations was clumped. Plant attributes showed some spatial autocorrelation, although the results were not consistent across populations or at different lag distances. Size and male strobilus production tended toward spatial autocorrelation in both populations, female strobilus production showed significant spatial autocorrelation on Manitou Island only at a few lag distances, and gender showed no spatial autocorrelation at any lag distance in either island population. The implication of these results for genetic versus environmental determination of sex expression in T. canadensis are briefly discussed.
10.2307/2997297|Deep recesses in bedrock cliffs, often referred to as "rockhouses", can maintain habitats that are highly buttered from extremes in temperature and moisture, but have very low light levels. Within these habitats in the eastern United States are a suite of plants with tropical affinities, i.e. endemic species whose closest relatives are tropical, and disjunct occurrences of species whose principal range is tropical. Ferns are the most conspicuous plants of this group, but bryophytes are the most numerous. Both groups are preadapted to persistence in rockhouses by cabilities of vegetative reproduction and of net photosynthesis in habitats of very low light, the latter made possible by a high ratio of photosynthetic to non-photosynthetic tissue. Morphological, physiological, genetic, geological and geographical data support a scenario of persistence of these plant species in rockhouses since their origins in pre-Pleistocene times when tropical/subtropical climates prevailed over the eastern United States.
20063763|We investigated the contribution of non-native tree species to woodlands in and near Worcester, a city of 170,000 residents in central Massachusetts. We sampled species composition of canopy, sapling and seedling layers in 32 woodlands. At three additional sites, we collected additional information on Norway maple, including size/age data, abundance with respect to distance from woodland edge, and apparent mortality compared to that of other species. In all, we encountered 66 tree species, of which 28 were introduced. The most common non-native trees were Norway maple (Acer platanoides L.), black locust (Robinia pseudoacacia L.) and tree-of-heaven (Ailanthus altissima (Miller) Swingle). The last two are shade-intolerant, and there was little evidence that they invade intact woodland. Young Norway maples, in contrast, can persist for decades in the understory. Norway maple comprised 11% of all trees sampled, and 23% of all seedlings and saplings. Its wind-borne seeds dispersed tens and occasionally hundreds of meters away from seed sources into woodland. Because its mortality was lower than or equal to that of most competing species, it is likely to increase in abundance. Young Norway maples were more common on disturbed sites and those near seed sources. Norway maple trees were less common on wet and dry sites than on mesic sites. Because of its widespread use as an ornamental, its capacity to invade intact woodlands and its dense shade, Norway maple has the potential to profoundly alter native woodlands, especially on mesic sites. Mesic woodlands in Worcester are likely to see a decline of species with low to moderate shade tolerance, like white ash (Fraxinus americana L.), red oak (Quercus rubra L.) and black locust, and an increase in shade-tolerant species, including Norway maple. Dry woodlands are likely to remain dominated by a mixture of native oaks, especially black oak (Quercus velutina Lam.).
10.2307/2996611|I carried out a nine year demographic study of Helenium virginicum Blake using permanent quadrats at one sinkhole pond in the eastern United States to gain insight into factors controlling the distribution and abundance of this plant. I monitored recruitment and mortality of genets, their stage classes, and their distribution in relation to water depth and overstory cover. The occurrence and distribution of a seed bank was studied as well as the survival and demography of transplants Comparisons of soil chemistry and general patterns of distribution and abundance within sites were made between the study site and other populations The annual hydroperiod at the sinkhole pond varied from 4-16 months of continuous inundation during winter and summer with plants growing at sites with low overstory cover and at maximum water depths of from 49-59 cm After 16 months of continuous inundation and heavy accumulation of floating aquatic vegetation, all H virginicum plants had died at the study site At the same time, other neighboring populations with inundation as long and deep did not accumulate a cover of floating vegetation and their populations did not decline noticeably These data suggest that H. virginicum is intolerant of shade. Following death of all H. virginicum plants at the study site, soil sampling and a large pulse of recruitment gave evidence of a seed bank which was at least two years old Annual recruitment and the proportion of plants in stage classes was highly variable; survival of the early stage plants was low A highly variable population size suggests a high probability of local extinction of the population at the study site if future investment in the seed bank should fail to occur. Chemical analyses of soils from 19 of the 21 sites in which H virginicum grows, revealed a low pH, high levels of Al and As, and low levels of B, Ca, K, Mg, and P. Endemism of this plant may result from it being limited to refugia where competition is reduced by a stressful soil and a variable hydroperiod, and where the variable hydroperiod leads to high rates of local extinction
40864974|Lianas have the potential to shape forest communities and alter forest regeneration. However, impacts of lianas on forest regeneration, particularly in temperate forests, are largely unstudied. To understand potential liana impacts on the community we need to first know the location and intensity of liana burdens on host trees. We examined liana-tree host preferences within a series of young regenerating deciduous forests in the Piedmont region of New Jersey, USA. Established trees ( 5 cm dbh) and the lianas associated with each tree were surveyed in 2008. The five most abundant liana species were Celastrus orbiculatus, Lonicera japnica, Parthenocissus quinquefolia, Toxicodendron radkans, and Vitis species. Host preference for each liana species was measured in two ways, as colonization on tree trunks and coverage in the canopy. Host preferences based on tree species and tree size were compared among liana species. A total of 798 trees were measured and lianas occurred on 64% of them. Host preferences were generally consistent between colonization and canopy expansion, suggesting the same factors that regulate establishment also regulate liana growth. Most liana species had higher colonization and greater canopy cover on early successional trees, particularly Juniperus virginiana. In contrast, Vitis spp. were more abundant on canopy hardwood trees. Slight preferences based on tree size were seen for some species. The preference of lianas for early successional trees may make lianas a contributing factor to the acceleration of succession within this eastern deciduous forest. However, the continued expansion of some lianas at the site, particularly Vitis spp. and orbiculatus, may alter future liana-tree associations and forest trajectories.
27751808|Hummingbirds are important pollinators in Monteverde, Costa Rica, as they are in most neotropical montane cloud forests. In Monteverde, hummingbird-pollinated plants are generally pollen-limited and incapable of autonomous self-pollination. However, many hummingbird-pollinated plants in the Bromeliaceae are capable of autonomous self-pollination. We examined the breeding system and pollination of Pitcairnia brittoniana (Mez), shown previously to be capable of autonomous selfing. We found that fruit and seed set were high in open-, self-, and cross-pollinated treatments, as well as in the autonomous self-pollination treatment. Seed set, but not fruit set was slightly lower among pollinator-excluded flowers from which the anthers or stigma were removed at dawn, the time at which flowers are first receptive to cross-pollination, relative to controls whose anthers and stigmas were unmanipulated. Flowers were visited by two hummingbird species that deposited cumulative cross-pollen loads sufficient for near maximum seed set. Therefore, P. brittoniana has the potential for high levels of either outcrossing or inbreeding in Monteverde. Although the relative competitive abilities of self- and cross-pollen in P. brittoniana are unknown, cross-pollen prepotency is probable. Pitcairnia brittoniana likely maintains a mixed mating system, outcrossing when hummingbirds are active and selfing autonomously when they are scarce.
20063900|The discovery of three populations of the large-headed sedge, Carex macrocephala, in New Jersey described in this paper, represents the first report of this species from Eastern North America. Carex macrocephala grows at much lower densities in New Jersey than does the closely related Asiatic sand sedge, Carex kobomugi. We thus expected invasion by C. macrocephala to have less impact of on the abundance and diversity of native dune plants than have been seen in previous studies of the closely related invasive sedge, C. kobomugi. This expectation was largely supported: the presence of C. macrocephala in New Jersey's coastal dunes had no significant impact on the abundance of co-occurring plant species. Indeed, species richness and diversity were actually significantly higher in areas occupied by C. macrocephala than in surrounding areas. New Jersey appears to be one of the few places in the world where C. macrocephala grows in close proximity to C. kobomugi, suggesting the possibility of hybridization between these species in the future. Since hybrids have the potential to be more invasive than their parent species, this has serious management repercussions.
25790858|Lycopod and fern species richness and beta diversity were analyzed along elevation gradients in different vegetation types in the Los Mrmoles National Park (PNM) in the state of Hidalgo, Mexico. Sampling was conducted at 16 sites located between 1,184 and 2,702 m elevation, including eight vegetation types. Observed species richness was compared with expected species richness using non-parametric methods. The number of shared species and the lycopod and fern species replacement rate were estimated between vegetation types (beta diversity). The number of lycopod and fern species was low at the high and low extremes of the elevation gradient, while at intermediate elevations species richness ranged from low to high. This species richness and distribution pattern for lycopods and ferns is probably related to elevation (moisture), topography and vegetation type. Sampling effort efficiency was 86 to 91%, depending on the estimator used. Beta diversity of these vascular sporogenous plants between vegetation types was high, which was considered to be a reflection of the considerable micro-environmental differences related to tolerance to water availability and other environmental factors.
20063765|We quantified the forest age and tree size structure of an old-growth and mature stand in a coniferous forested wetland in central New York, USA. We also determined the volume and decay class distribution of standing and downed coarse woody debris. The old-growth stand contains eastern white pine (Pinus strobus L.) &gt 400 years old and other species &gt 200 years old. Live tree basal area in the old-growth area (36
41678810|The species Croton lenheirensis D. Medeiros, Senna-Valle & Alves and Croton pradensis D. Medeiros, Senna-Valle & Alves from Brazil were published invalidly in 2009, not specifically designating in which herbarium the respective holotypes were deposited. This oversight is corrected with the validation of the specific names; the holotypes are deposited in R.
10.2307/2997320|Populations of Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camus have been found in New Jersey containing individuals that have clusters of large rhizomes, and which evidently exhibit the perennial growth habit. This species, a major invasive exotic pest throughout the east coast, has previously only been known as an annual, both in the US and in its native geographical range in temperate and tropical Asia and India. Rhizomatous plants were observed in 6 populations, in sites ranging over a 100 km distance, and accounted for 8-15% of the culms in each population. Lower nodes of decumbent culms have on average 4 rhizomes (maximum 13 per node and 23 per culm were observed), which are 0.1 to 7 cm long (mean 1 cm). Significant differences in the number of rhizomes per culm and the size distribution of rhizomes were found among three sampled populations. Rhizomatous specimens had open, exserted terminal panicles which flowered 2-3 weeks before the non-rhizomatous specimens, which have cleistogamous spikelets within the leaf sheaths and a variably exserted, closed terminal panicle. Rhizomes sprouted in the greenhouse, after cold treatment, demonstrating their perennial capacity. This is the first reported occurrence of rhizomes in the genus, and also is the first apparent example of a trade-off between annual/perennial life history and cleistogamous/chasmogamous reproduction. In addition to the implications for the evolution of plant life history characteristics and breeding systems, the finding has important implications for control strategies for this invasive plant species; current recommendations for its control will not be effective against perennial forms.
43287015|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus, Zimmerman 1780) are known to disperse seeds through endozoochory, but the fates of these seeds are largely unknown. In both field and greenhouse studies, we examined the importance of fecal pellet decay to seed germination success and compared natural plant communities in microsites with and without deer pellets to determine the effects of deer endozoochory on short-term plant species composition. Pellets were collected in Delaware County, Ohio. After cold stratification, pellets were either crumbled or planted intact in the greenhouse to estimate numbers and species of viable seed present. These plantings produced germinants of 40+ taxa, 48% of which are non-native. Significantly more individuals germinated from crumbled than from intact pellets (P < 0.001), suggesting that pellet decay is crucial for germination success. In the field, feces deposited in the fall and spring decayed at rates that would allow seeds to escape the pellets in time for spring germination. Plant species diversity was also compared between forest microsites containing pellets and adjacent sites without pellets. Late spring plant diversity in pellet plots was similar to that of control sites, suggesting that the presence of deer pellets does not result in shortterm compositional changes to the understory plant community. Our data support other studies that have also found deer to be capable of dispersing seeds of many plant species. Our study indicates that pellet decay facilitates germination for many of these species. However, given the similarity of plants found in microsites with and without pellets, seeds dispersed by deer did not become significant components of forest understories over a one year time period. It may be that seeds contained in pellets will enter the seed bank and germinate with a change in environment (such as a gap opening), but further field work must be done to determine the fates of seeds dispersed by deer in forest habitats.
20063769|The El Edn Ecological Reserve, Quintana Roo, Mexico, is a 1500 hectare privately owned reserve created in 1992 for research and conservation of the dry tropical forests in the northeastern Yucatn Peninsula. The reserve lies within a greater bioregion known as the Yalahau, which has been noted for its extensive wetlands, rare elsewhere in the Peninsula. The vegetation of the reserve represents all the major vegetation types of the greater bioregion and includes mature semideciduous dry tropical forest, various aged stands of successional forest, seasonally inundated forest and palm/cattail savanna as well as several permanent water bodies. The purpose of this study is to document the flora of the reserve. The vascular flora of the El Edn Reserve includes comprises 404 species, 306 genera and 99 families. Ferns (Division Pteridophyta) account for 8 species and 8 genera in 7 families. Cycads (Division Cycadophyta) account for one species in one family. Flowering plants (Division Magnoliophyta) account for 395 species in 297 genera and 91 families. Monocots (Class Liliopsida) account for 68 species in 51 genera and 18 families. Dicots (Class Magnoliopsida) account for 327 species in 246 genera and 73 families. Exotics only account for 3.5% of the flora, and plants with pantropical distribution (mostly weedy herbs) account for 6.3%. Yucatn Peninsula endemics account for 9.5% (39 species) of the total flora.
41475121|Climate change predictions for the Great Plains region of North America include increased temperatures and changes to annual precipitation patterns. We used ecological niche modeling (Maxent) to assess how three climate change scenarios published by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change might affect the distribution of the threatened lace hedgehog cactus (Echinocereus reichenbachii) by the 2050s and the 2080s. Under all scenarios investigated, the total land area of suitable habitat for the species increased relative to the current land area predicted as highly suitable by the model. However, under all scenarios, the center of the most suitable area for this species shifted by 160-604 km from the current location in northwest Texas, changing at a rate 20-75 km per decade. While the rate of dispersal in this species is not known, Echinocereus spp. seeds are typically spread by small mammals and it seems unlikely that this species will be able to disperse rapidly. Consequently, the range may initially contract during the coming century, especially in southern Texas where it is most imperiled and where the climate is predicted to become increasingly unsuitable. The current patchiness of distribution of the species suggests that microhabitat characteristics and limitations to dispersal might reduce its actual realized niche relative to the fundamental niche indicated by the models. In addition, land use for agriculture, grazing, and urbanization might further reduce the success of this species in a changing climate.
10.2307/3088771| The ecological life history of Microstegium vimineum, an invasive grass, was compared among four populations throughout southern Illinois. A detailed investigation of seed production was conducted at one of these populations in a secondary oak-hickory forest in Dixon Springs State Park, Illinois. In this park, M. vimineum occurs as a central, main population with several disjunct subpopulations. Size of flowering and non-flowering individuals was determined as the plants set seed. Seed dispersal was assessed using seed traps. A severe late summer drought impacted the Dixon Springs population in 1999 and few plants flowered. Plants that did flower were significantly larger than those not flowering and were limited to one small area at the edge of the core population. At Dixon Springs, the germinable seed bank was estimated from soil samples collected in Fall 1999 before flowering, and in the subsequent spring. Seedlings emerged from soils placed in a greenhouse from samples collected in the spring. No seedlings emerged from samples collected in the fall. Germinable seed had a 10 times higher density in samples collected near the soil surface than from samples collected at 5-10 cm depth. Seed dispersal occurred within the main population only. Despite the lack of seed dispersal in 1999, seedlings emerged from six of seven subpopulations in spring 2000, with the highest densities where plants had flowered in 1999. These data indicate the presence of a persistent soil seed bank for M. vimineum. Even following summer drought and discounting spring seedling emergence, the size of the seed bank increased by 25% in 1999. Reestablishment of the Dixon Springs population following the 1999 drought was vigorous, but the location of the largest, most fecund plants in 2000 was not the same as in 1999. In 2000, end of season survivorship of M. vimineum among all populations was 40-50%, with 90% of surviving individuals flowering. Performance of M. vimineum varied significantly within and among populations and was related to soil texture and chemistry, and overhead canopy cover. The findings of our study reflect the invasive nature of this plant. A sufficiently large seed bank and a highly plastic morphological response to local microhabitat conditions likely ensures its persistence in invaded sites. 
41678786|We report a detailed study of the pollen wall structure in Linum burkartii and L. usitatissimum (Linaceae). This study was carried out using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy Results confirm that the exine of the species studied is formed by: the ectexine constituted by clavae, gemmae, and a loose basal layer, a thin endexine and a fibrilar intine. These observations constitute the first report on the ultrastructure of pollen in the Linaceae that characterizes the species here studied and expands the palynological knowledge of this family.
40207575|Heavy infestations of a nonindigenous shrub, Amur honeysuckle (Lonicera maackii) are frequently linked to poor individual performance and reduced species diversity. We used chronosequence methods and analysis of forest strata to investigate potential impacts of L. maackii on 1) species richness, 2) density of sub-canopy recruitment layers, 3) indicator species affinity, and 4) within- and among-strata compositional similarities. We compared sites ranging from 12 to 26 years since initial invasion as well as non-invaded, control sites. When assessing non-invaded versus long-invaded sites, we found significantly (P  0.05) reduced densities in the herb (57%), seedling (58%), and sapling layers (90%), and also reduced species richness in the seedling (34%), and sapling (58%), and herbaceous layers (4%). Interestingly, the germinable seed bank density showed significant increases among non-invaded and long-invaded sites (+78%), while the species richness of the seed bank demonstrated a marked decrease (41%). Indicator species analysis found that most species had greater frequencies and abundances in non-invaded sites, and nearly all species had greater affinities for the non- invaded sites, especially in the seedling, sapling, and seed bank layers. Responses were speciesspecific in the herbaceous layer. Within-layer species similarity decreased with increased time of L. maackii occupancy in all sub-canopy strata. This pattern was also found with reductions in between-layer compositional similarity for the long-invaded (r = 0.16) versus the recently-invaded (r = 0.37) and noninvaded (r = 0.51) sites. Our data suggest that in many invaded sites, habitats are experiencing wholesale alterations in species composition, structure, and successional trajectory, and invasion may also change competitive interactions in forest understories as well as alter between-layer species linkages. These results validate the candidacy of L. maackii sites for increased removal and restoration efforts.
10.2307/2997251|In a greenhouse experiment, we measured the morphological plasticity of two congeneric vines, Lonicera japonica Thunb., an important invasive species in the U.S. and L. sempervirens L., a non-invasive native. We hypothesized that greater morphological plasticity may contribute to the ability of L. japonica to occupy more habitat types, and contribute to its invasiveness. We compared the morphology of plants provided with climbing supports with plants that had no climbing supports, and thus quantified their morphological plasticity in response to an important variable in their habitats. The two species responded differently to the treatments, with L. japonica showing greater responses in more characters. For example, Lonicera japonica responded to climbing supports with a 15.3% decrease in internode length, a doubling of internode number and a 43% increase in shoot biomass. In contrast, climbing supports did not influence internode length or shoot biomass for L. sempervirens, and only resulted in a 25% increase in internode number. This plasticity may allow L. japonica to actively place plant modules in favorable microhabitats and ultimately affect plant fitness.
10.2307/3088744|We identified factors important to vegetation community distribution within the Waterboro Barrens, an outstanding example of the northern variant of the pitch pine-scrub oak (Pinus rigida-Quercus ilicifolia) barrens ecosystem in southern Maine. Plant communities examined included pitch pine-heath, pitch pine-scrub oak, mixed deciduous woodland, scrub oak, and open-canopy pitch pine. We investigated five factors that potentially influence vegetation distribution in the 856-ha preserve: soil texture, moisture, and fertility; topography; and disturbance history. Although analysis of variance revealed significant differences in soils and topography among plots in the five communities studied, multivariate analyses indicated a weak relationship between these environmental variables and species composition and structure. In contrast, disturbance history clearly influenced community and species distribution within the preserve. Effects of historic logging, charcoaling, and cultivation for blueberries persist despite a stand-replacing wildfire that swept through most of barrens in October, 1947. Pollen and charcoal analysis of sediments from a pond near the preserve suggests fire has influenced the barrens for at least the last several centuries, but that prior to European settlement of the area in the 18th century the character of the vegetation differed somewhat from that of today. Our results demonstrate that both fire and edaphic factors have influenced the vegetation of the area, but that historic land use has also played a strong role in determining the present character of the plant communities studied.
10.2307/3088659|The most common forestland classification techniques applied in the southeastern United States are vegetation-based. While not completely ignored, the application of multifactor, hierarchical ecosystem classifications are limited despite their widespread use in other regions of the eastern United States. We present one of the few truly integrated ecosystem classifications for the southeastern Coastal Plain. Our approach is iterative, including reconnaissance, plot sampling, and multivariate analysis. Each ecosystem is distinguished by differences in physiographic setting, landform, topographic relief, soils, and vegetation. The ecosystem classification is ground-based, incorporating easily observed and measured factors of landform, soil texture, and vegetative cover associated into ecological species groups identified by two-way indicator species analysis. Canonical correspondence analyses (CCA) that measure the degree of distinctness among ecosystems using different combinations of physiographic, soil, and vegetation datasets are used to verify the classification. The hierarchical ecosystem classification provides a framework for sustainable resource management of our study landscape as an alternative to traditional cover-type or vegetation-based classifications in the southeastern Coastal Plain. This ecosystem classification provides a structural framework that mimics biological organization, by physical drivers, ensuring that information on various ecosystem components are available to assist management decisions made at the ecosystem level.
20063834|Frequency of groundlayer plants was measured across oak woodland canopy gaps at three sites in northwest Indiana to examine how vegetation varied with gap size, direction along the gap edge, and microhabitat. Microhabitats were defined as under the canopy adjacent to the gap, along the gap edge, and within the gap. Gap-sites consisted of gaps plus adjacent tree canopy. Gaps were classified as small (16  1 m), medium (97  8), and large (310  32). Neither richness nor diversity differed among microhabitats, gap sizes, or edges. Similarity between microhabitats wthin a gap-site increased as the distance between plots decreased and as the difference in PAR decreased, the latter explaining twice the variation in percent dissimilarity compared to Mg concentration, A horizon depth, and litter cover. Diervilla lonicera, Frageria virginiana, Helianthus divaricatus, Polygonatum pubescens, Quercus velutina, Smilacena stellata, and Tradescantia ohiensis decreased, while Tephrosia virginiana and legumes increased in frequency, from canopy to gap, and C grasses peaked at the gap edge, independent of gap size. Additional species frequency varied across the microhabitat gradient within specific sites. Sorghastrum nutans was three times more frequent in gaps at large sites than elsewhere. The vegetation in medium-sized gap-sites was more variable than within small and large gap-sites, suggesting greater environmental heterogeneity at that scale. Within gap-sites, vegetation was more heterogeneous within edges and canopies than in gaps. Edges were more similar in composition to gaps than to canopy groundlayer within gap-sites. Few species varied significantly in frequency around the gap edge. The oak woodland groundlayer on sandy substrates can be characterized as a mosaic of forb dominated vegetation that varies across light gradients associated with canopy gaps, transitioning to islands of grassland vegetation when gaps exceed 160 m.
10.2307/2997255|This overview of recent phylogenetic studies in the petaloid monocots focuses on the Hemerocallidaceae and Melanthiaceae, both segregates of the traditional and polyphyletic Liliaceae s.l. Synapomorphies for Hemerocallidaceae and Melanthiaceae are summarized. Data support the expansion of the Hemerocallidaceae to include 16 to 18 genera. Recent studies show the Melanthiaceae s.l. sensu Dahlgren to be polyphyletic and indicate that the family should be divided into three distantly related families: the Melanthiaceae s.s. (Liliales), the Nartheciaceae (Nartheciales), and the Tofieldiaceae (Tofieldiales).
40864970|We examined vegetation responses to prescribed fire on three mixed-oak sites located in the Blue Ridge Physiographic province of the southern Appalachian Mountains: Alarka Laurel Branch (AL), Robin Branch (RB), and Roach Mill Branch (RM). Each of the study sites was within a sub-watershed that drained a first order stream. Our objectives were to: 1) evaluate overstory mortality following prescribed fire treatments; and 2) assess changes in composition, abundance, and diversity of overstory (stems > 5.0 cm dbh), understory (stems < 5.0 cm dbh,  0.5 m height), and herbaceous layer (woody stems <0.5 m height and all herbaceous plants) vegetation in mixed-oak ecosystems. Each site included a burned and unburned area (control). Before the prescribed fire treatments were applied, we established permanent plots (10 X 20 m) in the prescribed burn areas (12 plots in AL, 12 plots in RB, and 10 plots in RM) and adjacent unburned areas (5 plots in AL, 6 plots in RB, and 4 plots in RM), for a total of 49 plots. Within the plots, we sampled vegetation before and after the prescribed burns. All of the prescribed fires were low to moderate intensity; i. e., they had moderate flame temperatures and low flame heights. After the prescribed fires, overstory mortality was low for all sites, and there were no significant differences between mortality in burned areas and that in unburned areas. Understory density was lower on the burned than the unburned plots the first (t = -5.26, P < 0.0001) and second (t = -3.85, P = 0.0020) growing seasons after burning. There was either an increase (AL, RB) or no change (RM) in herbaceous layer cover depending on the site and no significant change in species diversity after burning for any site. Thus, we found no negative effects of prescribed fire on herbaceous flora.
43286998|Conservation of a threatened species requires knowledge of the factors that affect its recruitment, survival, and reproduction. We conducted a long-term study on the demography of Paronychia chartacea ssp. chartacea, a short-lived, gynodioecious Florida rosemary scrub endemic. Specifically, we assessed the effects of habitat (rosemary scrub vs. roadsides), time-since-fire, microhabitat, and rainfall on recruitment, survival, flowering, and seed production. In addition, in a shorterterm study, we assessed the effects of habitat, time-since-fire, and gender on flower and seed production. Overall, approximately one-third of individuals survived more than one year and individuals most often flowered twice indicating that P. chartacea ssp. chartacea is an iteroparous, short-lived perennial, which is in contrast to its disjunct conspecific, the annual P. chartacea ssp. minima. Recruitment was higher in roadsides, but seed production was higher in rosemary scrub. Within rosemary scrub, recruitment was highest at intermediate times-since-fire and in the center of large gaps, the microhabitat with the greatest amount of bare sand. Median lifespan was longest in long unburned sites, suggesting that P. chartacea ssp. chartacea is able to persist despite litter accumulation and competition from shrubs. Rainfall had a positive effect on annual survival, but did not affect seedling recruitment. Females produced more seeds than hermaphrodites, indicating that females contribute more to population persistence. Our study suggests P. chartacea ssp. chartacea populations will persist under the 15-40 year fire return interval characteristic of regularly burned Florida rosemary scrub, but may not persist in roadsides if greater recruitment does not balance shorter lifespans.
10.2307/2997240|Wood anatomy of root, base, and mid-level stems of Wilkesia gymnoxiphium is compared with wood of lower stem and root-stem transition of W. hobdyi. Wood of W. hobdyi is xeromorphic, like that of the base of W. gymnoxiphium, and has no unique features not also observable in W. gymnoxiphium. Differences among quantitative wood features of collections and portions studied are tabulated. Fiber dimorphism is evident in extensive alternating tangential bands in wood of midlevel stems of wild-occurring W. gymnoxiphium, and in short tangential bands in all other collections and portions. Wood of Wilkesia is not as xeromorphic as that of Argyroxiphium, and is like that of several species of Dubautia; recent cladograms that show Wilkesia as a sister group to Dubautia are thus supported.
40207593|Ribes (currants and gooseberries) are alternate hosts for Cronartium ribicola, the invasive fungus that causes blister rust of white pines (Pinus, subgenus Strobus) in the Rocky Mountain region of Colorado and Wyoming. The location, species, and density of Ribes can affect the spread and impact of this potentially serious forest disease. We assessed the distribution and density of Ribes growing near white pine stands for 15 study areas in Colorado and Wyoming with 1258 survey plots of two types, an intensive white pine/Ribes survey and an extensive Ribes survey. Species present, total numbers of stems and bushes, average number of stems per bush, and average stem length were recorded. Various Ribes species were present in all study areas across a range of elevations. The most frequent and common species were R. cereum, R. inerme, R. lacustre, and K montigenum. Densities and probabilities of occurrence were related to site variables and varied by Ribes species. The most common predictive variables included type of dominant overstory, elevation, and general plot classification such as riparian area. The predictive information provided can be utilized by tree health specialists for risk rating of forests and in planning white pine blister rust mitigation projects. We expect that other areas in Colorado and Wyoming with similar site characteristics will have similar distributions and densities of Ribes and thus have similar risks to white pine blister rust.
10.2307/3088714|Mats of the green alga, Klebsormidium rivulare (Kuetz.) Morison et Sheath, were collected from five acid mine drainage (AMD) seeps and streams in southeastern Ohio on two separate occasions. In order to better understand the relationship of metals in algae, ambient water and soil samples, samples were analyzed for concentrations of aluminum, iron, zinc and manganese. For each of the tested metals, there was a significant difference among the concentrations in algal mats, water, and sediments. For aluminum, iron and manganese, the median concentration of metals in the algal samples was highest, but whether water or sediment had more, varied among metals. The median concentration of zinc in sediment was greatest followed by the algal samples and water. The median iron content of the algal samples and water were positively correlated but aluminum contents in the algal samples and water were negatively correlated. The metal accumulating capacity of algal mats from AMD generated by coal mining is similar to results obtained for algae from other types of mining operations. Results of this study suggest that snapshot studies of Klebsormidium-dominated algal mats may be a good indicator for iron concentration in water but not for content of aluminum, zinc or manganese.
20063919|Plant anatomists are generally agreed on the histological products of successive cambia: bands of secondary phloem and associated secondary xylem ("vascular increments") embedded in a background of conjunctive tissue (parenchyma, sometimes fibers). Interpretations have varied widely on the ontogeny of this plan. Studies have usually involved one or a few species. The study of numerous taxa, especially in centrospermoid families, leads to the conclusion that there is a common plan, although variations on it are manifold. A master cambium produces secondary cortex externally and, internally, rays, conjunctive tissue, vascular cambia, secondary phloem, and secondary xylem. Secondary phloem and secondary xylem are formed from the vascular cambium in each vascular increment. Vascular cambia function indefinitely, so that a master cambium and a series of vascular cambia (each in a vascular increment) function indefinitely. The master cambium either remains active as long as an axis is actively growing (although it may become quiescent following the initiation of each vascular increment and associated conjunctive tissue), or, less commonly, may be reinvented in the secondary cortex. In order to establish a framework for interpretations, the varied appearances of each of these tissues in genera that have successive cambia is discussed. Themes that particular genera represent are then examined: diversification in ray types and raylessness (Nyctaginaceae); diversification in conjunctive tissue (Aizoacaeae); rays as key structural elements (Gnetaceae); successive cambia as an apomorphy (Chrysanthemoides); protraction of cambial activity (Menispermaceae); and cambial fracture and parenchyma proliferation (Bauhinia, Mendoncia). In some taxa, such as Gnetum africanum and the large tropical lianas (Bauhinia, Menispermaceae) a master cambium is absent; new vascular cambia arise by one or a few cell divisions in cortical parenchyma, followed by rapid tangential widening of the vascular cambium. Pervasive ecophysiological themes in plants with successive cambia are examined: storage and retrieval; promotion of mechanical strength and longevity of vascular tissues; and modes of lianoid structure. Because the background tissue in plants with successive cambia is conjunctive tissue, not secondary xylem, the terms "included phloem: and "interxylary phloem" are inapplicable. The term "lateral meristem" is abandoned in favor of "master cambium".
10.2307/3088706|The Hempstead Harbor Shoreline Trail is located in the Town of North Hempstead, Nassau County, Long Island NY. Restoration of the site, concentrating on the removal of alien species, began in September 2001. This flora provides a baseline record of the species present at the onset of restoration. This study is exclusively based upon voucher collections made by the author from September 1998 through October 1999 records the flora of several different habitats including successional woodlands, salt marsh, disturbed clearings, and old field successional areas found at the site. Listed are 60 families, 131 genera, and 168 species. The largest families are the Poaceae (27 species), Asteraceae (25), Fabaceae (9) and Rosaceae (8). Together, these four families comprise roughly 41% of the species present. Three species, Cenchrus tribuloides L., Suaeda linearis Elliot (Moq), and Agastache scrophulariifolia (Willd.) Kuntze. found on site have been designated as rare in NYS.
40865063|A taxonomic revision of the genus Casselia is provided. Casselia is a small genus of Verbenaeeae, placed in the tribe Casselieae, along with Tamonea and Parodianthus. It is represented by six species, distributed in South America, along central Brazil, eastern Bolivia and northern Paraguay. Five new synonyms and two lectotypifications are proposed. Detailed morphological descriptions are given for each taxon, as well as a key for their identification, illustrations, actualised synonymy, distribution, and a discussion about the relationship between closely related taxa.
43287016|Larrea tridentata is a dominant and widespread shrub of North American warm deserts. The species comprises three "chromosomal races," including diploids (Chihuahuan Desert), tetraploids (Sonoran Desert), hexaploids (Mojave and western Sonoran Deserts), as well as the geographically restricted tetraploid L. tridentata var. arenaria. Creosote bush is a recent arrival to the North American continent, and it is hypothesized that its geographic dispersion reflects rapid ecological divergence mediated by polyploidization. Here we use species distribution modeling to quantitatively evaluate alternate hypotheses for cytotype distributions, based on comprehensive field sampling of creosote bush populations over four years. Using ecological niche models and analyses of fieldcollected soils, we test whether (1) the climatic niche of the three cytotypes are differentiated; (2) there is evidence for strong climatic gradients at the distributional boundaries of the cytotypes; and (3) cytotype ranges are distinguished by edaphic features. Quantitative tests of niche equivalence indicated that distribution models for all cytotypes were significantly different from one other, suggesting that cytotype races occupy unique and distinctive habitats. However, tests of niche similarity suggest a pattern of niche conservatism, wherein cytotypes tend to occur in climatically similar regions of their respective deserts. Moreover, the modeled diploid distribution was projected to intrude into the geographic range of tetraploids, and the modeled tetraploid distribution was projected to intrude into the range of hexaploids, suggesting that intercytotype competition is a factor influencing cytotype distributions. The range boundary between the dune endemic L. tridentata var. arenaria and hexaploid L. tridentata was noteworthy for exhibiting a strong climatic gradient and striking differences in soil texture (increased sand, decreased gravel). More generally, soil texture differed statistically between sites occupied by diploid, tetraploid, and hexaploid L. tridentata, albeit with considerable overlap across the geographic ranges of the three cytotypes. Taken together, our findings suggest that multiple factors affect the distribution of creosote bush chromosome races, including but not limited to ecological divergence.
10.2307/2996579|Stand structure and ages were measured in six old stands of Pinus taeda L. (loblolly pine) and one younger stand within Congaree Swamp National Monument, South Carolina. Dominant overstory species included loblolly pine, shade intolerant hardwoods and tolerant hardwoods. All overstory species except pine also occurred in the sapling layer. Five of the six old stands had two or more pine age classes. All but one individual pine was less than 200 years old. According to estimates of future survival, current loblolly pine seedling densities in recently hurricane-disturbed and clearcut areas are inadequate to reproduce tree densities measured in extant old stands. Spatial distributions of mature trees suggest that pines have established in gaps as large as 0.3 ha and as small as a single overstory tree. No evidence of fire (scars on existing trees or charcoal in the upper 10 cm of soil) was found in any old stand. From these results, we speculate that the old loblolly pine stands in Congaree Swamp resulted from small-scale agricultural activities, although wind storms, fires, or combinations of these may have played contributing roles. Because of its apparent ability to regenerate in gaps, loblolly pine will probably remain in Congaree Swamp for several centuries as small clumps and scattered individuals.
10.2307/3088725|Oak savannas were historically abundant, but they are now rare. Although there is great interest in oak savanna restoration, there is still debate about the nature of the understory composition of oak savannas, especially in lowlands. We sampled 168 quadrats $(0.25\>m^2)$ in remnant floodplain oak savannas along the Chippewa River, WI, to produce a gradient analysis of vegetation by both taxonomic and guild composition. Community composition varied along two main gradients, as indicated by correlations between DCA scores and environmental factors. The communities mainly varied along a soil quality gradient (primarily nitrogen and organic matter), from sand barrens to wet-mesic savannas, and along a tree canopy cover gradient from open prairie-like areas to areas with heavy canopy. Although significant, fire frequency was of minor importance, but we believe this was partly a sampling artifact. Seven general community types were described, and MANOVA tests showed they differed in terms of guild composition. Forbs tended to dominate most community types, with Solidago species usually among the most abundant species, while C4 graminoids (mostly Andropogon gerardii and Sorghastrum nutans) were dominant only in the poorest soils and relatively open areas. Stepwise regression showed relatively weak relationships between relative guild cover and the measured environmental variables. Only C4 graminoids showed close correspondence to the main gradients affecting taxonomic composition. The other guilds responded to disturbance and distinct soil factors.
20063861|Forty-three scaled chrysophytes (Synurophyceae: 26 Mallomonas spp., nine Synura spp.; Chrysophyceae: three Chrysosphaerella and Spiniferomonas spp., and two Paraphysomonas spp.) in 41 water samples from Columbia, Franklin, Hamilton, Herkimer, Otsego and St. Lawrence Counties, New York, were identified using TEM. Fourteen taxa are new records from New York, including one new report for the U.S. Temperature, pH, and conductivity ranges of the prevalent species are discussed. Non-siliceous scales of two colorless free-living flagellates, Gyromitus disomatus, an organism of uncertain taxonomic affinity, and the organic scaled chrysophyte-like Pseudodendromonas vlkii, were also observed.
20063858|Distance sampling methods are widely applied to witness tree data from General Land Office (GLO) survey records to determine historic vegetation. Most researchers apply modifications of the point-centered quarter or random pairs distance methods to witness tree distances as if these data were collected according to the procedures required for the methods. Application of five methods (three modifications of the point-centered quarter method (Q, Q, and
10.2307/4126911| Different subfamilies of the Amaranthaceae have differentiated in the Galpagos and the Hawaiian Islands. In both archipelagos the endemic taxa exhibit a wide range of variation. Woodiness has evolved in both archipelagos through the so-called anomalous secondary growth typical of the caryophylliid families. Hybridization and transgression phenomena probably play an important role and may explain the morphological variation patterns in some taxa. Variation within individual populations sometimes hint to incipient speciation. In the Galpagos the subfamily Gomphrenoideae is represented by endemic species of Alternanthera, Lithophila and Blutaparon. Morphological features suggest that the group of about nine endemic species of Alternanthera can be traced back to two or three original colonization events. Several infraspecific taxa have been recognized but the current classification should be regarded as tentative and further studies based on molecular data are needed. In the Hawaiian Islands the subfamily Amaranthoideae has differentiated, with one genus, Nototrichium, endemic with three species. The genus Charpentiera has five endemic species in Hawaii and one species in the Austral Islands. The higher level of endemism in Hawaii as compared with that in the Galpagos stems from the combined effects of the more isolated geographical position, the more varied ecological conditions, and the greater geological age of the Hawaiian chain. 
20063826|If molecular analyses are correct in indicating that Gnetales are related to conifers and no other living gymnosperm group is directly related to angiosperms, studies on the origin of angiosperms must focus on fossil taxa, including "seed ferns." Some authors have homologized the angiosperm carpel with the cupule of seed ferns, but because angiosperm ovules have two integuments rather than one, cupules are more likely to be homologous with the outer integument. Cupules of the earliest seed ferns may be derived from fertile appendages of "progymnosperms," but those of later taxa appear to be modified leaves or leaflets, with ovules borne on the abaxial surface in some (peltasperms, corystosperms), the adaxial surface in others (glossopterids, Caytonia). Positional relationships and developmental genetic data suggest that the bitegmic ovule is comparable to a cupule with adaxial ovules. Analysis of a critically revised morphological data set for seed plants indicates that trees in which Gnetales are nested in conifers, as in molecular analyses, are almost as parsimonious as those in which Gnetales are linked with angiosperms, suggesting that the molecular arrangement should be accepted. When living taxa are constrained into the molecular topology, angiosperms are linked with glossopterids, Pentoxylon, Bennettitales, and Caytonia, supporting the homology of the cupule and the bitegmic ovule. Origin of the carpel poses more problems; it could correspond to the leaf portion of the glossopterid leaf-cupule complex, but its homologies in Caytonia are more obscure. New data on currently unknown characters of glossopterids, "Mesozoic seed ferns," and Bennettitales are needed to test these hypotheses.
10.2307/4126927|In January of 1998, Ottawa, Ontario was hit with a major ice storm. Detailed pre-storm vegetation data had been collected in 1997 in 164 forest interior sampling plots across a
40207572|Previous work indicates that an evergreen shrub layer dominated by Rhododendron maximum L. and/or Kalmia latifolia L. is a critical component of Appalachian forests, potentially exerting control over forest structure and succession. Moreover, communities characterized by thickets of evergreen understory shrubs exhibit distinct patterning on the landscape associated with topographic gradients and disturbance. We compare distributions of R. maximum and K. latifolia in the warmer and drier Ridge and Valley physiographic province and on the cooler and wetter Allegheny Plateau of western Maryland and adjacent Pennsylvania and find that the relationships between community composition and the environment differ between these two physiographic provinces. Kalmia latifolia dominance is strongly associated with topographically dry locations and a history of gypsy moth defoliation, while R. maximum is associated with topographically wet positions in the Allegheny Plateau, but less so in the Ridge and Valley. ANOVA identified significant differences in midstory volume and basal area and leaf area index of canopy tree species where evergreen understory shrub species were prominent. Specifically, basal area and leaf area were lower above K. latifolia understory communities, and midstory volume was found to be lower in areas where K. latifolia and R. maximum were abundant. However, the results show that cover of K latifolia must be sufficiently continuous (i.e., not patchy) for the midstory volume to be affected. In plots with a history of gypsy moth infestation, basal area was found to be significantly lower in plots where K. latifolia thickets were present than where it was absent, suggesting that K. latifolia impedes structural recovery from this disturbance.
40207582|Merremia macrocalyx is a vine that grows over other plants or as a low creeper and is considered a weed of important crops. Study of its reproductive biology showed that its flowers comprise the typical features of the melittophilous pollination syndrome. Anthophoridae, Apidae, and Halictidae were its main floral visitors. Merremia macrocalyx showed a mixed mating system with features that promote outcrossing while allowing some autogamy. Floral biomass was allocated mainly to the corolla (attraction) which, together with the presence of herkogamy and protandry, favors out-crossing. Nevertheless, it is self-compatible and partially autogamous due to the position of anthers above the stigma. Foraging behavior of pollinators could also facilitate deposition of self pollen on the stigma. Ovule abortion was the main predispersal loss of potential seed production, closely followed by flower and fruit abortion. Predispersal seed predation and seed abortion were relatively low. Specimens of Megacerus flabelliger (Bruchidae) were found emerging from the seeds as well as some wasps belonging to families recognized as parasitoids. The mixed mating system showed by Merremia macroclayx, together with its pollination by generalist bees, provides advantages for its development as a weed.
40207625|Biological invasions frequently bring about negative impacts on natural ecosystems, including changing their structure and function and causing loss of biodiversity. A large percentage of invasive species are introduced intentionally as horticulture plants by the green industry. Repeated introductions of nonnative plant species have accelerated the invasion processes considerably despite the fact that only a small percentage of intentional introductions actually become invasive. Currently, there is a lack of specific information on non-native and invasive plants in the state of Kentucky, especially concerning species origin, taxonomic affinity, and the pathway of species introduction. This study is designed to gather information about plant species found in nurseries across the state of Kentucky to test the hypothesis that species belonging to certain families and coming from particular geographical regions may have a higher possibility to be introduced into new locations as horticulture plants. By identifying and recording 462 species in 101 families and 258 genera from twenty-two nurseries statewide, we discovered that the possibility for a species to be introduced as horticulture plant significantly relates to its native origin and family membership; nonnative plant species, especially those with eastern Asian origins, are carried most by nurseries in general. Our results suggest that native origin and family membership of plant species could be used as an effective indicator in identifying the pool of potentially invasive species in the future. Our findings confirm that nurseries have been a major pathway of non-native plants introductions. Most importantly, our study points out the critical needs for having informed and educated personnel in the green industry, so that invasive exotic species will not be introduced in the first place.
20063838|A chronosequence of stands on floodplain terraces of the San Antonio River in south Texas was sampled in 1983 and resampled in 2003. The youngest resampled stand, an early successional stage originally 19 yrs of age, was an open Acacia farnesiana (huisache) woodland. After 20 yrs this stand was a mid- successional A. farnesiana-Celtis laevigata (Texas sugarberry) woodland, and demonstrated a decrease in A. farnesiana density from 427 plants
10.2307/3088656|Little is known how age of seeds stored under laboratory conditions influences germination and seedling growth in non-agricultural species, especially species used in ecological restoration projects. Nor do we know how inbreeding affects seed aging. Hibiscus moscheutos L. (Malvaceae), a wild species native to wetlands of the eastern United States, was used to compare one- vs. three-year-old and two- vs. five-year-old laboratory stored seeds. Effects of seed age and inbreeding were determined for days to seedling emergence, percent germination, pre-emergence mortality, and seedling dry weight. Results indicate that as seeds aged, percent germination decreased while days to seedling emergence and pre-emergence mortality increased. Effect of seed age on seedling dry weight was less conclusive because older seeds resulted in greater seedling biomass in one vs. three-year-old seeds while the opposite was observed in two vs. five-year-old seeds. Inbreeding depression was detected in percent germination and seedling dry weight. No significant interaction between seed age and inbreeding was found. Results of our study suggest that young, outcrossed seeds may contribute disproportionately to the seedling population due to higher germination and more vigorous seedling growth than in old, selfed seeds. These results provide insights relevant to conservation efforts, as artificially stored seeds are often utilized in restoration projects and long-term seed storage is used as a tool for conserving rare and endangered species. We suggest that both age and breeding history of seeds should be considered when selecting seed sources for species or habitat restorations. Further, seeds should be collected from multiple maternal plants, as there are interactions between seed age and maternal plant family.
10.2307/2997287|Solidago shortii T & G (Asteraceae) is a federal-endangered species endemic to a small area in northeastern Kentucky Seeds sown in December 1994 in a Festuca arundinacea-dominated meadow, in two Juniperus virginiana stands, and in an oak-hickory forest germinated to 39-59% in spring 1995; those sown in gaps of a J virginiana stand and in the open germinated to 48-66% Peak germination occurred before the oak-hickory canopy leafed-out and before F arundinacea produced new (green) growth Seeds covered with leaf litter either immediately after sowing (on 23 December 1994) or 40 d after sowing germinated to 79-87% in spring 1995; those kept free of litter or with litter removed 40 d after being covered with litter germinated to 58% Only seeds continuously covered with litter from time of sowing germinated (3%) the second spring In the laboratory, cold-stratified (nondormant) seeds germinated to 96-100% after 2 wk incubation at a 12/12 h daily thermoperiod of 30/15
10.2307/3088672|White campion (Silene latifolia) is a dioecious perennial that is the focus of an on-going meta population study in southwestern Virginia. In order to determine if a population in this study region maintained a dormant seed bank we collected soil cores, placed them in a greenhouse, and monitored emergence of white campion seedlings. The timing of soil core collection ensured that all white campion seeds in the soil were $\geq\!\!10\>mo$ old. We compared the genetic composition of the seed bank with that of the above ground plants and the seed crop produced that year by scoring individuals from each cohort for sex and genotype at 7 polymorphic isozyme loci. A total of 99 white campion seedlings emerged from the 70 cores collected (mean density of seedlings per core = $1.41\pm4.37$, n = 70 cores; 535.29 seedlings/m<sup>2</sup>). The frequency distribution for seedling density per core deviated significantly from that predicted by a Poisson distribution, and the results of this analysis indicate a clumped dispersion pattern. The observed genotype frequencies in each cohort did not differ significantly from Hardy-Weinberg predictions, and allele frequencies did not differ significantly between the above and below ground cohorts. Sex ratios in each cohort did not deviate significantly from 1:1. The results indicate that this white campion population maintains a dormant seed bank that provides an unbiased reservoir of genetic variation for the characters we investigated.
20063852|Soil seed banks are especially important for forest regeneration in stands with few understory species and individuals. The understory of hemlock (Tsuga canadensis)-dominated stands in New England primarily consists of hemlock seedlings and saplings, but all size classes of hemlock are attacked by the hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae). Prior to the initiation of a large-scale manipulative experiment designed to examine the impact of the adelgid on hemlock forest ecology, we documented the seed bank composition of eight large (0.81 ha) experimental hemlock-dominated and young hardwood-dominated plots. The seed bank samples from the hemlock-dominated plots contained significantly fewer species (rarefied species richness = 24; 95% confidence interval = 20-28) than those from the hardwood-dominated plots (species richness = 30). Seed banks from all plots were dominated by Betula lenta, Rubus spp., and Carex pensylvanica. Among plots, there was little compositional relationship between the forest overstory and its understory on the one hand, and its seed bank on the other hand. Because seeds of hemlock and birch persist for only a few years in the seed bank, and because hemlock seedlings are readily attacked and killed by the adelgid, damaged hemlock stands are more likely to be replaced by stands of black birch and other hardwoods than by hemlock.
10.2307/3088648|We examined the host-preference and optimal hosts of the federally endangered hemiparasite, Schwalbea americana L. We also determined the effects of four fertilizer treatments ($NO_3\!\!-\!\!140ppmN, \>NO_3\!\!-\!\!280ppmN,\>NH_4\!\!-\!\!140ppmN$, and NH
20063949|A new species, Geranium alonsoi, from Boyac and Cundinamarca in Colombia is described and illustrated, and the key to the species of Geranium sect. Neoandina is upgraded.
10.2307/2997312|Agalinis skinneriana is a rare, autogamous, bee-visited, annual plant native to the Illinois prairie. Two populations differing in size were chosen for study: the Site M population with thousands of individuals and Revis Hill Prairie population with only hundreds of individuals. These populations were found to differ significantly in their potential for autogamous selfing. In bagging experiments, the Revis population had a potential selfing rate of 99% compared to 85% at Site M. The higher potential for autogamous selfing in plants at the Revis population was associated with a small population size, no observed bee visitors, a larger ovary, increased proportional biomass to the gynoecium, lower pollen viability, reduced pollen production/flower, and a lower P/O ratio compared with plants at the Site M population. The data suggest that autogamous pollination in A. skinneriana has evolved as a mechanism to assure reproduction as a result of habitat destruction and fragmentation and subsequent small population size.
43287030|Balancing land management and restoration goals for ecosystems and for individual species can create challenges. Here we describe the responses of two federally endangered plants to experimental restoration of fre-suppressed xeric longleaf pine/wiregrass (sandhill) habitat on the Lake Wales Ridge in south-central Florida. We compared responses to prescribed fire with (saw & burn treatment) and without (burn-only treatment) prior felling of the oak subcanopy to an untreated control. We conducted a 7-year study of the demography of two endemic plants, scrub buckwheat (Eriogonwn longifolium var. gnaphalifoliuni) and scrub plum (Prunus geniculata). Scrub buckwheat responded positively to the burn treatments, with high survival, positive growth, and increased flowering in both treatments. Likewise, scrub plum had high survival in all treatments, although severely burned, fireconsumed plants were more likely to die. Fire benefits scrub plum by increasing flowering 2-3 years after fire. These results for these two endemic species are consistent with vegetation studies in long-unburned Lake Wales Ridge sandhills in suggesting that chainsaw felling of the subcanopy can be an effective pre-burn treatment and, when followed by fire, can be useful in "speeding up" restoration. The ultimate goal of sandhill restoration, the return of a frequent low-intensity fire regime, will benefit scrub buckwheat and scrub plum. In this case, management for ecosystem goals benefits two of its rare component species.
20063948|Pollen grains of Celtis tala (Celtidaceae), Phytolacca dioica (Phytolaccaceae), Schinopsis balansae (Anacardiaceae) and Solidago chilensis (Asteraceae) are examined with light and scanning electron microscopy, described, and illustrated. These four unrelated species are native to southern South America and considered an important source of skin prick allergy tests. Most relevant pollen characters are compared to those of their closest relatives. Celtis tala (3-, 4-, or 5- porate, verrucate) shares characters with the Celtis africana type in lacking a sunken area around the ora and in having the sculptural elements regularly arranged; Phytolacca dioica (3-colpate) with the Phytolacceae type in being microechinate and microperforate; Schinopsis balansae (3-colporate, striato-reticulate) with some members of the Lithraea molleoides subtype (Anacardiaceae) in having high muri and long striae; Solidago chilensis (3-colporate, echinate) with the Solidago type in being caveate. This study contributes to a better understanding of pollen morphology in species that are especially common to southern South America.
10.2307/2996598|We related stream channel and stream bank plant species composition to eighteen site specific and regional environmental variables in the New Jersey Pinelands (Pine Barrens). Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) and detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) related major patterns in species composition to complex watershed disturbance gradients. There were significant correlations between the first axes of both the CCA and DCA stream site ordinations and agricultural and developed land cover in a drainage area, pH, specific conductance, and channel sediment. There was a clear contrast between stream stations found within relatively undeveloped watersheds and those in highly developed or farmed drainage areas. Surface waters of the undisturbed sites displayed lower pH and specific conductance values compared with waters in the more disturbed watersheds. The most heavily impacted sites supported a unique group of peripheral or exotic plant species that replaced characteristic Pine Barrens species. Overall species richness did not change in response to watershed disturbance. The presence of disturbance indicator species, or species found only at disturbed sites, provided a good measure of watershed disturbance. High between-site variability in the species present at relatively undisturbed stations and the persistence of some species at more recently disturbed sites complicated the identification of sensitive species, or species found only at undisturbed sites. A comparison of the number of species historically found within and outside the Pine Barrens, rather than the presence or absence of particular sensitive species, provided an additional measure of ecological integrity.
41678807|Long-term studies of forests are needed to verify theoretical patterns of succession. I investigated three mature pine (Pinus strobus L. and P. resinosa Ait.) forests in northern Wisconsin with compositional records that date back to the 1940s, with particular emphasis on replication of data that I collected in the 1970s. In successional trends from the 1940s to the 1970s, hardwood reproduction generally exceeded that of pine. However, in 2006-2007 the stands showed a surge in regeneration of P. strobus that was not predicted from the past data or common ideas on succession, resulting in bimodal sizeclass distributions. I suggest a dynamic in which self thinning of mid-successional hardwoods might allow P. strobus regeneration. In another uncommon pattern, Quercus rubra has gained in dominance over Acer saccharum in most parts of a hardwood-dominated section of one forest. Future monitoring will show if the recent resurgence of P. strobus reproduction represents a major shift in the late-successional patterns of these forests.
20063940|Celastrus orbiculatus is an invasive liana in the Eastern United States. Its native congener, C. scandens, is less common and declining in the Northeast. The correct identification of these two species is often difficult because of their similar vegetative characteristics. Using morphological characteristics of both species growing naturally along a sand dune/forest ecotone, we built models for use in discriminating between the species, given a suite of leaf and fruit traits. We confirmed that the two species can be discriminated effectively using fruit characters, notably fruit volume and seed number. Several leaf traits, such as length-to-width ratio and leaf apex length can also discriminate between the species, but without the same predictive reliability of fruit traits. In addition, we determined that at leaf out in the spring the leaves of the two species were folded differently in the bud allowing them to be successfully discriminated in the early spring. Land managers could use this information to differentiate between the two species in the field and thereby control for the invasive C. orbiculatus, while preserving remaining populations of C. scandens.
10.2307/2997316|We used permanent plot inventories from 1969-1973 and 1988-1993 to describe forest species distribution patterns of the Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory, a 2,185 ha basin in western North Carolina, USA. We used canonical correspondence analysis to explore the vegetation-site patterns for the 1970s and 1990s inventories combined. Site variables were determined by direct measurements or calculated by digital geographical information system mapping methods. Site variables were percent slope, elevation, terrain shape, precipitation, modified azimuth, soil organic matter content, soil depth, soil clay content, depth of A-horizon, potential solar radiation, and mean temperature during the growing season. Fifty percent of the variation in the vegetation distribution was explained by the site variables used in the canonical correspondence analysis. Soil organic matter, terrain shape, and elevation were the variables most strongly related to vegetation distribution. Species associated with convex terrain (upper slopes and ridges), such as Pinus rigida, Quercus coccinea, and Quercus velutina, decreased in abundance from the 1970s to the 1990s; species associated with soils having high organic matter content and deep A-horizons, such as Liriodendron tulipifera, Rhododendron maximum, and Tsuga canadensis increased in abundance. Individual species responded differently to site gradients. For example, Acer rubrum, Quercus prinus, Oxydendrum arboreum, and Nyssa sylvatica were located in the center of the ordination space (i.e., their occurrence was not related to any of the site variables), which suggests that these species are habitat generalists.
25790857|As a highly aggressive non-native invasive and an allelopathic species, Ailanthus altissima (tree of heaven) has the capacity to negatively affect native plant communities by suppressing resident species and altering competitive interactions. We examined effects of A. altissima on the establishment and growth of two herbaceous species common in invaded natural areas. Soil samples were collected from six replicate A. altissima-dominated stands and six control stands (no A. altissima present) in the Appalachian Ridge and Valley province of southwestern Virginia. Two target species, Verbesina occidentalis, native to the southeastern US, and Dipsacus fullonum, non-native and invasive throughout North America, were selected for their high germination success and contrasting native vs. invasive status. Germination and growth of target species were monitored in greenhouse flats for six weeks. We found severe reductions in all measured aspects of V. occidentalis when grown in Ailanthus versus control soils, including seed germination (P = 0.002), seedling height (P = 0.001), leaf production (P < 0.001), and root:shoot ratio (P = 0.008). In contrast, Dipsacus fullonum appeared resistant to allelopathic effects, with no significant differences in germination or growth relative to soil type (P > 0.25 for all measures). Our results support the role of allelopathy in the invasive success of A. altissima and further suggest that A. altissima may differentially affect resident native versus non-native species, potentially facilitating the spread of other non-natives in the invaded community.
20063862|Mosses were collected during field work in the Black Rock Forest, Cornwall, NY between 1990 and 2000. No previous reports of mosses in the Forest exist. Sixty three species were identified. Fontinalis hypnoides Hartm., Leucobryum albidum (Brid.) Lindb., Orthotrichum anomalum Hedw., Plagiothecium laetum Schimp., Polystichum pallidisetum Funck, Steerecleus serrulatus (Hedw.) Robins., Sphagnum riparium ngstr., and Sphagnum subtile (Russ.) Warnst. have not been previously reported for Orange County, New York.
20063899|We investigated distinctive aspects of the floristic communities associated with bamboo dominance (Guadua sarcocarpa and Guadua weberbaueri) in terra-firma forests of the Tambopata River watershed, southeastern Peru. Data were collected at five sets of paired plots (five bamboo-dominated, five tree-dominated) in which no evidence of prior human disturbance was identified. Three components of the plant community were analyzed: (1) trees (5 cm diam), (2) tree saplings (&lt 5 cm diam), and (3) large understory plants (shrubs and herbs  1.5 meters). We used three statistical techniques (DCA, TWINSPAN, and ANOVA) to identify distinct assemblages of genera associated with the presence/absence of bamboo, and/or other factors (e.g., soil drainage, geographic location). All three statistical techniques produced similar results: the presence of bamboo is associated with a distinctive floristic community of trees and understory plants, but the tree sapling component of the plant communities was not distinct. Species richness in bamboo-dominated stands, as compared with tree-dominated stands, was 60% lower for trees and 36% lower for understory plants, but not significantly different for tree saplings. Bamboo-associated canopy trees and understory plants were characterized by fast growth rates, tolerance of poorly drained soils, and capacity for vegetative re-sprouting in response to physical damage to stems. These results suggest that differences in both soil and disturbance regimes drive floristic differences between bamboo-dominated stands and adjacent stands without bamboo.
20063869|Currently, Pseudocymopterus comprises two species, P. montanus and P. longiradiatus. Pseudocymopterus montanus is highly variable morphologically and in the past was subdivided into several poorly defined taxa. Multivariate analyses of 235 specimens reflecting the morphological variability exhibited by these plants and representing populations from throughout the ranges of both species were conducted to examine morphological discontinuities in Pseudocymopterus. Multivariate analysis of variance and principal component analysis confirmed that most of the characters previously used to recognize taxa within the complex are highly variable and overlapping among putative taxa. While no clearly distinguished clusters were revealed on the plots of the first three principal components, groups corresponding to P. montanus and P. longiradiatus were weakly separated from each other. Discriminant analysis using the same set of specimens showed that P. montanus and P. longiradiatus can generally be distinguished using a set of characters. These results are consistent with recent molecular analyses that revealed DNA sequence differences between these taxa. We therefore propose that Pseudocymopterus continues to be treated as having two species, P. longiradiatus and P. montanus, with no infraspecific taxa.
20063742|Variation in levels of self-fertility exists among populations of Asclepias exaltata, despite traditional characterization of this species as self-sterile. The costs and benefits associated with self-fertility were investigated by comparing fruit-set, seed number, and progeny fitness from self-pollinations, single-donor cross-pollinations, and multiple-donor cross-pollinations. Single-donor cross-pollinations were expected to produce fewer fruits than multiple-donor cross-pollinations as a result of mate selection by maternal plants, but this was not the case. Outcrossed fruits from self-fertile plants contained significantly fewer seeds than did outcrossed fruits from self-sterile plants, but overall fitnesses of self-fertile and self-sterile plants were essentially equal. There was variability among self-fertile plants in their propensity to mature selfed fruits, but, on the whole, selfed fruit-set was very low compared to outcrossed fruit-set. Furthermore, seed number, percent seed germination, and plant survival were significantly lower for selfed versus outcrossed progeny on self-fertile plants, suggesting strongly that selfed progeny suffer greatly from inbreeding depression. Because selfing is rare and the overall fitnesses of self-fertile and self-sterile plants are essentially equal, frequencies of self-fertile individuals in these populations may differ simply due to random processes.
20063956|Gaps in the forest canopy can increase the diversity of tree regeneration. Understory shrubs also compete with tree seedlings for limited resources and may depress tree recruitment. We compared effects of shrub removal and canopy windthrow gaps on seedling recruitment and understory resource levels. Shrub removal, with the canopy left intact, was associated with increased levels of understory light and soil moisture and coincided with increased species richness and diversity of tree regeneration compared to both control plots and canopy gaps. Canopy windthrow gaps, however, resulted in a more than 500 fold increase in soil nitrate concentrations, and seedling growth rates that were twice as high as that observed with shrub removal. Our results suggest that gaps in the understory shrub layer and the overstory canopy may have complementary effects on resource availability with corresponding benefits to seedling establishment and growth.
43287013|A century of dramatically altered disturbance regimes has likely changed patterns of forest regeneration, with potential detrimental consequences for the future diversity, composition, and function of late-succession and old-growth forest stands. We quantified the diversity and composition of tree species in the canopy and understory layers of 19 late-successional and old-growth forest stands in Pennsylvania to evaluate the consequences of existing regeneration patterns for the future composition of these communities. Despite relatively high canopy diversity across all stands, the understory of all stands was comprised of a small homogeneous subset of the canopy species. In addition, understory layers had lower species diversity than their respective canopies and showed a significant lack of species intermediate in shade tolerance. Oak species, which often require fire to regenerate, were common in the canopy of 12 stands, but nearly absent from the understory layer of all stands. Our findings are consistent for late-succession and old-growth stands located across a large geographic area of Pennsylvania and across stands of varying sizes, canopy species composition, and location in different physiographic provinces. These findings suggest that disruptions to historical disturbance and browsing regimes play a strong role in this dramatic homogenization of understory species composition. In the absence of large-scale disturbance, these stands will become relatively depauperate and composed of a homogeneous subset of species that are simultaneously shade-tolerant, browse-tolerant, and fire-intolerant.
20063924|Microsporogenesis and male gametogenesis of Jatropha curcas L. (Euphorbiaceae) was studied in order to provide additional data on this poorly studied family. Male flowers of J. curcas have ten stamens, which each bear four microsporangia. The development of the anther wall is of the dicotyledonous type, and is composed of an epidermis, endothecium, middle layer(s) and glandular tapetum. The cytokinesis following meiosis is simultaneous, producing tetrahedral tetrads. Mature pollen grains are two-celled at anthesis, with a spindle shaped generative cell. A few abnormal microspores were observed following the early stages of microgametophyte development.
20063819|Seed plants of the lowermost Carboniferous time (Tournaisian) display important differences in morphology and habit with at least two size classes. On one side are plants of modest stature with protostelic stems, manoxylic wood and large leaves, interpreted as calamopityan, buteoxylalean and lyginopteridalean seed ferns, and on the other side are arborescent plants, with trunks up to 2 metres in diameter, of which the systematic position remains unclear. We summarize present information on these trees characterized by a thick development of generally dense wood, a broad eustele consisting of a large number of discrete primary xylem strands, short internodes and deciduous medium-sized fronds. New data have been recently obtained on Pitus, the best known member of this group, on Eristophyton, Bilignea, Stanwoodia, Aporoxylon and on several new taxa which exhibit a broad circular parenchymatous pith surrounded by numerous sympodial xylem strands, but which differ in secondary xylem and leaf trace features. Of particular interest is a new plant that has leaf traces originating as a double strand and a petiole base of the Kalymma-type, therefore showing characteristics of calamopityan seed ferns but being quite distinct in features of the stele, secondary xylem and phloem. Emphasis is placed on the evolutionary dynamics of this important diversification of arborescent plants which included: i) a rather abrupt increase in overall diameter, ii) increase in primary xylem size, with regard to other contemporaneous early seed plants; iii) very different types of wood, instead of a single dense/pycnoxylic wood as generally assumed; iv) distinct periderm types; v) deciduous leaves. The last feature may be interpreted as an innovation, related to the tree habit, within the lignophytes. The origin and systematic position of these arborescent plants remain problematical.
10.2307/3557550| Windthrows and small-scale forest harvests generate environmental heterogeneity and dense regrowth. In such sites, interactions among environmental factors, competition with ground layer vegetation, and herbivores attracted to the disturbed area all potentially influence recruitment and early establishment of canopy tree species. I examined the interactive effects of overstory gap size, canopy openness, herb layer competition, and mammalian (deer, swamp rabbits) herbivory on emergence and seedling bank formation of cherrybark oak, Quercus pagoda Raf., in experimental gaps created by mechanized logging in a bottomland hardwood forest. Acorns were planted in exclosures (deer, swamp rabbits, deer + swamp rabbits, neither) in the center of three gaps of each of six gap sizes (7, 10, 14, 20, 29, 40 m radius) and outside the exclosures in center, edge, and forest positions. Mortality was greatest during recruitment (within the first season), and was due primarily to damage to acorns by seed predators and shade effects on seedling establishment. After three seasons, seedlings from damaged acorns in the exclosure plots were shorter than those from undamaged acorns; however, these seedlings had higher relative growth rate, which suggests that acorn damage effects decline over time. Herb layer competition and shade due to position within a gap or gap size were associated with reduced survival or height of seedlings, both in the exclosures and in center, edge, and forest positions. Deer or rabbit herbivory had no measurable effect on seedling survival or growth over the first three seasons. Natural or created canopy gaps  14 m radius can be foci for Q. pagoda regeneration if acorns are protected from predators; however, the dense vegetation in regenerating gaps could limit seedling height growth and multiple openings may be necessary for ascent out of the seedling bank. 
40207626|Pine barrens vernal ponds (PBVP) are intermittently flooded wetlands located in rare fire-prone pine barrens and sand plains supporting uniquely adapted biotic communities. In New York State, the PBVP are scarce, difficult to classify, and often threatened by human disturbance in the landscape. We analyzed existing vascular plant data from New York PBVP to quantify overall floristic condition and help clarify floristic identity of the system. Data sets included single year vegetation surveys of current known PBVP and an intensive single year survey of PBVP, red maple swamp, and shallow emergent marsh in one landscape. We found high variation in species conservatism among PBVP sites and complexes, and relatively high floristic quality because of few exotic species. Quantitative floristic classification improved the a priori field-based classification and suggested a previously overlooked PBVP occurrence. Potentially useful indicators of PBVP included buttonbush (Cephalanthus occidentalis), steeplebush (Spiraea tomentosa), leatherleaf (Chamaedaphne calyculata), and hoary sedge (Carex canescens). Our study provides an important starting point for developing a more detailed classification and monitoring scheme for PBVP around the state and the northeastern U.S.
40207578|Colonial period agriculture and vegetation clearance practices during the American Revolution destroyed the pre-Columbian forest of Inwood Hill Park, Manhattan, New York. Native species plantings in early estates spread to form the park's forest, and post-1850 estates introduced non-native species. Parks Department management practices from 1930 to 1985 reduced forest cover, filled wetlands, and caused the number of non-native and invasive shrub and vine species to nearly triple. Liriodendron tulipifera L. and Lindera benzoin (L.) Blume have been identified as the dominant species in the Valley Forest since 1930. Prunus serotina Ehrh., Sassafras albidum (Nutt.) Nees. and Viburnum acerifolium L. have continued to form fire-adapted stands in the East Ridge and Slopes Forest. In 2003, the highest density for Prunus serotina occurred in the repeatedly disturbed stands of the West Ridge and Slopes Forest. Alliaria petiolata (Bieb.) Cavara & Grande, an invasive species, was present only in the Ridge Tops Forest in 1985 and has become the dominant non-native herb species in all of the forests. The invasive shrub and vine species Celastrus orbiculatus Thunb., Lonicera japonica Thunb., L. maackii (Rupr.) Maxim., and Rosa multiflora Thunb. have become the dominants in the cleared areas of the Ridge Tops Forest. Sixteen woody invasive species are displacing native species across the park. Soil eroding into the salt marsh has caused the dominance of upland disturbance species. Replacing invasive species with native species has had mixed success because of limited funding to maintain plantings in the dry, impoverished soils of the park and areas treated with herbicides. Assessment methods for the restoration projects and for monitoring long-term species changes are recommended.
20063785|The hemlock wooly adelgid (HWA; Adelges tsugae), a small aphid-like insect introduced from Japan, has caused widespread hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) mortality throughout the mid-Atlantic and southern New England region over the last twenty years. We examined long-term (1952-2002) changes in hemlock-dominated stands before and after the appearance of the HWA in 1987 in the Connecticut College Arboretum, southeastern Connecticut. With HWA infestation, basal area of T. canadensis declined dramatically, dropping 70% from 1982 to 2002. Forest communities responded to the elimination of the dominant species by quickly filling various sized gaps. Black oaks (Quercus velutina, Q. coccinea, Q. rubra) increased from 28% of canopy basal area in 1982 to 41% in 2002. Sapling density increased markedly following HWA infestation, from 80 stems/ha in 1982 to nearly 5600 in 2002, with greatest increase in Sassafras albidum (0 to 1900 stems/ha) and Acer rubrum (4 to 1100 stems/ha). Ledge and ravine communities, formerly dominated by T. canadensis, became more compositionally distinct, with greater importance of black oaks on more xeric ledge sites and mixed canopy dominance in mesic ravine sites. Major trends associated with the decline of T. canadensis included a shift in canopy dominance to oak and mixed hardwoods, considerable understory development, including greater herb richness and abundance and increased density of clonal saplings, and expansion of several invasive shrubs and woody vines.
20063784|Tree cover in the mixed conifer zone in the Sierra Nevada is often interrupted by large shrub fields, or stands of montane chaparral. Chaparral stands are thought to be associated with either poor site conditions, or locations that have experienced severe fire. Fires have been excluded from mixed conifer forests for nearly a century because of a management policy of suppressing fire. This study quantifies the intervals between fires, and the response of chaparral shrubs and trees to fire and fire exclusion in six montane chaparral stands. Quercus vaccinifolia and Arctostaphylos patula were the dominant shrubs on all sites and the last fires burned in the six sites between 1861 and 1882. The mean point fire return interval before fire suppression was 28 yr (range 16-40 yr), and fire frequency in chaparral was lower than in nearby forest. The age structure of shrubs and trees in the stands indicate that shrubs and trees regenerated immediately post-fire. Shrub and tree regeneration, however, were not confined to a brief post fire period, regeneration continued for at least another five decades. On our sites, exclusion of fire due to fire suppression has caused the average area of a chaparral stand to shrink by 62.4%. Chaparral has been replaced by forest and this vegetation change has reduced the heterogeneity of the mixed conifer forest landscapes in the Sierra Nevada.
