2559572|The frugivorous phyllostomid bat Carollia perspicillata is closely associated with specific fruits which are found and picked in flight, then eaten at a feeding roost. Each fruit eaten corresponds to a single flight. An apparatus designed for this study permits the simultaneous tracking of 10 bats equipped with double rhythm transmitters (slow rate corresponding to resting position and rapid rate to flying bouts). (1) The number of flights, (2) the percentage time spent flying and (3) the range of activity were recorded for different categories of animals during two periods of fruit production. Heavier males displayed high activity, while other males, non-breeding females and females in early pregnancy displayed a similar pattern of flying behaviour. Full-term pregnant females and lactating females performed almost as many flying bouts as non-reproductive females, but these flights were much shorter. This unexpected feeding strategy can be interpreted as a means of shifting energy to reproductive effort from exploratory behaviour (non-breeding females performed longer flights which combine the survey of environment and the fruit collection). This strategy, based upon the optimization of flying bouts, is in contrast to those of non-flying mammals and probably is only compatible with periods of high food production.
4092044|We examined the relationship between giraffes (Giraffa camelopardalis) and Acacia nigrescens in Kruger National Park, South Africa, to determine whether these tall ungulates may be providing a pollination service for the trees, or are simply flower predators. We quantified florivory and subsequent fruit set in the presence and absence of giraffes. Acacia nigrescens flowers are clearly a substantial dietary component for giraffes. Although A. nigrescens flowers contain almost three times as much condensed tannin as leaves, giraffes consume large quantities of flowers (~85% of flowers within reach), resulting in distinct browse lines on the trees. This substantial florivory is detrimental to the overall fecundity of A. nigrescens, with significantly reduced fruit set at heights on trees that are accessible to giraffes. Fruit set increased above the reach of giraffes, suggesting successful pollination by insects. Giraffes were effectively flower predators of A. nigrescens in the season we examined.
2559262|We studied the seed dispersal ecology of the Neotropical pioneer tree Cecropia peltata L. (Moraceae) in tropical dry forest by documenting its (1) fruiting phenology, (2) rates of visitation by vertebrate frugivores, and (3) rate of recruitment of juveniles in different habitats at Santa Rosa National Park in northwestern Costa Rica. At Santa Rosa, C. peltata is a common but patchily-distributed plant. Fruiting in females is seasonal, and fruit availability peaks in June through August (the early wet season). Females bear a few ripe fruit per day over a 4-5 month fruiting period. At least 28 vertebrate species (15 diurnal and 13 nocturnal species) eat Cecropia fruit; equal numbers of ripe fruit are removed during the night and day. Owing to their more gentle treatment of seeds in the gut, birds and bats probably are more effective dispersal agents than monkeys. The recruitment rate of juveniles into already established populations was about 0.8 ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> compared with a rate of 176 ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> during the colonization of a cleared roadside.
2559863|Nests of leaf-cutting ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae: Attini) are abundant disturbances in Neotropical rain forests, and could affect the plant community both while the nests are active and after they are abandoned. We measured the diversity and abundance of understorey plants (<1 m in height) in the area around active and abandoned nests of leaf-cutting ants (Atta cephalotes) at the La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica. Sample quadrats on active nests had reduced diversity (number of morphospecies) and abundance of both small (height <10 cm) and large (10 cm-1 m) understorey plants, when compared to the nearby forest floor (3 and 13 m from the nest edge). Abandoned nests had greater diversity and marginally greater abundance of small understorey plants relative to nearby forest; there was no difference in diversity or abundance of large understorey plants. Leaf-cutting ant nests create gaps in the plant understorey when active, but serve as centres of recruitment for small plants after they are abandoned. Thus, like canopy gaps, ant nests could play an important role in recruitment of new individuals and maintenance of plant species diversity in tropical forests.
25562619|Plant responses to herbivory vary depending on herbivory type, yet the comparative effects of defoliation (e.g. by insects) and pruning (e.g. by large mammals) on a single tree species are poorly documented. We investigated this in the Northern Province of South Africa by comparing the regrowth of Colophospermum mopane trees previously defoliated by caterpillars or pruned by elephants, the two main browsers of C. mopane foliage. Shoots were up to 160% and 125% longer after natural (elephant) and simulated pruning and leaves 25% longer in regrowth after natural pruning (n = 13-15 trees per treatment). Shoot density and chemical defences in leaves (tannin:protein ratio and total polyphenolic concentration) were, however, no different from control trees. Simulated defoliation resulted in statistically insignificant changes to regrowth in terms of leaf and shoot size (both slightly decreased) and shoot density (slightly increased). Natural (caterpillar) defoliation, however, resulted in regrowth with significantly decreased shoot and leaf size (about 50% and 20% of control lengths, respectively), as well as decreased leaf chemical defence. Shoot and leaf length were longer on trees flushing for the first time after pruning and late-season defoliation had a greater negative impact than mid-season defoliation. Despite the differences in regrowth characteristics after pruning and defoliation, mopane plants showed no apparent trade-off in investment between tolerance and resistance after either herbivory type, as neither regrowth nor chemical defence occurred at the expense of the other.
2560278|The stomach contents of 683 fishes representing 39 species were examined to determine the diet of fish living in fast-flowing waters (rapids) of the Sinnamary River in French Guiana. Aquatic invertebrates were shown to be an important source of food in the rapids biotopes, in contrast to what has previously been observed for slow-flowing waters. Aquatic insects (e.g., the larval stages of Diptera, Ephemeroptera and Trichoptera) make up 55% of the diet of fish living in rapids. Such prey animals were more common in those biotopes than in slow-flowing waters. Twenty-two species of fish, each represented by at least 10 individuals in all samples, were analyzed for their stomach contents. The spectrum of prey items allowed for an estimation of the similarity of feeding habits. These diets were further compared to those inferred for other rivers of the Amazonian and Guianian regions.
2559866|The relationship between mycorrhizal colonisation and phosphorus acquired by seedlings of the arbuscular mycorrhizal tree Oubanguia alata Bak f. (Scytopetalaceae) and the ectomycorrhizal tree Tetraberlinia moreliana Aubr. (Caesalpinioideae) was evaluated at low and high inorganic phosphorus availability. AM colonisation was positively correlated with phosphorus uptake by O. alata at low, but not at high phosphorus availability. Seedlings growth was positively related to arbuscular mycorrhizal colonisation at both low and high phosphorus availability, suggesting that growth promotion by arbuscular mycorrhizas is not simply related to an increase of phosphorus uptake. In contrast, phosphorus uptake by T. moreliana was correlated with EM colonisation at both low and high phosphorus availability, but there was no relationship between growth and ectomycorrhizal colonisation. Promotion of phosphorus uptake by arbuscular mycorrhizas and ectomycorrhizas at low phosphorus availability is consistent with the cooccurrence of the two types of mycorrhiza in tropical rain forests where available soil phosphorus is low. However, ectomycorrhizal colonisation may also be of advantage where inputs of phosphorus rich litter raise the phosphorus status of the soil, as seen in the groves of ectomycorrhizal trees in Korup National Park, and may be one of the factors reinforcing local dominance by these trees.
25790845|The forests of western Amazonia support high site-level biological diversity, yet regional community heterogeneity is poorly understood. Using data from line transect surveys at 37 forest sites in south-eastern Peru, we assessed whether local primate assemblages are heterogeneous at the scale of a major watershed. We examined patterns of richness, abundance and community structure as a function of forest type, hunting pressure, land-management regime and geographic location. The primate assemblage composition and structure varied spatially across this relatively small region of Amazonia ( 85 000 km), resulting from large-scale species patchiness rather than species turnover. Primate species richness varied among sites by a factor of two, community similarity by a factor of four and aggregate biomass by a factor of 45. Several environmental variables exhibited influence on community heterogeneity, though none as much as geographic location. Unflooded forest sites had higher species richness than floodplain forests, although neither numerical primate abundance nor aggregate biomass varied with forest type. Non-hunted sites safeguarded higher abundance and biomass, particularly of large-bodied species, than hunted sites. Spatial differences among species assemblages of a relatively generalist taxon like primates in this largely undisturbed forest region imply that community heterogeneity may be even greater in more species-rich taxa, as well as in regions of greater forest habitat diversity.
3068705|Laboratory and growth-chamber experiments were used to evaluate whether there was evidence for nutrient retention by tropical terrestrial ecosystems being a two-stage process involving first soil adsorption and then plant absorption. Quartz sand with and without Fe and Al oxide coatings were treated with nutrient solution, then subjected to a leaching regime that simulated early wet-season conditions at a tropical location. Nutrient cations applied were rapidly lost in the initial leaches from quartz sand without oxide coatings, but showed a more gradual loss from oxide-coated sand, indicating temporary adsorption by the latter. In a second experiment, oxide-coated sand with and without seedlings of Grevillea robusta (a non-mycorrhizal tree species) were subjected to a similar treatment and leaching losses were compared. The presence of seedlings significantly reduced the losses of all nutrient cations, with the effect being minimal for Na and greatest for K, confirming that plants can gain access to temporarily adsorbed nutrients. More typical tropical soil-vegetation systems are likely to possess properties that magnify both the adsorptive and absorptive processes that have been documented in these experiments, justifying extrapolation of the experimental results to these natural systems. The existence of a two-stage process of nutrient retention provides a plausible explanation for the resistance of most tropical ecosystems to rapid loss of nutrients following events such as fires, which provide acute nutrient loading to the system.
2559187|One component of the high organismal diversity of tropical lowland rain forests is the existence of series of closely related, sympatric species. For example, the six distinct tree species of the monophyletic Polyalthia hypoleuca complex regularly grow sympatrically in various combinations throughout the rain forests of Malesia. Theoretical and empirical evidence has been presented indicating that the members of such series either (1) are well differentiated with respect to at least one major niche component; or (2) may lack differentiated niches. In this study, certain sympatric members of the complex are shown to have clearly diverged in autecological characteristics that affect their distribution including: (1) P. glauca, P. hypoleuca, and P. sumatrana differ in growth characteristics, height at maturity, seedling germination requirements, and are found on soils with differing degrees of hydration; (2) P. discolor grows to a different height and on different substrate types than does P. multinervis; and (3) P. glauca and P. hypoleuca seedlings differ in transpiration characteristics and response to flooding and drought.
2559370|Length-mass relationships within an assemblage of tropical snakes are used to describe morphological groups. We report patterns of body size based on length and mass measurements of 603 individual snakes of 27 species captured at La Selva, Costa Rica from March 1982 through August 1984. This assemblage of snakes is composed of at least four morphological groups each of which consists of species with similar habitat preferences. These groups are heavy-bodied terrestrial forms, light-bodied arboreal forms, long-tailed leaf-litter forms, and forms of unextreme relative mass and tail length. This tropical snake assemblage is more diverse in species richness and morphological diversity than a temperate assemblage.
25172911|Six rhizotrons in an Eucalyptus tetrodonta savanna revealed seasonal changes in the abundance of fine roots ( 5 mm diameter). Fine roots were almost completely absent from the upper 1 m of soil during the dry season, but proliferated after the onset of wet-season rains. At peak abundance of 3.9 kg m soil surface, fine roots were distributed relatively uniformly throughout 1 m depth, in contrast with many tropical savannas and tropical dry forests in which fine roots are most abundant near the soil surface. After 98% of cumulative annual rainfall had been received, fine roots began to disappear rapidly, such that 76 d later, less than 5.8% of peak abundance remained. The scarcity of fine roots in the upper 1 m of soil early in the dry season suggests that evergreen trees may be able to extract water from below 1 m throughout the dry season. Persistent deep roots together with abundant fine roots in the upper 1 m of soil during the wet season constitute a 'dual' root system. Deep roots might buffer atmospheric CO against increase by sequestering carbon at depth in the soil.
4091882|A pteropodid bat community was surveyed in a West African rain forest using mist-nets set for 3 mo in 2 consecutive years (1996-97). The captures were carried out in the understorey and in the canopy for a total of 5054 mist-net hours and were analysed to answer three main questions: (1) to what extent does the bat assemblage vary along the vertical axis, (2) does the observed vertical stratification depend on wingspan (with largest bats preferring canopy openings to the cluttered understorey) and (3) was the vertical stratification repeatable from one year to the next? Nine bat species were reported, among which two were captured exclusively in the canopy where the total capture rate tended to be higher. The community structure did not differ between the four canopy stations. Four species significantly favoured canopy, two significantly favoured understorey and two were opportunistic regarding vertical stratification. Wing size and canopy-preference index were not significantly correlated and except for Eidolon helvum, index values for the 2 sampling years were correlated. Important inter-annual and seasonal variations of species richness and capture rate were observed and these are discussed in relation to rainfall patterns and migratory behaviour of the species concerned.
4092032|Along eight forest-savanna transects at seven semi-deciduous forest islands in the southern
40665235|Contrasting ecological conditions may affect the distribution, abundance and impact of parasites and predators throughout the ranges of hosts and prey. Such patterns are evident on the archipelagos of Hawaii and the Galapagos, which vary in their distribution and abundance of avian parasites within and across islands. Previous research has documented higher intensity of parasitic fly larvae (Philornis downsi) in nests of Darwin's finches on elevated islands of the Galapagos. Here we examine P. downsi intensity and prdation in 71 nests of Darwin's small ground finch (Geospiza fuliginosa) on Floreana Island. We found significant differences in parasite intensity, nest prdation and clutch size between the lowland (0-100 m) and highland (300-400 m) habitats. Lowland finch nests had few P. downsi parasites (mean of 8 per nest), high nest prdation (44% of nests) and large clutch size (3.4).Highland finch nests showed the opposite pattern, with many P. downsi parasites (40 per nest), low nest prdation (17%) and small clutch size (2.5). This study suggests that the impacts of an introduced parasite are limited by its niche requirements and resource availability within and across islands. Our findings also imply that the vulnerability of bird populations to introduced parasites and predators is linked with variation in life history strategies across habitats.
2559435|We have studied a number of related processes of the nitrogen cycle in a Brazilian floodplain lake to identify the major pools and pathways over a short time period. The study was centred on the littoral zone dominated by the floating plant Eichhornia azurea, which has a large epiphyte algal community of which heterocystous cyanobacteria were the major components. The water column was continuously undersaturated with oxygen although some elevated values (to 60% saturation) were recorded in the macrophyte beds in the afternoon. Marked diel temperature changes were documented. NH<sub>4</sub>-N dominated the dissolved N component in the water with maximal values (60 mg m<sup>-3</sup>) at lowest O<sub>2</sub> concentrations early in the morning. Nitrogen fixation (acetylene reduction) of the epiphyte community showed marked diel changes with daily values of 5 mg N fixed m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> (based on 3:1 C<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>:N<sub>2</sub> ratio). Macrophyte NH<sub>4</sub>-N uptake rates (in situ incubations) were 93 mg N m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>. The activities of nitrifying bacteria could not be detected with the nitrapyrin block on dark CO<sub>2</sub> fixation but denitrification (acetylene block technique) was recorded in the sediments when enhanced with NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub>. The major pathways of aquatic nitrogen involved macrophyte uptake and sediment release of NH<sub>4</sub>-N.
2559306|A review of previous evaluations of long-term changes in treated Nigerian rain forest is presented, to show that these studies have concentrated on economic species with little consideration of other species, or of forest biomass and structure. We examine regeneration and successional patterns in Omo Forest Reserve by comparing enumeration data taken before (1952) and after (1981) treatment of the forest by selective canopy opening and climber-cutting (Plot A), or clear-felling and burning (Walsh system) (Plot C). Before treatment, about 50 species in 25 families were found of stems  10 cm dbh, in 4.05 ha of the forest, the Euphorbiaceae contributing the greatest number of species while the medium-sized trees Diospyros alboflavescens (Ebenaceae) and Strombosia pustulata (Olacaceae) contributed more than 40% of the stems. Twenty-eight years after treatment (1981) the number of species and families remained similar to those in 1952, although smaller areas (0.75 ha) were enumerated; the treated plots were, however, dominated by early succession species such as Macaranga barteri, Musanga cecropioides, Cleistopholis patens, Funtumia elastica and Fagara macrophylla, and lacked an abundance of the `economic' species that treatment had been expected to induce; the medium-sized trees that were dominant in 1952 were still abundant in Plot A but not in Plot C. For stems  30 cm dbh tree diversity (reciprocal of Simpson's index) was highest (15.7) in a 1952 plot and least (4.8) in the clear-felled plot enumerated in 1981; diversity of the 1952 plots, however, fell markedly to values lower than those for the 1981 plots when computation was based on all stems  10 cm dbh, presumably because of increase in abundance of small-stemmed species like Diospyros spp., Strombosia sp. and Rinorea sp., each represented by a large number of stems. Basal area was greatest (29.6 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup>) in the 1952 plots and least (12.7 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup>) in the clear-felled plots enumerated in 1981, but the relative distribution of basal area and number of stems in size-classes was similar in all the plots. Mean annual increment, computed by dividing the mean diameter (7.50 cm) of the stems in the clear-felled plots by the number of years (28) over which they had grown, was 0.27 cm. Nauclea diderrichii dominated the seedling regeneration from the first vear after clear-felling and burning (1954) till the sixth year (1960), when seedlings of the Meliaceae entered the regeneration list and overall seedling density was 395 per hectare. Among the plots assessed in 1981, the standing crop was greatest in an untreated Control plot (229.6 t ha<sup>-1</sup>) followed by Plot A (159.7 t ha<sup>-1</sup>) and Plot C (91.1 t ha<sup>-1</sup>), but the relative allocation of biomass to stem, branch, leaf, root and fruit fractions was comparable for all plots. The data are discussed in relation to other Nigerian forest studies and it is suggested that the main qualitative features of structural organization and the species composition of the top canopy synusia of mature secondary rain forest may be determined quite early in the development of the stand.
4091964|Rain forests at Los Tuxtlas are islands surrounded by anthropogenic vegetation containing invasive species. Epizoochory is an important dispersal syndrome among invasive species but ecological studies are scant. In order to evaluate the movement of epizoochore diaspores into the mature forest, we selected two abundant secondary herbs with contrasting diaspore morphology, and five dispersers with different pelage type. We used stuffed mammals as a dummy and passed them through patches of these two plant species, counting the number of adhered diaspores. For dispersal into the forest, diaspores were manually adhered to dispersers, these were pulled along 100-m forest transects, counting the number of diaspores remaining at distance intervals. We observed the highest amount of detachment in the first 20m of the forest edge. For Desmodium incanum diaspores with sticky hairs, adhesion to dispersers showed no differences among pelage types, therefore dispersal is determined mainly by diaspore detachment. Dispersers with long pelage (Didelphis marsupialis, Nasua narica and Procyon lotor) move diaspores for shorter distances, while dispersers with short pelage (Silvilagus floridanus and Philander opossum) are more likely to move diaspores for longer distances. In Pavonia schiedeana more diaspores (seeds with spines and hooks) were attached and remained attached on dispersers with long and thick pelage. Mean distance travelled for P. schiedeana diaspores varied between 11 and 2700 m. In D. incanum the distance travelled did not exceed 500 m. Based on comparisons between dispersal patterns and on ecological data of these two plant species and their potential dispersers, P. schiedeana has a higher probability of invading the forest and finding suitable habitats for establishment than D. incanum.
2560218|Differences in rainfall between years influenced the proportions of different types of nesting habitats of Caiman crocodilus yacare available near water bodies in a region of intermittent rivers (Campo Dora Ranch). In contrast, rainfall had little effect on the proximity of nesting habitat to water bodies in a region of isolated lakes (Nhumirim Ranch). There was a strong positive correlation between female body size and clutch size Snout-vent lengths of females on Campo Dora Ranch were significantly larger than those from Nhumirim Ranch which probably accounts for the larger mean clutch size than in the region of isolated lakes. Hatchling size was correlated with egg size, but there was no relationship between egg size and female size or egg size and clutch size.
4091853|On 31 December 2001, Tropical Cyclone Waka passed directly over the Vava'u island group, Kingdom of Tonga, with sustained and maximum wind speeds of
3068794| Biomass content and turnover rate were estimated for a lowland wet rain forest in French Guiana. A regression model relating the biomass of a tree to its dbh (diameter at breast height) was deduced from previously published data. A power-law allometric relationship of the form AGTB = aD
25562599|Knowledge of the population dynamics of tropical trees has expanded considerably in the past 20 years. An important observation deriving from these investigations is the confirmation that population behaviour varies both in time and space. A tool recently developed to evaluate the potential for variation in vital rates, and therefore in population growth rate, is variance-standardized perturbation analysis (VSPA). In this paper we report the results of a 2-y demographic analysis of a population of the tropical tree Manilkara zapota in a subtropical rain forest in the Mexican state of Veracruz, in which variance-standardized perturbation analysis was applied and compared with the results of the traditional elasticity analyses. To build population projection matrices, we tagged and followed a sample of 91 juvenile and adult individuals, and 635 seedlings. We subdivided the sample in nine size classes (defined by tree height and dbh; as well as leaf size, in the case of seedlings) and estimated transition probabilities and fecundity for each class. The demography of M. zapota varied greatly from the first to the second year of study (in 1998-1999,  = 0.987, while in 1999-2000,  = 1.038) due to negligible seed production during the first year and a massive reproductive event during the second. The largest elasticity values for both years corresponded to persistence of large juveniles and adults. Although the fecundity entries showed very low elasticity values, the variance-standardized perturbation analysis revealed the importance of these matrix entries; transition to larger categories and retrogression to smaller ones of saplings and juveniles were also important demographic processes contributing to variation in  according to the VSPA. Thus, although the results of elasticity analysis and VSPA were similar for the 1998-1999 matrix, they differed substantially for the 1999-2000 matrix. In the latter, the VSPA enhanced the importance of demographic processes that are intuitively relevant for the population studied. This points toward the necessity of further exploring the use of VSPA, since it offers several advantages over the traditional elasticity analysis: it concentrates on the impact on  of vital rates that actually vary, and the interpretation of the results is more realistic and straightforward.
40925440|A fire-mediated recruitment bottleneck provides a possible explanation for the coexistence of trees and grasses in mesic savannas. The key element of this hypothesis is that saplings are particularly vulnerable to fire because they are small enough to be top-killed by grass fires, but unlike juveniles, they take several years to recover their original size. This limits the number of recruits into the adult size classes. Thus savanna vegetation may be maintained by a feedback whereby fire restricts the density of adult trees and allows a grass layer to develop, which provides fuel for subsequent fires. Here, we use results from a landscape-scale fire experiment in tropical Australia, to explore the possible existence of a recruitment bottleneck. This experiment compared tree recruitment and survival over 4 y under regimes of no fire, annual early and annual late dry-season fire. Stem mortality decreased with increasing stem height in the fire treatments but not in the unburnt treatment. Tree recruitment was 76-84% lower in the fire treatments than the unburnt treatment. Such fire-induced stem loss of saplings and reduced recruitment to the canopy layer in this eucalypt savanna are consistent with the predictions of the fire-mediated recruitment bottleneck hypothesis.
25562633|We studied the relationships between soil nutrient availability and microbial biomass and activity of two contrasting soil conditions in a tropical deciduous forest in western Mexico. Hilltops have higher pH, water, dissolved organic C, and ammonium concentrations than hillslopes. Our main hypothesis was that soil microbial biomass, microbial activity and bacterium species richness would be higher in soils with high availability of nutrients. Fifteen soil cores, 0-5 cm depth, were taken in the dry, early rainy and rainy season, from each of the ten replicate plots in hilltop and hillslope positions located on three contiguous small watersheds. We measured moisture, C, N and P availability, potential C mineralization, net nitrification, microbial biomass and culturable heterotrophic and nitrifying bacteria in composite samples from each plot. Microbial biomass, species richness of culturable heterotrophic bacteria and C mineralization were significantly higher on hilltops than on hillslopes. Net nitrification was, in contrast, significantly higher on hillslopes than on hilltops and counts of culturable nitrifying bacteria were also significantly higher in the rainy-season samples. Hilltops and hillslopes had low similarity in composition of culturable heterotrophic bacterial species, particularly during the rainy season. The results suggested that C and N availability and seasonal changes in soil moisture are important controlling factors for some soil culturable-bacterial species, which may affect both C mineralization and nitrification in these tropical deciduous forest soils.
2560125|Kentropyx calcarata (Teiidae) and Mabuya nigropunctata (Scincidae) occur together in lowland tropical forest of the Amazon near the Rio Curua-Una of Brazil. During the wet season of 1995 these lizards were common at forest edge along narrow roads that transect forest, in treefalls and along streams where sun reaches the ground Both species are heliothermic, basking to gain heat. Their association with open patches results from high activity temperature requirements in an environment where sun availability is low. Null temperature distributions from forest and treefalls showed that forest does not offer opportunities for heat gain similar to treefalls. Moreover, the large proportion of time spent basking by both species indicates the importance of these patches for thermoregulation. K. calcarata is slightly larger in body length and heavier at a given body length than M nigropunctata Both species are active foragers that seek out prey while moving through the habitat, feeding on orthopterans, roaches and spiders. M. nigropunctata also eat significant numbers of insects that occur on vegetation, such as hemipterans Prey size is larger in K. calcarata and associated with lizard body size Prey size does not vary with body size in M. nigropunctata and prey are typically relatively small. Many of the ecological differences between these two lowland forest species appear to be historical: the ecology of K. calcarata is very similar to that of other species of Kentropyx and teiids in general and the ecology of M. nigropunctata is most similar to that of other studied species of south American Mabuya.
2560145|Mites use the leaf domatia of many woody plant species in Australasia and North America. Different types of leaf domatia, including pits, pockets and tuft domatia, are present among plant species in disturbed forests, plantations and gardens of Bangladesh in South Asia. These structures are frequently occupied by mites. Pooling across all species, domatia were often (66%) occupied by mites and used by them for shelter, egg-laying and development. On average, 70% of all mites on leaves were found in domatia, and over three-quarters of these were potentially beneficial (i.e. of predaceous or microbivorous taxa) to the plant. Further, when species were pooled across sites, leaves of domatia-bearing plants had significantly more predaceous mites than those of plants without domatia. These results are consistent with the patterns of mite-domatia association reported in Australasia, North America and North Asia and with predictions of mutualism between plants and mites.
4499148| The reciprocal importance of bromeliads and hummingbirds has been proposed for many years, even suggesting coevolution between these two groups. Nevertheless, data are lacking that allow a better test of the relationships involved. Here we investigate the relationship between bromeliads and hummingbirds in an area of secondary Atlantic rain forest in southern Brazil. The study examined the interactions among 12 species of bromeliad and 10 of hummingbird at Reserva Natural Salto Morato, Paran state. The number of flowering species of bromeliad and the species richness and abundance of hummingbirds were quantified monthly between November 2004 and October 2005. Focal observations on each bromeliad species were made to determine the hummingbird visitors. Neither species richness nor abundance of hummingbirds were related to bromeliad phenology. Together with the monthly variation in visit frequency by a given pollinator to a given plant, these factors indicate a generalization in the use of bromeliads by hummingbirds and argue against tight coevolution. Ramphodon naevius and Thalurania glaucopis were the main pollinators in the community. Aechmea nudicaulis was the most generalist bromeliad species. The generalist species interacted with other generalists or with asymmetric specialists and there was no specialist-specialist interaction. This produced a strongly organized and nested matrix of interactions. This nestedness is similar to other plant-pollinators networks, supporting the hypothesis that the evolutionary relationship between bromeliads and hummingbirds is no stronger than that of other pollination networks. 
2560276|Geophagy (soil eating) by the forest elephant (Loxodonta africana cyclotis) and other mammal species in the Dzanga National Park, Central African Republic, has led to large treeless licks. The geological and physical properties of these licks were studied and the chemical characteristics and particle sizes of geophagical lick soils were compared with soils from the forest and from licks where evidence of geophagy was absent. Average lick size of 20 licks in the Hokou lick area was 12,900 m<sup>2</sup> (SE = 3,400 m<sup>2</sup>). Licks were situated exclusively in areas of outcropping dolerite intrusions. Physico-chemical analysis of the geophagical lick soil showed significantly higher quantities of sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, manganese and clay compared with the other soils. Several samples of the geophagical lick soil had lower nutrient levels than the mean level of forest topsoil, indicating that nutrient supplementation is probably not the only reason for geophagy. The high clay content of the geophagical soil may help absorbing and combating secondary plant compounds. Pronounced geophagy in rainforests may be a sign for poor habitat quality for large mammals living in these ecosystems.
2559714|An investigation of seasonal rates of litter production in a mixed forest, Hong Kong Island, was undertaken from October 1982 to January 1984. Total annual litterfall amounted to 1218.96 g m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>, comprising 68.6% leaves, 18.9% woody material, and 12.5% fruits, seeds and insect frass. 398.70 g m<sup>-2</sup> of litter was recorded immediately after a severe typhoon (9 September 1983). Rates of leaf-fall and organic debris production were correlated with prevailing temperature and rainfall. Leaf-fall peaked in January 1983, March to July 1983, and in September 1983 after the typhoon, while large amounts of insect faeces were collected in May and June. Woody litter production rates were correlated with temperature and rainfall recorded in previous months. Woody litterfall exhibited no obvious periodicity but was slightly increased during March and April. The seasonal distribution of litterfall is discussed in relation to climatic factors and habitat nutrient economy.
4091867|We investigated the dispersal of a large-seeded tree species, Canarium euphyllum (Burseraceae), in the moist evergreen forests of the Khao Yai National Park in Thailand. By combining direct observations of fruit consumption in tree canopies (543 h) and the camera-trapping observations of fallen fruit consumption on the forest floor (175 camera-days), we identified the frugivore assemblage that foraged on the fruits of C. euphyllum and assessed their role in seed dispersal and seed predation. In the canopy, our results showed that seeds were dispersed by a limited set of frugivores, one pigeon and four hornbill species, and predated by two species of squirrel. On the forest floor, seven mammal species consumed fallen fruits. A combination of high rates of fruit removal and short visiting times of mountain imperial pigeons (Ducula badia) and hornbills (Buceros bicornis, Aceros undulatus, Anorrhinus austeni and Anthracoceros albirostris) led us to conclude that these large frugivorous birds provide effective seed dispersal for this tree species, in terms of quantity. These frugivorous species often have low tolerance to negative human impacts and loss of these dispersers would have severe deleterious consequences for the successful regeneration of C. euphyllum.
2560205|Strangler fig density varied considerably in the evergreen forest of Karian Shola National Park, southern India, with 11 individuals ha<sup>-1</sup> in an open trail area and 5.6 individuals ha<sup>-1</sup> within the primary forest area. The index of light level was assessed by estimating the percentage of upper canopy cover along the longitudinal centre of ten, 500-m x 20-m plots in each of the two areas of the evergreen forest. However, the increase in strangler fig density was not correlated to light levels but was significantly correlated to the numbers of their main host species in the two areas. In Karian Shola National Park, strangler figs occurred predominantly on a few host species with 20 and 50% of strangler figs growing on Vitex altissima, Diospyros bourdilloni and Eugenia/Syzygium spp. in the primary forest and trail areas respectively. Both young and established strangler figs were recorded mainly on larger individuals of their host trees indicating that older host trees are likely to be more suitable for the germination and establishment of strangler figs. The reason for the above could be the higher incidence of humusfilled and decaying regions in the older host trees which would provide an assured supply of nutrients for the establishing strangler fig.
2560003|The intra-crop variation in the concentrations of major nutrients in the embryo-cum-endosperm (EE) fraction of seeds of 12 tree species of SE Asian lowland rain forest was investigated. Increased seed size was associated with a significant decrease in the EE concentration of N in 10 species, P and K in seven, Mg in six, and Ca in four. In contrast, the EE nutrient content increased with seed size, typically by about 1.6-fold where seed mass was 2-fold greater. In three species the allocation to protective tissues decreased with increased seed size. The results are potentially relevant to competition among young seedlings, optimal foraging by predators, allocation to defence by plants, and understanding the controls on filling of seeds.
2559817|The ant species were sampled in one campo (grassy shrubland), one mata (semideciduous rain forest) and 11 rehabilitated bauxite mine plots at Pocos de Caldas, in the humid sub-tropical climatic region of Brazil. Rehabilitation was either by planting Australian Eucalyptus spp, the Brazilian Mimosa scabrella tree, or by planting mixed mata trees. Sixty-eight ant species were recorded, of which 26 were exclusively found in the native vegetation and 16 were confined to the rehabilitated plots. Ant species richness built up most rapidly in areas rehabilitated with mixed mata species and least rapidly in areas with Eucalyptus. Younger rehabilitated plots appeared to be developing a campo-type ant community, although evidence indicates that more mata ant species will colonise once tree canopy closure takes place. Rate of ant return in Australia is positively correlated with the quantity and distribution of rainfall - the rates in the current study concur with those from humid sub-tropical climatic zones within Australia, suggesting that similar constraints to the succession may be operating. If found to be the case, this would have practical implications for planning and evaluating the success of rehabilitation.
4091883|The diets of the two Amazonian brocket deer (the red brocket Mazama americana and the grey brocket Mazama gouazoubira) were studied in French Guiana through the examination of stomach contents. The two species are mainly frugivore-granivores, even during the annual period of fruit scarcity (56% of the annual diet in red brockets and 68% in grey brockets). Both rely heavily on fruits and seeds, but overcome the fall in fruit availability by eating significant quantities of fibres, leaves and flowers, particularly the red brocket. Seasonal variation in quantity consumed was observed only for gravid females, which suggests that reproduction may be dependent on the fruiting season. Both species took a wide variety of plants (respectively a total of 79 and 107 species, and 8.4 and 8.9 species per stomach on average). They can be considered non-selective feeders, choosing fruits above all according to their abundance, their size, and perhaps their softness. Both species are seed eaters, destroying nearly all seeds ingested. The two species are potential competitors, but their diet competition may be reduced by their large difference in body size and somewhat different ecological niches. These deer are among the most generalized frugivores of the Guianan forest, thus reducing their food competition with other frugivores.
3068644|Phytotelmata habitats have been the focus of much research and are utilized by a wide variety of taxa. In the past 15 years numerous studies in many geographic regions and covering various types of phytotelmata have greatly increased our understanding of these unique habitats. The most recent summary of phytotelmata inhabitants included over 20 families of insects. A review of the literature and extensive work in lowland Ecuador shows the family level diversity is in fact at least twice that reported earlier. A reassessment of previous phytotelmata classification schemes, as well as an extensive bibliography, is provided.
25790829|The neotropical terrestrial insectivore Henicorhina leucosticta (Troglodytidae) maintains long-term territories through vocalizations and forages among leaf litter trapped in the understorey vegetation and ground litter. The relationship between forest structure and H. leucosticta territory size was studied in La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, during the non-breeding season in 2009. Forest structure was measured by assessing canopy openness and leaf area index (LAI) using hemispherical photography, while territory size was estimated with the playback technique using local conspecific vocalizations. Mean territory area was 3.8  2.8 ha (mean  SD, n = 10). Territory radius length was similar in old-growth forest and abandoned agro-forest plantations. We found that H. leucosticta territory size decreased as median LAI increased. We propose that LAI is related to territory size through the amount of leaf fall and subsequent leaf litter accumulation over the understorey plants, which constitutes an important reservoir of arthropod prey and nest materials for H. leucosticta. The long-term supply of food resources is likely to affect territory size in this species, as well as other insectivorous birds with similar foraging behaviour. These results are congruent with the structural cues hypothesis.
2560317|Patterns of bird species diversity within three vegetation types were investigated by the line transect method on Mundanthurai Plateau, South India. Minimum numbers of species and individuals were seen in the study area during July and August. Such seasonal variation was more pronounced in riverine and dry deciduous forest than in the secondary vegetation which was avoided by most of the winter migrants. There was a greater species overlap between riverine and dry deciduous forest than between riverine and secondary vegetation. No relationship could be established between bird species diversity and tree species/foliage height diversity. The secondary vegetation had fewer specialized forest species and more generalists. Larger birds (>200 g) were rare but smaller ones (<50 g) were more common. The paper emphasizes that the conservation status of avifauna in managed forests in India needs to be assessed and monitored.
4499113|The single most important food source for Pteropus rufus at Berenty, in south-east Madagascar, is the pollen of Agave sisalana, a commercial species introduced to the area 60 y ago, which was widely available and constantly eaten by the bats during this 28-mo study. The diet of the bats at this site is unique in this respect when compared with P. rufus elsewhere in Madagascar and with other Pteropus species. The dietary breadth of P. rufus at Berenty is narrow, consisting of only 14 plant species, identified through microsopic faecal analysis and direct field observations, and three unidentified ones. The bats also eat locally cultivated and introduced fruits (Mangifera indica, Psidium cf. cattleianum, Sclerocarya caffra, Cordia sinensis and Hylocereus species) and native and endemic forest species (Tamarindus indica, Celtis philippensis, Ficus megapoda, F. grevei, F. pachyclada and Grewia species). The majority of the plant species used by P. rufus for food are located within the gallery forests of the Mandrare valley. No evidence of adjacent endemic spiny forest species was identified in their diet. Thus, conservation of the remaining gallery forest as well as retention of the sisal plantations is important to maintain the food sources of P. rufus at this site.
4091926|The 'aggregation model of coexistence' predicts that a strong and independent aggregation of species across ephemeral resource patches promotes species coexistence and maintains diversity. This study examines the role of aggregation in maintaining tropical dung beetle diversity and the effects of deforestation on aggregation patterns and diversity loss. Using clusters of pitfall traps, dung beetle aggregation was quantified in natural and disturbed habitat at nested temporal and spatial scales in central Peru. The results indicate that dung was colonized by a greater number of species, many of which were large, leading to a higher total beetle biomass in forest habitat than in deforested, farm habitat. Beetles were intraspecifically aggregated at each spatial scale examined. Habitat-type (forest/deforested) had no effect on the intensity of intra- or interspecific aggregation. Analyses of aggregation patterns revealed that dung beetle assemblages in forest habitat were generally saturated whereas in deforested habitat they were unsaturated. In general, interspecific aggregation was too weak relative to intraspecific aggregation to explain the high diversity of species in forest habitat. Other mechanisms, including resource partitioning are likely to play a greater role in maintaining the diversity of dung beetle assemblages in the region. These results also indicate that the loss of species from disturbed habitat has not been due to a breakdown in the aggregation mechanism.
25172972|Secondary dispersal is an important stage in the life cycle of tree species, determining the fate of a high proportion of all seeds. For small-seeded species both physical and biological processes may influence the secondary fate of seeds, however the relative importance of these processes is not well known. Seeds of the pioneer tree species Cecropia insignis (seed mass 0.5 mg), Trema micrantha (2.5 mg) and Apeiba aspera (14.2 mg) and five types of artificial seed were sown in understorey, treefall-gap and large-gap sites on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, during the wet season of 2005. Sowing areas were excavated after periods up to 26 d and cores divided into depths of 0-5, 5-10, 10-20 and 20-50 mm to allow high-resolution estimation of the rate and amount of burial and displacement of seeds. Over 26 d, 2.8% of artificial seeds were buried to a mean depth of 10.5 mm below the soil surface and 43.9% of unburied seeds displaced laterally &gt; 5 cm. Significantly more (87.9% and 80.9%) seeds of Cecropia insignis and Trema micrantha were displaced than artificial seeds of similar mass, size and density. A generalised linear model suggested that burial mostly occurred within 15 d, while displacement occurred continuously up to 26 d. The dominant cause of displacement and burial was probably rainfall, while seed removal by ants may also have contributed to displacement.
3068729|The arthropod fauna inhabiting 90 individuals of three different species of epiphyte was investigated in the moist lowland forest of the Barro Colorado National Monument in Panama. In total, 3694 arthropods belonging to 89 morphospecies and 19 orders were collected. While arthropod abundance was primarily a function of host plant biomass irrespective of epiphyte species, there were pronounced differences in species richness, species composition and guild structure of the arthropod faunas of the three epiphyte species. Although all study plants were growing in close proximity on the same host tree species, there was remarkably little overlap in the species assemblages across epiphyte taxa. The inhabitant species also differed dramatically in their ecological functions, as feeding guild and hunting guild analyses indicated. The influence of plant size, structure and impounded leaf litter on arthropod diversity is discussed. We conclude that epiphytes are microhabitats for a diverse and numerous fauna, and that different species of epiphytes foster both taxonomically and ecologically very distinct arthropod assemblages.
4499120| Although indigenous farmers and other traditional peoples have disturbed Amazonian forests for centuries, few studies investigate the effects of these disturbances on biodiversity. This short-term study investigates how bird assemblages are affected by agricultural practices adopted by the residents of a national park in the Brazilian Amazon. Twelve sites in secondary forest (four sites in three age categories) and 12 sites in primary forest were selected for bird sampling. Audio-visual censuses of birds were conducted in small plots (1 ha) of young secondary growth (4-5 y), middle-aged (7-15 y), and old (20-35 y) secondary forests. Each site in secondary forest had a corresponding control site in adjacent primary forest. Young secondary growth had fewer species than old secondary and primary forests. Bird species richness was similar in middle-aged, old secondary and primary forests. Bird communities of young secondary habitat were dominated by species normally found in open habitats, such as agricultural fields and igap flooded forests. The bird species composition of young secondary growth was more similar to that of middle-aged forest, which in turn was more similar to that of old secondary forests. Bird species composition differed between young secondary growth and old secondary forests and primary forests and between middle-aged secondary and primary forests. Nectarivore/insectivores and frugivore/insectivores of monospecific flocks are significantly associated with secondary forests, especially in initial stages of forest regeneration. In contrast, specialized insectivorous birds that join mixed-flocks show a significant association with primary forest. 
2559827|Nitrogenase activity in the surface soil and litter layers from a tropical lowland rain forest and an adjacent fernland in Sri Lanka was measured by the acetylene reduction method. The total amount of acetylene reduced, a measure of biological nitrogen fixation, was greater in the fernland (38.4 mol m<sup>-2</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>) than in the forest (15.3-29.2 mol m<sup>-2</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>). In both ecosystems the nitrogenase activity was greater (59-85%) in the soil than in the litter layer. The rates of acetylene reduction in soil and litter showed an inverse relationship with the decay constants of mixed litter and a positive relationship was found between the rate of acetylene reduction and the C:extractable nitrogen ratio of the soil. The relatively greater rate of nitrogenase activity coupled with the slower rate of litter decomposition in the fernland indicates that accumulation of nitrogen may result in the soil and litter layers of the deforested areas during their aggrading phases.
4091921|Seasonality in tropical forests can be more subtle than that of temperate forests but still affects the resources available to wildlife. Much work has been done describing changes in fruit availability and dietary composition but the nutritional quality of any particular food item is assumed to be relatively constant. We investigated seasonal changes in the quality of the ripe fruit of Celtis durandii, a common tree that produces fruit year-round and is important in the diets of many species. The lipid content of the ripe fruit was found to be highly variable (0.3-30.8% dry matter) among months and this variation was positively correlated with the summed daily rainfalls of the previous and concurrent months. The amount of this fruit in the diets of three frugivorous primate species (Cercopithecus mitis, Cercopithecus ascanius and Lophocebus albigena) was positively related to measured or estimated lipid levels in the fruit. Such predictable changes in the quality of a constantly available fruit have not been previously reported and suggest that the resources provided by tropical forests may be more seasonal than shown by common measures of fruit availability.
2560129|Man-made grasslands dominated by Imperata cylindrica (L.) Beauv. in forested areas of lowland Nepal are commonly cut and/or burned annually. Changes in grass forage quality following different treatments of cutting and burning and axis deer (Axis axis) response to such habitat manipulations were investigated. Samples of matured grass were collected in December 1990, February and April 1991 from three experimental sites: cut, burned, cut-and-burned. Four locations on cut-and-burned grassland were repeatedly sampled at 12-d intervals from January to April 1992. Numbers of axis deer were recorded during the dry season of 1991/1992 on grassland plots receiving the following treatments: cut, cut-and-burned, and uncut/unburned (controls). Based on grass quality differences between December and February and between December and April, cut-and-burned treatments gave the greater increase in forage quality. N was significantly higher on cut-and-burned plots than on cut plots both in February and in April, while Na, K and P was significantly higher in February. On plots cut-and-burned in January, Ca concentrations were relatively low while the P content fell below required levels for domestic stock towards the end of the dry season in April. Na concentrations were below the minimum required levels for both domestic and wild ruminants during the whole period. When an entire grassland was cut, deer density increased gradually. When the same area was subsequently burned, the daily deer density increased much more rapidly. Axis deer preferred burned plots compared to plots neither cut nor burned and to cut plots. Plots burned in late February had higher densities of axis deer than plots burned 1.5 mo earlier. When nearby recently burned plots were available, deer density was reduced on plots burned earlier.
2560288|The standing live biomass of papyrus swamps is high compared with most other communities dominated by herbaceous vegetation For the first time, measurements of below-ground rhizome and root biomass are reported here, in addition to measurements of shoot biomass, for a papyrus swamp located on Lake Naivasha, Kenya. The ratio of rhizome and root to shoot dry weight was 1.38 : 1 and the total standing live biomass was 7.8 kg (dry weight) m<sup>-2</sup> Detritus, formed from slowly decomposing papyrus, is normally the most important sink for carbon in this ecosystem. The amount of detritus retained by swamps varies but at L Naivasha it contained almost 20 times the carbon found in living biomass The net primary production of the swamp was calculated to be 6.28 kg (dry weight) m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>, which is amongst the highest recorded productivities for natural ecosystems. Model estimates of carbon input into the system from photosynthesis are incorporated into a carbon flow diagram for the swamp and this emphasises the importance of detritus as a sink for carbon in this ecosystem.
4091825|Relative densities of mahogany species vary across tropical Africa and correspond with changes in soil fertility and moisture status. Seedling growth of four co-occurring African mahoganies (Entandrophragma spp.) was studied in relation to soil nutrient and moisture status in a shade-house experiment. On naturally occurring forest soils, E. cylindricum and E. utile exhibited increased relative growth rate (RGR) and decreased root mass ratio (RMR) with an increase in soil fertility while E. angolense and E. candollei did not. Changes in leaf morphology with fertility did not correspond to changes in species performance. On moist, fertile soils, E. angolense outperformed congeners but E. candollei performed equally well on moist infertile soils. Entandrophragma cylindricum performed as well as E. angolense and E. candollei on two of three soil moisture stress treatments but E. utile consistently performed poorly. Comparative seedling performance fitted well with limited available data on the distribution of Entandrophragma spp. in relation to soil fertility and moisture gradients and suggests that within-forest microsite heterogeneity may help explain the distribution of Entandrophragma species within the Dzanga-Sangha Dense Forest Reserve, Central African Republic.
40925437|It has been suggested that vascular epiphyte composition and abundance may be influenced by forest host composition. We studied the epiphyte species distribution among host species of a tropical dry forest in Mexico. All the epiphyte stands supported by woody plants (dbh > 3 cm) often forest plots (0.1 ha each) were counted. We measured the dbh of all the hosts, noted their bark characteristics (texture and peeling behaviour), and measured the bark thickness of the most abundant host species. Epiphyte distribution was biased toward a high concentration of epiphytes in three host species and a lower abundance of epiphytes on five host species. This was consistent among epiphyte taxa and host species, allowing us to classify hosts as preferred (with more epiphyte stands than expected by chance) and limiting species (with fewer epiphyte stands than expected by chance), at a community level. Host quality did not relate to mean phorophyte size (measured as basal area) or to bark characteristics (peeling behaviour, thickness and texture) between species. For some epiphyte taxa, the observed distribution indicated that the forest contained preferred and limiting host species mainly. Our data suggest that the epiphyte species in the forest studied could be host limited. We concluded that neither host size nor obvious bark characteristics can be used to predict epiphyte distribution and that further research is necessary.
4499135|Army ants (Formicidae: Ecitoninae) are top predators in neotropical forests. Army ant raids support a community of diverse organisms, including birds that attend the raids to collect prey. While elevation and forest fragmentation influence army ant and insectivorous bird communities, their effects on the interaction between army ants and bird species is unknown. We studied the size and species composition of bird flocks attending army ant swarms in forest fragments and continuous forest across an elevational gradient (1100-1680 m asl) in a neotropical montane region (Monteverde, Costa Rica). We observed a total of 41 bird species attending army ant swarms. Neither the number of birds, nor the total body mass of birds, nor the number of bird species in attending bird flocks was related to elevation. However, we found a higher bird species richness, larger flock size and greater total body mass of birds attending army ant swarms in continuous forest. Continuous and fragmented forest shared many attending bird species in common, but there was elevational segregation of attending bird species. Some montane endemic birds, and neotropical migrants, attend swarms regularly and use army ant raids as a food source.
2560130|Studies of predation on propagules of the mangroves Avicennia marina, Bruguiera exaristata, Ceriops tagal and Rhizophora stylosa were made in a forest in northern Australia to test the generality of the dominance-predation model. This model states that an inverse relationship exists between the dominance of a species in the canopy of mangrove forests and the rate of predation on the propagules of that species Significant differences in predation were found among the four species, and among patches of forest dominated by the different species. Predators attacked more than 50% of the propagules of all species except R stylosa, so are likely to significantly affect forest structure. The intensity of predation did not, however, vary as the dominance-predation model predicted. Instead, predation on the propagules of a species appeared to depend on the availability of propagules of other, more highly preferred, species.
2560292|The structure and functioning of Acacia koa-Metrosideros polymorpha forests between 1200 and 1800 m elevation on the island of Hawaii are being threatened by Passiflora mollissima, an aggressive introduced liana from South America This study was done to evaluate the short-term decomposition dynamics of Passiflora and selected native leaf and twig litter. The nutrient-rich, non-sclerophyllous Passiflora leaves completely disappeared in less than 5 mo. The estimated time for native leaf litter to lose 95% of initial dry weight ranged from 1.65 y for N-rich Acacia phyllodes to 6.67 y for Cibotium glaucum; for woody litter, the time ranged from 4.5 y for Acacia twigs to 23 y for Acacia bark. Except for Cibotium frond litter, decay rates were significantly correlated with initial lignin-ash ratios. Passiflora litter did not accelerate decomposition of Acacia and Metrosideros leaf litter Passiflora, Acacia, and Metrosideros leaf litter showed net mineralization of N, P, Ca, K, and Mg during the study. Cibotium frond litter showed significant accumulation of N, Ca, and Mg; P levels stayed constant and K was rapidly lost. In general, twigs experienced a net loss of most nutrients, while bark experienced either no change or a significant net gain of nutrients Nutrient cycling has increased in P mollissima infested forests.
3068779|This study is the first to compare bird communities across different sites within the same large continuous neotropical primary forest area. The objectives were to document bird distribution patterns, the spatial variability of specific abundances and the between-site turnover in species compositions. I censused 268 forest-interior species, 39 raptors and 135 natural-gap species in 20 widely spaced, c. 2000-ha sites in the interior of French Guiana, divided into three main zones. At least 59% of species had a very low abundance index and/or rate of occurrence among sites and only 1% were widespread dominants. Beta diversity was an important determinant of regional species richness. There was an average 29% species turnover between sites and 7% between regions, as well as a lack of nested-subset structure among communities and a random occurrence of pairs of similar congeners. At the country scale, only one species had a truly restricted geographical range, independent of habitat availability, but at a local scale, many species had uneven distributional gaps (36% present at < 50% of sites with suitable habitat). Among sites, abundance or incidence variability had no definite pattern. Frequency of occurrence in suitable patches decreased with increasing natural fragmentation of habitats. There were significant relationships between habitat selection and abundance or frequency of occurrence but not with diet or body size. Few species exhibited consistent geographical trends along the north-south gradient of decreasing rainfall. Guianan endemics tended to be widespread within the country. Several seasonal movements and inter-annual population fluctuations were documented. Rarity had different forms, but no general ecological correlates. Nearly half of rare species were associated with various types of forest gaps or edges, and were consequently more abundant outside the forest zone, i.e. in grasslands or clearings. Local occurrences and abundances seem to be the result of highly species-specific factors, and hence any general determinant of community structure may be obscured by specific reactions in such species-rich, heterogeneous and complex tropical rain-forest communities.
3068835| Leaf water and osmotic potentials and gas exchange were monitored during a prolonged El Nio drought in 1998 for saplings of seven species in a Bornean heath forest and compared with measurements taken during a subsequent wet period. The four dipterocarp species maintained reasonably good water status throughout the drought, especially Dipterocarpus borneensis which had thick and deep tap roots. In contrast, two of three non-dipterocarp species, Cleistanthus baramicus and Tristaniopsis obovata displayed predawn leaf water potentials approaching their turgor-loss points. During the drought, all species except D. borneensis displayed strongly reduced stomatal conductance after a brief exposure to sun, and all displayed lower maximum rates of stomatal conductance and net photosynthesis than during the wet period. Only Cotylelobium burckii displayed significant osmotic acclimation to the drought. T. obovata possessing a superficial root system suffered a high mortality due to the drought, but recovered faster after the first rains than the other species all of which had tap roots. Deep roots and strong stomatal control favour trees in tropical heath forests where water deficits probably occur regularly. 
25172912|As top predators, wild cats play a key ecological role in tropical forests, but little is known about the factors that regulate their abundance. This study looked for correlates of ocelot (Leopardus pardalis) abundance at two spatial scales. First, camera-trap surveys conducted in the Atlantic Forest of Misiones, Argentina, were used to test the hypothesis that selective logging and poaching affect the local abundance of this cat. Second, published density estimates (N = 21) were used to test the hypothesis that rainfall and latitude are correlated with the abundance of ocelots across their continental range. In Misiones, ocelot densities ranged from 4.961.33 individuals per 100 km in the intensely logged and hunted areas to 17.62.25 individuals per 100 km in areas with low human impact. The frequency of records, number of individuals recorded per station, and density estimates were 2-3 times higher in areas with relatively low levels of logging and poaching. At a continental scale, ocelot densities decrease with latitude and increase with rainfall. Primary productivity seems to determine the abundance of wild cats across their range, but at a local scale their abundance may be affected by logging and poaching or by competition with other species.
3068782|In the Australian wet-dry tropics, temperatures are high year-round but rainfall is concentrated in a 4-mo wet season. Regular nightly surveys in the Fogg Dam Nature Reserve provided data on temporal (monthly, seasonal) variation in biological attributes of three snake species: water pythons (Liasis fuscus, Pythonidae), keelbacks (Tropidonophis mairii, Colubridae) and slatey-grey snakes (Stegonotus cucullatus, Colubridae). Adults of all three taxa were encountered more frequently during the dry season than the wet season, whereas juveniles were more commonly encountered in the wet season. The sex ratio among adult snakes also shifted seasonally, but in different ways in different species. These sex-ratio shifts probably reflect reproductive activity (mate-searching by males, oviposition migrations by females) and were accompanied by increased encounter rates. Feeding rates and body condition of keelbacks (a frog specialist) were highest during the wet season when frogs were most abundant. Rats migrated away from Fogg Dam during the wet season, and most pythons (rat specialists) left this area to follow their prey. The pythons that remained at Fogg Dam exhibited low feeding rates and poor body condition. Slatey-grey snakes (a generalist predator) showed less seasonal variation in feeding rates or body condition. Our data show that tropical seasonality induces strong fluctuations in many attributes of snake populations, and that patterns of response differ both among and within species.
2559217|The distributional patterns and food preferences of some cerrado vegetation termites were studied in an area of 2500 m<sup>2</sup> in south-east Brazil. All the termitaria were mapped and opened for identification of the species present. Their spatial distribution was studied using the nearest neighbour method (Clark & Evans 1954). We found 46 termite species in 450 nests. The majority of them were wood feeders. The general distribution of termitaria was regular. The distributional patterns of grass and litter feeders were not significantly different from a random distribution. Soil and organic matter feeders were contagiously distributed. The distribution of wood feeders was also contagious. Their spatial distribution was largely influenced by the distribution of the species Nasutitermes sp. 1 and Armitermes euamignathus. These two species occurred in two distinct patches, suggesting resource partitioning.
4092125| The diets of the acouchy Myoprocta exilis, agouti Dasyprocta leporina and paca Agouti paca, the three largest terrestrial rodents of French Guiana forests, were investigated from stomachs collected over several years. These species are primarily frugivores. The percentage of fruit in their diet decreased, and seasonal variation increased from the smallest species, the acouchy, to the largest, the paca (contents in dry mass: respectively, 98.5%  0.6%, 87.4%  3.5%, and 83.9%  7.6%). They differed from each other in the proportions of pulp and secondary foods (leaves, fibre, insects) consumed annually as well as seasonally. Dietary diversity in the acouchy was half that of the two other species. The seasonal variation in consumption of different fruit parts and of secondary foods by these species corresponded well with the fruit production in the forest, and was linked to their reproductive events. Overall, the diets of these three large rodents appeared intermediate between the small rodent species and the artiodactyls (peccaries and brocket deer) inhabiting the same areas, which also concords with their body mass and their place within the guild of terrestrial mammals. 
2559496|The effects of salinity upon the growth, photosynthesis, ion and water contents of a population of Dactyloctenium aegyptium originating from a saline site in Nigeria were investigated. Growth was unaffected by a salinity of 10% artificial sea water, but was reduced by one third in 20% and by two thirds in 30% artificial sea water respectively. Initial adjustment to salinity was due both to increases in the concentrations of sodium and potassium per unit dry weight and to reduced hydration, the latter being the more important at higher salinities. The increase in ion concentration in the cell sap balanced the salinity of the medium at 10% artificial sea water, but was excessive at higher concentrations of sea water. Net photosynthesis was unaffected by 10% artificial sea water but declined at higher salinities. The potassium content of the plants did not fall below 200-250 mM, and the sodium to potassium ratio did not exceed three, even at the highest salinities. Variation in the concentration of nutrients (potassium, nitrate and sulphate) in the medium in the presence of 25% artificial sea water had significant effects upon growth, but these were small in relation to the inhibitory effect of the salinity. The reduction in growth could not be attributed to lack of osmotic adjustment or to nutrient deficiency, and was probably due to ion toxicity within the leaves. The tolerance to reduced hydration, combined with the ability to germinate in saline conditions previously observed, could enable D. aegyptium to establish in a saline soil. The population did not exhibit any halophytic characteristics but did survive with a low growth rate at salinities up to 50% artificial sea water. It is concluded that the species was able to colonize the saline site because of its inherent adaptability, rather than the possession of an ecotype adapted to saline conditions.
2559682|The red land crab (Gecarcoidea natalis) is the major collector of fruits and seeds from the rain forest floor on Christmas Island, Indian Ocean. At three sites, they rapidly removed fruits and seeds of 17 species tested (usually within 12 h after placement) and most were taken to crab burrows. Direct observations of seed predation, and application of estimated chelar forces of red crabs indicated that seeds of many species, especially those with thin seed coats, are likely to be killed through handling. However, removal of some resistant seeds to burrows may be favourable for seedling establishment when canopy gaps occur. Fruit removal rates by crabs were positively related to nitrogen concentration in fruit tissues but negatively correlated with condensed tannins. These observations suggest that seed predation by land crabs may affect the success of colonization and the relative abundance of plants on oceanic islands.
4091824|Small-scale spatial association of the distribution for 55 abundant tree species with two environmental factors (humus depth and surface microtopography) was examined in two 1-ha plots of a heath (kerangas) forest in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia. More than 80% of the 55 species showed a significant habitat preference in humus depth and/or relative elevation in at least one plot. In particular, ten species occurring in both plots showed a consistent significant preference for humus depth or relative elevation in the two plots. Using randomization tests, however, only five species significantly associated with humus depth and no species with relative elevation. These results suggest that edaphic and topographic factors, especially humus depth, contribute to determining local spatial distribution and floristic composition of abundant tree species in the forest.
2560183|Seeds of the Brazilnut tree (Bertholletia excelsa Humb. & Bonpl, Lecythidaceae) sustain one of the most important extractive industries in neotropical forests Yet little is known about the demography and seed dispersal ecology of Bertholletia, particularly in natural stands which have not been previously harvested This study presents data on the population density, spatial distribution, and seed dispersal ecology of Brazilnut trees at a pristine stand located within the Kayapo Indian Area of southeastern Amazonia, Para, Brazil. Brazilnut trees were primarily found within groves (castanhais) of 75 to 149 trees, with a few isolated trees in between. Although the density of trees 10 cm in diameter at breast height (hereafter, dbh) at two groves was 48 to 5.1 trees ha<sup>-1</sup>, the overall density for the entire study area of c. 950 ha was estimated at 13 tree ha<sup>-1</sup>. Within-grove nearest neighbour distances averaged 21 m and were markedly skewed towards even shorter distances. Seed dispersal experiments using 709 marked seeds indicated that this pattern can be largely explained by the highly restricted seed shadows imparted by the main seed dispersal agents of Bertholletia at this site, the red-rumped agouti (Dasyprocta leporina). Agoutis on average scatterhoard Bertholletia seeds to an average distance of 5 m, and rarely beyond 20 m, from seed stations We suggest that, once edaphic and climatic conditions are suitable, the highly contagious spatial distribution of Bertholletia trees at the landscape level can be largely accounted for by the quantitatively dominant effect of short-distance dispersal by caviomorph rodents, and rare events of long-distance dispersal provided by other vectors. This mechanism of grove formation need not resort to untested conjectures of human dispersal and intentional planting in prehistoric and historic times as it has often been suggested in the literature.
2560217|Decomposition of litter on the forest floor and of leaves of five species, Celtis zenkeri, Cola lepidota, Desbordesia glaucescens, Ceiba pentandra and Terminalia superba in nylon mesh bags, as well as wood decay were studied in the tropical rainforest at Southern Bakundu Forest Reserve, Cameroon. The rate of loss of dry matter was fastest in Celtis zenkeri which was significantly different from the other species, while potassium was the most rapidly released element from all species with more than 50% being released in the first two months of the experiment. Nitrogen and phosphorus showed initial increases in bagged leaf litter independent of dry weight losses and while nitrogen was later released phosphorus continued to increase reaching 2-3 times the initial concentration. Decomposition constant (k) of litter on the forest floor was found to be 2.23 whereas the mean decomposition constants of the different species were as follows: Celtis zenkeri 4.18, Cola lepidota 2.18, Desbordesia glaucescens 1.60 and Ceiba pentandra 2.16 for the two experiments. Termites were found to have a very great influence on the decay of the wood of Terminalia superba with decay due to micro-organisms being negligible.
2560084|White-eyed vireos (Vireo griseus) winter in the forests and secondary growth of the Yucatan Peninsula where Bursera simaruba (Burseraceae) is an abundant tree Twenty-five per cent of all white-eyed vireos observed foraging visited Bursera trees In addition, presence and abundance of territorial white-eyed vireos in small forest patches were correlated with the size of the Bursera crop Vireos were the most reliable dispersers of Bursera seeds These birds visited 32 of 35 trees observed for at least three hours. They accounted for approximately half of all bird visits, and two-thirds of the seeds dispersed. Most of the other species rarely visited (<5% of visits) or failed to remove seeds from the tree. Peculiarities of phenology and fruit structure may contribute to the tendency of Bursera to be dispersed by relatively few species The capsules of Bursera fruits do not open when the fruit ripens; birds apparently locate ripe fruit using visual cues, although these are few In addition, only a small portion of the crop ripens daily over a 7- or 8-month period. The vireo-Bursera simaruba relationship, found regionally on the Yucatan Peninsula, may result from the prolonged fruit ripening period (October-March), the relatively depauperate frugivore community and the relatively high density of small Bursera trees in the hurricane-disturbed dry forests. Small trees at all times, and all trees from October to February, depend upon territorial vireos for continuous, highly efficient local dispersal of a small number of fruits In March and April residual fruits ripen rapidly and synchronously, attracting a greater variety of visitors for broad spectrum dispersal during a period of food scarcity. Thus, Bursera has an unusual two-phase phenological pattern, perhaps alternately to take advantage of both specialized and opportunistic dispersers.
2559393|Malaysia is establishing large-scale plantations for reforestation and the production of wood for pulp and paper as well as for light construction. The main species used currently is the exotic legume Acacia mangium. The above-ground biomass, litter production and litter accumulation in a four-year-old stand in Peninsular Malaysia were studied. The mean diameter at breast height (dbh) was 12 cm. The mean annual increment (MAI) in dbh of individual trees ranged from 0.9 to 5.1 cm while MAI in height of sample trees ranged from 2.9 to 5.5 m. The total above-ground biomass of the stand was 90.4 t ha<sup>-1</sup>, consisting of 57.6 t stem, 14.1 t branch and 5.4 t leaf. Litter production averaged 10.23 t ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> with leaf litter making up 87.4% of the total. Leaf litter accumulation amounted to 6.64 t ha<sup>-1</sup> and the turnover constant of leaf litter was estimated at 1.35. The high productivity is discussed in relation to the high turnover of foliage and the low turnover of litter.
2559854|`Times Species-counts' are a simple method of comparing the avifaunas of extensive areas by sampling representative habitats. The method has been evaluated in south central Kenya but could be applied to most terrestrial regions of tropical Africa. The essential feature is that the observers move anywhere within a sample site of about 1 km<sup>2</sup>, recording all of the species seen in a fixed time, e.g. 1 h. Counts are made in all seasons and at various times of day. Reasonable estimates of the total number of species in an area can be derived from a series of 15 counts, but such estimates tend to be low in non-forested habitats because `wanderers' (non-resident species) continue to be recorded almost indefinitely. Open sites have far fewer species than well-wooded areas. The numbers of resident species in non-forested terrestrial habitats is related both to the amount of woody vegetation and to a measure of plant growth. However, total species numbers seem to depend solely on the amount of woody vegetation. Road counts, from a vehicle, were compared to those made on foot. They are less satisfactory, especially for cryptic species.
2560310|The life history of Cora marina was followed for one year in two permanent streams at 600 m elevation in Guanacaste National Park, Costa Rica. The water temperature was c. 21<sup></sup>C year-round, but there was a distinct wet-dry seasonality, very little rain falling from January to May. In both streams, C marina was univoltine Adults first appeared at the beginning of May and the flight period coincided with the wet season The availability of water-soaked logs as oviposition sites probably restricts reproduction to the wet season. Eggs hatched from mid-July to December Recruitment to subsequent larval instars was slow during the wet season but increased at the start of the dry season. Final-instar larvae were collected from March to October. Oviposition in logs above the stream and the ability to live in the low oxygen conditions of the hyporheic zone probably allow eggs and small larvae to survive wet season spates.
3068796|The vertical stratification of bat communities in primary forests of the Central Amazon (80 km north of Manaus, Brazil) was investigated using capture nets in the canopy (17 to 30 m high) and in the understorey (from 0-2.5 m). Seventeen sites were sampled during one year (3398.5 mistnet-hours) and 936 individuals captured, belonging to 6 families, 29 genera and 51 species. Utilizing Non-Metric Multidimensional Scaling (NMMDS), a well-marked vertical stratification between the communities was verified, the canopy being the more utilized region. Fifteen species were exclusively captured in the canopy, 10 were predominantly captured in the canopy, and 12 species were exclusively captured in ground nets. Species recorded and the communities they form were analysed using a matrix of guilds. The matrix obtained had 24 cells. A guild composed by background cluttered/gleaning frugivores was the richest in species (19), followed by background cluttered/gleaning insectivores (12 species). The results illustrate that when studying tropical forests it is highly desirable to involve both the lower and the upper part of the forests; otherwise the fauna would be merely subsampled, thus under-estimating the status and abundance of some species.
4091856|The habitat associations of stream-breeding frogs were examined along a series of stream transects on Buton Island in south-east Sulawesi, Indonesia. Of the eight frog species located along streams, four were observed breeding in stream habitats. We examined spatial habitat partitioning among these species. Three of the four species were found to be associated with a non-random selection of the available perch sites. Strong partitioning between species in habitat associations was found; partitioning of the available habitat space was primarily associated with differences in proximity to stream features, and in the height of perch sites. General observations indicated that oviposition sites of most species were associated with the microhabitats in which the adult frogs were found. All four stream-breeding species appear to have synchronous breeding phenologies and the spatial relationships of these species within the habitat space appear to reflect partitioning of calling sites and oviposition sites. The stream-breeding frog community in this region of Sulawesi has much lower species richness and less specialized habitat use compared with other tropical stream-breeding frog communities in the region.
2559408|This study was conducted in a woodland savanna in western Venezuela exclosed from grazing and burnt once a year towards the end of the dry season. Mean annual rainfall is 1500 mm, with a strong seasonality. Two cohorts of seedlings of Andropogon semiberbis were tagged and monitored for up to three years. Several variables such as survivorship, plant size, seedling density, fire damage and distance to the nearest adult were measured or estimated. Two burning experiments to measure survivorship before and after fire, and two seedling-growth experiments to assess competitive interference from adult plants of three grass species were performed. The highest mortality takes place during the dry season and is due to fire. This decreases as the plants get bigger due to increasing structural complexity of the clump by growth which gives added protection to the meristems. Other mortality factors such as desiccation, uprooting and shading seem to be important during the wet season, when mortality rate is relatively constant. Survivorship during the first year and after three years is strongly correlated to the size attained by the end of the first growing season. Seedling densities are rather low and do not seem to play any role in survivorship in this population. Adult interference with seedling growth decreases with distance and seems to be due to root competition, although there is a tendency toward increased foliage interference related to the canopy structure of adult plants.
2559421|1211 trees of 3 ft (0.91 m) girth or more were enumerated in 288 1-ch<sup>2</sup> (about 400 m<sup>2</sup>) quadrats forming a 11.7 ha plot on the mainly Segamat soil series, Jengka Forest Reserve, Peninsular Malaysia, in 1964. Of the 261 taxa, 84% were identified to species. Five per cent of the area was of the permanently wetter Akob soil series. The plot was topographically flat and lay about 3 km west of the plot on the Batu Anam soil series, described in an earlier paper. Data on the chemical composition of the three soils are summarized here from a survey in 1967. The vegetation on the Segamat series is of the Shorea-Dipterocarpus type of lowland dipterocarp forest. It has an unusually high abundance of the Euphorbiaceae (25% of trees) and a clear dominant species, Elateriospermum tapos. E. tapos, which regenerates profusely in the shade, grows up in small gaps and is strongly clumped, and appears well suited to the very friable, relatively nutrient-rich soil of the Segamat series, with lower soil-water holding capacity especially in dry periods. Forest on the Segamat series is floristically very different from that on the Batu Anam series. This is most likely due to large differences in soil properties, the latter being of lower clay content, less nutrient-rich and, having a greater soil-water holding capacity at least in dry periods. It was dominated by Dipterocarpaceae. Classification of quadrats on the Segamat series highlighted four classes; vegetation of the main E. tapos-dominated type on relatively dry soil (54% of plot area), vegetation on the wet Akob soil (21%), an association of shade-tolerant, mainly understorey trees beneath non-E. tapos-associated emergents (11%), and an association of long-lived, light-demanding pioneer trees of late-successional stages (11%); 3% of plot had no enumerated trees. Ordination showed that the plot was largely homogeneous with respect to edaphic factors but clearly displayed stages in forest succession. The possible dynamics of the Segamat forest are inferred in terms of species autecology. Two hypotheses are advanced to explain the composition of the Segamat forest: (a) a dynamic equilibirum, (b) a non-equilibrium recovery from a recent catastrophe. The latter was thought more likely. Compared with the more benign Batu Anam environment, where co-dominants might be 'ecologically equivalent', the more selective soil conditions on the Segamat leads to reduced equivalence, with accidents of regeneration playing a smaller role in the local distribution of the most abundant species.
2559407|The breeding season and diet of the rat Arvicanthis was monitored from December 1983 to November 1985 in the semi-arid Sudan savanna at Kano, Nigeria, West Africa. Breeding began 1-2 months before the start of the rainy season and ceased at the beginning of the dry season. The diet of Arvicanthis was omnivorous, but with seasonal differences. Monocotyledons and dicotyledons predominated in the diet in the dry season, with seeds and insects increasing in the diet in the rainy season. The major differences between the ecology of Arvicanthis at Kano and on the East African savanna were that in East Africa the breeding season is longer and begins after the start of the rainy season. These and other dissimilarities between the biology of Arvicanthis in the two areas could be due to the effect of climatic differences on food supply and to the possible existence of different taxonomic groupings of Arvicanthis in the two regions.
2559525|Floristic and structural comparisons and a numerical classification were performed to identify the priority areas for conservation of genetic resources in central Brazil. The main type of woody vegetation, cerrado sensu stricto (savanna woodland with 10-60% tree cover), was sampled under a uniform methodology in six selected sites (total sample of 6 ha) scattered in a physiographic unit called the Pratinha Plateau located between 15-20<sup></sup> S and 46-49<sup></sup> W. A total of 6971 trees belonging to 139 species and 42 families was measured Each site had a combination of 50-80 species and approximately 30 families but only 22 species from 14 families were common to all sites. Similarity decreased with distance, indicating the existence of geographical gradients as the physical characteristics were relatively uniform and the soils were dystrophic at all sites The most dissimilar sites, in the localities of Patrocinio-MG and Paracatu-MG were recommended for the establishment of conservation units The already existent conservation units are all clumped in the Federal District and are not enough to protect the genetic heritage of the plateau. Floristics and phytosociological surveys based on land system zoning were recommended as useful tools in planning conservation areas at a regional level to preserve the maximum biodiversity.
2559410|Cerrado is a species-rich savanna-like vegetation that covers a large area in central Brazil. Soil, and particularly soil fertility, is considered to be the major factor determining the wide and diverse physiognomic-floristic gradients encountered within cerrado vegetation. To describe the vegetational variations within a cerrado in southern Mato Grosso state (15<sup></sup> 21' S, 55<sup></sup> 49' W), a 1 ha transect was located to pass through an interfluvial cerrado and climb a steep talus slope. The vegetational and environmental variations are described by means of field classification, direct gradient analysis and reciprocal averaging ordination. The effects of differences in ground water regime in the interfluvial cerrado and differences in inclination with associated rockiness in the talus cerrado are related to the vegetational variations. As the soils are very similar in texture and in the majority of chemical properties, the role of the above environmental factors was more easily distinguished. In the interfluvial cerrado, the vegetation variations are probably related to the seasonal fluctuation in water table level.
2560175|Germination and seedling resprouting capacity of the very large-seeded tree species Prioria copaifera Griseb. (Fabaceae) was studied in the seasonally moist forest of Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Seeds with 60% of their cotyledonary mass removed did not suffer a reduced probability of germination compared to unmanipulated seeds and seeds infested with up to eight insect larvae germinated as well as uninfested seeds. Unmanipulated seeds were able to consecutively produce up to four functional resprout shoots after excision of the initial, and subsequent, fully expanded shoots. Even seeds with up to 60% of their reserves removed showed some capacity to resprout. Less than 10% of seeds we encountered in the field 2 mo after the end of the fruiting season were in a viable state, with the majority (55%) of mortality attributable to insect or pathogen damage Of the 46 seeds that were viable, 30% had suffered partial removal of seed reserves similar to our manipulation treatments. These results indicate that P. copaifera seeds are capable of tolerating severe seed and shoot damage. The selective advantage conferred by damage tolerance may in part have contributed to the evolution of large seed size in this species.
3068791|Although tropical forest birds are known to prey upon small lizards and frogs, no study has documented the attributes of vertebrate-eating birds or whether birds prey opportunistically on the different elements of the herpetofauna within tropical communities. This study is based on a 14-mo investigation on avian diet, supplemented with a 3-y census of frogs and a 1-y census of lizards in a humid forest of central Panama. From 91 bird species, 1086 regurgitates were collected, in which were found 75 lizards and 53 frogs. Over 50% of the common, primarily insectivorous bird species preyed upon lizards or frogs, with a mean frequency of 0.26 prey/sample. These birds (22 species, nine families) foraged on various substrates from different strata of the forest, fed on invertebrates averaging from 3.3 to 17.2 mm in length, weighed from 11 to 195 g, and had bill lengths that varied from 12.2 to 49.8 mm. Based on a logistic regression analysis, intensity of foraging at army-ant swarms was the variable that best explained the likelihood that a bird species preyed upon lizards, leading to a classification that was 91% correct. In contrast, bill length and body length classified correctly 88% of the frog-eating birds, which showed a fairly constant 1:7 bill length/body length ratio (as opposed to a mean but highly variable 1:10 ratio in other species). A multiple regression analysis showed that seasonal variation in intensity of lizard predation was positively related to arthropod abundance except during the breeding season when lizard intake decreased, presumably because nesting birds did not follow ant swarms. Intensity of frog predation correlated with frog abundance over time, the latter being inversely related to arthropod availability. Ninety-seven per cent of all lizards and frogs indentified in the diet samples (n = 105) were from two genera, Anolis and Eleutherodactylus, respectively. Prey size distribution in the regurgitates suggested an optimal prey size of 33.5 mm snout-vent length (SVL) for lizards and 14.5 mm SVL for frogs. Birds preyed opportunistically on the different Anolis species, but almost exclusively upon juvenile individuals. Abundances of the different Eleutherodactylus species correlated with their predation rates, but these frogs represented only 10% of all the frogs observed during the censuses. The two most common local anurans, Colostethus flotator and Bufo typhonius, were not taken by any bird species.
4092022|We studied diet choice by a generalist herbivore, the red howler monkey (Alouatta seniculus) under conditions of high and normal population density. Densities equivalent to
2559890|The variations in macronutrient concentrations of the leaves of Terminalia superba and Pycanthus angolensis were studied and the concentrations of nutrients in leaves before abscission were compared with those after abscission The amounts of nutrients returned to the forest floor were also computed from litter fall data at the start of maximum annual fall in the Reserve. With the exception of potassium in Pycanthus angolensis, there were significant variations in the nutrient concentrations of the two species with the time of year. With increasing leaf age the concentration of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and magnesium declined in Terminalia superba while magnesium concentration decreased in Pycanthus angolensis leaves. Furthermore, calcium showed an increasing concentration in Terminalia superba with increase in leaf age. The concentrations of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium decreased before leaf fall. Estimated losses in nitrogen phosphorus and potassium before abscission were 44, 53 and 50%, respectively, whereas generally there was an increase (40%) in the concentration of calcium at leaf fall Magnesium did not follow a definite pattern. The return of calcium through litter fall to the forest floor was the greatest of all the major elements The distribution and variation of foliar nutrient concentrations in the leaves of Terminalia superba and Pycanthus angolensis and the importance of the amount of litter and the concentration of the various nutrients in the influencing soil fertility are discussed
4499070|Flood depth has been frequently used to explain the distribution of plant species in seasonally flooded grasslands, but its relation with vegetation production has remained ambiguous. The relationship between flooding and above-ground biomass at the end of the flooding season and during the dry season was studied to assess the impact of reflooding on the Logone floodplain, Cameroon. Above-ground biomass of a combination of all species and of the individual perennial grasses Oryza longistaminata and Echinochloa pyramidalis showed a positive linear relationship with maximum flood depth up to 1 m. The gradient of these relationships became steeper and their fit better during the 2 y following the installation of the flooding, showing the response lag to floodplain rehabilitation. Flood duration only explained the above-ground biomass of the combination of all species and not of the individual species. Above-ground biomass data from other floodplains in the three main African geographic regions showed a similar relationship with maximum flood depth less than 1 m. Dry-season regrowth, important because of its high nutrient quality during forage scarcity, was not directly related to maximum flood depth, possibly because of its dependency on the period of burning and soil moisture. Presented data indicate that a rise of water level of 1 cm corresponds to an increase in above-ground biomass of c.
4092156|Our study examines the effect of seasonal rains on soil organic C dynamics in a tropical deciduous forest ecosystem in Western Mexico. At the end of the wet season, an accumulation of labile nutrient forms developed and was maintained during the dry season. This accumulation enhances microbial activity in the first rains of the wet season. For example, the litter samples of the dry season had a higher C and N mineralization than those of the wet season. Similarly, the January soil samples had higher C mineralization than October soil samples (
25562613|Post-dispersal fate of seeds dispersed by large primates is well studied but little is known about this process in small frugivores like tamarins. This study in the Amazonian forest of Peru aimed at investigating if characteristics related to the defecation patterns of tamarins (Saguinus mystax and Saguinus fuscicollis) affected short-term post-dispersal seed fate, through secondary seed dispersal by dung beetles and removal by seed predators. Data on dung beetle activity were based on direct observations of 49 defecations while seed fate was studied using semi-controlled experiments (N = 458 for secondary dispersal and N = 398 for predation). Tamarins produce small defecations with a low number of seeds. Thirty-five per cent of defecations were visited by an average of 1.5 dung beetles that usually transport the faeces as pellets. Twenty-four per cent of seeds were buried by beetles at a mean depth of 3.5 cm. With increasing quantities of faecal matter, the probability of secondary seed dispersal increased but not the depth of burial. Seed predation pressure was low (17.6%) after 4 d and higher in faeces of S. mystax than in faeces of S. fuscicollis. Despite their small size, tamarins could be considered as high-quality seed dispersers, with a potential role for forest regeneration.
3068653| A demographic study was carried out on Bertholletia excelsa, the Brazil nut tree, in two primary forest sites in Northern Bolivia where Brazil nuts have been harvested for several decades. In spite of the large proportion (93%) of seeds that are harvested, reasonable densities of recently emerged seedlings were found. Seeds of Bertholletia are contained in woody fruits that are primarily opened by agoutis. Most fruits are left untouched on the forest floor for 1-2 y before they are opened, possibly due to high energetic costs of fruit opening just after fruit fall. However, the proportion of viable seeds is strongly reduced in older fruits. Growth in diameter at breast height (dbh) was low for pole-sized trees (< 15 cm dbh) and adult trees (> 100 cm dbh) and peaked for intermediate-sized trees (30-60 cm). These trees often attained a growth rate of $> 1.5\;cm\;y^{-1}$, which is high compared with other non-pioneer tropical trees. This, and the strong growth response to increased light availability found for seedlings and saplings, suggest that Bertholletia excelsa can be classified as a gap-dependent species. Matrix population models were constructed for both study populations. Population growth rates () were close to one, and were most sensitive to persistence in one size category. Age estimates revealed that age at first reproduction (at dbh > 60 cm) amounts to over 120 y, and age in the last category (dbh > 160 cm) to almost 300 y. Given the continuous rejuvenation of the population, the stable population size, the high age at maturity and the long reproductive period, it is concluded that current levels of Brazil nut extraction may be sustained at least for several decades and perhaps for even longer periods. 
4499145|The effects of habitat fragmentation on seed dispersal can strongly influence the evolutionary potential of tropical forest plant communities. Few studies have combined traditional methods and molecular tools for the analysis of dispersal in fragmented landscapes. Here seed dispersal distances were documented for the tree Dipteryx panamensis in continuous forest and two forest fragments in Costa Rica, Central America. Distance matrices were calculated between adult trees (n = 283) and the locations of seeds (n = 3016) encountered along 100 x 4-m transects (n = 77). There was no significant difference in the density of seeds dispersed > 25 m from the nearest adult (n = 253) among sites. There was a strong correlation between the locations of dispersed seeds and the locations of overstorey palms favoured as bat feeding roosts in continuous forest and both fragments. Exact dispersal distances were determined for a subset of seeds (n = 14) from which maternal endocarp DNA could be extracted and matched to maternal trees using microsatellite analysis. Dispersal within fragments and from pasture trees into adjacent fragments was documented, at a maximum distance of 853 m. Results show no evidence of a fragmentation effect on D. panamensis seed dispersal in this landscape and strongly suggest bat-mediated dispersal at all sites.
3068668|Although herbivory in ground-rooted flora is well documented, current knowledge of the herbivore pressure on vascular epiphytes remains mostly anecdotal. Here, we present the results of a 3-year study on the herbivory in a population of the epiphytic bromeliad Vriesea sanguinolenta. In different years, 26-61% of all epiphytes showed traces of herbivore attack, while up to 4.4% of the entire leaf area of the epiphyte population was consumed annually. The recorded levels of damage to photosynthetic tissue, mostly caused by the larvae of Napaea eucharilla (Riodinidae, Lepidoptera), indicate that vascular epiphytes may be regularly and sometimes even lethally attacked by insect herbivores. The level of damage is comparable to ground-rooted tropical flora, which certainly does not support the prevalent notion of low and negligible levels of herbivory in vascular epiphytes.
2559769|Campos de murundus (earthmound fields) are common throughout the cerrado (savanna) in Brazil. They have a clearly defined distribution particularly where they are associated with ground water. There is a distinctive woody vegetation on the discrete mounds contrasting with surrounding grass-covered depressions. After a reconnaissance ground and air-photograph survey of the nature and distribution of mounds within the Federal District, four one-hectare plots were chosen for detailed study within the ecological reserve of the University of Brasilia. Measurements were made of the size, shape and frequency of mounds. Numbers varied from 26 to 61 ha<sup>-1</sup> with a uniform distribution occupying 10-50% of the plots. Heights ranged from 0.05 to over 2 m. The generally semi-elliptical shape in ground plan had an average size of 7 by 5.5 m with no evidence of preferred orientation although water scouring from runoff partly influences the morphology. Volumes varied from 0.01 m<sup>3</sup> to 141.5 m<sup>3</sup>. The soils of the murundus differed from those of surrounding depressions by being better drained, with bright colours and strong cohesive structures; they were more argillic with lower base saturation and pH values. Such sites favour colonization both by cerrado plants and by termites. A classification of the murundus is postulated. Although this paper does not consider the origins of murundus, they appear to relate more closely to drainage and differential erosion than to termite activity.
4092188| We investigate a hypothesis for explaining maintenance of forest canopy dominance: bamboo (Guadua weberbaueri and Guadua sarcocarpa) loads and crushes trees, resulting in a self-perpetuating disturbance cycle. Forest inventory data revealed a peculiar pattern of tree form and size class distribution in bamboo-dominated plots within the Tambopata River watershed, Madre de Dios, Peru. Bamboo disproportionately loaded trees 5-29 cm in diameter, and this size class had over seven times more canopy damage than trees in control plots without bamboo. These differences were accompanied by reduced tree basal area and tree density in the 5-29-cm-diameter size class in the presence of bamboo. Elevated tree canopy damage was not apparent for trees 30 cm dbh, which are beyond the reach of bamboo. Additional evidence for the impact of bamboo was revealed by an experiment using artificial metal trees. Artificial trees in bamboo-dominated forest plots had nine times higher frequency of physical damage and nine times more plant mass loading as compared with control plots. Our results support the hypothesis that bamboo loading causes elevated physical damage to trees and suppresses tree recruitment, particularly for trees 5-29 cm in diameter. 
25562590|The floral biology and pollination ecology of durian, Durio zibethinus, were determined in eight semi-wild trees in mixed-fruit orchards in southern Thailand during April-May 2003 and 2005. Flowers open fully at 16h00-16h30 and most androecia drop around 01h00. Anthers dehisce at 19h30-20h00 when the stigmata are already receptive. In a series of pollination experiments, fruit was set in all treatments within 10 d. The greatest pollination success occurred after hand-crossed (76.6%), open (54.4%) and emasculation pollination (53.3%). Consistently, hand-crossed (12.2%), emasculation (8.7%) and open pollination (5.1%) yielded a substantial fruit set 2 mo after the pollination experiments. Very low pollination success in facilitated autogamy suggests that most durian trees are highly self incompatible. No mature fruit was found after insect pollination and automatic autogamy. Fruit bats, especially Eonycteris spelaea, are the major pollinators of this durian although the giant honey bee (Apis dorsata) was the most frequent visitor to the flowers. Bats visited durian flowers at the rate of 26.1 (SD = 20.7) visits per inflorescence per night. Since this semi-wild durian depends on fruit bats as its pollinator, protecting fruit bat populations and their roosts is vital for the production of the durian fruit crop.
3068671|A total of 537 crops from four coexisting granivorous doves (Columbina minuta, C. passerina, C. talpacoti and Scardafella squammata), collected on seven sampling dates in a Venezuelan savanna, were examined to assess food partitioning. These closely related doves are resident birds, and overlap broadly both in daily activity patterns and habitat use; in circumstances like this, segregation in the use of food resources often occurs. It was found that: (a) differences in body dimensions did not account for variations in seed size taken by doves; they all ate seeds in the same size range and they showed high similarity in seed size preferred; (b) the importance of different seed sizes in the diets changed seasonally with similar tendencies for all four species, (c) there were differences up to 4-fold in mean seed size consumed by individuals of the same species on the same date; (d) seeds of 63 plant species were consumed by the four dove species and constituted from 98 to 99.5% of the diets; (e) high dietary overlap both in prey size and prey type was found throughout the year. The dietary relationships found in this study support the idea that these birds forage opportunistically, and that some differences found among their diets may be the result of random seed sampling from the heterogeneous seed pool available.
3068690|The introduction of bamboo to montane rain forests of the Luquillo Mountains, Puerto Rico in the 1930s and 1940s has led to present-day bamboo monocultures in numerous riparian areas. When a non-native species invades a riparian ecosystem, in-stream detritivores can be affected. Bamboo dynamics expected to influence stream communities in the Luquillo Experimental Forest (LEF) were examined. Based on current distributions, bamboo has spread downstream at a rate of 8 m y
3068657|Leaf phenology was studied in individuals of a canopy species, Elateriospermum tapos (Euphorbiaceae), at various ontogenetic stages, in a Malaysian rain forest. The timing of leaf emergence was not synchronized among sapling individuals, and was not correlated with any meteorological factors of the preceding month. The timing of leaf fall in saplings was positively correlated with net radiation, and maximum and minimum temperature, but negatively correlated with relative humidity the preceding month, although these correlations were weak. The leaf production rate was larger under higher light, but the leaf fall rate was not related to the light regime of the saplings. Thus, leaf production was enhanced by the light availability for each individual, while leaf fall may have been enhanced by drought stress. Non-synchronous leaf production appears to be important for sapling growth, allowing saplings to occupy better-lit space quickly. On the other hand, tall trees showed a clear synchronous leaf-fall pattern, with an annual cycle, and no meteorological factors were correlated with the timing of leaf fall. Mature trees of this species produced flowers simultaneously with new leaves, after shedding their leaves. This suggests that the need to synchronize flowering might be the primary determinant of leaf production phenology in mature individuals.
2560127|Similarities and differences among eight upland rain forest sites in Peruvian Amazonia were measured separately by using Melastomataceae, pteridophyte and tree species compositions and edaphic characteristics of the sites. All three plant groups showed a similar pattern among the sites, and this pattern could be explained by edaphic differences but not by geographical distances among the sites. The explicability of site-specific edaphic characteristics on the basis of geological history is discussed. The results suggest that both pteridophytes and Melastomataceae can be used as indicators of floristically different rain forest types that are edaphically defined. Distribution patterns of these plant groups can be studied much more rapidly than the patterns of trees and therefore both Melastomataceae and pteridophytes may be used in large scale phytogeographical studies that are urgently needed in the face of rapidly advancing deforestation.
3068693| Long-term data on flower and fruit production of the forest community in two lowland tropical rain forests in north-western Sumatra are presented. The proportion of years with mast fruiting was found to be similar to that found elsewhere in Malesia. However, masting at the two sites, 70 km apart, did not coincide, and showed no correlation with the El Nio-Southern Oscillation phenomenon (ENSO). Comparisons with other sites in Malesia suggest a general waning of ENSO's impact toward western Malesia. Spatial variation at various scales in the timing of masting events was noted in Sumatra and elsewhere. This suggests that additional factors to ENSO play a role in determining forest-level mast fruiting, and we hypothesize that frugivorous animals have the opportunity to track mast fruiting. It is hypothesized that asynchrony between nearby areas in masting increases toward the western edge of Malesia. 
4499069|Twelve native woody species were studied to investigate the influences of soil fertility and root morphology on colonization by arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi during seedling establishment and growth. Seedlings were grown in soils of low and high natural fertility, uninoculated or inoculated with AM fungi, under greenhouse conditions. The mycorrhizal root colonization and plant responsiveness were higher among early successional species than late successional ones. Among early successional species, in both soils, mycorrhizal colonization provided significant increase in total dry mass, growth rates of shoot and root, root length, density of root tissues, root surface area and P concentration and content in the shoot. Early successional species grown with AM fungi displayed significant decreases in carbon allocation to roots, specific root length and the length and incidence of root hairs. Mycorrhizal colonization did not affect the root morphology of the late successional species in either soil. The growth of these woody species was influenced by differences in soil fertility. There was positive correlation between the degree of plant responses to AM inoculation with the percentage of root colonized by AM fungi. In both soils, plant responsiveness and mycorrhizal root colonization correlated positively to root-hair incidence and root-hair length and correlated negatively to fine-root diameter. The results suggest that during the establishment of seedlings, the large responses to the inoculation and colonization of roots by AM fungi are related to both the successional status and root morphological plasticity of the host plant, regardless of soil fertility.
2559988|Spiders were sampled by knockdown insecticide fogging from the canopies of tropical rainforest sites in Dumoga-Bone National Park, Sulawesi, at altitudes of 210 m, 300 m, 400 m and 1150 m. The density of spiders in the canopies increased with altitude from 0.97 m<sup>-2</sup> at 210 m to 14.6 at 1150 m<sup>-2</sup>. Species numbers increased five-fold between 210 m and 1150 m but species diversity ( of the log series) was greatest at 210 m and least at 1150 m, partially due to dominance of the fauna by few species at the highest altitude. Similarity between the spiders' communities (as measured by the Morisita-Horn index) was greatest between canopies at 300 m and 400 m and least at 400 m and 1150 m. Theridiidae were abundant in forests at all altitudes, Pholcidae and Salticidae in the lowland forests between 210 m and 400 m and Clubionidae, Linyphiidae and Oonopidae in the montane forest at 1150 m. Theridiidae was the most species-rich family at all altitudes (22-30% of all species). Other species-rich families included Araneidae (7-19%) and Salticidae (8-17%) in low-land forests and Clubionidae (12%), Oonopidae (10%) and Salticidae (12%) in the montane forest. Published information on density, proportion and diversity of spiders in canopies of both tropical and temperate trees is reviewed and the results discussed in relation to those from the present study.
27751658|Riparian vegetation varies according to hydrogeomorphic processes operating across different scales over two didmensions: transversely (across-stream) and longitudinally (parallel to stream). We tested the hypothesis that vegetation patterns reveal the scale and direction of underlying processes. We correlated patterns of dominant woody vegetation with environmental variables at 28 sites located within four geomorphologically distinct regions along the length of the South Alligator River catchment of Kakadu National Park, northern Australia. Across the catchment there existed a strong transverse boundary between upland savanna vegetation and two zones of riparian vegetation: Melaleuca-spp.-dominated closed-forest vegetation along stream channels and mixed open-woodland vegetation adjacent to closed forest. We surmise that there is hierarchic constraint on smaller-scale catchment processes due to fire incursion into the riparian zone and access to water during the dry season. Within the closed-forest zone, vegetation did not vary transversely, but did longitudinally. Riparian woodlands also varied longitudinally, but in the upper reaches varied independently of stream variables. By contrast, in the lower reaches woodland was strongly correlated with stream variables. The observed pattern of weak transverse linkages in headwaters but strong linkages in lower reaches is analogous to models developed for in-stream patterns and processes, particularly the river continuum and flood-pulse concepts.
2559967|A total of 14 spotlight surveys were carried out from January 1992 to February 1993 along 37 km of the Klias River in north-western Sabah, Malaysia. Surveys were at low tide between 1900 and 0600 h from a survey boat at 15 km h<sup>-1</sup> by two observers A total of 221 sightings were made, which varied between 2 and 29 per survey (mean 15 8). A total of 55 juvenile crocodiles were captured, with 16 recaptures. Calculated density was 0.9-1 8 individuals km<sup>-1</sup>, while the estimated crocodile population was 46 1  10.2 (SD) for the survey area. Percentage sightings according to total length were: 42% 0 5 m; 40% >0.5- 1 0 m; 5% >1.0-3.0; and 13% eyes only. Recapture of 16 tagged juveniles suggested that hatchlings 0.5 m total length remained within >0.5 km of their release point for at least one month, and juveniles 0.5-1.0 m more than one year. Hatchlings had growth rates between 0.01 and 0.08 cm d<sup>-1</sup> and 0 3 and 1.5 g d<sup>-1</sup>, while larger juveniles grew at least 0.11 cm d<sup>-1</sup> and 2 7-2 9 g d<sup>-1</sup> Stomachs of hatchlings and juveniles contained crabs (Ocypodidae), prawns (Atyidae), insects and small fish (Hemiramphidae). Relatively large numbers of juvenile Crocodylus porosus (82 4%) in the Klias River suggests that the area, though under hunting pressure, is desirable as a site for the conservation of C. porosus in the Sabah
2559632|The insular distribution and abundance of the spiny rat (Proechimys semispinosus) were studied by live-trapping rats on 50 small forested islands in Gatun Lake, Republic of Panama. Rats were found on 29 of these islands. Rat abundance was not correlated with island size or isolation, in contrast to temperature rodents, and may be due to the highly patchy nature of tropical forests and the differing floristic compositions of the study islands. Rat occurrence on islands was related positively to island size and negatively to island isolation. All islands greater than 2.1 ha contained spiny rats, whereas most islands less than 0.9 ha did not contain rats. The relationship between occurrence, size, and isolation are illustrated by a three-dimensional response surface. Results suggest that colonization and extinction regularly occur on these islands and that (1) larger islands with year-round fruit production, regardless of isolation, will have persistent populations of rats, (2) small isolated islands will never or only very rarely have rats owing to a lack of a year-round food source and the difficulty of immigration, and (3) small near islands frequently will have rats when fruits are present. No other species of mouse- or rat-like rodents were captured on the islands. We suggest that P. semispinosus is a better colonist than other sympatric forest species, is more of a habitat generalist, and has a more flexible demographic structure allowing persistence in heterogeneous and changing environments.
3068683|Canopy observations of the rain forest tree Parkia velutina (Leguminosae: Mimosoideae) in Amazonian Brazil indicate that it is pollinated by night-flying bees. The small red flowers are organized into spherical heads; they open in the late afternoon and attract Megalopta bees (Halictidae: Augochlorini) which forage for pollen after dark. In contrast to the numerous bat-pollinated species of Parkia, no nectar was detected. Nocturnal melittophily is proposed as a possible intermediate stage in the evolution of chiropterophily from diurnal entomophily in Parkia.
4091880|Seed removal by rodents was investigated for Manilkara huberi and Chrysophyllum lucentifolium in a French Guianan forest. According to the escape hypothesis, seed survival was expected to be greater in populations of low conspecific adult density, while on the contrary, under the satiation hypothesis, it was expected to be greater in populations of high density. The two plots under study showed opposite densities for the two studied tree species. Therefore, according to both hypotheses, seed survival at each plot was expected to be opposite between species. To assess seed fate, seeds were thread-marked in order to relocate them after removal and to determine whether they were consumed or scatterhoarded by rodents. Contrary to what was expected, our results showed that both M. huberi and C. lucentifolium had better survival in the same plot. This suggests that seed fate for both study species was not influenced by the density of conspecific adult trees, but was rather affected by other habitat characteristics, likely the global resource abundance. Variation in seed predation rates of both species seemed largely related to their respective fruiting period, while scatterhoarding rate seemed more affected by intrinsic seed characteristics.
3068641|Large mammals often play important roles in determining the structure and composition of plant communities. This study focused on the extent to which wild pigs (Sus scrofa) influence the dynamics of tree seedlings and saplings in a lowland rain forest at Pasoh Forest Reserve in West Malaysia. Native wild pigs are common in the study area and may significantly influence growth and survivorship of woody plants in the understorey through several activities - namely, nest building, soil rooting and seed predation. To test experimentally the impact of pigs on the plant community, eight 49-m
25790828|Forests dominated by semi-scandent woody bamboos of the genus Guadua cover about 165 000 km of the south-west Amazon. Because many woody bamboo species are favoured by disturbance some authors have inferred this landscape to be a consequence of indigenous or natural disturbance. As seen in satellite images, the rounded edges of some bamboo-dominated forests indicate expansion into surrounding forest. These edges are unrelated to topography and resemble the borders of ground fires in unlogged Amazon forests, suggesting that bamboo may have been favoured by past fires. We studied the recovery of Guadua sarcocarpa and its competitors in the face of simulated fire by cutting all plant stems at ground level in ten 100-m plots, compared with ten control plots, and by burning a 2500-m plot. In the clear-cuts, bamboos recovered more successfully than did palms and dicots, by two measures: biomass accumulated and per cent recovery of pre-disturbance biomass. Resprouted bamboo attained higher stem densities than in control sites at 11 mo. In the burn plot, bamboo basal area recovered to pre-burn levels after 2 y and approached that of an undisturbed control area after 3 y. Though other natural disturbances are relevant, we conclude that forest fires should favour the spread and dominance of Guadua species in the south-west Amazon.
3068678|This study addresses the pollination ecology of shrub species in an upper montane forest in Costa Rica, where the diversity of insect visitors is much below that of the well-studied tropical forests of lower elevations. Data are presented on visitation rates by the tropical bumblebee Bombus ephippiatus to flowers of three species, pollen loads on bumblebee bodies, and pollen loads on stigmas of two of the species. High visitation rates to flowers of Palicourea brenesii were found, a species which produces copious amounts of nectar. Visitation rates to nectarless Leandra subseriata and Deppea grandiflora were much lower. Conspecific pollen comprised on average 90% of the pollen load on stigmas of Leandra, while Palicourea stigmas carried only 26 to 55% conspecific pollen. With only two ovules per flower, fruit and seed set in Palicourea were not limited by a shortage of conspecific pollen. In Leandra, 20-25% of the flowers received too few conspecific pollen grains for maximum seed set among 440 ovules per flower. Individual bumblebees showed no constancy in plant choice, judging from the high number of different pollen types (6-12) on their bodies. Workers returned frequently to the same Palicourea patch without visiting nearby Palicourea plants, which suggests the use of foraging paths.
4092189|Leaf phenology and leaf traits of the fern Oleandra pistillaris were examined in relation to canopy cover (open and understorey) and seasonal reduction in rainfall in a wet tropical montane forest, Indonesia. Although the annual rainfall is high, rainfall is relatively less in June and July. Stomatal density and diameter were greater in the open than in the understorey (229 versus
3068786|The fact that certain climatic variables are similar in high-latitude temperate zones and at high-altitude sites in the tropics, has led to assumptions about ecologically equivalent situations. The altitudinal differences between two data sets obtained in forests in temperate Denmark at sea level and in tropical Ecuador at 3000-3350 m above sea level provided a comparison suitable for examining whether high-altitude Andean forests are temperate or tropical from the standpoint of avian richness, abundance and trophic organization. Sampling methods at the two locations were similar. The Ecuadorian high-altitude sites were found to be significantly more species-rich than Danish temperate sites at all spatial scales studied (from point census to 10 km
2560098|In the tropical forest of Barro Colorado Island, habitat characteristics, diel acidity changes, CO<sub>2</sub> uptake and growth were investigated for the epiphytic cactus Epiphyllum phyllanthus (L) Haw. It occurred most frequently in tree cavities with its roots in canopy soil and was especially abundant on two tree species: Platypodium elegans J. Vogel and Tabebuia guayacan (Seem.) Hemsl Its maximum net CO<sub>2</sub> uptake rates were low under natural conditions (1 4 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) but were comparable to those of other CAM and C<sup>3</sup> epiphytes under wet conditions in a screen-house Under both natural conditions and in the screenhouse, partial shade enhanced growth and CAM activity. When plants grew under a photosynthetic photon flux of c 4 mol m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>, their nocturnal acidity increase and total net CO<sub>2</sub> uptake were twice as much as for plants growing at lower (an average of 2.4 mol m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>) and higher (7 7 mol m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>) photosynthetic photon fluxes. Stem elongation was 27% greater at the intermediate photosynthetic photon flux Seedlings of E phyllanthus survived three months of drought and responded rapidly to rewetting, recovering fully within three days. Transpiration rates and nocturnal acidity increases also recovered to the values of well-watered plants a few days after rewetting, indicating that this species can take advantage of episodic rainfall during the dry season
2560093|A permanent plot of 28 ha was established in a dense wet evergreen forest in the Western Ghats of India to study the functioning of the ecosystem Since April 1990, 1981 trees of 30 cm gbh have been enumerated in a systematic sampling of five strips totalling 3 12 ha This paper describes the main structural and floristic characteristics of the plot The density (635 trees 30 cm gbh per hectare) and basal area (39 7 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup>) are high Despite the high diversity (Simpson's D = 0.92 and Shannon's H' = 4 56), four species are distinctly dominant in terms of an importance value index (relative density + relative basal area) Each of these four species occupies a different layer in the ecosystem: Humboldtia brunonis Wall (Fabaceae) dominates the undergrowth, Myristica dactyloides Gaertn. (Myristicaceae) the intermediate strata, Vateria indica L (Dipterocarpaceae) the higher canopy level and Dipterocarpus indicus Bedd (Dipterocarpaceae) the emergents This pronounced species hierarchy is one of the most important characteristics of the evergreen forests of the Western Ghats. The two dipterocarps account for 20 1% of the total number of trees and contribute 40 9% to the total basal area This formation can, therefore, be considered as the westernmost lowland dipterocarp forest of Asia. Analysis of the spatial variations in the floristic composition and in the structure of the main species populations shows that two kinds of mature phases can be identified: where the topography is raised and gently sloping, the vertical structure of the stand is discontinuous, with Dipterocarpus indicus and Vateria indica forming an emergent layer above a dense undergrowth; on slopes, the stand is lower, vertically continuous and saturated with Vateria indica and Myristica dactyloides The link between the structure of the stand and dynamic processes is discussed
2559836|We studied the breeding success and distribution of three species of eagles, four species of vultures and one species of eagle owl on two areas of differing primary productivity from 1973 to 1984. Densities of all species were lower in areas with lower productivity. Breeding success on both biomes was similar, the lower densities of birds on the least productive biome apparently compensating for the lower productivity. Eagles produced more one-egg clutches, laid later and reared fewer young in the period of poor rainfall, probably as a result of reduced productivity. Vulture data were difficult to interpret because abundant food at breeding time was created by ungulate population management throughout the entire study period. Concentrations of all species on the more productive biome, and solitary breeding on the least productive biome by a normally colonially breeding species, suggests that primary production also influences vulture densities and perhaps breeding success.
3068821|Floral trait correlations were compared between the two flower morphs of a distylous Ophiorrhiza napoensis population in a subtropical evergreen forest at the Defu Natural Animal Preserve, Guangxi, China. Common principal component analyses indicated that overall patterns in correlations among floral traits were morph specific in the study population. Strong positive correlations (r > 0.9) between anther height and corolla-tube length were found in both morphs. Stigma height correlated positively with corolla-tube length in the long-styled morph (r = 0.843), but not in the short-styled morph (r = -0.018). Flower-morph-specific correlation suggests that natural selection by pollinators has moulded trait covariance among floral traits. Because morph-specific correlations are expressed as the patterns of within-morph variation among multiple traits, putative genes responsible for the stigma-corolla tube correlation should not link to the supergene for sex-organ reciprocity between the morphs, but their expression is limited in the long-styled morph.
4092141|Stick insects (Phasmida) are important herbivores in tropical ecosystem, but have been poorly investigated in their natural environment. We studied phasmids and their food plants in a tropical lowland rain forest in Borneo (Danum Valley, Sabbah, Malaysia). Thirty species of phasmid were collected from 49 plant species during nocturnal surveys in the forest understorey. In most cases (35 plant species), experiments confirmed that these phasmids fed on those plant species from which they were collected. Partitioning of phasmid species among food plant species was highly significant. Two common species had a largely restricted diet: Asceles margaritatus occured mainly on Mallotus spp. (Euphorbiaceae) and Dinophasma ruficornis on Leea indica (Leeaceae). Other phasmids fed on a broad spectrum of plant families and can be considered polyphagous (e.g. Haaniella echinata, Lonchodes hosei herberti. Feeding experiments were performed on captive phasmids using leaves from eight plant species. Asceles margaritus showed a significantly higher consumption rate for Mallotus miquelianus leaves than for other plants, while H. echinata showed the opposite trend and the lowest consumption for M. miquelianus. However, A. margaritatus readily accepted foliage from several plant families, particularly when Mallotus was not offered at the same time. Therefore, studies on host specialisation by herbivores need to include their distribution in the natural vegetation.
25172946|In mixed tropical landscapes, savanna and rain-forest vegetation often support contrasting biotas, and this is the case for ant communities in tropical Australia. Such a contrast is especially pronounced in monsoonal north-western Australia, where boundaries between rain forest and savanna are often extremely abrupt. However, in the humid tropics of north-eastern Queensland there is often an extended gradient between rain forest and savanna through eucalypt-dominated tall open forest. It is not known if ant community structure varies continuously along this gradient, or, if there is a major disjunction, where it occurs. We address this issue by sampling ants at ten sites distributed along a 6-km environmental gradient from rain forest to savanna, encompassing the crest and slopes of Mt. Lewis in North Queensland. Sampling was conducted using ground and baited arboreal pitfall traps, and yielded a total of 95 ant species. Mean trap species richness was identical in rain forest and rain-forest regrowth, somewhat higher in tall open forest, and twice as high again in savanna woodland. The great majority (78%) of the 58 species from savanna woodland were recorded only in this habitat type. MDS ordination of sites based on ant species composition showed a continuum from rain forest through rain-forest regrowth to tall open forest, and then a discontinuity between these habitat types and savanna woodland. These findings indicate that the contrast between rain forest and savanna ant communities in tropical Australia is an extreme manifestation of a broader forest-savanna disjunction.
3068743|The population dynamics of 8500 shade-tolerant tree seedlings of 13 tree species were followed for 10 years at rain forests in Lambir Hills National Park and Bako National Park, Malaysian Borneo. Since these dipterocarp forests have lower rates of canopy gap formation than do rain forests elsewhere, tree seedling biology was predicted to differ. Approximately 50% of seedlings present in 1986 were still alive in 1996. Seven out of thirteen had seedling populations composed predominantly of individuals that were at least 10 years old. These seedlings can undergo alternating periods of relatively rapid and slow growth. Many seedlings that grew rapidly in the first census interval survived through a period of suppression in the second census interval, and conversely many seedlings with a history of suppression had exceptionally high growth in the final census interval. Seedlings of South-East Asian forest tree species are long-lived and appear to be adapted to long periods of suppression in the understorey.
25562603|Young snakes are rarely seen in the field and little is known about their habits, mostly because they are too small for radio-telemetry (the primary method for studying snake spatial ecology). However, the offspring of some larger species can be fitted with transmitters and we investigated the spatial ecology and habitat use of ten hatchling water pythons (Liasis fuscus: Pythonidae) in the floodplain of the Adelaide River, tropical Australia. Patterns of habitat use in the late wet season and during the dry season were similar to those of adults tracked in the same vicinity in an earlier study. Soon after release the young snakes moved to the floodplain, avoiding pasture areas. Diurnal refuge sites were typically in the base of grass clumps or below the soil surface, especially in sites with thick vegetation and deep, wide soil cracks. Adult snakes are more sedentary but move longer absolute distances (mean  SE = 252  50 m wk) than hatchlings (66.3  41 m wk). However, hatchling snakes moved longer distances relative to body size (84.4  1.1 body lengths wk) than did the previously studied adults (66.0  1.1 body lengths wk). Mean and minimum body temperatures of the hatchlings were correlated with mean and minimum air temperatures, respectively.
2560016|The energy budget of all fish populations was estimated in two small tributaries of the Parana River (Parana, Brazil). Total energy consumed by fish in the Caracu and the Agua do Rancho Rivers was 4.1 and 1.8 MJ m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>, and food items consumed were 2284 and 994.5 g wet weight m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. The gross (K<sub>1</sub>) and net (K<sub>2</sub>) ecological efficiency coefficients were very low, but 43.2 and 59.6% of the total fish diet in these two streams, respectively, consisted of plant detritus. In both fish communities, omnivorous (opportunist) species dominated and specialists were rare. Although the Caracu River was more affected by human activity than was the Agua do Rancho, ecological efficiency coefficients calculated for the dominant fish populations were not significantly different.
2559291|The floral biology, breeding system and pollination of Caryocar brasiliense were studied in the cerrado vegetation of Central Brazil. The large, yellowish-cream, brush-like flowers are pollinated mainly by glossophagine bats (Glossophaga soricina and Anoura geoffroyi). Three non-glossophagine bats (Phyllostomus discolor, Vampyrops lineatus and Carollia perspicillata) and two short probosisced hawk moths (Erinyis ello and Pseudosphinx tetrio) may also act as occasional pollinators. Caryocar brasiliense is self-compatible although it sets significantly more fruits when crossed than when selfed. The natural fruit set (fruit/flower ratio) and seed set (seed/ovule ratio) are 3.1% and 1.0% respectively. Most of the fruits and seeds are formed through the action of the flower visitors, despite the fact that about 20% of the non-visited flowers receive self pollen on at least one stigma.
2559388|A total of 52,467 wind-dispersed seeds from 14 tree and 32 liana species fell into 1720 seed traps in 43 paired light-gap and adjacent forest sites on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Summed at the community level, many more wind-dispersed seeds were collected from light-gaps (61%) than from forest sites (39%). They accumulated from March through May, 1984 to a density of 328 m<sup>-2</sup> in gaps and 207 m<sup>-2</sup> in forest sites. In contrast, only 33% of the total of 2782 non-wind-dispersed seeds were collected in gaps. Due to the extreme heterogeneity of the seed rain, these differences between gap and forest sites were not statistically significant at the community-level. Gap sites received more wind-dispersed seeds than adjacent forest sites in only 20 of 43 locations and in 13 of 20 species, especially those with individuals of high fecundity near gap sites. Of the estimated 105 million wind-dispersed seeds contributing to the seed rain of the 50 ha study plot, only 4.1% were dispersed to the rare gap sites that enhance the establishment and growth of seedlings for many of these species.
3068682|Observations were made of foraging frequency and food selection by species of Macrotermitinae in a savanna habitat in the distal reaches of the Okavango Delta, Botswana. A removal experiment in the field was also conducted. Observable foraging showed seasonal peaks in frequency, related to temperature in Macrotermes michaelseni and to moisture in sympatric soil nesting Termitidae. Foraging was mostly on woody litter of the dominant canopy trees and mammalian dung. There was considerable overlap in the selection of food items between species but M. michaelseni were seen more frequently on items of woody litter greater than 6 mm in diameter. In Petri-dish trials Microtermes spp. workers were aggressive towards M. michaelseni individuals and in the field they foraged more frequently and effectively when M. michaelseni numbers were experimentally reduced. Macrotermes michaelseni appeared to avoid competition with other fungus-growing species by spatial separation within the habitat and some limited separation in food selection, but intense competition is probably rare as space and food resources may rarely be limiting.
3068617|In an area of savanna-forest (S-F) mosaic of Cameroon, at Kandara near Bertoua, an enclosed savanna bordered by young semi-deciduous forests was selected for detailed studies of vegetation and soil carbon isotope compositions with a view to estimating the rate of forest advance into savannas. Forest floristic composition and structure were analysed in small plots along two S-F transects and within two large stands. Tree species counts and basal area (BA) measurements gave convergent results defining (1) an edge forest with low BA values that forms an irregular strip parallel to the S-F border, (2) a large colonization zone zone composed of pioneer species (Albizia species, with individuals of very large diameter) and (3) a mature forest composed of abundant Rinorea individuals and large individuals of Triplochiton scleroxylon and Piptadeniastrum africanum. Carbon stable isotopes were determined from organic matter of soil profiles sampled at various depths in savanna, colonization-zone and mature forest. In the deep soil horizons (40-50 cm) of the colonization-zone profiles, 
2559809|Hurricane Hugo of September 1989 caused severe damage to the rain forest in the north-east corner of Puerto Rico. We assessed the severity of damage distributed in space, species, and size-classes of trees in the Bisley Watersheds of the Luquillo Experimental Forest. We analyzed pre- and post-hurricane data for vegetation from transects established in 1987 and 1988. The severity of damage was significantly greater in valleys than on ridges and slopes. All the species except Dacryodes excelsa, Sloanea berteriana, and Guarea guidonia showed 100% severe damage. Large trees (> 70 cm DBH) were highly susceptible to hurricane damage, but there was no clear pattern in the small size-classes. D. excelsa (tabonuco) was the most resistant to damage by the hurricane. Tabonuco which has extensive root-grafts and root anchorage to bedrock and subsurficial rocks, apparently can survive frequent hurricanes and continue as a dominant species in this montane tropical rain forest. The high frequency of hurricanes, which can override other ecological and topographic factors, may largely determine the overall spatial pattern of species in this rain forest.
2559308|Changes in two 1-ha samples of Moist Semi-deciduous forest at Kade, Ghana are described for 14 years from 1968 to 1982. Density of trees  10 cm dbh was 552  13 ha<sup>-1</sup> and the basal area was 30.85  1.38 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup>, and showed little variation over the study period: diameter class distributions did not change significantly. There were 120 species of tree  10 cm dbh, including seven immigrants and seven emigrants. Mortality did not differ significantly between diameter classes, but was significantly greater amongst trees showing negative diameter increment. Total mortality for the 2 ha over the 12-year period 1970-1982 was 216 trees (1.77% yr<sup>-1</sup>) and was balanced by a recruitment of 212 trees to the measured population. Growth rates were highly variable within species populations. Overall, bigger trees tended to have higher growth rates. Successive diameter increments in individual trees were strongly correlated, and were still significant after 10 years. These results support the idea that the faster-growing individuals are the more likely to reach the canopy. Estimates of the age of trees by summing mean passage times for successive diameter classes is shown to be misleading because similar calculations using only the fastest-growing trees gives substantially lower estimated ages. Although overall forest composition showed little change, a few species showed small but significant imbalance between recruitment and mortality. Recruitment and mortality differed significantly from overall rates for some species, but only markedly for the megaphanerophyte Celtis mildbraedii which had lower than average rates for both mortality and recruitment.
3068640|The role of white-tailed rats (Uromys caudimaculatus) as dispersers of seeds of the Australian tropical rain forest tree Beilschmiedia bancroftii, (Lauraceae) was investigated by following the fates of seeds and seedlings over 2 y. Fruits of this tree are too large to be consumed by any avian frugivore except the southern cassowary (Casuarius casuarius), and the only other native mammal capable of dispersing the seeds is the musky rat kangaroo (Hypsiprimnodon moschatus). However, neither of these species has been documented to disperse the seeds of this tree. During a mast year, white-tailed rats cached seeds an average of 13 m from parent trees in a variety of microsites. Although none of the 61 cached seeds followed in this study survived to germination, comparison of seed, cache and seedling distributions suggested that most seedlings arose from rat-cached seeds. White-tailed rats cached seeds in both mast and non-mast years, but the time seeds remained on the forest floor and in caches was significantly shorter in non-mast years, suggesting that synchronous seed production increases the probability that some caches survive to germination. Because white-tailed rats are the most common and widespread native mammal capable of dispersing large-seeds, this study suggests that they may play an important role in the seed and seedling dynamics of large-seeded tree species in Australian tropical rain forests.
4091960|Effects of the elephant gut and elephant dung on seed germination and early seedling establishment/growth were investigated in Banyang-Mbo Wildlife Sanctuary using undestroyed seeds of 14 plant species sorted from fresh elephant dung between 1 June 1994 and 31 May 1995 and similar seeds extracted from fresh ripe fruits fallen on the forest floor within the same period both sown in fresh elephant dung and forest soil. Parameters measured were final germination success, germination time and seedling growth rate. Results indicated that two species, Panda oleosa and Poga oleosa, did not germinate at all after 365 d irrespective of their sources and media of planting. Germination success observed in ingested seeds was significantly different from that observed in seeds from fresh fruits. Germination success observed in elephant dung was not significantly different from that in forest soil. Mean germination time varied widely between species and treatments but was generally shorter in seeds that passed through the elephant gut than those collected from fresh ripe fruits and these differences in mean germination time were significant in 92% of the species that germinated. Growth rates of seedlings from ingested seeds were higher than those from fresh ripe fruits especially in elephant dung. Growth medium was highly significant to growth in 10 of 12 species (83%) and source was important only to two species (16%) while their combined interacting effects were significant to three of the 12 species (25%). It is concluded that ingestion of seeds by the elephant is important in the germination of some rain-forest species and the elephant dung that contains the seeds dispersed is very important in the rapid growth of the seedlings. On the basis of germination success plant species that are absolutely or exclusively dependent on elephants for dispersal/germination are absent in Banyang-Mbo Wildlife Sanctuary, while Omphalocarpum elatum and Strychnos aculeata would be on the basis of fruit morphology.
2559309|Permanent plots totalling 12.4 hectares were established in 1969 in primary tropical wet forest at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica; all stems  10 cm diameter at breast height were tagged and measured. In 1982, the plots were again censused, and all live trees remeasured. Mortality over 13 years was 23.2%, or 2.03% per year based on a logarithmic mortality model. This suggests a stand half-life of around 34 years. Mortality was independent of size class in trees  10 cm diameter. Recruitment was equal to mortality. Tree growth curves and age-size relationships for 44 species were projected from 13-year diameter increments using a growth simulation procedure. Understorey trees grow slowly and consistently, and have short life spans; subcanopy trees also grow slowly, but live longer; shade-tolerant canopy trees show variable and often rapid growth and are long-lived; and shade-intolerant canopy trees grow rapidly, show little variation, and have short life spans. The longest imputed life span in our sample was around 440 years (years from 10 cm diameter to the maximum diameter); the shortest life span was around 50 years.
2560257|Hong Kong has a native angiosperm flora of approximately 1800 species, of which 27% (482 spp) bear fleshy, presumably vertebrate-dispersed fruits, including 76% of the 337 tree and shrub species and 70% of the 103 climber species. Morphological characteristics were determined for 255 species and nutritional characteristics of the fruit pulp for 153 species. Most fruit species were black (45 1%) or red (24.3%) and 85.9% had a mean diameter <13 mm Nutritional characteristics varied widely between species with ranges and median values as follows: pulp percentage (range 10.0-99 2%, median 69 2%), water content of pulp (11 1-94 0%, 78%), lipid (0-84 0%, 2 0%), soluble carbohydrate (4-88%, 53%), nitrogen (0.2-3.4%, 0.86%), neutral detergent fibre (1-44%, 14.3%) Fruit development time (50-360 d, 156 d) showed a negative correlation with lipid content, but no significant correlation with fruit or seed size. Principal components analysis of fruit characteristics was dominated by a trend from single-seeded fruits with a thin, lipid-rich pulp layer to multiple-seeded fruits with much, watery, carbohydrate-rich pulp. Bird-dispersed species cover the full range of fruit characteristics except those too large to swallow and too hard to peck bits from. Mammals (bats, civets and/or macaques) are known or suspected to consume most of the fruits too large for birds as well as many bird fruits but none with high-lipid content Summer fruits (May-September) were significantly larger and had significantly higher seed size and carbohydrate content than winter fruits (November-March) Winter fruits took more than twice as long to develop as summer fruits.
25562586|During a 4-y study of the palm Oenocarpus bataua, 368 reproductive structures on 102 palms were monitored. A reproductive structure required nearly 2 y for successful completion, from bud to ripe fruit. We found correlations with summed rainfall and averaged relative humidity and/or solar radiation for initiation of bud appearance, flowering and fruit maturation over 0-4 mo prior to the events, and another set of correlations over longer periods up to 11-12 mo before. Climatic variables showing short-term correlations (apparently triggering an event) often differed from those showing long-term correlations (which presumably initiated developmental processes culminating in the event itself). A high degree of asynchrony occurred in production of reproductive structures both within and between individual palms even within major reproductive peaks, and there were pronounced differences between individuals in total reproductive effort. Nearly all palms passed 1-3 y with little or no reproduction despite similar environmental conditions between years. We conclude that the supra-annual cycle of this palm is not the result of inadequate environmental cues in some years. There appear to be at least two different types of supra-annual cycles in tropical plants, differing in the relative importance of extrinsic cues vs. intrinsic physiological rhythms and in intrapopulation synchrony.
4091855|Plants often modify microsite conditions important for seedling establishment. In tropical moist forest, advance regeneration in the form of shade-suppressed seedlings is a major component of regrowth in new gaps. Tree seedlings may be filtered by the composition and structure of the forest understorey. In a lowland forest in Central Panama, we examined light availability, litter accumulation and the seedling community (abundance, diversity and composition) under and away from the canopies of a common subcanopy, clonal palm, Oenocarpus mapora, and tested whether seedling abundance varies as a function of changes in understorey light conditions and leaf litter depth. We found evidence that leaf litter was five times deeper and light availability 27% lower under O. mapora canopy than where it was absent. The probability of finding a seedling in plots under O. mapora canopies was 33% lower than in plots without the palm. Plots under O. mapora canopies also had 49% fewer species of seedlings and those seedlings came from significantly larger seeds than seedlings in plots not under the palm. Overall, seedling density was positively correlated with light availability and negatively correlated with leaf litter depth. A transplant experiment confirmed that for at least one large-seeded species of dicot, seedlings are negatively affected by the reduction in light availability and increase in leaf litter. Under O. mapora, seedlings of Gustavia superba (Lecythidaceae) had lower survivorship and biomass accumulation than away from the palm. Thus, site conditions produced by large, clonal, multi-layered palms such as O. mapora may reduce establishment of small-seeded and shade-intolerant species, potentially affecting species composition in the understorey seedling pool.
40665277|Large seasonal variation in the rate of change in girth of tropical rain-forest tree species has been described, but its origin is still under debate. We tested whether this variation might be related to variation in atmospheric relative humidity through its influence on bark water content and thickness. Variation in trunk circumference of 182 adult trees was measured about twice a month in an undisturbed tropical rain forest over 18 mo using dendrometers. Furthermore, a laboratory experiment was conducted to test the direct influence of relative air humidity on bark water content and thickness. In the field, most trees displayed highly positive rates of change in girth at the onset of the wet season, while a quarter of the trees displayed negative changes during long dry seasons, whatever their total annual growth. This variation was correlated with environmental conditions, particularly with atmospheric relative humidity. Trees with high bark water content and thickness displayed a stronger decrease in girth during the dry season. In the chamber experiment, desiccation induced a decrease in the diameter of the trunk sections in tandem with a decrease in bark water content. As a result, seasonal variation in the rate of change in girth of tropical rain-forest trees reflects variation in trunk biophysical properties, through the influence of relative humidity on bark properties, but not directly variation in secondary growth.
2559925|In a 1-y study of vegetation harvested by the leaf-cutting ants, Atta colombica Guerin, daily harvesting activity of two nests was observed for 24 h at c. 1-wk intervals (colony I: June 1993-June 1994; colony II: February-June 1994) on Barro Colorado Island. The average daily quantity of green leaves harvested by colony I was higher during the wet season (11.4 m<sup>2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>) than during the dry season (9 0 m<sup>2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>), but was highly variable between survey days Total annual herbivory of green leaves was estimated to be 3,855 m<sup>2</sup> foliage area for colony I and 1,707 m<sup>2</sup> for colony II. Total dry weight of biomass harvested was higher in the dry season because most material collected during the wet season consisted of green leaves, while during the dry season, more than 50% of the total collected biomass was non-green plant material (stipules of Ficus sp, fruits, seeds, and flower parts of a variety of other species) which represented c. one third (111 kg y<sup>-1</sup>) of the total annual intake (370 kg y<sup>-1</sup>) of plant material. Total daily biomass intake was negatively correlated with daytime rainfall The peak of daily foraging was affected by timing and duration of rainfall events. Highest input rates normally occurred between 15:00 and 16:00 h (colony I). Dry weight and surface area of harvested leaf fragments differed between plant species, with thicker leaves generally being cut into smaller pieces Significant linear correlations were found between total daily harvest of fragments and the respective harvesting rate at the maximum of daily activity High correspondence was found between estimates using this relationship and the measured daily leaf harvest of four other Atta colonies and of two colonies reported in published literature The use of this relationship as a research tool is discussed.
2560144|Five forest plots of differing disturbance levels were sampled qualitatively for termites in the Mbalmayo Forest Reserve, southern Cameroon, using 100 m belt transects. Results showed a large reduction in species richness in two severely disturbed plots compared with a Near Primary plot, but little difference in two less disturbed regenerating plots; there is some evidence for a slight increase in species richness in the regenerating plots. Soil-feeders predominate in the primary and regenerating plots, but are greatly reduced in the severely disturbed plots. Wood-feeders appear to be more resilient to disturbance than soil-feeders, although their species richness is low in the most disturbed plots. The Termitinae are the dominant taxonomic group in the Near Primary plot, the Apicotermitinae in the less disturbed regenerating plots and the Macrotermitinae in the clear felled areas. There appears to be no secondary invasion of plots by savanna-associated species, and the small apparent increase in species richness in the less disturbed regenerating plots appears to be due to the influx of forest species usually associated with natural gaps.
23012392|The relationship between herbivore diet quality, and diet composition (the range of food plants consumed) and body mass on resource partitioning of herbivores remains the subject of an ongoing scientific debate. In this study we investigated the importance of diet composition and diet quality on resource partitioning among eight species of savanna herbivore in north Cameroon, with different body mass. Dung samples of four to seven wild herbivore and one domesticated species were collected in the field during the dry and wet period. Diet composition was based on microhistological examination of herbivore droppings, epidermis fragments were identified to genus or family level. In addition, the quality of the faecal droppings was determined in terms of phosphorus, nitrogen and fibre concentrations. The results showed that there was no significant correlation between body mass and (differences in) diet composition for wet and dry season. When all species are considered, only significant relationships are found by the Spearman rank correlation analyses during the wet season between body mass and phosphorus and nitrogen, but this relationship did not exist during the dry season. When the analyses focuses on ruminants only (thus leaving out hippo), none of the relationships between body mass and diet quality was significant in either season. During the dry season the proportion of graminoids ranged between 10% (small unidentified herbivore species) to 90% (hippopotamus), during the wet season this proportion ranged from 60% (zebu) to 90% (hippopotamus). All species but zebu had more graminoids in their dung during wet season compared with dry season. However all species but hartebeest had more graminoids old stems in their dung during the dry season, compared with the wet season. The niche breadth for food categories consumed by kob (0.300), hippo (0.090), hartebeest (0.350), roan (0.510) and zebu (0.300) was much greater in the dry season than in the wet season for kob (0.120), hippo (0.020), hartebeest (0.190), roan (0.090) and zebu (0.200). When looking at grass taxa consumed, the niche breadth of kob (0.220), hartebeest (0.140), and roan (0.250) was also greater in the dry season when compared with the wet season for kob (0.050), hartebeest (0.120) and roan (0.120). The opposite was found for zebu and hippo. Comparison of the species' diet compositions with randomized data showed that dietary overlap between different herbivore species was much higher than what would be expected on the basis of chance, demonstrating surprisingly limited niche separation between species. This offers potential for competition, but it is more likely that the high niche overlap indicates absence of competition, due to low herbivore densities and abundant food resources, permitting species to share non-limiting resources. With increasing herbivore densities and subsequent increasing scarcity of resources, the relationship between diet quality and body mass in combination with increased niche separation is expected to become more visible.
2560195|Recent studies have shown that western lowland gorillas (Gorilla gorilla gorilla Savage & Wyman) are highly frugivorous and expel in their dung viable seeds of many fruit species they consume. As part of a wider study of their role as seed dispersers in tropical rain forest, the importance of gorillas as consumers of three species of tropical tree was investigated. The species studied were Ganophyllum giganteum (Sapindaceae), Cola lizae (Sterculiaceae) and Uapaca guineensis (Euphorbiaceae). Gorillas swallowed large quantites of seeds of these species whenever they were available, and removed a considerable proportion of the crop from trees they visited. The differences in abundance and distribution of these trees, and their varied dispersal strategies influenced the quantity of seeds that was removed by gorillas. Uapaca can be seen as having a generalist fruiting strategy, with a wide range of consumers, whereas the other species are more specialist, gorillas being the principal dispersers. Compared to other consumers, this study showed that gorillas provided potentially high quality dispersal because: (i) they were reliable visitors to trees of these species; (ii) they swallowed and dispersed large numbers of seeds; (iii) they treated seeds benignly and often deposited them in sites favourable for establishment.
3068695| For analysing field data as well as for modelling purposes it is useful to classify tree species into a few functional types. In this paper a new aggregation of tree species of the dipterocarp rain forests in Sabah (Borneo), Malaysia, is developed. The aggregation is based on the two criteria successional status and potential maximum height. Three classes of successional status (early, mid and late successional species) and five classes of potential maximum heights ( 5 m, 5-15, 15-25, 25-36, > 36 m) lead to a combination of 15 functional types. The criteria of the developed classification are chosen to suit for applications with process-based models, such as Formix3 and Formind, which are based on photosynthesis production as the main process determining tree growth. The concept is universal and can easily be applied to other areas. With this new method of grouping a more realistic parametrization of process-based rain forest growth models seems to be possible. 
4499116|Spatial patterns presented by the opossums Caluromys philander, Philander frenata and Micoureus demerarae were studied, through radio-tracking, in a landscape composed of eight small (1.3-13.3 ha) forest fragments surrounded by a matrix of open vegetation in south-eastern Brazil. Sixteen individuals were fitted with radio-collar transmitters and monitored for 2-8 mo. Fixes were obtained by the 'homing-in on the animal' technique. Numbers of locations of each individual varied from 6 to 117. Home ranges sizes ranged from 2.5-7.0 ha for C. philander, 0.6-7.4 ha for P. frenata and 0.8-1.7 ha for M. demerarae. Fragments, both edges and interiors, were used more often than the matrix; they are the primary habitat for these marsupials in the landscape. The matrix was used for foraging by P. frenata and C. philander, and traversed in five movements between fragments by P. frenata. Ability to use fragment edges and the matrix is important in explaining how these marsupials are able to persist in the landscape.
27751674|Carbon and nitrogen stable isotope ratios (13C and 15N) have been used to study the structure of food webs. However, few studies have examined how a terrestrial food web can be depicted by this technique. We measured 13C and 15N in various consumers of four trophic groups (detritivores, herbivores, omnivores and predators), including vertebrates and invertebrates (14 orders, 24 families), as well as canopy and understorey leaves in a tropical rain forest in Malaysia. We found that 13C and 15N of the consumers differed significantly among the trophic groups. The predators had significantly higher 13C than the herbivores, and were similar in 13C to the detritivores, suggesting that most predators examined depend largely on below-ground food webs. 15N was higher in predators than detritivores by about 3. The comparison of 13C in plant materials and herbivores suggests that most herbivores are dependent on C fixed in the canopy layers. The vertebrates had significantly higher 15N and 13C than the invertebrates of the same trophic group, likely reflecting differences in the physiological processes and/or feeding habits. This study indicates that stable isotope techniques can help better understanding of the terrestrial food webs in terms of both trophic level and the linkage of above- and below-ground systems.
3068761|Termites were surveyed at an altitude of 1000 m in Maliau Basin, Sabah (Borneo), in two primary forest habitats: lower montane forest and stunted facies of upper montane forest. Soil, wood, litter, termite nests, and arboreal microhabitats up to a height of 2 m above ground were sampled using a belt transect protocol. Two transects were run in each forest type. The upper montane forest transects collected 11 and 13 species, compared with 15 and 19 in the lower montane forest transects. With the addition of species records from casual sampling (conducted with roughly equal effort in each forest type), totals of 18 species were found in the upper montane forest, and 34 species in the lower montane forest. Similar species richness and relative abundance of wood-feeding termites were found in both forest types. However, the lower montane forest had greater richness and relative abundance of species that feed on soil and extremely decayed soil-like wood. This difference is attributed mainly to (i) the well developed, organic-rich soils of the lower montane forest being more suitable for soil-dwelling and mound-building termites compared with the upper montane forest which has sandy soils with a thick covering of peat, and (ii) the low-stature and open canopy of the upper montane forest creates microclimatic conditions which are adverse for soil-feeding termites compared with the high, closed canopy in the lower montane forest. As expected, comparisons with similar studies in lowland forests in Southeast Asia confirmed that the upland forests are relatively depauperate.
23012390|Vegetation and environment change mutually during secondary succession, yet the idiosyncrasies of the vegetation effect on the understorey environment are poorly understood. To test whether the successional understorey environment changes predictably and is shaped by the structure and seasonality of tropical dry forests, we estimated basal area and vegetation cover, and measured understorey temperature, light and moisture conditions, in 17 plots forming a 60-y chronosequence and a mature forest. Light and air and soil temperature decreased with time (7515% of open-sky radiation, 31.729.3C, and +2.5C to 0.5C relative to ambient, respectively), whereas relative humidity increased (6774%). Soil water availability increased with early-successional development (45 to 1 kPa) but decreased afterwards (to 18 kPa). The first axis of a PCA of the rainy-season environment explained 60% of the variation and was strongly related to air temperature and relative humidity. During tropical dry-forest succession, such factors may be more important than light, the reduction in which is not extreme compared with taller and more vertically stratified wet forests. Seasonality significantly affected the successional environmental gradients, which were marked mainly during the wet season. Environmental heterogeneity was higher in the wet than in the dry season, and larger for resources (light and water) than for conditions (temperature and humidity). The wet-season increase in environmental heterogeneity potentially creates differential growing scenarios; the environmental harshness of the dry season would mostly challenge seedling survival.
25562617|The objective of this study was to explore the leaf tissue water relations in terminal branches, as well as the relations between xylem structure and function of five sclerophyllous species coexisting on white sands within the Amazon region. In these species, which possess costly leaves and thrive in an extremely nutrient-poor habitat, the preservation of leaf survival would be of comparable importance to the preservation of xylem vessels. Three trees per species were tagged in the field for all measurements. Minimum leaf water potential () was -1.53  0.61 and -0.94  0.10 MPa during rainless and rainy days, respectively. The  for turgor loss averaged -1.92  0.05 MPa. Therefore, minimum  was maintained within a safety range above the critical value for turgor loss. Xylem (K) and leaf (K) specific conductivity averaged 1.4  0.22 and 0.00033  0.000045 kg m s MPa, respectively. Water supply was favoured in species with higher vessel density, and all species depended on relatively less abundant larger vessels for water transport. This would be advantageous because leaves were unable to develop very negative water potentials in order to maintain transpiration. High transpiration rates may be restricted to a few hours daily so as to prevent cavitation of widest vessels.
2559951|To explain very low fruit production in the tropical tree Ipomoea wolcottiana (Convolvulaceae), experiments and observations are presented regarding hypotheses that fecundity is limited by foliar herbivory, low soil phosphorus, inadequate cross-pollination, low rates of pollinator visitors, and parasitism of flower buds. A 2 x 2 factorial experiment was undertaken in two consecutive years which included control of herbivores with contact and systemic insecticides and addition of phosphorus. Phosphorus application in the second year increased the number of inflorescences and flowers by 200%, and the initiation of fruits by 400%. No response was observed for the number of mature fruits. Herbivore control and the addition of phosphorus increased seed weight by 22% in the first year, but could not be measured in the second year. Hand-pollination experiments increased the fruit set by 58% in the first year and by 75% in the second. Observations on visits to the flowers showed a six-fold difference between years in rates of pollinator visits. Parasitism of flower buds was 18% in the first year and 33% in the second. Several of the differences between years probably resulted from lesser and desynchronized flowering, due to heavy unseasonal rains in the second year. The differences in floral visitation and predation of floral buds were reflected in open fruit production: 16% in the first year and 6% in the second. All the factors investigated have important effects on the fecundity of I. wolcottiana. From the evolutionary point of view, the results suggest a complex interaction among selective forces which interact with the reproductive system. The theories of sexual selection and bet-hedging are the most plausible alternatives for explaining high levels of floral abortion in this species.
4092025|Inventory data on tree weights of 104 individual trees representing 10 mangrove species were collected from mangrove forests in South-East Asia to establish common allometric equations for the trunk, leaf, above-ground and root weight. We used the measurable tree dimensions, such as dbh (trunk diameter at breast height),
2560196|Evidence is presented for the importance of western lowland gorillas as seed dispersers in the Lope Reserve, Gabon. The survival and growth of seedlings of three tree species, growing from dung deposited at gorilla nest sites, were monitored for up to 2 y after deposition. A comparison was made between this and seeds (i) deposited in dung on gorilla feeding trails, (ii) dropped (spat out) under conspecific canopies, and (iii) scatter-dispersed (spat out) by other consumers away from conspecific trees but under intact forest canopy. The highest survival and the best performance of seedlings was always at a gorilla nest site, although not every site was favourable for survival or growth. Seedling performance was related to the surrounding vegetation conditions: better performance was observed in seedling clumps with less vegetation cover. Gorillas at Lope apparently provide high quality seed dispersal for these species, not just because they consume large quantities of seeds, but because the pattern of seed deposition, especially in nest sites, can result in the enhanced survival and growth of seedlings.
2560072|The effects of irrigation and the rainy season on soil gases, water and physical properties were studied in a lowland moist forest in Panama Two control plots experienced a normal four-month dry season and two experimental plots were irrigated during the dry season. The forest soils were well aerated The average soil oxygen content at 20 cm never dropped below 15% Irrigation in the dry season resulted in treatment effects on soil oxygen and water that persisted throughout the rainy season The late rainy season soil oxygen content at 20 cm was 18.2% in the control plots and 16.8% in the irrigated plots The late rainy season soil water content at 0-10 cm was 0 34 m<sup>3</sup> m<sup>-3</sup> in the control plots and 0.36-0.37 m<sup>3</sup> m<sup>-3</sup> in the irrigated plots. In the control plots, in the absence of any experimental manipulation, the soil physical properties changed within a single rainy season. Specifically, soil oxygen dropped and soil water increased during the eight-month rainy season. The observed alterations in soil physical properties probably resulted from changes in soil structure and the abundance of large pores The rainy season or irrigation may decrease soil porosity by dispersing aggregates of soil particles, whereas soil desiccation during the dry season may enhance the formation of aggregates and large pores. As a result, the irrigated soils held more water and were less permeable to gas and water than soils experiencing a normal dry season We conclude that the dry season may play an important role in maintaining soil structure.
40665232|We know surprisingly little about the fate of seeds of the Brazil nut tree (Bertholletia excelsa) under natural conditions. Here we investigate seed removal, prdation and caching of Brazil nuts by scatter-hoarding rodents in the wet and dry seasons, based on an experimental approach using 900 thread-marked seeds. We tracked the fate of seeds handled by these animals to examine how seasonal food availability may influence caching rates, dispersal distances and cache longevity. Most seeds exposed to dispersal trials were removed by scatter-hoarders during the first week in both seasons and seeds were generally buried intact in single-seeded caches within 10 m of seed stations. Seeds were removed significantly faster and buried at greater distances during the dry season. The proportion of seeds buried intact was considerably higher in the wet season (74.4%) than in the dry season (38.2%). Most (99.4%) of the 881 primary caches monitored were recovered, but these had a significantly shorter lifetime in the dry season. Our results show that rodents are highly skilled at retrieving buried Brazil nuts and that caching behaviour appears to be affected by seasonal resource abundance. Reduced seed availability due to intensive harvest could potentially create a dry-season scenario where most seeds succumb to pre-dispersal prdation, thereby adversely affecting the natural regeneration of Brazil nut trees.
40925443|Ecosystem pool of phosphorus (P) was determined as the sum of above-ground vegetation, roots, necromass and soils to 1 m deep in a tropical rain forest in Sabah, Malaysia. Relationships among soil P fractions, acid phosphatase activity and fine-root biomass across soil horizons were also determined to understand P availability. Ecosystem pools of P, and of simultaneously quantified nitrogen (N) and carbon (C) were 3.4, 12 and 370 Mg ha, respectively. Only 2.6% of the total ecosystem P was in the above-ground vegetation, contrasting to C (60%) and N (16%). Canopy foliage of dominant tree species showed an extremely high N to P ratio of 31.5, which implied the excessively short supply of P compared with ample N. Soil P primarily consisted of recalcitrant occluded fractions (78-91%) and only 4% was labile. Approximately three-quarters of labile soil P was an organic fraction (Po). The concentration of labile Po did not differ between soil horizons, while both phosphatase activity and fine-root density were the greatest in the topsoil (top 5 cm) and dramatically decreased with depth. This suggests that trees depend on the acquisition of P from the labile Po in the topsoil, despite a greater amount of labile P in the subsoil. Trees with a high foliar N/P ratio may invest N to acquire P from the topsoil by secreting phosphatase that consists of proteins, rather than investing C to extending roots to scavenge P in the subsoil.
23012362|Coppicing is an important regeneration mechanism in tropical dry forest after disturbance, but little is known about the long-term dynamics and the rate of recovery of the coppice shoots following clearance. This study reports on the growth and dynamics of coppice shoots following experimental cutting in a tropical dry forest in Jamaica. The fate of coppice shoots was tracked on a total of 481 stumps, representing 51 species over 10 y. The number of coppice shoots and the height and dbh of the leading shoots were measured on the tree stumps 14 mo and 10 y after cutting. Coppicing was vigorous for most tree species, but the average number of shoots per stump decreased significantly over the 9 y period, from 25 to 8 shoots per stump. The average height and diameter of the leading shoots after 10 y were 4.5 m and 3.8 cm, respectively, and the average percentage diameter recovered by the shoots varied between 36% and 95% among the species. Coppicing facilitates the long-term persistence of this dry forest, and the rapid growth of coppice shoots contributed to the resilience of most species after cutting.
4092078|The phenology of calling activity and reproduction of a neotropical anuran community in French Guiana was studied during one rainy season. We investigated the correlation between calling activity, rainfall, temperature and water level in two ponds and recorded the occurrence of tadpoles of pond-breeding species. The study site contained 31 calling frog species, which were divided into groups according to reproductive mode. Increased rainfall was associated with increased reproductive activity in all groups, but temporal patterns in calling activity varied significantly between groups. Species with aquatic oviposition exhibited sporadic acoustic activity, aggregating into explosive breeding events following heavy rainfall. Species laying eggs in foam nests had the peak of calling activity at the start of the rainy season. Taxa with embryonic development on vegetation called mainly from middle to late wet season, being the only group which showed a significant correlation of calling with increasing water level. Dendrobatids with terrestrial oviposition and subsequent parental tadpole transportation were continuously active. Species with direct development or with non-feeding larvae were mainly active at the beginning of the rainy season. It is concluded that phenologies of calling activity in South American tropical anuran species are strongly influenced by abiotic factors like rainfall and availability of breeding sites. The temporal limitation of the rainy season forces species to adjust calling and reproductive activity according to their reproductive modes.
2559320|The distribution and microhabitat preference of the freshwater prawn, Caridina singhalensis, endemic to Sri Lanka, was determined. The species is now restricted to a 10-15 km stretch of the Behihul Oya headwaters, its distribution being determined by physiography and agricultural development. Beds of Isolepis fluitans support some 76% of the adult population, at mean monthly densities of around 210 individuals m<sup>-2</sup>. Aponogeton jacobsenii beds and roots of marginal vegetation beneath overhanging banks support about 12% each, at mean monthly densities of 41 individuals m<sup>-2</sup>. The prawn produces young all year round but a peak in the number of ovigerous females occurs from September to January. Only juveniles produced after the rains appear to survive in great numbers. The submerged roots of marginal vegetation form a nursery area for about 45% of the annual output of young. Conservation plans for this endangered species need to take account of the particular importance of I. fluitans and root habitats to C. singhalensis.
4092031|The distribution of the forest tree Pisonia grandis (Nyctaginaceae) coincides with seabird colonies on small tropical islands. Its seeds are enclosed in a calyx exuding extremely sticky resin which adheres strongly to feathers. Birds are obviously seed-dispersal vectors, but the multi-seeded infructescences frequently entangle birds, often fatally. On Cousin Island, Seychelles, I investigated the production, germination, survival, and tolerance to seawater of Pisonia seeds, and the occurrence of entanglement with birds. Fresh seeds had high germination success (62-87% in experimental trays), but seedling survival in Cousin's forests was low (0.1% of 6020 seeds survived as seedlings after 2-8 mo). Some seeds tolerated 30 min daily immersions in seawater (8-15% germination after 14-28 d treatment), but not continuous immersion in seawater (reduced germination after 5 d and none after 12 d). Inter-island dispersal is likely via living unencumbered seabirds carrying a few seeds, but not on floating carcasses. Seeds attached to carcasses did not have improved germination or survival. Intra-island propagation is almost entirely vegetative, with negligible local seed dispersal. Pisonia plants therefore do not benefit from fatal entanglements. The extreme stickiness of the seeds evidently evolved to resist removal by seabirds and so facilitate long-distance dispersal. The mortality of some potential vectors is an unfortunate consequence, but has little impact on the large populations of tree- and ground-nesting seabirds which nest in or under these trees.
2559785|A modified Kempson apparatus is described, the extraction procedure for arthropods in neotropical soils is given, and an example from Central Amazonia is presented.
2560019|Plants potentially compete for seed dispersal. Selection may favour temporally segregated fruiting phenologies to minimize this competition and also to maintain resident populations of dispersal agents. Alternatively, selection may favour temporally aggregated fruiting phenologies when the effectiveness of seed dispersal agents varies seasonally or when large, synchronous fruit displays enhance dispersal. These evolutionary scenarios assume that plants share seed dispersal agents. This assumption and temporal overlap in fruiting phenologies were evaluated for the Miconia and Psychotria of central Panama. These two genera accounted for 18 and 27%, respectively, of 1096 fleshy fruits found in regurgitation or faecal samples taken from 2054 birds of 103 species netted in the forest understorey. Two species of manakins accounted for 62% (123/200) of all Miconia fruit taken. Three species of manakins and three species of migratory thrushes accounted for 97% (282/292) of all Psychotria fruits taken. There is a high potential for intrageneric competition for seed dispersal for both plant genera. Null model analyses showed that the fruiting phenologies of Miconia (14 species) are segregated in time, while fruiting of Psychotria (21 species) is highly aggregated. The Miconia were found in up to 24% of the diet samples for the two manakin species, suggesting that Miconia may be a critical resource for both species. The Psychotria fruited when the diversity of understorey fruits was greatest, suggesting a high potential for both intra- and extrageneric competition. The abundance and nomadism of the six bird species that consumed most Psychotria fruit peaked when the Psychotria fruited, supporting the enhancement hypothesis.
3068736| Palm seeds of the genus Astrocaryum are known to attract a wide range of seed predators, including insects, rodents and peccaries. We investigated the removal of seeds of Astrocaryum murumuru var. macrocalyx in dense groves and under solitary palms, both within and outside of peccary exclosures. We set out arrays of 40 seeds at each of 40 sites representing four treatments: in the open and in peccary exclosures, in groves and under solitary palms. Seed removal from each site was monitored daily for 55 d. Infra-red-triggered cameras were installed to identify the species that removed seeds. From the known and hypothesized behaviour of vertebrate seed predators under various circumstances, we predicted that (1) overall seed loss should be higher under solitary trees, (2) peccaries should forage preferentially in groves, (3) the variance in the rate of seed removal should be higher in groves, (4) a greater fraction of the seeds removed from solitary palms should be scatterhoarded, and consequently, (5) greater numbers of seedlings should recruit near solitary palms than in groves. The first four of these predictions were confirmed and the last was rejected by the results. Peccaries preferred to forage in groves, and small rodents preferred to forage under solitary palms. Whether in groves or under solitary palms, peccaries preferentially removed seeds from large arrays (21-40 seeds), and mostly ignored small arrays ( 20 seeds). Camera trapping demonstrated that the most frequent visitors to seed arrays were Myoprocta pratti and Proechimys spp. There was no significant difference in the numbers of seedlings around trees in groves versus solitary trees. 
3068807| All stems  1 cm dbh were measured, tagged, mapped and identified on a 1-ha plot of rain forest at Gambubal State Forest, south-east Queensland, Australia. The spatial patterns and size class distributions of 11 common tree species on the plot were assessed to search for mechanisms determining their distribution and abundance. The forest was species-poor in comparison to many lowland tropical forests and the common species are therefore present at relatively high densities. Despite this, only limited evidence was found for the operation of density-dependent processes at Gambubal. Daphnandra micrantha saplings were clumped towards randomly spaced adults, indicating a shift of distribution over time caused by differential mortality of saplings in these adult associated clumps. Ordination of the species composition in 25-m x 25-m subplots revealed vegetation gradients at that scale, which corresponded to slope across the plot. Adult basal area was dominated by a few large individuals of Sloanea woollsii but the comparative size class distributions and replacement probabilities of the 11 common species suggest that the forest will undergo a transition to a more mixed composition if current conditions persist. The current cohort of large S. woollsii individuals probably established after a large-scale disturbance event and the forest has not attained an equilibrium species composition. 
25172956|Fish biomass, species richness and composition were compared between upland streams draining two contrasting geological units (Pebas and Tsa) in Colombian Amazonia. Because Pebas sediments reportedly show higher levels of base concentrations than Tsa sediments, we expected that the fish communities from the Pebas streams would show highest biomass and species richness, and that the species composition would vary between the two upland systems. Eight forest streams were sampled in four locations, applying four daily sampling events. Tsa soil samples were comparatively sandy, whereas Pebas soil samples tended to be siltier, with higher levels of exchangeable acidity, Ca, Mg and total bases. Conductivity, concentrations of bases (Ca, Mg, K and Na), bicarbonates and temperature showed higher values in Pebas stream-water samples than in Tsa. In total, 7696 fish individuals were captured, belonging to eight orders, 28 families and 122 species. Pebas streams had 1.3 times more species than Tsa streams, and more than twice the total biomass. Species richness and biomass were highly correlated with conductivity and water concentrations of Mg and Na, and biomass alone with dissolved oxygen. Fish species composition differed significantly between the geological units. Species turnover was not related to distance between sampling locations.
2559244|Seasonal variations in the breakdown and dynamics of chemical elements in Ficus fistulosa leaves in a mixed forest on Hong Kong Island were investigated between October 1982 and September 1983. Mean rate of leaf material weight loss from coarse-mesh (3 mm) bags was 1.82% day<sup>-1</sup>, about four times that inside fine-mesh (0.2 mm) bags (mean rate 0.44% day<sup>-1</sup>). Breakdown rates varied seasonally with maximum rates in spring or summer, and were significantly correlated with prevailing temperatures, the rainfall of the two previous months, and the soil moisture content of the previous month. Potassium and Mg were rapidly leached from leaf material throughout the year while the concentrations of C, N, P, Ca and Na remained relatively stable. In the absence of macrofauna (inside fine-mesh bags) decomposition rate constants (k) were positively correlated with the mean abundance of mites and Collembola, as well as with total invertebrate abundance. In the presence of macrofauna (inside coarse-mesh bags) decomposition rate constants were positively correlated with isopod and amphipod abundance. There was no significant correlation between breakdown rates of leaf material and mesofaunal abundance inside coarse-mesh bags. The importance of climate and invertebrates as rate determinants of Ficus decomposition is discussed.
2560307|A survey of the diurnal raptor community (46 resident species) at five altitudinal levels from 100 to 4600 m was made in Venezuela using 106 1-km<sup>2</sup> sample quadrats and then compared with similar censuses (211 plots) in southwestern Colombia and eastern Ecuador Six habitat types were defined and habitat preferences were measured from every encountered birds and from the association between individual abundances and the coverage of habitat types on plots The overall species richness steeply declined with elevation in all three countries. The raptor community consisted mostly of tropical species that rapidly decreased in both abundance and frequency of occurrence with elevation. A small set of subtropical-temperate forest specialists partly replaced them at mid-elevation and only two species occurred in the paramo of Venezuela, against 5-7 in the other countries Although originally the gradients were probably almost completely covered with forest, a large part of the raptor community is now composed of grassland species, three of them extending from the lowlands to the tree line The relative impoverishment of the Venezuelan community, especially at upper levels, is attributed to a peninsular effect at the narrow extreme northern tip of the Andes and perhaps also to former forest fragmentation Within some species, different subspecies had discrete altitudinal distributions and interspecific competition may explain differences in the range extension of some species between countries. Today, however, accelerating deforestation may result in a severe decline of forest-interior species and a probable reduction in the altitudinal range of at least some of them Species naturally associated with forest gaps or edges usually tolerate a high degree of forest fragmentation and degradation but only one of them may become abundant in heavily human-altered woodlands. Few grassland specialists have become more widely distributed in the increasingly deforested landscapes
27751641|The Dipterocarpaceae in South-East Asia are known for their strict mast fruiting. During fruiting, pre-dispersal seed predation by insects contributes to mortality of dipterocarp seeds. We documented the community structure of insect seed predators on 11 Shorea species in Peninsular Malaysia. Fruits were sampled sequentially throughout seed development, and 2144 and 1655 individuals of seed predator weevils and moths were collected in two mast-fruiting events. Four weevils: Nanophyes shoreae, nanophyid sp. 1, Alcidodes dipterocarpi and Alcidodes humeralis, and one moth Andrioplecta shoreae were abundant in seeds of the Shorea species. The proportion of N. shoreae to the total predators became larger in the latter fruiting event than the former while that of Alcidodes spp. became smaller. The predator species composition changed during seed development; nanophyid spp. emerged from immature fruits while Alcidodes spp. emerged from mature fruits. Andrioplecta shoreae emerged from both immature and mature fruits. The level of host specificity measured by KullbackLeibler distance was low for most predator species in both events. Predator species composition of many Shorea was similar to each other due to the dominance of N. shoreae though it might gradually differ with the phylogenetic distance between hosts. In conclusion, predator species composition of Shorea varied during seed development within a host rather than among hosts. Intermittent synchronized fruiting by congeneric Shorea trees would be advantageous to avoid pre-dispersal insect seed predators, and contribute to their reproduction.
23012360|Livestock graze Indian forests to varying extents but their impact on wild native ungulates is rarely understood. Negative impacts of sympatric livestock on chital (Axis axis) demography and food availability were assessed and compared in the Gir Forest, India, at different spatio-temporal scales. No difference in average group size (mean  SE) (7.11  0.8 indiv.) (short-term response), fawn to doe ratio (0.43  0.03) (short- to medium-term response), chital density (44.8  7.1 indiv. km 2 ) (medium- to long-term response), and rate of population increase (r = 0.07  0.014) (long-term response) was found between areas sympatric and livestock-free at the larger spatial scale of Gir Forest. Instead, chital density was correlated with rainfall (r = 0.92). After controlling for confounding factors of rainfall, vegetation community, terrain and lion density, chital density was 62% higher for livestock-free compared with sympatric areas but other demographic parameters showed no statistical difference. Peak above-ground biomass was greater in livestock-free (3255  209 kg ha 1 ) compared to sympatric areas (1438  152 kg ha 1 ), but chital food was more abundant in moderately grazed areas compared to livestock-free areas. Overall, long-term livestock grazing has depressive effects on chital but in the short term habitat productivity and suitability overrides the depressive effects of sympatric livestock.
27751667|Species interactions have been recently depicted as networks, in which each species is connected to one or more other species in binary interaction matrices. Forty networks of epiphytic orchid and host tree species were assessed in Brazilian gallery forests. The nestedness of the networks was estimated with the NODF index and the significance was tested with null models. The phylogenetic structure of the network was also assessed, by searching for phylogenetic signals in the number of interactions and in the similarity of interacting species. In total, 105 orchid species and 132 host tree species were sampled. A nested pattern in all orchidhost tree networks was found. However, phylogenetic signals were not observed. The results support that the host specificity of orchids is small and most of the interactions occur among generalist orchids and generalist host trees. While the concept of species-specificity can thus be rejected, the extreme alternative  that interacting orchids and host trees are not a random subset of the regional species pool  can be dismissed as well. However, factors other than phylogenetic history may structure interaction networks of epiphytic orchids and host trees.
3068701|The amount and annual net accumulation of above-ground dead woody material were quantified in a tropical deciduous forest in western Mexico. Three plots were located within a small watershed (16 ha) and distributed along a 150-m-elevation gradient (Upper, Middle and Lower plot). Total amount of above-ground dead phytomass (fine + coarse) was 27.2 Mg ha
2559253|Two stands of mature evergreen wet forest in Mauritius (Mascarene Islands) were sampled for floristic composition to assess the extent of invasion by weedy exotic phanerogams (Brise Fer, 550 m alt.; Bon Courage, 200-260 m alt.). All individuals 2.5 cm dbh were recorded in 50 x 2 m transects totalling 0.1 ha at each site, and 2 x 2 m seedling plots totalling 40 m<sup>2</sup> were also sampled at each site. Both forests showed a high degree of invasion. Although exotics constituted only 5% of woody species 2.5 cm dbh at Brise Fer and 14.5% at Bon Courage, they comprised 34.8% and 20.8% of the individuals, respectively. Seedling plots at both sites were dominated by exotics, which comprised 20.6% of the species and 97.4% of the individuals at Brise Fer, and 22.2% of the species and 73.9% of the individuals at Bon Courage. Comparisons are made with Macabe forest, sampled nearly 50 years ago. These data suggest that unless steps are taken to check the spread of exotics, floristic composition at these sites will shift towards total invasion and degradation as has occurred elsewhere on Mauritius.
4091839|Nodulated legume trees comprised 43% of the stand basal area in the low, most frequently flooded microsites, and 23% in higher, drier microsites in a tropical freshwater swamp forest in French Guiana. Dinitrogen fixation in Pterocarpus officinalis, Hydrochorea corymbosa and Inga pilosula was confirmed by acetylene reduction assay (ARA), presence of leghaemoglobin in nodules and the
2559198|In a study carried out to find out if inselbergs enrich their surroundings with nutrients via drainage, amounts of total nitrogen, nitrate-nitrogen and potassium in rainfall, drainage from bare rock patches and vegetation mats on an inselberg in south-western Nigeria were measured over one year. 43.3 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> total nitrogen, 4.8 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> nitrate-nitrogen and 10.7 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> potassium were recorded in rainfall for the year of study. The amount of total nitrogen in drainage from bare rock was 79% of that in rainfall whilst that in drainage from vegetation mats was 29% of the rainfall amount. The respective values for nitrate-nitrogen were 57% and 13%; for potassium they were 90% and 38%. It was assumed that the loss of nutrients as water drains through vegetation mats and over bare patches was due to absorption by plants and soil in the mats and lichens in the bare patches. It was therefore concluded that there was no net enrichment of rainwater with nutrrients as it flows over inselberg slopes. There is, however, a funelling of water along with contained nutrients from the inselberg to the surrounding areas. This funnelling is additional to the nutrients and rainfall incident on these surrounding areas and may account for the vegetation around inselbergs being more lush than vegetation in the same area but further away from the inselbergs. A simple modelling approach was used to assess potential nutrient outflow from inselbergs. The model shows that discharge of nutrients from the edges of inselbergs increases linearly with inselberg diameter. The model further shows that if nutrient funnelling only affects an area near to the edge of the inselberg then nutrient addition is several times higher than would be expected from rainfall deposition alone.
2560128|The role of regeneration strategies in structuring tropical tree communities has been a recent focus of attention of tropical ecologists. Canopy discontinuities created by tree-falls are considered to be critical to many rain forest trees for establishing and completing their life cycles. It was investigated whether it is advantageous for two common large-seeded and shadetolerant Amazonian tree species, the palm Astrocaryum murumuru and the legume, Dipteryx micrantha, to have their seeds dispersed to gaps. The dispersal process was simulated by placing experimental seeds and seedlings in gaps and in the shaded understorey, and then following their performance. Seeds and seedlings from the two species were used. The Cox proportional hazard model was used to estimate the survival functions and compare survivorship curves. Survival of Astrocaryum seeds, and of Dipteryx seeds and seedlings, was higher in two gap zones (crown and bole) than in the shaded understorey (both near and far away from a conspecific adult). A higher proportion of seedlings of both plant species survived within gaps than in the shaded understorey over an 18-wk period. One year after the seedlings had been transplanted into gaps these patterns still held. Naturally occurring Astrocaryum seeds survived better beneath conspecific adult trees located within 30 m of gaps than beneath trees located 100 m from gaps. Variation in gap size was significant for Dipteryx seeds, but not for Dipteryx seedlings and Astrocaryum seeds and seedlings. Dipteryx seeds survived longer in smaller than in larger gaps. By colonizing tree-fall gaps, these two species improved their chances of completing their life cycles.
4091959| The composition of anuran assemblages was studied in 16 streams at the Serra do Cip, south-eastern Brazil, in which 26 anuran species were found. Volume and isolation level of stream sections of 150 m were estimated; tadpoles, adult anurans, and potential tadpole predators were searched for over 16 consecutive months. Stream size, isolation, richness and diversity of tadpole predators, and some additional physical and biotic variables were measured and related to anuran species richness. Smaller streams tended to shelter more anuran species than larger ones, but neither stream size nor stream isolation explained variations in anuran species richness. Anuran species richness tended to increase with tadpole predator diversity. Tadpole species richness was influenced by predator species richness, and was highest when there were seven types of tadpole predators present. The distribution of few anuran species could be clearly related to particular physical and biotic variables. The behavioural flexibility of anurans and the similarity among streams may have contributed to this pattern. 
3068659|The reproductive ecology of piassava palm (Attalea funifera Mart.) was investigated for 19 months in the Atlantic forests of eastern Brazil. Its breeding biology is characterized by the production of functionally female, male and bisexual inflorescences. Staminate sterility is positively correlated with number of pistillate flowers. Staminate and pistillate flowers are receptive at anthesis. Bagging tests for apomixis were negative. Although geitonogamy can occasionally occur, outcrossing predominates. Pollen is relatively dry, but wind pollination is not a significant factor in cross pollination. Although inflorescences are visited by large numbers of insects, pollination is effected mainly by small sap beetles (Mystrops sp.) and weevils (Phyllotrox tatianae), which feed and breed in fertile staminate flowers. Pistillate flowers, which offer no reward to pollinators, appear to attract insect visitors by olfactory and visual imitation of staminate flowers, that is, via Bakerian mimicry. Flower production, fruit maturation, leaf production and leaf abscission occur continuously throughout the year. Flowering exhibits a distinct peak during the warmest months (Dec-Apr). Given its ubiquity throughout the region, A. funifera may well serve as a flowering and fruiting keystone species.
2560304|Evidence from southern African semi-arid savannas suggests that high elephant densities in nature reserves cause the over-utilization of woodlands. Northern Botswana, with its prolific elephant population, is expected to follow such a pattern unless the densities of elephants which could be sustained by indigenous woodlands are determined and maintained at carrying capacity Above ground biomass production was estimated for mopane (Colophospermum mopane) woodlands, a principal food source for elephants, which grows over much of northern Botswana Densities of trees and shrubs, dimensions of plants and elephant densities were recorded within stratified plots situated according to a regional rainfall gradient. Mean estimates of above ground biomass (foliage and twigs) were 9.41 and 7.83 t ha<sup>-1</sup> for shrubs and trees respectively. A logistic model described the maximum levels of biomass removal from plants before over-utilization of mopane occurred. Variables incorporated in the model included above ground biomass of mopane shrubs and trees, growth rates of plants and expected off-take by elephants. The model predicted a complete biomass regain within 10 y if no elephant browsing occurs. Intensive elephant browsing in woodlands containing 15 elephants km<sup>-2</sup>, however, can suppress biomass production if growth rates of plants fall below 70% of the maximum annual rate. Nonetheless, there was no substantial evidence to suggest that elephants will reduce the biomass of mopane woodlands in northern Botswana below a sustainable level if their numbers are allowed to increase considerably beyond the current estimate
2559459|Community structure, macrohabitat selection, and patterns of species co-occurrence were examined during a 14-month study of small mammals in the Cerrado Province of central Brazil. Data were collected from mark-recapture grids in brejo and gallery forest, and from live-trapping and specimen collection in all habitat types within cerrado (campo limpo, campo sujo, cerrado [s.s.], cerradao, brejo, valley-side wet campo, and gallery forest). Gallery forest supported the highest species richness, most complex vertical distribution of species, highest level of trophic diversity, and highest macroniche diversity. Degree of habitat selection varied widely. All habitat types supported both rodents and marsupials, although marsupials tended to be much less common in the grasslands (campos) than in woodlands (cerrado) and forests (cerradao, gallery forest). Some species, such as Didelphis albiventris, occurred in all habitat types, while others were much more restricted. Oryzomys bicolor, for example, ocurred only in gallery forest. No habitat type had a completely distinct fauna: overlap in species composition always occurred with at least one other habitat type. Because of the great variability of habitats, and the fact that subsets of the mammal fauna were frequently habitat specific, the overall species richness of any portion of mixed cerrado vegetation is remarkably high.
2559191|Bat communities in the understorey of primary lowland dipterocarp forest in peninsular Malaysia and Sabah were sampled with mist nets and harp traps to estimate their trophic structure. Overall, 4 of 26 species (15%) at one site, and 6 of 33 species (18%) at the other site were frugivores, while the remainder were insectivores. In terms of individuals, 7-12% of all captures were frugivores. However, the true proportion of frugivores at both sites was probably closer to 1%, because the sampling procedures were strongly biased towards frugivores. In contrast, previously published studies indicate that frugivores comprise 34-48% of species, and up to 80% of individuals in bat communities in the understorey of Neotropical forest. These results support the hypothesis, developed from studies of bird communities, that the understorey of Malaysian dipterocarp forest supports relatively few obligate frugivores, at least in non-masting years. However, further data are required on bats in the canopy, and on the foraging ranges of bats to compare the absolute densities of bats in Malaysian and Neotropical forests.
3068803|This study provides an estimate of aboveground live biomass for an intact eastern Amazonian forest. An allometric regression biomass equation was developed to estimate the aboveground biomass of live lianas. This equation, together with a previously published equation for trees, was then used to estimate the contributions of lianas and trees to the total biomass of forest patches in four stature classes: gap (openings in the canopy of at least 25 m
25562583|Ecological and temporal factors can influence animal foraging patterns and may obscure our understanding of how native and exotic species interact. To understand how such factors affect foraging, the visitation of native and exotic bees and wasps was observed at nectar feeders within Mexican agroforestry systems, while documenting (1) vegetation management (low-shade vs. high-shade coffee), (2) light and floral resource levels and (3) recruiting ability, as measured by the change in visitation between two consecutive experimental days. On day one, Africanized honeybee visitation was significantly greater in low-shade habitats, and native solitary bee abundance was significantly greater in high-shade habitats, while native social bee and solitary wasp visitation were not significantly different between habitat types. After 24 h, Africanized honeybee visitation increased significantly in both habitat types, while native social bee visitation increased significantly only in high-shade coffee. In contrast, native solitary bee and native solitary wasp visitation decreased in both habitat types. Overall, this study reveals that Africanized honeybees exhibit only initial foraging preference for low-shade habitats, while native bees exhibit both initial and delayed recruitment-based foraging preferences for high-shade habitats.
2559428|Trapping and netting of small mammals on a land-bridge island (Leyte) and on an oceanic island (Negros) revealed similar patterns of elevational change in abundance and species richness. Fruit bats (Pteropodidae) reached their greatest local densities in agricultural areas, and were least abundant in montane mossy forest. The fruit bats found to be common in agricultural areas are widespread in Southeast Asia: in contrast, species that were most common in forested areas are Philippine endemics. Fruit bat abundance was greater on the oceanic island than on the land-bridge island. Trappable small mammals (families Soricidae and Muridae) showed no change in species richness with increasing elevation, but did show a gradual increase in overall abundance. Even though the oceanic island was depauperate of non-volant mammal species, it had the higher abundance of non-volant mammal individuals; however, this may have been due primarily to differences associated with the elevation of sampling sites. Murid rodents at the higher elevations on Leyte tend to be those that are members of the old endemic group of Philippine murids, and those at lower elevations tend to be members of more recently arrived groups. Most non-volant small mammals at all elevations on the oceanic Negros, and in agricultural areas on Leyte, are non-native species.
3068773|A pollination and breeding system study was conducted on a neotropical palm, Astrocaryum vulgare, in Guyana, South America, to better understand its reproductive character evolution, and test the predictability of pollination syndromes. The pollination syndrome approach was used because it integrates characteristics of flowers and their pollinators into an evolutionary framework that allowed experimental testing of predictions. The flowers of A. vulgare displayed traits that were typical of both beetle and wind pollination syndromes. The protogynous inflorescences produced heat and odour during nocturnal anthesis, had numerous stamens with copious, light pollen, and were visited by hordes of beetles that used the inflorescences as feeding, mating and oviposition sites. In contrast, some of these features, such as numerous stamens with copious, light pollen, a high pollen to ovule ratio, and no obvious production of visitor rewards, were also typical of the wind pollination syndrome. However, floral rewards appeared to be tissues of the fleshy staminate petals and pollen that were readily devoured by the beetles. In addition to the Coleoptera, insect visitors to A. vulgare inflorescences included several species of Hymenoptera, Diptera and Orthoptera. However, only Nitidulidae and Curculionidae beetles were effective insect pollinators. Pollination treatments showed that wind pollination was possible, but fruit set was significantly higher for female flowers visited by beetles. Although a pollen/ovule ratio of 50 000:1 and outcrossing index confirmed an outcrossing breeding system, pollination experiments suggested that A. vulgare had the potential for self pollination. Therefore, the breeding system might be best classified as facultatively xenogamous (cross fertilizing). The predictive value of potential pollinator agents for A. vulgare was inadequate because its floral traits were indicative of both cantharophilous and anemophilous pollination syndromes.
4092001| Leafing phenology of two dry-forest sites on soils of different depth (S = shallow, D = deep) at Shipstern Reserve, Belize, were compared at the start of the rainy season (April-June 2000). Trees  2.5 cm dbh were recorded weekly for 8 wk in three 0.04-ha plots per site. Ten species were analysed individually for their phenological patterns, of which the three most common were Bursera simaruba, Metopium brownei and Jatropha gaumeri. Trees were divided into those in the canopy (> 10 cm dbh) and the subcanopy ( 10 cm dbh). Site S had larger trees on average than site D. The proportion of trees flushing leaves at any one time was generally higher in site S than in site D, for both canopy and subcanopy trees. Leaf flush started 2 wk earlier in site S than site D for subcanopy trees, but only 0.5 wk earlier for the canopy trees. Leaf flush duration was 1.5 wk longer in site S than site D. Large trees in the subcanopy flushed leaves earlier than small ones at both sites but in the canopy just at site D. Large trees flushed leaves earlier than small ones in three species and small trees flushed leaves more rapidly in two species. Bursera and Jatropha followed the general trends but Metopium, with larger trees in site D than site S, showed the converse with onset of flushing 1 wk earlier in site D than site S. Differences in response of the canopy and subcanopy trees on each site can be accounted for by the predominance of spring-flushing or stem-succulent species in site S and a tendency for evergreen species to occur in site D. Early flushing of relatively larger trees in site D most likely requires access to deeper soil water reserves but small and large trees utilize stored tree water in site S. 
27751653|Forest recovery in abandoned pastures and agricultural fields is often impeded, therefore it is important to understand the factors limiting regeneration. Patterns of seed arrival and regeneration in five abandoned agricultural clearings nested within a seasonally dry tropical forest in India were examined along five transects radiating from the forest edge into the clearings. Wind-dispersed seeds dominated the seed arrival in clearings compared with vertebrate-dispersed seeds: 5563 wind-dispersed seeds and 1094 vertebrate-dispersed seeds of 14 and 13 tree species, respectively, were recorded. Numbers of the former declined steeply with increasing distance from the forest, whereas the latter showed no evident pattern with distance. Seeds of the invasive herb, Chromolaena odorata, were abundant in clearings. Although wind-dispersed seeds greatly outnumbered vertebrate-dispersed seeds, seedlings and saplings of vertebrate-dispersed species were three times more abundant than those of wind-dispersed species, indicating distinct differences in patterns of actual and effective seed dispersal. This points to recruitment limitation, and suggests that seed arrival may not be the principal barrier to regeneration in these clearings. Nonetheless, the clearings are likely to revert to forest over time.
3068833|Tepuis are uplifted mountains surrounded by forest or savannas in the Guayana Shield in northern South America. Large areas of the summits of these mountains are characterized by bare rock with vegetation isolates ('islands') that vary in size from less than 1 m
27751636|Lowland forests of western Amazonia contain the most species-rich primate communities in the Neotropics, which begs the question of what mechanisms operate to promote species coexistence. This study examines habitat occupancy and its relationship to phylogeny in a primate community in Amazonian Ecuador. First, as potential factors that shape community structure, we determined whether (1) mean height in the forest canopy differed among species: (2) within each species, habitat occupancy was disproportional to habitat availability; and (3) species diverged in habitat occupancy. We then tested hypotheses regarding ecological distance and its relationship to phylogenetic distance among species pairs within this community. We tested these hypotheses primarily with data derived from 15 censuses of primate species on two 100-ha plots in eastern Ecuador. In these censuses, we observed eight primate species over nearly 200 encounters. We observed larger species at greater heights in the forest canopy than smaller ones. Although they occupied habitat types at frequencies proportionate to their availability in the study area, species diverged in habitat occupancy. Although a clear relationship was not observed between phylogenetic and ecological distances among species pairs, this study suggests that ecological differences among the species in this community facilitate their coexistence. /// Los bosques de tierras bajas de la amazona occidental se caracterizan por albergar a la comunidad de primates ms diversa de los neotrpicos dando pauta a investigar a qu nivel la particin del nicho sirve como un mecanismo para promover la coexistencia de las especies de primates. En este estudio examinamos la ocupacin del hbitat y su relacin con la historia evolutiva en una comunidad de primates en la amazonia ecuatoriana. Primero como factores potenciales que influyen en la estructura de la comunidad determinamos si (1) la altura promedia en los estratos del bosque vara entre las especies; (2) las especies ocupan los tipos de hbitat en frecuencias desproporcionales a su disponibilidad en el rea de estudio; y (3) hay diferencias entre especies en la ocupacin del hbitat. Luego examinamos hiptesis alternativas en cuanto a la distancia ecolgica y su relacin con la distancia filogentica entre pares de especies en esta comunidad. Mostramos que las especies ms grandes generalmente ocupan estratos ms altos que las especies pequeas. A pesar de ocupar los tipos de hbitat en frecuencias proporcionales a su disponibilidad en el rea del estudio las especies se segregan en el espacio ecolgico. No observamos una relacin clara entre las distancias filogenticas y ecolgicas entre pares de especies. Este estudio sugiere que las diferencias ecolgicas entre las especies de esta comunidad facilitan su coexistencia.
4091928|This study examined the foraging behaviour of a resident bird species, the rufous-capped warbler (RCWA, Basileuterus rufifrons), in a shaded-coffee farm in Chiapas, Mexico. Unlike many resident species that use shaded-coffee agroecosystems seasonally, RCWAs do not move to other habitats when migrants are present. RCWA foraging was compared when migrant birds were present (dry season) and absent (wet season). It was hypothesized that RCWAs would exhibit a seasonal foraging niche shift because of resource competition with migrants. Observations from both the canopy and coffee understorey show that RCWAs foraged almost equally in both vegetative layers during the wet season although they were more successful foraging in the canopy. In the dry season, migrants foraged primarily in the canopy and RCWAs shifted so that 80% of RCWA foraging manoeuvres were in the understorey. At that time RCWAs foraged less successfully in both vegetative layers. Avian predation in the dry season was found to reduce densities of arthropods by 47-79% in the canopy, as opposed to 4-5% in the understorey. In the canopy, availability of large (> 5 mm in length) arthropods decreased by 58% from the wet to dry season. Such resource reductions could have caused the RCWA foraging niche shift yet other alternative or additional hypotheses are discussed. Shifts in foraging niche may be a widespread mechanism for some small insectivorous residents to avoid seasonal competition with abundant migrant species.
2559952|This paper presents a method for estimating monkey numbers in a large area of forest where there is a gradient of monkey densities. The method is illustrated using data collected in the northeastern forests of Gabon during an earlier project. These forests are sparsely populated and there are few roads. The density of Cercopithecus nictitans increases with distance from the nearest road. A geographic information system (GIS) divided the forest into bands of increasing distance from the nearest road. The number of monkeys in each band is the product of the monkey density in that band and the area of the band. Summing across bands gives the population estimate; the standard error can be estimated by boots-trapping. The optimum sample size can be estimated by simulation. Combining estimates of the density gradient with a GIS is a cost-effective method of censusing primates in extensive forests.
27751652|Using a data set from 36 studies, we evaluated variation in ungulate biomass across a rainfall gradient using polynomial models, aiming to: (1) compare neotropical and palaeotropical dry and wet forests as well as African savannas; and (2) evaluate the usefulness of polynomial models to predict ungulate biomass at neotropical sites using data from a dry forest (Chamela-Cuixmala Biosphere Reserve, CCBR) and a wet forest (Montes Azules Biosphere Reserve, MABR) in Mexico. Our results showed that an overestimation of expected ungulate biomass can be obtained for some tropical forests if data from African savannas are included in the model. This overestimation was particularly high for predicted ungulate biomass in neotropical dry forests. These ecosystems sustain different ungulate biomass values even when rainfall is similar. This was particularly true for some tropical dry forests and savannas. Rainfall predicted the expected ungulate biomass in neotropical ecosystems relative to that of palaeotropical ones under similar precipitation regimes, but did not correctly predict the observed ungulate biomass at local level if data outside the Neotropics are included in the model. This was more evident when we compared observed biomass against predicted biomass in the tropical dry forest of CCBR, while some polynomial models successfully predicted the observed biomass for the tropical wet forest of MABR. Factors such as Pleistocene extinctions and the absence of large, native grazers (i.e. Bovidae) that have kept ungulate richness and standing biomass relatively low in neotropical forests should be accounted for when comparing data sets from different regions.
4091916|Resource partitioning between elephant, giraffe, kudu and impala was assessed. This was to address concerns that elephant population increase adversely affects other species through depleting their food in key areas close to permanent water. Resources considered were woody species browsed, height browsed and plant parts browsed. Animals were observed as they browsed and the plant species, browsing heights and plant parts browsed were recorded. Observations were made over 1 y and the data were divided between wet and dry season. Schoener's index of resource use overlap was calculated for plant species, browsing heights and plant parts eaten and differences in overlap between wet and dry season were tested. Levin's measure of niche breadth in plant species utilized by the different browsers was calculated. Woody species identity was the main separator between food resources that elephant used and those giraffe, impala and kudu used. Giraffe, kudu and impala mainly browsed the same species and plant parts but browsed at different heights. There was no difference in resource use overlap between seasons with different resource availability. Since elephant browsed different woody species from those browsed by the others, it is unlikely that the increasing elephant population will deplete food resources for the other browsers.
2560242|Hong Kong is on the northern margin of the Asian tropics The original forest cover was cleared centuries ago but secondary forest has developed since 1945 at many sites protected from fire and cutting There are also older forest patches maintained behind villages for reasons of `feng shui', the Chinese system of geomancy. All plants >2 cm dbh were identified and measured in forty-four 400-m<sup>2</sup> plots. Detrended correspondence analysis showed a floristic continuum, with the montane sites (>500 m) most distinct and some overlap between lowland post-1945 secondary forest and the feng shui woods. The 30-40 year-old secondary forest is dominated by Persea spp. Montane forest is similar but lacks several common lowland taxa of tropical genera and includes more subtropical taxa. The feng shui woods have the most complex structure and contain some tree species not found in other forest types. Their origin and history is obscure but we suggest that both planting and selective harvesting have had a role in their current species composition.
2559948|Current hypotheses to explain dynamic transitions between savanna grasslands and woodlands in Africa focus on grazing by elephant or the influence of fire. Using a simple mathematical model, this paper argues that interactions between small herbivores such as impala or buffalo and large herbivores such as elephant or giraffe may provide a plausible alternative hypothesis. The interplay of competition and facilitation between these types of herbivores could explain transitions between grassland and woodland and vice versa. A review of the literature is presented in support of this hypothesis.
4499133| Coastal wetland plant communities are strongly structured by water depth and salinity. Rising sea level will cause changes in the hydro-period, surface water salinity and salt-water intrusion in coastal areas, which will reduce the distribution of forests in these areas. We studied the dynamics of a Pterocarpus officinalis stand in Puerto Rico over a 9-y period. We observed differences in plant growth, recruitment and mortality across a salinity gradient within a 1-ha plot. In areas of high salinity, recruitment, juvenile density and growth rates of juveniles and adults were lower. The detrimental effect of salinity was also observed in a growth experiment; seedlings in 5 and 10 salinity treatments had higher mortality, slower growth and less above- and below-ground biomass than control seedlings (0). In addition, an increase from 0 to 1 in salinity resulted in approximately 50% less nodulation in seedlings. Low recruitment in high salinity areas and lack of recruitment in adjacent grasslands will further reduce the distribution of this forest type. Although some ecosystems can respond to changing conditions by migration to more favourable areas, this is not the case with P. officinalis, and thus, restoration efforts are needed to re-establish this species where it occurred historically. 
2559453|Production and nutrient content of small litterfall were studied for one year in four plantations of Agathis dammara ranging in age from 7 to 35 years old, in a 12-year-old stand of Pinus merkusii and in an approximately three-year-old shrub community dominated by Eupatorium species. The dense Pinus plantation produced considerably more litter (10 t/ha/yr, with 5.5 t/ha as needles) than any of the Agathis stands (2.6-6.2 t/ha/yr; 2.3-3.5 t/ha as leaves) or nearby Lower Montane Rain Forest (6.8 t/ha/yr; 5.4 t/ha as leaves). Litterfall in the Agathis forests increased with stand age. The shrubs produced sizeable amounts of litter (3.4 t/ha/yr). The various species responded differently to a drought occurring during the study period. Pine litter generally exhibited low nutrient concentrations (on average 9.2, 1.9, 2.5, 0.4 and 6.0 mg/g of calcium, magnesium, potassium, phosphorus and nitrogen respectively in needle litter), whilst concentrations in shrub litter were generally high (37.8, 4.9, 1.4, 1.05 and 21.5 mg/g for the same elements); Agathis litter usually showed nutrient concentrations that were intermediate between those for pine or shrub litterfall with only minor differences between stands. Comparison of the present findings with observations at other tropical sites suggests that nutrient content of litterfall in plantation forests may approach that of natural forests when the former become about 20 years old. Pine plantations may constitute an exception in this regard.
2560123|To study regeneration on landslides, we counted the number of woody stems at least 1 m tall in 2 m x 5 m permanent plots on Puerto Rican landslides for 5 y and generated successional pathways for all plots in 16 different landslides using principal components analysis (PCA). PCA separated plots well, with early successional plant species (Cecropia schreberiana, Schefflera morototoni, Alchornea latifolia, Gonzalagunia spicata) positively associated with axes I and II, and the negative portion of axis II associated with a mix of those species and mid-successional species (Inga vera, Piper glabrescens). Pathways generally showed (1) a positive association with axis I in early succession, (2) a negative association with both I and II later in succession, (3) little evidence of a decrease in the rate of succession, and (4) a lack of convergence of pathways over the 5 y of our study.
2560029|The relationships between body size and host specificity were studied in leaf-chewing and sap-sucking insect communities, including 792 species, feeding locally on 15 species of Ficus in a lowland rain forest in Papua New Guinea. A negative correlation between body size and host specificity, i.e., the tendency for large species to feed on numerous Ficus hosts and those smaller to have a more restricted host range, was found within both the sap-sucking and the leaf-chewing community. A more detailed analysis, which divided herbivorous species into three sap-sucking and four leaf-chewing guilds, revealed that the correlation between body size and host specificity was caused by differences in these traits between the guilds, while no such correlation was detected within any of the guilds. As the changes in feeding mode, defining various guilds, were unique evolutionary events, it is uncertain whether there is a functional relationship between feeding mode, body size and host specificity, or whether their correlation is only coincidental. It is suggested that, in the sap-sucking community at least, the positive body size versus host specificity correlation is a coincidental by-product of the causal relationship between the feeding mode and both the body size and host specificity. The causes of analogous patterns in a leaf-chewing community require further investigation. Methodological problems in the analysis of tropical insect communities, dominated by rare species, are discussed.
2560008|For sustainable logging to be achieved in tropical forests, there must be successful gap-phase regeneration to restock the logged-over area. This study examined three aspects of gap-phase regeneration in selectively logged lowland swamp forest of northeast Costa Rica. First, logging gaps were censused immediately after extraction to determine the density of advanced regeneration. Stem density and basal area of residual trees 10 cm dbh in logging gaps was >85% lower than undisturbed forest, and all trees in gaps had sustained structural damage. The common canopy species Pentaclethra macroloba (Fabaceae) was the most abundant species in gaps whereas the timber tree Carapa nicaraguensis (Meliaceae) was absent from all censused gaps. This suggests that canopy replacement, particularly by Carapa, will depend on trees <10 cm dbh or by seed input into logging gaps. Second, the diversity of the understorey was compared with 6-y old single-tree and multiple-tree logging gaps. Multiple-tree logging gaps were the most diverse, but dominated by two ruderal species; however many shade-tolerant species were present in those gaps. This indicates that controlled selective logging can result in a localized shift in species composition, but that logging gaps should return to pre-logging composition with time under a carefully implemented, controlled harvesting regime. Finally, this study found a significant effect of a fringing Carapa tree on logging gap seedling density. Thus, seed arrival into gaps is a barrier to logging gap regeneration, particularly for a large-seeded tree species. Gapphase regeneration by a large-seeded tree species in managed forest would benefit from seed broadcasting into gaps.
2560178|The abundance and diversity of soil macrofauna were assessed in a range of vegetation types in northern Botswana. Hand-sorting of soil was used to extract all fauna greater than 2 mm body length from sandy soils in both the dry season (June) and towards the end of the single rainy season (February) Abundance varied significantly between samples from within a sampling location, within a vegetation type and occasionally between seasons. Greater densities were found in wet season samples from locations within closed canopy woodland except where permanent water was a significant feature of the habitat. Overall abundance was comparable to published estimates from more moist tropical and temperate habitats suggesting an important role for soil macrofauna in semi-arid systems. Ordinal level diversity also varied significantly within vegetation types and with season.
2560286|This investigation examined the hypothesis that nutrient deficiency is related to the die-back of Terminalia ivorensis. The study was conducted on three major soil groups in natural forest and T. ivorensis plantations. Five soil chemical factors, Total nitrogen, organic carbon, effective CEC, exchangeable calcium and magnesium, were positively related to die-back. Foliar nitrogen concentrations in trees suffering from die-back were almost 50% of those of healthy trees The concentrations of magnesium in the leaves of T ivorensis experiencing die-back were also low. Conversely, high concentrations of foliar calcium were associated with trees under stress. A highly significant relationship was observed between die-back ranks and leaf size.
40665237|Despite the potential importance of temporal separation for the coexistence of competing species, no study has found significant segregation at the circadian level between jaguar (Panthern onca) and puma (Puma concolor) in sympatry. Using data from camera trap surveys (wet and dry seasons), we have evaluated the activity patterns of both species and their potential prey at four areas in the dry forest of the Bolivian Chaco. We tested if temporal separation existed between these two species, and if their activity was related to that of a particular prey. At most sites, activity patterns of jaguar and puma did not vary significantly between seasons, except for puma at one site. There were no differences between sexes for any cat species at any site. At three sites we found statistically significant differences in the activity patterns of jaguar and puma, as they showed a clear temporal segregation. None of them followed the activity patterns of any particular prey species across sites. The latter suggests that segregation is influenced by avoidance behaviour between the two felid species. Therefore, temporal separation may be an important behavioural factor promoting the coexistence of jaguar and puma in some areas of this dry forest.
4092145|In contrast to their well-studied counterparts in the Neotropics and in Asia, East African montane rain forests are surrounded by semi-arid savanna plains. These plains have a high erosion potential for salt crusts accumulated at the soil surface. Hence it may be hypothesized that East African montane forest ecosystems experience strongly enhanced nutrient inputs via dry deposition, which alters their overall biogeochemistry. The aim of our study was to test this hypothesis by investigating K, Mg, Ca. Na and N-forms in rainfall, throughfall, fine litter, litter percolate and soil solution of a montane rain forest at Mt. Kilimanjaro. Four forest plots situated at elevations between 2250 and 2350 m asl on the south-western slopes of Mt. Kilimanjaro were studied for 2 y. In contradiction to our hypothesis, inputs of K, Mg, Ca and Na via rainfall (7.5, 0.9, 2.3 and
2559874|Seeds with `imitation arils' appear wholly or partially covered by pulp or aril but actually carry no fleshy material. The mimetic seed hypothesis to explain this phenomenon proposes a parasitic relationship in which birds are deceived into dispersing seeds that resemble bird-dispersed fruits, without receiving a nutrient reward. The hard-seed for grit hypothesis proposes a mutualistic relationship in which large, terrestrial birds swallow the exceptionally hard mimetic seeds as grit for grinding the softer seeds on which they feed. They defecate, dispersing the seeds, and abrade the seed surface, enhancing germination. Any fruit mimicry is incidental. Fruiting trees of Ormosia spp. (Leguminosae: Papilionoideae) were observed to ascertain mechanisms of seed dispersal and the role of seemingly mimetic characteristics of the seeds in that dispersal. Seed predation and seed germination were also examined. Ormosia isthamensis and O. macrocalyx (but not O. bopiensis) deceived arboreally-foraging frugivorous birds into taking their mimetic seeds, although rates of seed dispersal were low. These results are consistent with the mimetic seed hypothesis. On the other hand, the rates of disappearance of seeds from the ground under the Ormosia trees, hardness of the seeds, and enhancement of germination with the abrasion of the seed coat are all consistent with the hard-seed for grit hypothesis.
2559781|In a mangrove forest in southern Thailand, the root biomass was estimated for the Sonneratia zone, the Sonneratia-Bruguiera ecotone, the Bruguiera zone and the Rhizophora zone. A 0.2 m (width) x 15.5 m (length) x 1.0 m (depth) trench was dug between two trees of Rhizophora apiculata and the roots in the trench harvested, rinsed, sorted by diameter and weighed. The dry weight of roots collected from the trench was 135.6 kg, equivalent to a total root biomass of 437.5 t ha<sup>-1</sup> including 220.5 t ha<sup>-1</sup> of fine roots. The root density distribution of a single tree was assumed to be predictable exponentially. Two variables of the equation were determined by iteration using the data from a trench excavation and tree distribution study. This equation was applied to 1.3 ha and the root biomass distribution was analysed. The root biomass in each of the above four zones was estimated at 171.8, 84.8, 242.6 and 509.5 t ha<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. The proportion of fine roots (< 2 mm) ranged from 46.4% to 66.4%.
25562631|It has long been suggested that species might exhibit their highest densities at the centre of their geographic range and decline in density towards their range limits. If true, this pattern would have important implications for ecological theory and for conservation management. However, empirical support for this pattern remains equivocal. Furthermore, most research on this topic has emphasized temperate taxa, as is true of much of ecology. Therefore, we here test for a decline in population density from centre to edge of the geographic range of a tropical taxon, primates. In the literature we found data on 30 species and 27 genera from a total of 115 studies with duration of at least 3 mo. Mixed-effects linear models and Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed-rank tests indicated no centre-edge gradient in primate densities. However, densities were significantly lower in more disturbed sites, independent of position in the geographic range.
25172893|Litterfall quantity and quality may respond to alterations in resource availability expected with ongoing land-use and climate changes. Here, we quantify the effects of altered resource availability on non-woody litterfall quantity and quality (nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations) in eastern Amazonian forest regrowth (Brazil) through two multi-year experimental manipulations: (1) daily irrigation (5 mm d) during the dry season; and (2) fortnightly litter removal. Consistent with other tropical forest data litterfall exhibited seasonal patterns, increasing with the onset of the dry season and declining with the onset of the rainy season. Irrigation did not affect litterfall mass and had little impact on nitrogen (N) or phosphorus (P) concentrations and return, except for decreasing litter P concentration at the end of two irrigation periods. Litter removal did not alter litterfall mass or P concentration, but progressively reduced litterfall N during the course of the experiment. Overall, these results suggest significant resistance to altered resource availability within the bounds of our experimental treatments: our findings may help to constrain carbon and nutrient cycling predictions for tropical forests in response to land-use and climate changes.
3068834|In the 'elfin' cloud forest of Serrania de Macuira, exchangeable ammonium and nitrate, and the rates of soil nitrogen mineralization and nitrification were measured in soil samples under different water, temperature and mineral nutrient additions. The effects of nitrogen, phosphorus and nitrogen plus phosphorus fertilization on radial trunk growth were measured in three tree species. In the cloud forest soils, concentrations of ammonium were much higher than those of nitrate. Nitrate was higher in samples collected during the afternoon than during the morning, probably as a result of leaching during the night or nitrification during the day. When samples were incubated under different water and temperature treatments, rates of nitrogen mineralization and nitrification increased more with changes in soil water content than with changes in temperature. Nitrification was significantly increased in soils amended with ammonium or with ammonium plus phosphorus, suggesting that nitrification is substrate-limited. Fertilization with nitrogen and phosphorus resulted in significantly increased girth increments in Guapira fragrans (Dum. -Cours.) Little and Rapanea guianensis Aublet. Myrcianthes fragrans (Sw.) D.C. did not respond to the fertilization. The results of this study support the hypothesis that the characteristics of montane rain forest in small and large tropical mountains (the 'Massenerhebung' effect) are greatly controlled by soil water conditions and related soil nitrogen availability.
2559406|Much of the unique native vegetation of Mauritius has been destroyed. Coastal ebony (Diospyros egrettarum I.B.K. Richardson) forest forms an extreme type of Mauritian lowland forest which no longer exists on mainland Mauritius and only survives on one offshore islet, Ile aux Aigrettes. Undisturbed D. egrettarum forest is resistant to invasion by exotic plants, which have now invaded most relict patches of native lowland vegetation in Mauritius. Human disturbance however, has allowed many exotics (particularly Flacourtia indica (Burm. fil.) Merrill) to invade and form new vegetation types. Much of the disturbance was caused by illegal woodcutting up to 1985, prompted by an acute fuelwood shortage in Mauritius. On the basis of 132 4 x 4 m quadrats, we recognize 10 types of natural, semi-natural and exotic vegetation. The conservation of the remaining natural ebony woodland vegetation requires the total cessation of woodcutting and the eradication of Tabebuia pallida (Lindl.) Miers (potentially the most damaging exotic species).
25790841|Seasonal changes in resource use and reproduction within a guild of nectar-feeding phyllostomid bats were studied between 2002 and 2004 in a west Mexican dry forest using mist-net captures and diet analysis over 82 nights during both dry and wet seasons. The local guild consisted of three resident species, Glossophaga soricina, Leptonycteris yerbabuenae, Musonycteris harrisoni, and of Anoura geoffroyi, which was mostly captured during the wet season. The proportion of L. yerbabuenae females more than doubled during the dry season. Diet was accessed by identifying the pollen collected from the bats' bodies and by analysis of faecal material. Bats used at least 28 different nectar plants over the year. In the dry season, 91.9% of all bats carried pollen while only 54.6% did so in the wet season. Bat individuals used the highest number of plant species during the dry season, mainly the cactus Pachycereus pecten-aboriginum, various Bombacaceae and the Capparaceae Cleome spinosa. Niche overlap was higher in the dry season than in the wet season. Musonycteris harrisoni and Leptonycteris yerbabuenae showed the largest overlap and both relied heavily on cactus flowers, whereas G. soricina supplemented its nectar diet with fruits. While reproductive females of most species were found only in the flower-rich dry season, G. soricina showed a bimodal reproductive pattern.
2559464|Relations between soil nutrient availability, the occurrence of root symbioses and tree species composition in tropical Africa are discussed in the light of new evidence. Transects from humid areas at the equator towards the deserts can be summarized as follows: High availability of nitrogen, low availability of phosphorus, low pH and aluminium toxicity probably restrict the competitiveness of nitrogen-fixing species in the forests on highly weathered and leached soils in humid west and central Africa. Ectomycorrhizal species attain dominance in species-poor forests on the soils poorest in phosphorus, while species with vesicular-arbuscular (VA) mycorrhiza form diverse forests on more fertile soils. Nitrogen-fixing species, which mostly are VA mycorrhizal, are more common in woodlands, where nitrogen is lost in grass fires, than in forests, which have a more closed nitrogen cycle. Low availability of phosphorus, however, limits the growth of nitrogen-fixing species in moist savannas. Ectomycorrhizal species are dominant, possibly because of a competitive advantage conferred by the large storage capacity of the fungal mantles under conditions of discontinuous nutrient supply. Nitrogen-fixing species become more abundant towards drier areas with an increase in soil phosphorus and a decline in soil nitrogen. These conditions culminate at the desert fringe, where nitrogen-fixing species reach their most conspicuous development. It is concluded that soil nutrient availability and root symbioses interact and strongly affect the composition of vegetation communities.
4092186|The objective of this study was to analyse the factors explaining spatial variation in soil respiration over topographic transects in a tropical rain forest of French Guiana. The soil of 30 plots along six transects was characterized. The appearance of the 'dry to the touch' character at a depth of less than 1.2 m was used to discriminate soils exhibiting vertical drainage from soils exhibiting superficial lateral drainage and along with colour and texture, to define five classes from well-drained to strongly hydromorphic soils. Spatial variation in soil respiration was closely related to topographic position and soil type. Increasing soil water content and bulk density and decreasing root biomass and soil carbon content explained most of the decrease in soil respiration from the plateaux (vertically drained hypoferralic acrisol) to the bottomlands (haplic gleysol). These results will help to stratify further field experiments and to identify the underlying determinants of spatial variation in soil respiration to develop mechanistic models of soil respiration.
2560204|Subsamples of termite mound soil used by chimpanzees for geophagy, and topsoil never ingested by them, from the forest floor in the Mahale Mountains National Park, Tanzania, were analysed to determine the possible stimulus or stimuli for geophagy. The ingested samples have a dominant clay texture equivalent to a claystone, whereas the control samples are predominantly sandy clay loam or sandy loam, which indicates that particle size plays a significant role in soil selection for this behaviour. One potential function of the clays is to bind and adsorb toxins. Although both termite mound and control samples have similar alkaloid-binding capacities, they are in every case very high, with the majority of the samples being above 80%. The clay size material (< 2 m) contains metahalloysite and halloysite, the latter a hydrated aluminosilicate (Al<sub>2</sub>Si<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>nH<late x>$_2$</latex>O), present in the majority of both the termite mound soil and control soil samples. Metahalloysite, one of the principal ingredients found in the pharmaceutical KaopectateTM, is used to treat minor gastric ailments in humans. The soils commonly ingested could also function as antacids, as over half had pH values between 7.2 and 8.6. The mean concentrations of the majority of elements measured were greater in the termite mound soils than in the control soils. The termite mound soils had more filamentous bacteria, whereas the control soils contained greater numbers of unicellular bacteria and fungi.
40665275|Nectarivorous flower mites can reduce the volume of nectar available to pollinators. The effects of the flower mite Proctolaehps sp. on nectar availability in flowers of a melittophilous bromeliad Neoregelia johannis (Bromeliaceae) was evaluated in a coastal rain forest in south-eastern Brazil. In a randomized block experiment utilizing 18 flower pairs, one per bromeliad ramet, pollinators (Bombus morio) and mites were excluded, and then nectar volume, sugar concentration and sugar mass were quantified over the anthesis period. Mites significantly reduced nectar volume early in the morning (6h00-8h00), but not later (10h00-12h00). Mites decreased total volume of nectar available up to 22%. Sugar concentration in nectar was higher earlier in the morning, and decreased between 10h00-12h00. The pronounced consumption of nectar by mites during the period of higher sugar concentration reduced the total amount of sugar available to pollinators by 31%. This is the first study showing that flower mites decrease nectar rewards in a melittophilous plant. Because nectar volume by itself incompletely describes nectar production rates and the effects of nectar removal by flower mites on the availability of sugar, our study highlights the inclusion of sugar content in future studies assessing the effects of thieves on nectar production rates.
23012388|Mbau forest covers much of the Congo, and shifts in its composition could have a large impact on the African tropics. The Ituri forest in east Congo is near a boundary between the monodominant mbau type and non-mbau mixed forest, and two 20-ha censuses of trees  1 cm diameter were carried out over 12 y to monitor forest change. Based on published diameter allometry, mbau forest had 535 Mg ha 1 biomass above ground and gained 1.1 Mg ha 1 y 1 . Mixed forest had 399 Mg ha 1 and gained 3 Mg ha 1 y 1 . The mbau tree (Gilbertiodendron dewevrei) increased its share of biomass from 4.1% to 4.4% in mixed forest; other common species also increased. Sapling density declined at both sites, likely because increased biomass meant shadier understorey, but the mbau tree increased in sapling density, suggesting it will become more important in the future. Tree mortality and growth rates were low relative to other tropical forests, especially in the mbau plots. Shifting toward G. dewevrei would represent a large gain in carbon in the mixed forest, but mbau is presently more important as a high-carbon stock: biomass lost during forest harvest could not recuperate for centuries due to slow community dynamics.
2559569|Soil nutrient concentrations under Acacia albida and Kigelia africana trees growing in Zambezi riverine woodlands were compared with soils in the open, beyond tree canopies. Concentrations of N, C, P and K were higher under tree canopies. Concentrations of Ca and Mg were unchanged. Soils were slightly more acid under A. albida trees relative to open soil, but were less acid under K. africana. Soil P concentration was higher under K. africana than under A. albida. Otherwise, the two species had similar effects on soil fertility. Despite previous claims, A. albida is probably no more efficient at increasing soil fertility than other savanna trees.
3068692|Regeneration processes associated with gap-building-phase sites are described for the tropical montane cloud forest of the El Cielo Biosphere Reserve in Tamaulipas, Mexico. Twelve gap-building-phase sites c. 20 y old were selected within the forest according to their gap size and severity of disturbance (i.e. number of fallen logs). All flowering plants were recorded within the sites and specimens were identified to species level. Species were related to genera geographical affinity and growth form. Abundance, individual height and aerial crown cover were also recorded for all species. The composition for these sites was 121 vascular plant species grouped in 96 genera and 60 families. Results suggest that the advanced regeneration of shrub and tree species of the medium canopy, such as Eugenia capuli, Ternstroemia sylvatica, Turpinia occidentalis, Meliosma oaxacana, Myrsine coriacea and Podocarpus reichei, was favoured by the disturbance regime prevailing in this forest community. All of these woody species belong to tropical genera and are structurally dominant in the gap-building-phase sites. A differential response of the vegetation was obtained in these sites as a function of the severity of disturbance and gap size. This response was revealed by the dominance-diversity relationships. Small gaps (45-95 m
2559815|Phytomass was determined for a tropical deciduous forest in Chamela, Jalisco, Mexico. The mean canopy height was 6.9 m, and the total basal area was 25.6 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup> (dbh > 3.0 cm). The estimated phytomass for this forest (85 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup>) is among the highest values for tropical dry forests with similar seasonal climates. A stepwise multiple regression analysis showed that phytomass can be predicted firstly by basal area (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.88), then by wood specific gravity (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.91), and finally by the inclusion of tree height in the regression (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.92). Each new independent variable explained significant variance in the phytomass estimation.
3068714|Patterns of population fluctuation, reproductive activity and age structure were studied in populations of the marsupial Micoureus demerarae occupying two small (7.0 and 8.8 ha) fragments of Atlantic Coastal Forest in southeastern Brazil, from 1995 to 1998. Males, but not females, were observed to move between populations. Estimated sizes of the populations in each fragment were very small, usually below 20 individuals. Breeding usually occurred from September to April. Population peaks came mostly by the end of this season, the delay reflecting the time required for the young to become trappable. In August 1997, the area was hit by a fire severely affecting the smaller fragment. Populations were synchronous before the fire, although they became asynchronous after it, possibly in the short term only. Small population sizes, synchrony and presumable male-biased migration are all likely to make the set of populations more vulnerable to extinction than expected for a metapopulation.
2559245|Large areas of the Himalayas have become severely deforested although little has been published about the extent of this problem in the closed Kingdom of Bhutan. A preliminary survey was undertaken during 1983. Without detailed information or accurate maps, LANDSAT 2 imagery was used to prepare a sampling stratification and to plot the distribution of defined vegetation types after sampling and analysis. Eleven forest noda are described in relation to their habitats, and area and timber volume estimates given. Deforestation pressures are discussed.
4499095|Frugivores display daily and seasonal behavioural variation, yet the influence of this variability on subsequent seed shadows is rarely considered. We investigated the extent to which three aspects of gibbon (Hylobates muelleri x agilis) foraging and ranging behaviour (revisitation of favoured fruit sources, daily and monthly ranging patterns) influenced seed dispersal distances and deposition sites for two groups in dipterocarp forests at the Barito Ulu research site, Kalimantan, Indonesia. Dispersal distances and sites were estimated using gut retention times and ranging patterns collected over 12 mo. Gibbons dispersed few seeds (0.7%) under parent trees and most seeds (> 90%) were dispersed more than 100 m. Mean dispersal distances differed significantly between groups (339 m and 431 m) and across different months. Deposition site was only influenced by time of day, with all seeds swallowed in the first hour of activity being deposited under sleeping trees used that night. Both groups visited all 0.25-ha quadrats within their home range over the study period, indicating that gibbons potentially disperse seeds throughout their home range. Given the general uniformity of the gibbon seed shadow, the intensity of home range use and large seed dispersal distances, gibbons appear to be consistently effective seed dispersers and are probably one of the most important frugivores in Asian rain forests.
40665236|Where one or a few tree species reach local high abundance, different ecological factors may variously facilitate or hinder their regeneration. Plant pathogens are thought to be one of those possible agents which drive intraspecific density-dependent mortality of tree seedlings in tropical forests. Experimental evidence for this is scarce, however. In an African rain forest at Korup, we manipulated the density of recently established seedlings (~ 5-8 wk old; low vs. high-density) of two dominant species of contrasting recruitment potential, and altered their exposure to pathogens using a broad-spectrum fungicide. Seedling mortality of the abundantly recruiting subcanopy tree Oubanguia alata was strongly density-dependent after 7 mo, yet fungicide-treated seedlings had slightly higher mortality than controls. By contrast, seedling mortality of the poorly recruiting large canopy-emergent tree Microberlinia bisulcata was unaffected by density or fungicide. Ectomycorrhizal colonization of M. bisulcata was not affected by density or fungicide either. For O. alata, adverse effects of fungicide on its vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizas may have offset any possible benefit of pathogen removal. We tentatively conclude that fungal pathogens are not a likely major cause of density dependence in O. alata, or of early post-establishment mortality in M. bisulcata. They do not explain the latter's currently very low recruitment rate at Korup.
2559288|The ecology of the Sri Lankan elephant in the Wasgomuwa Strict Nature Reserve and its environs is reported for the first time. Seasonal changes in the availability of grazing sites influenced changes in the home range of elephants. Availability of such sites in the wet season was limited by agricultural activities. Paddylands, after the harvest of the rice crop in the late wet season, became important dry season grazing sites. In the Reserve and areas outside its southern boundary on the left bank of the Mahaweli River, (a) female herds were seen more often than solitaries (b) female herds were larger and had a higher than expected number of juveniles in the dry than in the wet season (c) about 45% of the individuals were juveniles and (d) 7.4% of adult and sub-adult females had calves. Conflict between elephants and farmers will be most intense along the southern and eastern boundaries of the Wasgomuwa National Park, established in 1984 by the addition of new areas predominantly to the northern part of the Wasgomuwa Strict Nature Reserve.
2560194|The natural <sup>15</sup>N abundance method for estimating symbiotic biological N<sub>2</sub>-fixation was tested on legume trees from two rain forests on contrasting soils (oxisols and spodosols) in French Guiana. When possible, the significance of N<sub>2</sub>-fixing species in the plant community was evaluated in terms of density, biomass and contribution of N<sub>2</sub>-fixation to the building up of the total nitrogen mass in the leaves. Of the two sites, the rain forest on spodosols was the less favourable for application of the <sup>15</sup>N method: the available soil nitrogen was isotopically similar to fixed-N<sub>2</sub>. Hence, the results showed that a reliable estimate of N<sub>2</sub>-fixation could not be obtained. A substantial contribution of fixed-N<sub>2</sub> to the nitrogen nutrition of legumes was found on oxisols, with an average value of 54% Ndfa (Nitrogen derived from the atmosphere). The contribution of the N<sub>2</sub>-fixing legumes to the biomass of the stand was estimated to be 2 t ha<sup>-1</sup> for the leaf biomass and 136 t ha<sup>-1</sup> for the total above-ground plant biomass. With 7.5% of trees in the stand able to fix N<sub>2</sub> (462 out of 6156), N<sub>2</sub>-fixation was estimated to be 7 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>. These results are the first use of the <sup>15</sup>N method to estimate nitrogen input by N<sub>2</sub>-fixing legumes to a natural rain forest. The inter-site variability observed in the <sup>15</sup>N of the non-fixing plants suggested different nitrogen-cycling processes in the two soils. The <sup>15</sup>N of the non-N<sub>2</sub>-fixing plants could be related to the soil nitrogen availability and be used as an indicator of efficient or non-efficient nitrogen-cycling rain forests. The spatial variability of the <sup>15</sup>N in the plant-available soil nitrogen pool and the nitrogen balance in tropical rain forests are discussed.
2559545|Throughout the latter part of the dry season (January-April) of 1985 and 1986, we studied the demography of mature adults in a small population of Argia chelata along a stream at Monteverde, Costa Rica. Males defended sunlit spots along the stream between 1030 h and 1400 h central standard time each day and females visiting these sunlit spots were soon mated. By individually marking all mature adults in the population we found that there was no significant difference between the sexes in daily survival rates (0.85 for males and 0.86 for females). Lifetime mating success was positively correlated with longevitiy in both males and females but the ability of males to obtain a mate appeared to be independent of age. Although the sex ratio at emergence was 1:1, that of mature adults at the stream was strongly male-biased (87% male), perhaps as a result of a longer or more risky prereproductive period in females related to the costs of egg formation. We argue that the strongly male-biased sex ratio has important effects on the mating system of this species in that the male contact-guards the female for the entire oviposition period each day. Although this limits each male to mating with one female per day, it probably ensures that the male will fertilize most of the eggs laid by the female that day.
2559636|Arboreal and terresterial soil and litter were sampled for macro- and microinvertebrates at two locations in a Venezuelan cloud forest. Fauna were most abundant in forest floor soil and associated litter. However, media suspended in the canopy and particularly those trapped in bromeliad shoots were most densely populated, while the diversities of the arboreal and terrestrial soil fauna were indistinguishable. Rates of leaf litter decomposition in the arboreal and terrestrial soils were similar, but the arboreal soils contained higher concentrations of mineral nutrients and carbon. Implications of these findings for the definition of soil in humid tropical forests, and related differences between temperate and tropical forests are discussed. The similarities in diversity and differences in species composition between arboreal and terrestrial soil fauna raise questions concerning the evolution of tropical soil fauna, as well as the estimate of global biotic diversity.
2559422|To up-date and extend knowledge of the Akure Strict Natural Reserve an assessment, block by block, of forest in the core of the Inviolate Plot was undertaken in 1974 and complemented with soil sampling. Principal components analysis indicated a gradient of soil reaction and available phosphorus through the core of the plot. Ordination (DECORANA) of floristic data revealed that a floristic trend paralleled the soil trend. In the vicinity of a drainage line, at the western end of the core, soils were lower in available phosphorus, more acid, sandier and texturally more uniform with depth. Typical trees of ferralsols were prominent on these soils but were replaced by species of ferric luvisols, especially members of the Sterculiaceae, on soils of superior nutrient status towards the eastern end. It is suggested that the soil gradients were not effects produced by the trees. Comparison of a 1946 data set with the 1974 data supported the view that the forest had been structurally and floristically stable over the interval between assessments. This is considered justification of the original choice of the area as a Strict Natural Reserve representative of high forest in this part of Nigeria.
2560287|Little information is available to test the various theories which have been proposed to explain the evolution of cauliflory. This study provides such data from observations in Trinidad of the numbers of potential pollinators visiting trunk and canopy flowers and on the size of canopy and trunk flowers and fruits. Subsidiary observations were made on the partitioning of resources between the sexes within flowers Significantly more potential insect pollinators were trapped around the trunk flowers of two cauliflorous species than were caught around their canopy flowers Trunk flowers were found to be larger than canopy flowers in four of the seven cauliflorous species studied, but they were smaller in one-species. The higher probability of fruit set on trunks than in the canopy may have selected for cauliflory and subsequently increased trunk flower size in insect-pollinated understorey tropical trees. There was a tendency for flowers on the trunk not only to be larger but also to allocate relatively more dry weight to female parts and result in larger fruit than those in the canopy These observations are consistent with Wallace's theory of the evolution of cauliflory, which argues that the condition arose in the dark understorey of the tropical forest, as a result of selection for trunk flowers which are more apparent to pollinators than are canopy flowers. However, other explanations for the evolution of cauliflory are not precluded as they are not mutually exclusive.
25172896|We evaluated the effects of forest fragmentation on herbivory on central Amazonian trees. Levels of herbivory were measured on leaves from a total of 1200 saplings from 337 species. There was a positive and significant effect of forest fragment area on herbivore damage, with plants from continuous forest having twice as much damage as plants in the smallest fragments studied (1 ha). Measurements of herbivory rates on two species, however, indicate that the effect can be species-specific. Forest area had a positive and linear effect on rates of herbivory in Henriettella caudata (Melastomataceae), whereas in Protium hebetatum (Burseraceae), rates of herbivory were greater in the 10-ha fragments than in the 1-ha fragments and in continuous forest. There is no evidence that the nutritional and defensive characteristics of the leaves of the species we studied changed as a result of forest fragmentation, at least not in a manner consistent with the observed herbivory patterns. Herbivore predation levels, measured with artificial caterpillars, also showed no significant relationship with forest area. Therefore, neither of these top-down and bottom-up forces could explain the observed patterns of herbivory. It is suggested, instead, that forest fragmentation may affect the dispersal of insect herbivores, and reduce their abundances on small forest isolates. Altered patterns of herbivory on tree saplings may have important consequences for forest structure and dynamics.
40665273|In rain forests the fate of seeds defecated by mammals is often affected by dung beetles, but these effects can vary with mammal species. In a Colombian forest, differences in Scarabaeinae assemblages attracted to spider monkey (Ateles hybridus) and howler monkey (Alouatta seniculus) defecations were assessed. In total, 791 beetles of 35 species were captured. Mean number of individuals was similar for both dung types; mean number of species was higher for Alouatta traps. The effects of dung type (Alouatta vs. Ateles) and defecation pattern (clumped vs. scattered) on the fate of 220 Rollinia edulis (Annonaceae) seeds were determined. Burial by beetles occurred for 61% of the seeds (mean depth 2.6 cm). Seeds in Alouatta dung and in clumped defecations had higher burial rates. Horizontal movement (mean 11 cm) occurred for 80% of the seeds; no significant effects of experimental factors were detected. Survival was higher for buried vs. surface seeds. In a separate experiment, no differences were detected between dung types in the proportion of seeds buried by beetles. Changes in dung texture might have been responsible for the contrasting results. When assessing the effectiveness of an endozoochorous plant-mammal interaction, secondary dispersal by dung beetles should be addressed too.
4092051| In a local biodiversity inventory the locally rare species are of particular importance. The main problem of sample-based inventories is that many species are so rare that they will not be observed. The observed frequencies of species in the sample provide an estimate of the species proportion in the population. This may be used to estimate the number of species which exist in the population, but which were not observed in the sample (shadow species). This non-parametric approach provides an unbiased estimate of the relative frequency distribution of the species in the population, which differs very significantly from the sample distribution, particularly for the rare species. The approach leads to a new and ecologically meaningful estimator of the Rnyi-Hill generalized species diversity measure, which includes species abundance, the Shannon-Weaver and Simpson's diversity measures, amongst others. The use of the estimator is illustrated on data from a biodiversity inventory of trees on a 3-ha forest sample plot in Sumatra. 
2560254|The growth habits of five species of hemiepiphytic fig trees (Ficus subgenus Urostigma) were compared to see if any species occupied distinct canopy positions or showed unique host preferences in lowland rain forest in Gunung Palung National Park, Indonesian Borneo Highly significant differences among species were found in the height of establishment on hosts, the level at which fig crowns were deployed, and the size and taxa of host trees Ficus stupenda, F. dubia, and F subtecta all had mean establishment heights between 29 and 31 m above the ground, had their crowns in the upper canopy, and predominantly occupied large trees in the Dipterocarpaceae. F. consociata and F. xylophylla established at significantly lower mean heights of 24 and 18 m respectively, had their crowns predominantly in lower canopy layers, and disproportionately occupied smaller non-dipterocarp trees. These patterns were consistent both within lowland forest on alluvial terraces, which was most intensively sampled, and when data were combined from three other contiguous lowland forest habitats. Ficus species appear to be specialized to some extent for distinct microhabitats within the canopy.
3068689|In tropical moist forests, length of the dry period may have a profound influence on leaf dynamics, plant growth and survival. To evaluate the role of light and water availability on seedling performance, a 1-y experiment was carried out in a tropical moist forest in the Bolivian Amazon in which seedlings of three tree species (Brosimum lactescens, Cedrela odorata and Schizolobium amazonicum) were planted in gaps and the understorey. Variation in length of the dry period was simulated by subjecting part of the seedlings to a water treatment at the end of the dry period. Gaps and understorey had a similar soil moisture content, which varied between 39% in the wet season and 16% in the dry season. Height and leaf growth rates were higher in gap compared to understorey plants, and in the wet compared to the dry season. A high growth during the wet season provided gap plants with a decisive size advantage over understorey plants during the dry season. Their larger root system allowed gap plants to explore a larger surface area and deeper soil layers for water. Consequently, gap plants of Cedrela experienced a shorter deciduous period (22 d) compared to understorey plants (61 d). Watering at the end of the dry season cued the flushing of new leaves by Cedrela, although it did not lead to a higher plant growth.
2559608|A standard Rothamsted light trap was operated for slightly over 12 months from the end of September 1979 to October 1980 at Genting Sempah, Pahang in Malaysia. All specimens of macrolepidoptera families together with the Pyralidae were identified, counted and recorded. The numbers of species caught were compared with those obtained by a different method at a nearby site for over 10 years. Diversity, biomass and seasonality of the catch were compared with identically sampled populations in Great Britain and New Zealand. The Genting Sempah trap had very high diversity and biomass compared with the temperate samples and exhibited much less seasonality. The Pyralidae and other families (excluding Noctuidae and Geometridae) formed a much higher component of diversity in Genting than in Britain. The log-normal distribution fits the data better than the log-series. So the inter-quartile slope, Q, is the correct parameter for interfaunal comparisons.
2559773|The distribution of the nutrients N, P and K in soil and vegetation and their mobility through litterfall and decomposition in mature and successional stands of a subtropical dry forest were studied in Guanica, Puerto Rico. Soils of the Guanica forest have high total amounts of N (9100 kg/ha), P (1820 kg/ha), and K (7460 kg/ha). However, high extractable Ca (> 4000 mg/g) and pH (> 7-8) may explain why only 1.3 and 25% of the total P and K, respectively, were extractable. Total ecosystem storage of N, P and K was 10,300, 1900 and 7700 kg/ha, respectively, of which vegetation stored only 10, 2 and 3%, respectively. Litterfall returned 26, 18 and 180% per year of the N, P and K stored in the ground litter compartment. Trees retranslocated about 30 and 65% of the N and P required to satisfy aboveground net primary production and immobilized P in dead roots. Slow leaf decomposition (7.3 yr for 95% decomposition) released K faster than mass, P as fast as mass, and ash and N slower than mass. The use efficiency of P by litterfall was high compared with other tropical forests, while that of N and K was similar to other tropical and temperate forests. Cutting and regrowth of vegetation resulted in differences in the nutrient concentration in litterfall and nutrient use efficiency of successional vegetation.
4091901|Severe tropical cyclones are a major cause of episodic mortality for Pacific Island flying foxes (large fruit bats). Many flying foxes starve after forests are stripped of food sources, and hunting by humans may also increase in the post-cyclone period. In December 2001, Cyclone Waka passed directly over the Vava'u Islands in the Kingdom of Tonga, western Polynesia. We visited the islands 6 mo later to survey the flying fox (Pteropus tonganus) population and assess availability of potential food items (fruit and flower) in primary, secondary and plantation forests. Less than 20% of the pre-cyclone bat population (surveyed in 1999-2001) remained 6 mo after the storm. The density of potential food trees in flower or fruit at this time was only 15% of pre-cyclone density, and the main species available were different in the two time periods. The highest density of potential food trees occurred in secondary forest (26 flowering or fruiting trees ha
4091837|The tropical flora remains chronically understudied and the lack of floristic understanding hampers ecological research and its application for large-scale conservation planning. Given scarce resources and the scale of the challenge there is a need to maximize the efficiency of both sampling strategies and sampling units, yet there is little information on the relative efficiency of different approaches to floristic assessment in tropical forests. This paper is the first attempt to address this gap. We repeatedly sampled forests in two regions of Amazonia using the two most widely used plot-based protocols of floristic sampling, and compared their performance in terms of the quantity of floristic knowledge and ecological insight gained scaled to the field effort required. Specifically, the methods are assessed first in terms of the number of person-days required to complete each sample ('effort'), secondly by the total gain in the quantity of floristic information that each unit of effort provides ('crude inventory efficiency'), and thirdly in terms of the floristic information gained as a proportion of the target species pool ('proportional inventory efficiency'). Finally, we compare the methods in terms of their efficiency in identifying different ecological patterns within the data ('ecological efficiency') while controlling for effort. There are large and consistent differences in the performance of the two methods. The disparity is maintained even after accounting for regional and site-level variation in forest species richness, tree density and the number of field assistants. We interpret our results in the context of selecting the appropriate method for particular research purposes.
25172922|We investigated the effect of seasonality on tree phenology in the tropical montane rain forest of southern Ecuador and analysed possible triggering factors. Two hypotheses were tested: (1) Interspecific synchronization of flowering and fruiting phenology is higher at study sites with pronounced rainfall seasonality compared with sites within perhumid forests. (2) Proximate causes for flowering in closely situated seasonal and perhumid sites are either photoperiodicity or climatic factors. Two nearby study sites with contrasting precipitation patterns were selected at the same altitude east and west of the western Cordillera. Eighty trees from 13 species were observed over a 2.5-y period. Three species were common to both study sites. Phenological and climate data were collected and cross-correlated by conducting a time-series analysis. At the perhumid site, very clear annual patterns of phenological behaviour could be observed for most of the selected rain-forest tree species, but with a poor interspecific synchronization. On the nearby seasonal site in contrast, most species showed high synchrony in their phenological behaviour coinciding with the dry season. There is strong evidence that flowering is induced not by one factor alone: we identified photoperiodic control, radiation and precipitation as possible proximate causes for both sites. Our results confirm studies which state that these factors are closely linked to each other in the tropics.
2560136|The chemistry of epiphytic lichens was determined in two Venezuelan cloud forests adjacent to the Caracas Valley at Altos de Pipe and El Avila National Park. This is the second component of a two-part study examining the chemistry of fogs and their effects on sensitive biota in these forests. The widespread lichen Parmotrema madagascariaceum was chosen as an indicator of trace metal input. Background lichen collections and transplant experiments were carried out to evaluate spatial trends in atmospheric depositon of trace metals at different altitudes and exposures of the two montane locations. Elevated concentratons of metals including Pb and Zn were seen in lichen tissue and associated bark. Lead levels in lichens reached 190 g g<sup>-1</sup> dry wt. Lichens transplanted from relatively `clean' to more polluted sites showed significant increases of metals, particularly Pb. Increases of up to 6.3 g Pb g<sup>-1</sup>mo<sup>-1</sup> after 6 and 10 months were recorded relative to background and in situ lichen material. In contrast, when lichens were reciprocally transplanted in nylon net bags from less to more exposed sites there was a significant decrease in Pb and Zn concentrations after 6 and 10 months. With long-term exposure to elevated concentrations of these trace metals epiphytic lichens, as well as other sensitive cloud forest biota, may be at risk of decline.
2559910|Information on the feeding habits of the lesser dog-faced fruit bat, Cynopterus brachyotis, was obtained by the collection of food remains directly beneath daytime and feeding roosts. The bats were found to feed on the fruits of 54 plant species, the leaves of 14 species and the flower parts of four species. The seasonal phenological differences among congeneric plant species led to a steady production of fruit throughout the year and the data suggest that Ficus spp. are a key component in the diet. Judging from its wide selection of fruits, C. brachyotis, is considered to be an important seed disperser. Folivory in C. brachyotis appears to be more common than previously thought. Of the leaves consumed by the bats, seven species belonged to the family Leguminosae, followed by Myrtaceae, Moraceae, Rhizophoraceae and Euphorbiaceae. Fruits, in general, provide an energy-rich diet for phytophagous bats but most are low in protein. In contrast, leaves consumed by bats have a relatively high protein content. We suggest that folivory (by leaf fractionation) should be energetically more advantageous than the ingestion of large amounts of low protein fruit or the active pursuit of mobile insects.
2559434|Fog interception and rainfall were measured during one year in three elfin cloud forests on small mountains along the Caribbean coast of South America and one in the Venezuelan Andes. (1) While rainfall increases from west to east in the small mountains along the coast, fog interception decreases. In 1985, the total annual rainfall and fog interception were 853 mm and 796 mm in the cloud forest of Serrania de Macuira, 1630 mm and 518 mm in Cerro Santa Ana and, 4461 mm and 480 mm in Cerro Copey. In the Andean forest of El Zumbador, the 1985 rainfall was 1983 mm and the annual fog interception was only 72 mm. (2) Fog interception seems to be an important source of water to the elfin cloud forests of the small mountains which are surrounded by dry vegetation types and where the rainfall regime is highly seasonal. (3) Fog interception increases with altitude (in the same mountain), exposure (wind-ward slopes) and leaf inclination. These variations of fog interception could partially explain the observed distribution of epiphytic flora in some of these cloud forests.
4499146|Rapid and massive amphibian population declines have been reported throughout upland areas of the Neotropics. The abundance and species richness of Neotropical amphibian communities suggest that losses of this magnitude are likely to have strong effects at the ecosystem level. To improve understanding of the implications of their loss we used stable isotope analysis to examine trophic relationships in an ecosystem in which amphibians are dominant in a second-order forest stream at 750 m asl in Parque Nacional Omar Torrijos Herrera, Panama. We analysed 
3068793|The study of seed fate is crucial for understanding fruit-frugivore interactions. One factor that can greatly influence the fate of seeds dispersed through mammal defecation, is the dung that accompanies the seeds. Dung attracts dung beetles and rodents; the former eat and bury dung, the latter feed on seeds. In this study the fate of Micropholis guyanensis subsp. guyanensis seeds surrounded by no dung and by 5, 10 and 25 g of howler monkey dung was followed until seedling establishment. The depths at which dung beetles bury the seeds were measured, and the effect of burial depth on seedling emergence was determined. Although initial seed fates differed among treatments, the same percentage of seedlings established from seeds without faecal material, and from seeds with 5, 10 and 25 g of dung. However, a significantly higher proportion of seedlings established from buried seeds when compared to seeds that remained on the surface. The percentage of seedlings establishing in a controlled germination experiment decreased significantly with increasing burial depth. The effect of dung beetle activity should be taken into consideration when assessing the role that mammal endozoochory plays on seed dispersal ecology of tropical plants. These results provide further evidence for the emerging realization that the study of secondary seed dispersal and post-dispersal events is crucial for a more complete understanding of plant regeneration.
2559574|The competitive interactions between two species of characins (Astyanax fasciatus and Astyanax bimaculatus) were investigated by studying their horizontal distribution, relative abundance and feeding habits in littoral and limnetic zones of Americana Reservoir, southern Brazil. Differences in horizontal distribution of the species mainly as adults led to their partial habitat segregation. Most adult A. bimaculatus were littoral dwellers, whereas A. fasciatus adults were distributed from inshore to offshore waters, but with most in the latter region. Both are facultative zooplanktivores in the reservoir, feeding mostly on planktonic crustaceans, insects (chiefly chironomids), some higher plant material, detritus and even fish scales (A. bimaculatus). Food overlap coefficients, considering adult and juvenile stages of both species are large in dry as well as wet seasons, although in the dry season the overlaps are significantly reduced for juveniles of both species and for juveniles of A. bimaculatus versus adults of A. fasciatus. Both species prey more on cladocerans than on cyclopoid copepods, and the adults selectively take larger forms (Daphnia gessneri and Moina micrura) in the reservoir (as in previously reported enclosure experiments). Juveniles prey heavily on Bosmina longirostris. These two formerly riverine species may reduce competition, in the reservoir, by partial habitat segregation in older stages, a mechanism to avoid competition, which may have existed in their previous interactive history in rivers.
2559702|Nanophyes shoreae (Coleoptera, Apionidae) is a pre-dispersal fruit-predator of dipterocarp trees in South-east Asian rain forest. These trees frequently abort a large part of their fruitcrop soon after anthesis, coincident with N. shoreae oviposition. Fruit parameters, related to the incidence of weevil attack, were investigated by examination of fruit collected from host trees and through observations made in the canopy. Fruit size and the incidence of prior oviposition determined whether beetles initiated attacks. However, many fruits were attacked without oviposition occurring and this is discussed with respect to chemical stimuli.
2559652|In Costa Rican tropical wet forest the distribution of seedlings of most tree species colonizing 51 tree-fall gaps is clumped, probably because of differences in the proximity of gaps to fruiting trees. Different gap zones (root, bole and crown) are more similar to one another, in terms of their species composition, than they are to other zones in the same gap. This nonrandom pattern is established soon after gap formation, indicating that mortality of young seedlings is both high and related to gap zones. Some tree species are strongly positively associated with one of the gap zones, whereas others are associated with the age of the gap at the time the census was taken or the species of tree whose fall caused the gap. Root zones are dominated by fewer species than are bole or crown zones. Results are consistent with the assumption that an initial random distribution of seedlings is quickly changed to a strongly non-random pattern by selective mortality of seedlings of different tree species in the different gap zones. The internal heterogeneity of gaps is probably one of the factors helping to maintain the high tree species richness characteristic of tropical wet forests.
4092017|In the Central Amazon we investigated whether seedling performance (survival, and relative growth rates in height and leaf numbers) was affected by initial seedling size (height and leaf numbers) in habitats that varied in their degree of human disturbance: cattle pasture, young secondary forest, 1-ha forest fragment and old-growth forest. Additionally, effects of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), litter standing crop (LSC) and insect herbivory were evaluated 12 mo after transplantation in seedlings from the native canopy trees Chrysophyllum pomiferum, Micropholis venulosa and Pouteria caimito. Seedling performance changed rank across the understorey environment depending on species. Seedlings of Chrysophyllum thrived in all conditions but under high PAR, Micropholis thrived only in intermediate light conditions, whereas Pouteria thrived under high PAR. Effects of initial seedling size, PAR and herbivory after 1 y were specific to species, whereas LSC had no effect on performance. Initially larger seedlings resulted in lower survival for Chrysophyllum and Pouteria. Herbivory affected seedling performance in all species. Negative effects of herbivory were intensified under low PAR. Overall, our results showed that, as seedlings, species of the same family and characteristic of old-growth forests respond differently to the environmental constraints present in contrasting human-disturbed conditions. Larger seedlings may not always present greater tolerance to physical and biotic mortality risks.
4499073|We studied the response of vegetation and vertebrate assemblages to fire and grazing, and their interacting effects, in Eucalyptus woodland in north-eastern Australia. In this vegetation type, many pastures remain free of cattle grazing due to the occurrence of a native shrub poisonous to livestock. Vegetation (floristic data and 22 habitat variables) and vertebrate fauna (birds, mammals, reptiles) were sampled in 29 standardized 50 x 50-m quadrats in the 2001 wet season, representing four treatments: sites burnt recently (within 2 y) and grazed by cattle (4-8 ha per livestock unit); sites unburnt (last burnt >2 y ago) and grazed; sites burnt recently and ungrazed; and unburnt and ungrazed sites. Fire and grazing had a significant influence on vegetation: both grazing and fire reduced ground cover (fire in grazed sites 51-23%, fire in ungrazed sites 68-39%) and increased the cover of forbs (8% in burnt and grazed sites, 3% if ungrazed) and tussock grasses (20% in grazed and unburnt sites and 5% when ungrazed). Grazing caused a shift in floristic composition from the perennial hummock grass Trioda pungens to tussock grasses (e.g. Aristida spp., Enneapogon spp.), forbs (e.g. Phyllanthus spp.) and shrubs (e.g. Acacia spp.). Of the vertebrate groups, birds responded more to fire effects (9 species), reptiles to grazing effects (6 species) and mammals to the interaction (2 species). Species reacted to increases in bare ground (e.g. crested pigeon Ocyphaps lophotes, hooded robin Melanodryas cucullatus, Ctenophorus nuchalis) and to the dominant ground cover (e.g. Ctenotus pantherinus) or change in vegetation architecture (e.g. singing honeyeater Lichenostomus virescens, variegated fairy-wren Malurus lamberti). The clearest example of an interacting effect was the cycle of complementary dominance between the rodents Pseudomys delicatulus and P. desertor, the latter's post-fire recovery becoming more muted in sites where cattle grazed (modelled time for population recovery twice as long as in ungrazed sites).
4092168|The relationships between arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and root morphological characteristics were studied under greenhouse conditions of 78 tropical native woody species and 47 seedling species collected in the field. Seedlings of native woody pioneer and early secondary species that generally exhibited fine roots with a dense cover of long root hairs showed higher mycorrhizal response and root mycorrhizal colonization than late-secondary and climax species with coarse roots with a sparse cover of short root hairs. Root-hair length and incidence decreased with the progression among the successional groups while fine-root diameter increased, both in the greenhouse and in the field. The mycorrhizal response was highly correlated to root mycorrhizal colonization in the greenhouse and in the field. These parameters were inversely correlated with the seed mass and fine-root diameter, but directly correlated with root-hair incidence, both in the greenhouse and in the field. Mycorrhizal response and root mycorrhizal colonization were also directly correlated with the root-hair length and root/shoot ratio of uninoculated plants. The seedling mycorrhizal status of the early successional woody species suggests that the root traits of these fast-growing species can be more receptive to attraction, infection and colonization by arbuscular mycorrhizas than root traits of late-successional species.
4092157|The relationship between elephant damage and leaf nutrient concentration across tree species was investigated in a semi-arid savanna in western Zimbabwe with the purpose of investigating possible nutritional factors influencing elephant feeding preferences in Kalahari sand woodlands. The presence of elephant damage was recorded in all trees above 1 m in height, and leaf samples were collected from all tree species encountered in 12 vegetation plots during the late dry season. Elephant damage was positively correlated with leaf calcium, magnesium, potassium and protein concentration, but not with sodium, phosphorus or fibre. Tree species associated with sandy soils appeared to be less preferred by elephants and to have lower nutrient concentrations than species occurring on more fertile soils, such as species associated with termite mounds. Elephant damage may suppress recruitment in preferred tree species in these woodlands. This notion was supported by (1) the fact that 44% of all trees surveyed had had their main stems broken by elephants, a situation that leads to a multi-stemmed growth form with limited vertical growth; and (2) the negative correlation between the height of damaged trees and elephant damage across species.
3068707|We analysed the selection of tree species consumed by an isolated troop of Mexican howler monkeys (Alouatta palliata mexicana) released in a translocation programme on Agaltepec Island, in Catemaco Lake, Veracruz, Mexico. During November 1989-December 1996, howlers used 36 of the 63 tree species present on the island as food. Selection ratios indicated that six Ficus species (particularly F. pertusa) were among the seven most important food species. Data on time spent feeding showed that the six Ficus species were among the eight most important food species for the monkeys. Howlers spent 64.2% of their feeding time on Ficus products with F. pertusa being consumed significantly more often than foods from other Ficus species. However, monkeys fed on only one third of the 81 adult Ficus trees on the island. No significant differences were found in various food constituents (water, ash, fibre, protein, carbohydrates, lipids) of the six Ficus and two other abundant species in the habitat, whether across species, plant parts (young leaves, mature leaves, fruits), or between seasons (wet, dry). Monkeys consumed Ficus fruits rather the leaves. Fruits showed a much higher energy content per g dry weight than leaves. We also estimated the average daily biomass of leaves and fruits of Ficus spp. consumed by howlers and their energetic contribution to the daily diet of these monkeys. We suggest that some of these tendencies to frugivory reflect the abundance of Ficus trees within the home ranges of the howlers; when few fig trees are present, folivory is the dominant tendency, whereas when many fig trees are present, frugivory is dominant.
4092091|Neotropical bats occupy a large variety of trophic niches, and represent locally abundant, species-rich communities. As such, they are highly suited as a model group for the study of temporal and spatial dynamics of animal communities. However, despite this important research potential, data on the dynamics and turnover rates of Neotropical bat communities are lacking. We here study both aspects for bats inhabiting two natural forests surrounded by savanna in Bolivia. Over a period of 8 y, both bat communities showed high rates of species turnover. As predicted, species relying on fluctuating food resources were more likely to be absent in particular years, whereas species relying on more predictable food supplies were present in all years.
4499089|Consumption of terrestrial leaf litter by stream invertebrates is an important process, but little attention has been paid to the influence of leaf diversity on the process. Tropical forests are known to have much greater diversity of plant species than their temperate counterparts, but studies of litter processing in tropical streams have not explicitly addressed this issue. This paper documents the streambed leaf litter composition and diversity of an Australian tropical rain-forest stream and the leaf preferences of consumers in the stream. We hypothesized that there would be high diversity of litter in the stream and that the shredders would have broad preferences, given that litterfall of any one species would occur over a restricted period. Leaf litter was characterized by high species diversity (81 species from one stream reach sampled on two occasions). Leaf consumers ('shredders') were associated with a relatively broad suite of leaf species (38 species) and did not indicate clear leaf preferences. However, in a laboratory feeding experiment, using the three most common shredder species and some of the most abundant leaf species in the stream, all shredder species exhibited clear preference for a single leaf species (Endiandra bessaphila). Preference for this and other species was affected by the conditioning age of leaves (i.e. the length of time leaves were exposed to leaching and microbial colonization), with conditioned leaves usually being preferred, and previously non-selected leaves becoming more palatable with conditioning. Thus, different successional stages were more important than the identity of leaf species in determining the distribution of shredders among the leaves.
3068670|Forest edges bordering on pasture were created by cutting and burning the surrounding Amazonian lowland rain forest in the dry season (June) of 1990. Litterfall was measured for 3.5 y along transects 10, 50, 100 and 250-m into the forest from the forest edge. Litterfall along the 10-m transects increased by up to 2.5 times that on spatial controls (250-m transects) in the dry season in which the edge was created. In the second dry season after edge creation litterfall at 10-m was lower than on controls, after which it returned to control rates in the second wet season, 1.5 y after edge creation. Litterfall 50-m into the forest was less affected; there was a smaller rise in the dry season in which the edge was cut, and no significant effects after that. At 100-m there was no effect of edge creation on litterfall. Phosphorus concentrations in litterfall were elevated along 10-m transects, 10-12 wk after edge creation, possibly because of reduced retranslocation prior to abscission. The changes in litterfall described here are inextricably linked to the biomass collapse, which occurs near forest-fragment edges in the same area.
2559923|The amount of leaf litter fall produced by different tree species in tropical forests varies in space and time Falling litter may cover seeds and thereby enhance their survival by making their detection by seed predators more difficult Tests were made to determine whether Astrocaryum murumuru and Dipteryx micrantha seeds survive better in microsites covered by leaf litter Seed numbers and litter cover on the forest floor were experimentally manipulated. How natural variation in leaf litter cover and thickness affects seed and seedling survival of these two plant species was also examined. Seed survivorship was significantly higher for both plant species in microsites with leaf litter than in those with bare soil. Results from an experiment in which the litter was not disturbed showed that Astrocaryum seed survival was positively correlated with litter thickness (defined as the number of overlying dead leaves). Astrocaryum seedling survival was also significantly affected by leaf litter; more seedlings survived in shallow litter. Leaf litter had no effect on Dipteryx seedling survival. The results of the study suggest that early recruitment of both Astrocaryum and Dipteryx is influenced by the spatial distribution and amount of forest leaf litter.
4092129|'Size matching' of forager size and prey size is an ecological mechanism that should partition diets both within ant colonies and ensembles. We studied the relationship between ant body size and food size in tropical leaf-litter ant ensembles at different levels. In three plots of primary rain forest in Sabah, Malaysia, we observed altogether 50 species of 18 genera of ants (e.g. Pheidole, Recurvidris, Lophomyrmex, Paratrechina, Odontoponera) that harvested seed particles from baits of milled rice of various particle size. At colony level 'size matching' of individual foragers with their load was found only in one of 12 tested species, viz. Pheidole lucioccipitalis. However, ant species differed considerably with respect to 'seed' size used: on average, foragers of larger species transported significantly larger 'seed' fragments. This was highly significant in a subset of ant species with at least 12 records of size choice per species. But when we investigated resource partitioning within each of the three ant ensembles with a null model, analysis proved that there was a significant overlap in seed size selection of species at two of the sites, thus indicating that food size choice of foragers had little influence on niche patterns and community structure of ants. Ant species with workers that were not matched with their seed resources (viz. Oligomyrmex or Pheidologeton) engaged in cooperative 'seed' transport, mass recruitment to and in situ mastication of rice fragments. Mean 'seed' transport distance was 38.4 cm.
2560161|The effects of heat treatment and fire on seed germination of Acacia sieberiana D.C and Acacia gerrardii Benth. were studied Dry heat and fire were studied separately. Seeds treated with dry heat were set to germinate in petri-dishes under laboratory conditions Other seeds were planted in plots at the Uganda Institute of Ecology, Mweya, which were then burnt, and subsequent seedling emergence was monitored The effect of heat treatment on seed germination depended on heat intensity and duration of exposure Higher intensities reduced the germination capacity of Acacia seeds Short exposure of seeds stimulated germination but prolonged exposure rapidly reduced seed viability. A sieberiana had a higher heat resistance than A. gerrardii. The survival and germination of seeds after fire increased with depth of burial and A. sieberiana survived better than A gerrardii The germinability of seeds of A. gerrardii was not significantly increased by fire.
4499103|Ants frequently interact with non-myrmecochorous diaspores on the ground in neotropical savannas. Our objective was to quantify the removal rate of these diaspores by ants and vertebrates in order to test the predator avoidance hypothesis, and to test how diaspore traits influence removal by ants and dispersal distance. We also investigated whether seed cleaning (removal of fruit matter simulating ant activity) can influence seed germination. We performed removal experiments with nine diaspore species in a reserve of cerrado savanna in south-east Brazil. Considerable differences in removal rates were found among the nine species. We found a positive linear relationship between lipid content and removal rates for five diaspore species. Vertebrate predation pressure was low for most species, limiting the benefits that ants can provide to plants to escape predators. Ants displace diaspores up to 25 m, which may increase the chance of a seed hitting a safe site. Smaller diaspores attain longer distances of dispersal than large ones. Seed cleaning increased the germination rate for five out of six species tested in greenhouse experiments. Ant activity can have relevant and possibly lasting effects on seed fate of plants adapted for vertebrate dispersal in the cerrado savanna.
2560115|In this study four species of the genus Shorea section Doona were investigated. All occur together as canopy trees in the Sinaraja rainforest of south-west Sri Lanka. Partitioning of the regeneration niche can be one explanation for the co-existence of ecologically similar canopy tree species within a forest. Seedlings were planted in plots located in five zones that represent a range of forest groundstorey microenvironments found adjacent to and across canopy openings of three sites - valley, midslope, ridgetop. Experiments were designed to monitor survival and growth of planted seedlings for two years. At the end of two years percentage survival was calculated, height increment recorded and destructive samples taken to measure dry mass gain of root, stem and leaves. Comparisons were made of establishment and growth performance of seedlings planted in the different plots and sites. Results demonstrated clear differences in survival and growth among species. These differences appeared related to availability of soil moisture and groundstorey radiation regimes. Disturbance patterns that determine species co-existence are suggested.
4092076|Field data on the roosting ecology of a maternity colony of Pteropus vampyrus natunae in a peat swamp forest in Sarawak were collected for 19 mo. The colony moved between 10 roost sites and the diurnal home range (comprising only day-roost sites) was about 1120 ha. Two movement phases were observed within the diurnal home range. The first phase consisted of continuous movement between roost sites each month (August 1998 to January 1999, and August to November 1999), and this coincided with the months in which late pregnancies and pups dependent on mothers were seen. The second phase had almost zero or restricted movement each month (February to July 1999, and December 1999 to March 2000). Throughout the diurnal home range, the colony roosted in 20 families of trees (27 genera and 31 species). The bats tended to roost in certain species and sizes of trees.
27751619|Above-ground biomass (AGB) is increasing in most of the Amazon forests. One hypothesis is that forests are responding to widespread and intense human intervention prior to the European conquest (&gt 500 y ago). In this study we confront this hypothesis with changes in AGB over 6.3 y in a large western Amazonian forest plot (&gt 150 000 shrubs and trees and 1100 species with dbh  10 mm in 25 ha). We examined AGB flux in different habitats and across diameter classes. The forest lost small stems (4.6%), gained large trees (2.6%), and gained biomass (0.7%). The change in AGB stock was due entirely to this upward shift in size leading to more canopy trees and fewer saplings after just 6 y. Across habitats, the biggest increment in biomass was in the secondary-forest patch (3.4% y1) which we know was cleared about 27 y ago, whereas mature forest on ridges and valleys had small increases (0.10% and 0.09% y1, respectively). In both censuses, AGB stocks were &gt 50% higher on the ridge than in the valley while relative growth and mortality were higher in the valley. Mean wood specific gravity (WSG) decreased with increasing diameter class; WSG did not change much between censuses in mature forests and did not contribute to the change in AGB stocks. Our forest increased its standing biomass, but far less than the average reported for other Amazonian forests (i.e. 0.30 vs. 0.98 Mg ha1 y1). We find no evidence to support the notion that this forest is recovering from long-past human intervention. Instead of a long-term recovery, we believe the forest changed in response to natural fluctuations of the environment (e.g. changes in precipitation, higher CO2), windstorms or other more recent events. The significant differences in AGB stocks between valley and ridge suggest that the terra firme forests are a mosaic of natural habitats, and that this mosaic is in part responsible for the variation in biomass stocks detected in Amazonian terra firme forests. /// La biomasa area de la mayora de los bosques amaznicos est incrementando. Una hiptesis es que los bosques estn respondiendo a un disturbio humano intenso y ampliamente distribuido, anterior a la llegada de los conquistadores europeos (&gt 500 aos atrs). En este estudio se confronta esta hiptesis con los cambios en biomasa encontrados en 6.3 aos en una parcela de gran escala de la Amazonia occidental (&gt 150.000 arbustos y rboles con dimetro a la altura del pecho  10 mm y 1100 especies en 25 ha). Los resultados se examinan por categoras de dimetro y hbitat. En este perodo el bosque perdi tallos pequeos (4.6%), gan rboles grandes (2.6%) y gan biomasa (0.7%). La ganancia en biomasa fue debida enteramente al incremento de rboles de gran tamao que signific ms rboles de dosel y menos juveniles en apenas 6 aos. Entre los hbitats, el mayor incremento en biomasa se encontr en un parche de bosque secundario de colina (3.4%/ao), cuya edad es de 27 aos, mientras el bosque maduro de las colinas y los valles increment escasamente (0.10% y 0.09%/ao, respectivamente). Tanto al inicio como al final del estudio, el stock de biomasa fue &gt 50% ms grande en la colina que en el valle mientras que el crecimiento y la mortalidad relativa fueron mayores en el valle. La media de la gravedad especfica de la madera (GEM) fue menor a mayor clase diamtrica; en el bosque maduro, el cambio en la GEM fue insignificante y no contribuy al aumento en stocks de biomasa. El bosque increment la biomasa area pero mucho menos que el promedio reportado para otros bosques amaznicos (i.e. 0.30 vs. 0.98 Mg ha1/ao). No se encontr evidencia que apoye la nocin de que el bosque se est recuperando de un disturbio de gran escala ocurrido en el pasado. En su lugar, se cree que el bosque cambi en respuesta a fluctuaciones naturales del ambiente (e.g. cambios en precipitacin, mayor concentracin de CO2), vendavales u otro tipo de eventos ms recientes. La diferencia significativa en los stocks de biomasa encontrada entre el valle y la colina sugiere que la tierra firme es un mosaico de hbitats naturales y que este mosaico podra explicar en parte la variacin encontrada en los stocks de biomasa de bosques amaznicos de tierra firme.
3068658|Lianas are abundant in tropical forests around the world, yet little is known about their ecology. In this study we report the results of a survey of ten common liana species on 27 host tree species in Cooloola National Park, Queensland, Australia. We found significant associations between some liana and tree species. Our results indicate that host tree diameter was important in explaining liana presence or absence. Host tree fruit type was correlated with the presence or absence of different liana types. Tendrillar and root-climbing lianas tended to occur most often on mid-sized, fleshy-fruited trees, and on smaller, non-fleshy-fruited trees. The presence of stem twining lianas tended to decrease with increasing tree diameter for both fleshy- and non-fleshy-fruited trees, although this effect was more pronounced for fleshy-fruited trees. In general, lianas were most prevalent on trees possessing intermediate levels of bark roughness and flakiness. Although we established associative patterns between liana species and these host characteristics, the model suggested that other unidentified variables may also be important in determining presence or absence of liana species.
2559985|Six Vochysia species occurring in cerrado vegetation or gallery forest in central Brazil were studied for their pollination biology and breeding system. The species showed rather different flowering phenologies, but presented a relatively uniform floral morphology and attracted a mostly similar spectrum of visitors. Principal pollinators were large Anthophoridae bees, but three species were also visited by sphingid moths while hummingbirds were opportunistic visitors to all species. Some observations indicated that the slight differences in flower size or habitat between species may have influenced the relative importance of bees versus hummingbirds or sphingids as effective pollinators. All six species were found to be self-incompatible with self-pollen tube rejection, usually accompanied by callose deposition, occurring in the mid-style.
2560318|The wet evergreen forest of Nelliampathy in the Western Ghats of Kerala in India is a mixed forest with a high species diversity and basal cover. In this relatively undisturbed ecosystem, canopy gaps are largely formed through single tree fall, but gaps through branch fall, crown fall, standing dead trees or multiple tree fall also occur. Canopy gap formation is more (over 82% of the total gaps created) during the monsoon season. The mean number of gaps formed in this forest is 1.13 ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> and the turnover rate is 83 years. The majority of the gaps created (over 70%) are of smaller size ( 100 m<sup>2</sup>). In this forest, while some top canopy tree species (those capable of exceeding 25 m in height at maturity) such as Palaquium ellipticum and Mesua nagassarium are well represented in seedling, sapling and mature tree stages, others like Aglaia exstipulata and Mastixia arborea are observed only as saplings and/or mature trees with no seedling populations. The possible reasons for these two types of regeneration behaviour by top canopy tree species in the context of canopy gap size and seasonality in gap formation are discussed.
2559655|Fruit production, frugivore foraging activity and seed dispersal was studied at 10 Cymbopetalum baillonii (Annonaceae) trees during an entire fruiting season. Fruits dehisced during the first six months of the year offer to potential dispersal agents a package of 8-24 arillate seeds. Insects and fungi, however, killed up to 14% of the seeds potentially available for dispersal before fruit dehiscence. Visitation by 24 species of birds and one mammal to the trees closely followed the availability of arillate seeds. The foraging activity of Peromyscus and Heteromys rodents accounted for 80% mortality of the seeds deposited under the crown of the parent tree. Among those seedlings that became established under the crown mortality was 90% after 12 months. Seeds dispersed under conspecific fruiting trees experienced intense predation by vertebrates. Field experiments showed that seeds and seedlings planted 30 m away from adult trees survived significantly longer than those planted under the crown and at distances 30 m. An unequivocal advantage to dispersal away from the tree and under allospecific trees was evident from the data. A very narrow range of frugivores (N = 8 species) accounted for the quality component of dispersal services to the trees. The tree with the lowest animal visitation and fruit crop was the most efficient in the dispersal of its seeds.
2559310|Published work on the dynamics of forest tree recruitment, growth and mortality in natural tropical forest is reviewed. In most forests studied, annual mortality is between 1% and 2% and is independent of size class in trees  10 cm dbh; mortality is negatively correlated with growth rate and crown illumination; growth rate is highly variable between individual trees, but shows strong autocorrelation between successive measurements on the same tree. Differences in the rate of dynamic processes can be detected between some species at a site, but data are presently insufficient to determine whether these differences are preserved at other sites where the species occur. None of the studies discussed are of sufficient duration to permit us to draw any conclusions about the equilibrium or non-equilibrium of floristic composition.
4091866| This study provides a community-level analysis of how regeneration requirement and adult stature are related to tree allometry (diameter, height and crown size) throughout post-seedling ontogeny on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Comparing 65 species, gap species are taller, have higher diameter growth rates and occupy more low-canopy sites ( 10 m canopy height) than shade species at small diameters ( 10 cm dbh). For trees > 10 cm dbh, diameter-height relationships and growth rates no longer differ between gap and shade species, but shade species have larger, particularly deeper, crowns than gap species. Species with tall adult stature have more slender stems with larger crowns compared with treelet and mid-canopy species starting at 5 cm dbh. From 10 to 40 cm dbh, diameter growth rate is also significantly greater for tall species. The consistent allometric differences between functional groups on a community level will, in part, determine vertical and horizontal stand structure. 
3068756|Stream water chemistry responds substantially to watershed disturbances, but hurricane effects have not been extensively investigated in tropical regions. This study presents a long-term (2.5-11 y) weekly record of stream water chemistry on eight forested watersheds (catchment basins) in the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico. This includes a period before and at least 2 y after the disturbance caused by the 1989 Hurricane Hugo. Nitrate, potassium and ammonium concentrations increased after the hurricane and remained elevated for up to 2 y. Sulphate, chloride, sodium, magnesium and calcium showed smaller relative significant changes. Average stream water exports of potassium, nitrate and ammonium increased by 13.1, 3.6 and 0.54 kg ha
2560097|Effects of irradiance, root competition and water availability on germination and seedling establishment of Swietenia macrophylla King were investigated in tropical secondary dry forests in the Guanacaste Conservation Area, Costa Rica. The fate of seeds sown in the beginning and the middle of the rainy season was studied in abandoned pasture, and in deciduous and semi-evergreen secondary forest. In the pasture, experimental treatments were mown and unmown grass. In the forest sites, thinning to increase light and trenching to reduce root competition were combined in a factorial design. Effects of moisture availability on germination were tested by supplementing natural rainfall in the initial rainy month. Germination at the beginning of the rainy season was not influenced by the supplementary water and was higher in the semi-evergreen forest than in the deciduous forest and pasture In the forests, germination was little affected by irradiance or root competition More seeds germinated in unmown than in mown pasture during the initial rains, but were not influenced by mowing when sown in the peak of the rainy season. Seedling mortality was low (<10%) during the initial months, but increased greatly in the dry season Seedlings germinating early in the rainy season had a higher survival than those germinating later. The relatively slight effects of the different treatments and habitats on seedling establishment suggest that this species is rather insensitive to the large microsite variation in secondary vegetation.
23012395|Seed dispersal is a pivotal ecological process but remains poorly understood on Madagascar, where lemurs are key dispersers. The black-and-white ruffed lemur (Varecia variegata) possesses many behavioural and ecological attributes potentially conducive to effective seed dispersal, but no studies have investigated dispersal patterns in this species. This 3-mo study quantified aspects of the primary seed dispersal patterns generated by two Varecia variegata groups (7 individuals). Feeding and ranging behaviour was quantified using behavioural observation (345.6 h), dispersal quantity and seed identity was determined by faecal analysis, and 10-wk germination trials tested effects of gut passage on germination of four species. Individual lemurs dispersed an estimated 104 seeds d 1 , of 40 species. Most seeds were large (>10 mm); the largest was 42 mm long. Gut passage was rapid (mean 4.4 h) and generally increased germination speed and success. Mean and maximum inferred dispersal distances were 180 and 506 m respectively; low compared with many anthropoids, but possibly typical of lemurs. Though limited by a short study period, results suggest that the ruffed lemur is an effective disperser of seeds and possibly a critical disperser of large-seeded species which other frugivores cannot swallow. Loss of large-bodied seed dispersers such as Varecia variegata may have far-reaching ecological consequences including impacts on forest structure and dynamics.
2559232|Reproduction of the African murid genus Mastomys, multimammate rats, is scasonal, starting after the rains and extending well into the dry season. During a two-year study in Tanzania, we tested three hypotheses to investigate the proximal causes of this seasonality. Food availability was no limiting factor since food supply could not induce continuous breeding. Temperature was always high and thus not a restrictive climatic factor. Diet was probably always sufficiently varied and protein-rich to allow reproduction. This contradicts earlier hypotheses that consider Mastomys as an opportunistic breeder in which reproduction is seasonally limited by poor conditions; environmental predictors were believed not to be involved since the animals live in an unpredictably unstable environment. However, although the occurrence of rain may be unpredictable, it is highly predictable that heavy rainfall will be followed by good conditions. Laboratory experiments show that sprouting grass has a stimulatory effect on reproduction, suggesting that breeding is triggered by new vegetation.
2560221|We mapped the occurrence of canopy gaps periodically between 1978 and 1990 in a 1.5 ha study plot within a 70-year-old (in 1978) Neotropical forest on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Republic of Panama. The total area of the forest under canopy gaps in the plot averaged 4.3% (3.1% to 5.7%, 95% CI). There was high year-to-year variability in the rate of new gap formation. On the basis of repeated observations for four yearly intervals, the annual rate of new gap formation ranged from 0.45% y<sup>-1</sup> to 6.5% y<sup>-1</sup>. Most gaps were small. The mean size of individual gaps originally was 79 m<sup>2</sup> (range: 8-604 m<sup>2</sup>). However, large gaps (150 m<sup>2</sup>) occurred more frequently than expected for a secondary forest on BCI. Gaps closed rapidly the first year after formation but the rate of closure slowed thereafter. Despite the absence of any obvious environmental gradients, gaps were spatially clustered. Even in this relatively small plot, there seemed to be distinct gap-prone and gap-free areas.
25790825|We examined the consequences of habitat fragmentation on the assemblage of floral visitors and pollinators to male- and female-phase inflorescences of the understorey dominant palm Astrocaryum mexicanum at the Los Tuxtlas tropical rain forest. In six forest fragments ranging from 2 to 700 ha, we collected all floral visitors, pollinators and non-pollinators, to male- and female-phase inflorescences at the time of their greatest activity. We used multivariate and mixed-effects models to explore differences in guild composition between sexual phases of inflorescences and the effects of forest fragment size on several metrics of the assemblages of floral visitors. We detected 228 786 floral visitors, grouped into 57 species, across the six forest fragments. On average, abundance and species richness of floral visitors to female-phase inflorescences were higher than to male-phase ones. Forest fragmentation had no effect on species richness but negatively affected Shannon's diversity index. Overall, the most abundant species of floral visitors were predominantly found in inflorescences of plants from the large fragments. In contrast, most of the less common species were more abundant in the smallest fragments. The abundance of pollinators (those found on inflorescences of both phases and dusted with pollen that was carried to flower stigmas), and the ratio of pollinators to other floral visitors, increased with fragment size in both sexual phases of the inflorescences but these effects were significantly stronger on male-phase inflorescences than on female-phase inflorescences. These results show that tropical forest fragmentation correlates with changes in the composition of flower visitors to a dominant palm, with a reduction in the abundance of pollinators, but that such changes co-vary with the sexual phase of the plants.
2559409|Sixty bird species ate the figs of 29 Ficus taxa at a lowland forest site in Peninsular Malaysia. Although most bird-eaten figs were brightly coloured, four Ficus species produced dull-coloured ripe fruits. Whilst there was tremendous overlap in the sizes of figs eaten by different bird species, data presented show that the fig resource was partitioned by birds. Large birds were commoner visitors to large-fruited Ficus, but small birds tended to eat small figs. Within two avian genera, the Treron pigeons and Megalaima barbets, there was distinct partitioning of figs consumed according to fig size.
23012393|The tropical montane conifer tree Widdringtonia whytei is found in small fragments on Mulanje Mountain in Malawi. A study was conducted with the objectives of determining the effect of population size, tree stem diameter and crown position on the proportion of viable seeds per cone produced by W. whytei at three sites (Sombani, Chambe and Lichenya) on Mulanje Mountain. Three population sizes, namely small (fragments with 10 cone-bearing trees), medium (fragments with 1120 cone-bearing trees) and large (fragments with >20 cone-bearing trees) and isolated trees were sampled at each study site. In each fragment, four cone-bearing trees were randomly located, 20 mature cones were collected from each tree and the viability of seeds was tested. Only 23% of the seeds per cone were viable but seed viability per cone was highly variable among fragments. Large fragment populations produced the highest proportion of viable seeds per cone (30%), followed by similar proportions in small fragments (28.3%) and isolated trees (26.1%), with the lowest proportions in medium-sized fragments (18.7%), indicating a non-linear relationship between viable seed output per cone and population size. Tree stem diameter and crown position had no effect on the proportion of viable seeds per cone. Further studies are needed to identify the factors that lead to the low viable seed output per cone, and how this influences whole-tree seed production in W. whytei.
4499150|Differentiation of limiting nutrients within small spatial scales has been observed in coastal mangrove forests, but research on other tropical peatlands suggests it is a more widespread phenomenon. In the Changuinola mire of coastal Panama, oligotrophy was hypothesized to increase along a gradient of peat development (peat doming). Nutrient and carbon concentration of leaf tissue, soil, and soil porewater were characterised over a successive sequence of plant communities along the gradient. Soil phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N) concentrations decreased from
4499151|Precipitation and temperature are known to have important effects on forest productivity, but these effects may be strongly mediated through their influence on soil and leaf nutrients. We measured indicators of forest productivity and soil and leaf nutrients across independent gradients of precipitation and elevation/temperature in lower montane Hawaiian forests dominated by a single overstorey species, Acacia koa, situated on 1500-3000-y-old soils that were mixtures of volcanic ash and basalt. Stand basal area was highest at the wettest site, 2000 mm mean annual precipitation (MAP), and leaf N and P were lowest at the driest site, 1000 mm MAP. Soil N availability and leaf N concentration declined across an 850-m elevation gradient, but this was not correlated with stand basal area or soil organic matter content. Across all stands, basal area was negatively correlated with the exchangeable soil P fraction. As well, the soil C:N ratio was negatively correlated with both soil P availability and the size of the primary mineral P fraction. Soil P availability and weathering appear to be important determinants of soil organic matter quantity and quality. Overall, precipitation is the major driving force for forest productivity, but P weathering and availability play important roles in limiting productivity in wetter sites and in controlling soil organic matter dynamics in these N-fixing forests.
4092092|For many tropical forests a tendency for fruit production to fluctuate seasonally has been established, with pronounced peaks of abundance and periods of fruit scarcity during which a few important resources maintain frugivore communities. However, there is a lack of studies in subtropical forests on community phenology and on the identification of important resources. In this study, community-wide fruit availability and its use by the local frugivore community was investigated in the subtropical coastal dry forest of Oribi Gorge Nature Reserve, South Africa over 13 mo from July 1997 to July 1998. Along 19.5 km of phenology trails, 940 individuals of 96 plant species bearing fleshy fruits were monitored twice per month and fruit-eating animals observed. Although some fruit was available all year round richness of both fruiting species and fruit abundance showed a seasonal pattern with peaks at the end of August to beginning of October (i.e. before the rainy season) and March to May (i.e. after the rainy season). Periods of fruit scarcity were found in July and August (i.e. during the long dry season) and in November and December (i.e. during the rainy season). Fruits of 23 plant species were observed being eaten by 18 species of bird and two of monkey. Highest animal numbers were attracted by Ficus thonningii, a species that fruited asynchronously during most of the year and during periods of fruit scarcity, and provided high overall fruit biomass. The importance of this species as a potential keystone resource for the frugivore community is discussed.
2560030|Frugivorous birds play an important role in parasitic mistletoe transmission among host species. The foraging behaviour and host selection of Psittacanthus schiedeanus mistletoe fruit-eating birds was studied in cloud forest remnants in Central Veracruz, Mexico. Cedar waxwings, Bombycilla cedrorum, gray silky flycatchers, Ptilogonys cinereus, and social flycatchers, Myiozetetes similis, eating ripe whole mistletoe fruits and defecating or regurgitating the seeds were observed. That variation in host species selection by frugivorous birds had a direct effect on mistletoe dispersion was hypothesized. To test whether mistletoe host species are visited in proportion to their abundance (total number of trees), or infested-tree abundance (total number of infested trees), or abundance of mistletoes (total number of individual mistletoe plants in each host species), the number of trees, infested trees and individual mistletoe plants were recorded. Tree abundance, infested-tree abundance and mistletoe abundance were different among host species. Frequency of birds' visits to host species varied depending on the tree, infested-tree, or mistletoe abundance. Liquidambar styraciflua was the most abundant host species with the highest number of infested trees and individual mistletoe plants, but Persea americana and Crataegus mexicana host species had the highest number of individual mistletoe plants in each tree. Our data suggest that L. styraciflua was the most selected host species by the three frugivorous birds. Host selection by birds is one behavioural factor in explaining differences in prevalence among host species, and variation in infection levels among individuals of one host species.
25172955|Two rattans species were studied in Cte d'Ivoire using a stage-classified matrix model to compare their demography and life histories. Respectively 854 and 1009 genets of Eremospatha macrocarpa (pleonanthic) and Laccosperma secundiflorum (hapaxanthic) were censused every 6 mo over 18 mo. The population growth rates of E. macrocarpa ( = 0.979) and L. secundiflorum ( = 0.959) were not significantly different from 1. This indicates that the populations were close to equilibrium. However, the difference between the stable stage distributions and the observed distributions indicated temporal variation in vital rates. Elasticity analysis showed that growth and fecundity had lower contributions to  than the survival rates for the two species. A Life Table Response Experiment revealed that the survival of the first juvenile stage (all stems &lt; 6 m in length), fecundity, growth of the second juvenile stage (at least one stem &gt; 6 m in length) and adult (reproductive) survival highly contribute to the differences between the demography of the two species. Reproduction is postponed longer for L. secundiflorum than for E. macrocarpa and the mean remaining life span for adult genets is shorter for L. secundiflorum than for E. macrocarpa. Finally, our results suggest the existence of two trade-offs within reproduction which suggest that, although the two species have different demographic features, the  of their populations are not significantly different from 1.
4091836|Tropical forests around the world contain animals that scatter-hoard fruits and seeds but few are known in Australian tropical forests. This study used both direct observation and spool-and-line tracking of simulated fruits to demonstrate that Australia's smallest kangaroos disperse large numbers of rain-forest fruits and seeds. They did so in two ways, either by scatter-hoarding or by carrying them away from the source to devour the flesh before dropping the seed on to the litter surface. The fruits used included a range of fruit types but particularly species with large fleshy fruit. Caches occurred as a single fruit pressed into the soil and covered with litter a mean distance of 17 m
25172938|This study investigates the movements and home range of the agouti (Dasyprocta punctata) on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. We captured and tracked 12 agoutis from January to December 2003. Home-range size (95% kernel) ranged from 1.56-2.45 ha (n = 6) for males and 1.34-1.97 ha (n = 5) for females. Agouti ranges overlapped and we estimated a density of approximately 100 agoutis km. We compared agouti movement with the locations of refuges and food trees, and the results suggest that the agoutis are central-place foragers. Agoutis moved an average of 850 m d covering approximately 35% of their range daily. These movement data help us understand the potential impacts of agoutis as seed dispersers, predicting that D. punctata will encounter and hoard fallen fruit within 10-200 m (i.e. radius of home range) of its source, and move seeds towards refuges such as ground holes and dense vegetation around recent tree falls.
2560103|An index of canopy closure was used to estimate closure above the crowns of all trees  10 cm dbh in 11.11 ha of undisturbed lowland tropical forest at La Selva, Costa Rica. To correct for the effects of tree size on canopy closure, we used the residual of the regression of the canopy closure index on tree size. Analyses were carried out for the 104 species which had 6 individuals; a total of 3224 trees were included. Nine species were found to have their crowns in significantly more open conditions than expected by chance and five species were found to have their crowns in significantly more closed conditions than expected by chance (P < 0.05). The remaining 90 species (86.5% of the assemblage) were distributed at random with respect to canopy closure, occupying the available light conditions indiscriminately. Species occurring under higher light levels did not show a narrower range of tolerance than did other species. Most species were found to occur over a substantial proportion of the canopy closure continuum present in the stand; overlap among the great majority of species in the assemblage is extensive. The results support the view that tropical forests comprise assemblages of generalist tree species, and raise questions about the classic notions of gap-phase dynamics.
25172976|High-nutrient patches are important for regulating the structure and physiognomy of dystrophic habitats. Leaf-cutting ants create these rich patches in many neotropical habitats. Burning, however, could diminish or even annual the effects of ant nests on soil properties. To test this hypothesis, we compared the nutrient concentrations at various depths in soil samples near three nests of the leaf-cutting ant Atta laevigata and three non-nest soils, located in 10-ha plots subjected to burning or with fire-protection within a Brazilian cerrado. Root density in ant-nest soil was greater than in non-nest soil in both unburned and burned plots. Besides, the concentration of Ca, Mg, K and P increased 2-50-fold in ant nests from the unburned area compared to non-nest soils. In contrast, nutrient concentrations and pH in burned ant nests were similar to or lower than non-nest soils, but the nests maintained higher values of organic matter and cation exchange capacity. The positive effect of leaf-cutting ant nests as high-nutrient patches may be strongly reduced in habitats with frequent burning. In this case, the negative effects of leaf-cutter herbivory on a plant community could surpass the benefits of local nutrient enrichment by their nests. /// Sauveiros modificam as propriedades fsicas e qumicas do solo, alterando a estrutura e fisionomia local. Entretanto, queimadas podem reduzir os efeitos dos formigueiros nesses ambientes como, por exemplo, pela diminuio do forrageamento das formigas e ,conseqentemente, pela baixa incorporao de material orgnico ao solo. Este estudo testou o efeito do fogo sobre a concentrao de nutrientes no solo de colnias de Atta laevigata em rea de cerrado. A densidade de razes foi maior nas colnias do que reas controle, independentemente da presena do fogo. Na ausncia de queimadas, as concentraes de nutrientes foram at 50 vezes superiores nos sauveiros. Contudo, queimadas reduzem a concentrao de nutrientes e pH nas colnias. Possivelmente, essa baixa concentrao seja atribuda  maior demanda pela vegetao remanescente, em resposta  perturbao provocada pelo fogo. Nesse caso, os efeitos negativos da herbivoria podem superar os beneficios causados por meio da disponibilizao de nutrientes pelos sauveiros.
3068677|Borassus aethiopum is a dioecious palm tree of African savannas. A stage-classified matrix population model has been parametrized with field data (Lamto reserve, Ivory Coast). It enabled the study of the persistence of the population, and analysis of its sensitivity to different vital rates. Age of palms in each stage were estimated to complete the description of the palm life-history. The main results are: (1) The studied populations are very close to the equilibrium but the stable stage distribution (predicted by the model) and the observed distribution are significantly different indicating a former change in the vital rates. (2) Reproduction seems to be highly delayed (first reproduction on average at 114 y), while the estimated duration of the reproductive part of the life-cycle is relatively short (22 y).
3068831| Multi-species bird flocks in tropical forests are maintained throughout the annual cycle despite seasonal differences in resource availability, and the reproductive schedules and ecological requirements of individual species. This study examines the relationship between seasonal variation in flock structure and the availability of fruits and arthropods over a 12-mo period at a coastal Atlantic forest within the Juria-Itatins Ecological Station, So Paulo, Brazil. Fruit abundance was estimated by a phenological survey of both canopy and understorey trees, whereas arthropod abundance was quantified monthly on the basis of a nocturnal visual census technique. The seasonal variation in flock structure and composition was affected by both the breeding seasons of different core and attendant species, and the availability of food resources. The number of bird species attending flocks was greater during the dry season, declining thereafter during the breeding season. Understorey fruit availability exhibited a marked seasonal fluctuation with the lowest levels between the late dry and early wet season. Seasonal variation in canopy fruit availability, on the other hand, was far less demarcated than that of understorey plants. Arthropod abundance was greatest during the wettest months of the year, which apparently determined the timing of the main breeding season. Bird species richness attending flocks was, therefore, significantly correlated with the availability of understorey arthropods, but not with that of either understorey and canopy fruits. Arthropod abundance thus appears to affect profoundly the reproductive schedules of the understorey avifauna, which in turn influences the seasonal variation of flock size and composition. 
4499117|The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of tree cover and season on soil N dynamics and microbial biomass in a semi-arid southern African savanna in Zimbabwe. We used a randomized complete block design with five blocks of 100 x 100 m, demarcated in a 10-ha pocket of Colophospermum mopane-dominated woodland protected from grazing and fire. In each block, we randomly selected three mopane trees with large canopies (8.3 m crown diameter) and another three with small canopies (2.7 m crown diameter). We determined soil organic carbon and nutrient concentrations, litterfall N and C inputs, microbial biomass and N transformations beneath large and small mopane trees as well as in the intercanopy areas. Soil organic carbon, microbial biomass, N, P and K were more than twice those beneath large trees than in the intercanopy areas. Rainy-season net mineral N accumulation rate in the surface soil (0-10 cm) ranged from
2560273|Information is presented on the phenology, herbivory, phytochemistry and production of the tree species Polylepis quadrijuga. Leaf production was lower during the dry season than during the wet season, when minimum temperatures also occurred. Flower and fruit phenology were also seasonal. Herbivory was significantly higher for leaves expanded during the wet season (20%) than during the dry season (1%), and was also higher for younger leaves. Flavonoids, compounds known as UV-B protectors, were found in high concentration in leaves of P. quadrijuga. There was a significant positive relationship between monthly rainfall, monthly minimum temperatures and flavonoid concentration, but no relationship was found with leaf age. The annual fine litterfall for the Polylepis forest was estimated to be 3.9 t ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>, a high value when compared to other paramo and upper montane rain forests in tropical mountains. High production was associated with high leaf nitrogen concentration (3.0-3.5%), high rates of nitrogen retranslocation (80% dry weight), and relatively low leaf longevity (8.4 mo). High production in P. quadrijuga is probably a key factor in explaining the existence of this large woody species in a paramo environment otherwise dominated by bunch grasses, cushion plants and giant rosettes of the genus Espeletia.
2559254|Phenological patterns of flowering and fruit-set were studied in cocoa trees (Theobroma cacao) (Sterculiaceae) at monthly intervals in two contrasting habitats in Costa Rica for a one-year period. One of these habitats, a well-maintained plantation, had irregular and broken shade cover (Erythrina trees in particular) while in the other habitat, `cocoa forest', cocoa trees were heavily shaded by Huara crepitans (Euphorbiaceae). `Matina' variety cocoa trees of about the same age (50-60 years) were censused in both habitats. Cocoa-pollinating midge (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae and Cecidomyiidae) availability was estimated by sampling immature stages in experimentally-distributed ground-cover breeding substrates, comparing overall abundances and species numbers between the two habitats over three census dates (dry, mid-rainy, and late-rainy seasons), along with examination of fungal-rotted (diseased) cocoa pods both on trees and the ground. Although total flower production was much greater in the plantation habitat, total production of new pods was similar between habitats. Flowering followed a cyclic temporal pattern in the forest but not in the plantation. Sudden leaf drop of forest shade trees in the dry season probably triggered a cyclic response in which flowering peaked in the first half of the rainy season. There was an inverse relation for frequencies of mature cocoa pods killed by squirrels and pathogenic fungi (Monilia roreri and Phytophthora) between the two habitats: squirrel-killed pods were far more abundant in the plantation than in the forest, and the opposite for fungus-killed pods. Fungus-killed but otherwise intact pods, and not squirrel-killed pods rotting on trees, were a major breeding site for midges, particularly during the late rainy season. Ceratopogonidae were most abundant in the dry season and frequently encountered in cocoa pod husks and banana tree trunk sections in both habitats, and much more so in the forest habitat. The abandoned cocoa plantation (cocoa forest) supported a more diverse assemblage of pollinating midges than the plantation. In the plantation but not in the forest, a negative correlation was discovered between distance from shade trees and the numbers of pods on trees, suggesting greater pollinating activity by midges in cocoa trees beneath shade trees than away from them. The uniform dense shade cover in the adjacent forest probably obliterated such a pattern.
2559804|`Campos de murundus' are a typical landscape of Central Brazil characterized by countless rounded earthmounds (the `murundus'), which are covered by woody `cerrado' (savanna) vegetation and are found scattered over a grass-covered surface (the `campo'). A detailed study was carried out in the region of Cuiaba, state of Mato Grosso on a particular campo de murundus (area of 5.065 ha) lying in a sedimentary depression where the earthmounds are true islands during the annual floods, allowing the colonization both by cerrado plants and by termites. The mounds were mapped and measured for their size and shape. Mounds' diameters ranged from 0.2 to 22.0 m and heights ranged from 0.1 to 1.1 m. The 445 smaller mounds (< 0.8 m diameter) were found to have a clumped distribution, occupying 0.1% of the area. They are actually small termite nests built by Armitermes euamignathus. The 80 larger mounds (> 0.8 m diameter) were uniformly distributed, occupying 6.3% of the area. These mounds are colonized by Cornitermes snyderi and Cornitermes bequaerti which build big termite nests on the summit of the mounds. Soil analyses indicated a close similarity between the campo and the surrounding cerrado whose soils had coarser texture and were poor in nutrients. Soils of the earthmounds and termite nests showed finer texture, lower pH and higher amounts of mineral nutrients. It is suggested here that this particular type of campo de murundus is formed mainly from the localized activity of nest-building by termites, followed by nest degradation, during many generations of termite colonies.
40925451|The potential effect of forest type on the structuring of animal communities in western Amazonia remains poorly understood. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that amphibian species richness, composition and abundance differ across forest types in the lowland rain forest of south-eastern Peru. By using 320 individual transects, we compared the amphibian assemblages across four major forest types (floodplain, terra firme, bamboo and palm swamp) at each of four sites separated by 3.5-105 km. We identified 1967 individuals of 65 species in 11 families and found that a large proportion of the amphibian diversity in this region is attributed to habitat-related beta diversity. Overall, we found that forest type is more important than site in predicting both species composition and abundance. We also found that, when analyses are conducted separately for each forest type and include species abundance data, similarity between assemblages decreases with increasing geographic distance. In contrast to studies that considered species presence/absence but ignored species abundances, our results highlight the importance of including abundance data in the assessment of animal diversity patterns in western Amazonia. We conclude that evaluating community structure across forest types can improve our understanding of diversity patterns in this region.
23012372|Climate is one of the most important factors determining variation in forest structure, but whether soils have independent effects is less clear. We evaluate how climate and soil independently affect forest structure, using 89 200 stems  10 cm dbh from 220 1-ha permanent plots distributed along environmental gradients in lowland Bolivia. Fifteen forest structural variables, related to vertical structure (forest height and layering), horizontal structure (basal area, median and the 99th percentile of the stem diameter and size-class distribution) and density of life forms (tree, palm and liana), were evaluated. Environmental variables were summarized in four multivariate axes, related to rainfall, temperature, soil fertility and soil texture. Multiple regression indicates that all structural variables were affected by one or more of the environmental axes, but the explained variation was generally low (median R 2 = 0.15). Rainfall and soil texture affected most forest structural variables (respectively 87% and 80%) and had qualitatively similar effects. This suggests that plant water availability, as determined by rainfall and soil water retention capacity, is the strongest driver of forest structure, whereas soil fertility was a weaker driver of forest structure, affecting 53% of the variables. Maximum forest height, palm density, total basal area and liana infestation showed the strongest responses to environmental variation (with R 2 ranging from 0.310.82). Forest height, palm density and total basal area increased with plant water availability, while liana infestation decreased with plant water availability. Therefore, multiple rather than single environmental factors must be used to explain the structure of tropical forests.
3068809|With the aim of characterizing tree growth patterns, this paper reexamines the growth data of 100 selected trees belonging to 24 species that were recorded monthly in a 0.2-ha plot of a wet evergreen forest in the Western Ghats of India during the period 1980-82 using dendrometer bands. The mean growth profile, combining all of the selected trees, showed: (a) a significantly lower annual growth rate during the second year of survey which seemed to be negatively related to monsoon precipitation; (b) significant intra-annual growth variation clearly related to the regular alternation between a period of heavy rain and a quite long dry season of the monsoon climatic regime. Analysis of the variability of the individual smoothed growth profiles representing the 2-y trend of the growth data showed that: (a) the mean growth rate depended on a combination of an intrinsic endogenous variable (the structural class grouping species according to their maximum size), a tree size variable (tree diameter at breast height, dbh) and a neighbourhood variable (the number of taller neighbours in a 10-m radius); (b) the sudden change in growth rate from one year to the other was not predictable using these variables. The amplitude of the seasonal variations, investigated from the detrended growth profiles, appeared to be dependent on a combination of tree dbh and the number of taller neighbours in a 10-m radius. A co-inertia analysis of the smoothed and the detrended growth profiles indicated that the trees with fast growth also exhibited high seasonal variation. It is suggested that fast growing trees are those with favourable crown positions, which are consequently subject to high transpiration rates due to radiation and wind exposure.
2560061|Amorphophallus johnsonii (N E. Brown) flowers during April in the main rainy season in Ghana. Anthesis starts at dusk with fluid oozing from the upper spadix accompanied by a strong aminoid odour. Just after dark large numbers of carrion beetles (Phaeochrous amplus) and occasional dung fly species (Hemigymnochaeta unicolor and Paryphodes tigrinus) visit the inflorescences The beetles become trapped in the lower spathe overnight and remain in the spadix until the following evening Between 1630 and 1645 h the following day, the anthers produce long threads of sticky pollen The trapped beetles escape just after dark by crawling up the spadix; past the dehisced anthers and fly away from the spadix tip. Marked beetles were seen to transfer pollen from male phase to female phase inflorescences. Successful fertilisation was only effected if pollen was transferred on the same night from a male inflorescence 30 m or less away Pollen is psilate and typical of beetle pollinated Araceae. Berries ripen approximately 70 d after fertilization and ripen basisetally in the infructescence.
25172943|The land crab Cardisoma guanhumi populations have been on the decline in Puerto Rico for the last three decades. While some studies suggest overexploitation and pesticides as causing the observed population declines, the effect of land-use/land-cover (LULC) changes have not been investigated. In this study we compared the abundance and size of Cardisoma guanhumi in five different LULC types (mangroves, grasslands, forest, urban and industrial), and investigated the relationship between differences in physical microhabitat conditions among the LULC types with crab abundance and size. Although no significant differences in size were found among the different LULC types, crabs were significantly less abundant in grassland sites. Surface soil temperature, depth to groundwater and air temperature were found to vary significantly among the LULC types. Of these, only surface soil temperatures had a significant negative relationship with crab abundance. It appears that high variation in soil temperature and a high groundwater table observed in the grasslands is most detrimental to crabs. Interestingly, during the time when land crab populations declined there was corresponding change of LULC from agriculture to grasslands. Cardisoma guanhumi is resilient to changes in LULC, however, changes that alter their access to groundwater and escape from high soil temperature reduce their habitat.
3068837|Elephant populations have declined greatly in the rain forests of Upper Guinea (Africa, west of the Dahomey Gap). Elephants have a number of well-known influences on vegetation, both detrimental and beneficial to trees. They are dispersers of a large number of woody forest species, giving rise to concerns that without elephants the plant diversity of Upper Guinean forest plant communities will not be maintained. This prospect was examined with respect to four sources of inventory and research data from Ghana, covering nearly all (more than 2000) species of forest plant. Evidence supporting the hypothesis that plant populations are collapsing without elephants is conspicuously absent in these datasets, although Balanites wilsoniana is likely to suffer dramatically on a centennial scale in the absence of forest elephants. A few other species are likely to decline, although at an even slower rate. In the context of other processes current in these forests, loss of elephants is an insignificant concern for plant biodiversity. Elephant damage of forests can be very significant in Africa, but loss of this influence is more than compensated for by human disturbance. Elephants have played a significant part in the shaping of West African rain forest vegetation. However, it is the conservation of elephants that should be of primary concern. Tree populations should be managed to promote them, rather than vice versa.
4091965|One hundred and nine soil samples were collected in 69 different localities along two transects, one North-South, about 900 km in length, and the other East-West (750 km in length), across Senegal and Gambia. The first transect followed a rainfall gradient and the second a human density gradient. The relationship between carbon content, C/N ratio and soil type on the abundance and species distribution of the nematodes along the transects was studied. Results showed that short-term fallows did not influence the specific structure of the communities, when compared with the nematode communities of fields located in the immediate vicinity, where Scutellonema cavenessi and Tylenchorhynchus gladiolatus were the dominant species. The expected negative influence of human disturbance on nematode occurrence seemed to be compensated by greater crop diversity, mainly near the towns. Less-disturbed areas also maintained a high diversity, but were characterized by the presence of particular species such as Xiphinema spp. Soil type was the most important factor affecting the species composition of the nematode community. As a result, nematode communities followed a distribution in areas, corresponding to the successive soil types, but did not change in relation to the human or climatic gradients. At a large scale, the study of plant-parasitic nematodes can give both different and complementary information on the ecological trends of an area to that of free-living nematodes.
2560303|The relationship between seedling recruitment (under and away from parent trees) and the behaviour of seed dispersers and predators, was explored in a three-year study in Kibale National Park, Uganda. On the basis of 1261 hours of observation, the foraging activity of the diurnal frugivores which fed on fruit from six tree species was quantified The fate of dispersed and non-dispersed seeds and seedlings was examined experimentally. The findings suggest that a trade-off exists between factors that promote seedling growth in areas with high seedling density and factors that promote dispersal by frugivores For example, dispersal of Mimusops bagshawei increases both seed and seedling survival; seeds placed away from adult conspecifics had a 8% lower probability of disappearing than seeds placed under adults and seedlings away from adults had a 30% greater probability of surviving than seedlings grown under adults. In contrast, for Uvariopsis congensis, dispersed seeds had a 56% greater probability of disappearing than seeds directly under a parent tree, while the survival of dispersed and non-dispersed seedlings was similar Non-dispersed seed and seedling disappearance were correlated with the percentage of the fruit crop removed from focal trees, suggesting that the ability to survive under an adult maybe related to other aspects of the tree's life history.
2559366|The literature on tropical secondary forests, defined as those resulting from human disturbance (e.g. logged forests and forest fallows), is reviewed to address questions related to their extent, rates of formation, ecological characteristics, values and uses to humans, and potential for management. Secondary forests are extensive in the tropics, accounting for about 40% of the total forest area and their rates of formation are about 9 million ha yr<sup>-1</sup>. Geographical differences in the extent, rates of formation and types of forest being converted exist. Secondary forests appear to accumulate woody plant species at a relatively rapid rate but the mechanisms involved are complex and no clear pattern emerged. Compared to mature forests, the structure of secondary forest vegetation is simple, although age, climate and soil type are modifying factors. Biomass accumulates rapidly in secondary forests, up to 100 t ha<sup>-1</sup> during the first 15 yr or so, but history of disturbance may modify this trend. Like biomass, high rates of litter production are established relatively quickly, up to 12-13 t ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> by age 12-15 yr. And, in younger secondary forests (<20 yr), litter production is a higher fraction of the net primary productivity than stemwood biomass production. More organic matter is produced and transferred to the soil in younger secondary forests than is stored in above-ground vegetation. The impact of this on soil organic matter is significant and explains why the recovery of organic matter in the soil under secondary forests is relatively fast (50 yr or so). Nutrients are accumulated rapidly in secondary vegetation, and are returned quickly by litterfall and decomposition for uptake by roots. We propose a model of the gains and losses, yields and costs, and benefits and tradeoffs to people from the current land-use changes occurring in the tropics. When the conversion of forest lands to secondary forests and agriculture is too fast or land-use stages are skipped, society loses goods and services. To avoid such a loss, we advocate management of tropical forest lands within a landscape perspective, a possibility in the tropics because land tenures and development projects are often large.
2559509|Abundance and density data for terrestrial arthropods from the forest floor, trunk and canopy of primary and secondary dryland forests near Manaus, Brazil are given.
4499144|Many areas of rain forest now exist as habitat fragments, and understanding the impacts of fragmentation is important for determining the viability of populations within forest remnants. We investigated impacts of forest fragmentation on genetic diversity in the butterfly Mycalesis orseis (Satyrinae) in Sabah (Malaysian Borneo). We investigated mtDNA diversity in 90 individuals from ten forest sites typical of the sizes of forest remnants that currently exist in the region. Nucleotide diversity declined with increasing isolation of remnants, but there was no effect of remnant size or population size, and haplotype diversity was similar among sites. Thus, approximately 50 y after forest fragmentation, few changes in genetic diversity were apparent and remnants apparently supported genetically viable populations of this butterfly. Many studies have shown that responses of species to habitat fragmentation usually follow a time delay, and so we developed a Monte Carlo simulation model to investigate changes in genetic diversity over time in small remnants. Model output indicated a substantial time delay (> 100 y) between fragmentation and genetic erosion, suggesting that, in the smallest study remnants, an increased risk of extinction from reduced genetic diversity is likely in the longer term.
25790830|Nitrogen (N) availability is a major control on fine-root growth and distribution with depth in forest soils. We investigated fine-root dynamics in response to N addition in a montane rain forest with N-limited above-ground production. Control and N-fertilized (125 kg urea-N ha y) treatments were laid out in a paired-plot design with four replicates (each 40  40 m). During 1.5 y of treatment, fine root-biomass, necromass and production were assessed by sequential coring at three soil depths (organic layer, 010 cm and 1020 cm mineral soil), whereas fine-root redistribution with depth was assessed by ingrowth cores. Total fine-root biomass, necromass and production in the controls were 458  21 g m, 101  9 g m and 324  33 g m y, respectively. No significant difference at any depth was detected under N fertilization. Fine-root biomass in the organic layer decreased over time under N addition. At 1020 cm in the mineral soil, fine-root biomass in ingrowth cores increased significantly after 1.5 y of N fertilization compared with the control. The increased available N may have induced the change in fine-root distribution to explore the deeper mineral soil for other nutrients which may cause additional limitation to above-ground production once N limitation is alleviated.
4092170|Photosynthesis was limited by low-intensity photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) and leaf wetness in a lower montane cloud forest (LMCF) of Cauca, Colombia. Mean PAR intensity remained below the saturation level for leaf-scale net photosynthesis (P
3068720|Pollinator visitation to, and the reproductive success of, Sonneratia caseolaris (Sonneratiaceae) and Aegiceras corniculatum (Myrsinaceae) was investigated in a mangrove forest in India. S. caseolaris was shown to be primarily outcrossed and A. corniculatum was shown to be a selfing species. The flowers of both plant species attracted several diurnal and nocturnal visitors. Earlier reports had indicated that S. caseolaris flowered for one night and was exclusively night-pollinated. But flowers of this species were found to be in bloom both at night and during the day, and diurnal visitors to the flowers were more diverse and frequent than nocturnal ones. This was related to the higher volume and energy value of nectar in the morning. The effects of time of day and temperature on visitation rates were quantified. The importance of visitors to plant reproductive success was investigated via controlled visitor-exclusion experiments. Pollinators were expected to be more important for the outcrossing species than for the selfing species, and this was confirmed by the results of the exclusion experiments. In S. caseolaris reproductive success was determined both by pollinator availability and the intensity of flower and fruit predation, while in A. corniculatum it is likely to be resource limited.
25562629|Tropical tree wood density is often related to other species-specific functional traits, e.g. size, growth rate and mortality. We would therefore expect significant associations within tropical forests between the spatial distributions of stand-level wood density and micro-environments when interspecific variation in wood density is larger than intraspecific variation and when habitat-based species assembly is important in the forest. In this study, we used wood cores collected from 515 trees of 72 species in a 15-ha plot in northern Thailand to analyse intra- and interspecific variation in wood density and the spatial association of stand-level wood density. Intraspecific variation was lower than interspecific variation (20% vs. 80% of the total variation), indicating that species-specific differences in wood density, rather than phenotypic plasticity, are the major source of variation in wood density at the study site. Wood density of individual species was significantly negatively related to maximum diameter, growth rate of sapling diameter and mortality of saplings. Stand-level mean wood density was significantly negatively related to elevation, slope convexity, sapling growth rate and sapling mortality, and positively related to slope inclination. East-facing slopes had significantly lower stand-level mean wood densities than west-facing slopes. We hypothesized that ridges and east-facing slopes in the study forest experience strong and frequent wind disturbance, and that this severe impact may lead to faster stand turnover, creating conditions that favour fast-growing species with low wood density.
4092147|We studied the spatial and temporal habitat use of impala in Botswana's Okavango Delta at landscape level with the aid of satellite imagery, with minimal fieldwork. We related remotely sensed vegetation to impala habitat preferences, by first distinguishing three vegetation types through a multi-temporal classification, and dividing these into subclasses on the basis of their Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI). This indicator for abundance and greenness of biomass was assessed for wet and dry season separately. Similarly, habitat use was assessed for both seasons by allocating vegetation classes to bimonthly impala observations. Impala distribution patterns coincided with NDVI-based subclasses of the landscape, nested within broad vegetation types, to which impala did not show a marked seasonal response. We suggest that this methodology, using limited field data, offers a functional habitat classification for sedentary herbivores, which appears particularly valuable for application in extensive areas with high spatial variability, but with restricted access.
3068672|Tropical Cyclone 'Rona' crossed the coast of the Daintree lowlands of northeastern Australia in 1999. This study reports on its impact on forest canopy openness at six lowland rain forest sites with contrasting management histories (old-growth, selectively logged and regrowth). Percentage canopy openness was calculated from individual hemispherical photographs taken from marked points below the forest canopy at nine plots per site 3-4 mo before the cyclone, and at the same points a month afterwards. Before the cyclone, when nine sites were visited, canopy openness in old-growth and logged sites was similar, but significantly higher in regrowth forest. After the cyclone, all six revisited sites showed an increase in canopy openness, but the increase was very patchy amongst plots and sites and varied from insignificant to severe. The most severely impacted site was an old-growth one, the least impacted a logged one. Although proneness to impact was apparently related to forest management history (old-growth being the most impacted), underlying local topography may have had an equally strong influence in this case. It was concluded that the likelihood of severe impact may be determined at the landscape-scale by the interaction of anthropogenic with meteorological, physiographic and biotic factors. In the long term, such interactions may caution against pursuing forest management in cyclone-prone areas.
4092013|Fruit traits that selectively deter vertebrate seed predators without affecting high-quality seed dispersers are said to exhibit directed deterrence. Directed deterrence has been criticized as being unlikely in natural systems, but has rarely been explicitly tested. We evaluated the potential for directed deterrence to explain the double-layered viscous fruit morphology and fruiting phenology of Terminalia impediens, a common canopy tree endemic to New Guinea. The large fleshy fruits of this tree are consumed and dispersed by cassowaries (Casuarius spp.) and are consumed and killed by palm cockatoos {Probosciger aterrimus). Fruit flesh in this tree species appears to function as a deterrent to seed predation by palm cockatoos; the fruits of T. impediens fall to the ground before ripening, and are avoided by palm cockatoos until after the flesh has rotted off the hard nut. We found that palm cockatoos are able to prey upon seeds from fruits without flesh on the forest floor more efficiently than they can consume seeds from unripe fruit still on the trees. Further, through foraging preference tests, we found that palm cockatoos largely ignore seeds within ripe fruit on the ground, but readily eat the seeds when the fruit flesh has been removed. Cassowaries consume the fruit whole, when ripe, and defecate seeds in piles away from parent trees, where seed predation rates are lower. These results challenge the prevailing view that fleshy fruits evolved in tight synchrony with high-quality seed dispersers and add support to the non-exclusive hypothesis that aspects of fruit fleshiness may also have evolved as a response to seed predation.
4091887|The process of stone recolonization by macroinvertebrates was studied at different spatial scales in a stream in Costa Rica. A hierarchical design was used with riffles nested into reaches, and individual stones nested into riffles. Macroinvertebrate abundance and taxon richness varied at riffle scale, although patterns of variation seemed to change with time of recolonization, and taxonomic composition varied mostly at reach scale. Patterns of variation of background communities and macroinvertebrate drift at different spatial scales suggest that the contribution of these two sources of colonists to stone recolonization depends on spatial scale. Macroinvertebrate abundance was related to local environmental variables during recolonization, but taxon richness was related to the local environment only in the very first stage of the process. The need for explicitly determining the appropriate spatial scale in the study of substrate recolonization is emphasized.
4499098|The dynamics of early life-history stages are important for understanding regional diversity patterns in tropical trees. In this study, patterns of seed removal, seedling survival and ectomycorrhizal (ECM) colonization in monodominant and mixed tropical rain forests in Guyana were investigated during a masting event of an ECM monodominant tree, Dicymbe corymbosa. Two seed densities (1 m
4092110|The dependent flora was surveyed on 20 trees at a 1.5-ha site in montane rain forest at 2600 m altitude in western Venezuela. Vascular species were recorded over the whole site and totalled 120 epiphytes, 21 climbers, 3 hemiepiphytes, 5 nomadic vines and 6 mistletoes. Non-vascular species were recorded within 95 sample plots and totalled 22 mosses, 66 liverworts and 46 macrolichens. The angiosperm species were restricted in geographical range to the Neotropics; 22.1% were endemic to Venezuela. Pteridophyte and bryophyte species were largely restricted to the Neotropics but few were endemic. Macrolichen species were mostly pantropical or cosmopolitan; only 9.6% were restricted to the Neotropics and none was endemic. Canonical Correspondence Analysis found the environmental variables most closely correlated with variation in community composition to be height above ground and a horizontal gradient reflecting differences in forest structure. The epiphytic vegetation was classified using Two-way Indicator Species Analysis into a Syrrhopodon gaudichaudii-Elaphoglossum hoffmannii group of lower trunks, an Omphalanthus filiformis-Maxillaria miniata group of intermediate levels and an Usnea-Parmotrema group of upper crowns. Diversity increased with height above ground; non-vascular diversity was greatest in upper crowns whereas vascular diversity was greatest at intermediate levels. Similarity levels were low among sample plots of the same community, whereas between-tree and between-stand similarities were relatively high.
27751669|Plant populations can respond to temporal environmental heterogeneity caused by natural disturbances, such as herbivory. Palm individuals of several species are preyed upon by mammals, but the effects of such herbivory events on population dynamics remain poorly known. To evaluate the effects of environmental stochasticity on a Geonoma schottiana (Arecaceae) population, we surveyed annually 40 permanent 20  10-m plots in a riparian tropical forest over 5 y (20002004) and results were analysed using matrix models. The population growth rate () was in equilibrium during the study period and only one bad year was identified (20022003), which had a higher mortality of juvenile individuals due to herbivory. Additionally, the bad year had a higher mortality of reproductive individuals than the other periods. The stasis matrix elements of the later life stages were the vital rates with highest elasticities. The mortality of juvenile and reproductive individuals had a negative contribution to  in the bad year. Conversely, the growth of infant and juvenile individuals and the clonal growth of juveniles were the vital rates with highest contribution to stability maintenance of  in the bad year in a life-table response experiment. The palm population had a high individual density, high proportion of the initial life stages, clonal growth, high fertility, abundant seed bank and high seedling recruitment. Despite these traits, if stochastic herbivory events occur frequently over a long period of time, the population will have a negative growth rate and the probability of local extinction will be very high.
2559233|The effect of fluctuations in temperature and moisture supply on hard seeds of nine tropical coastal sand dune legumes, including herbs (Schrankia quadrivalvis, Macroptilium atropurpureum and Canavalia rosea), and shrubs (Acacia farnesiana, A. macracantha, Mimosa chaetocarpa, Indigofera suffruticosa, Crotalaria incana and Chamaecrista chamaecristoides), has been studied under laboratory and field conditions. Using a fluctuating temperature gradient bar seeds buried in sand were exposed to various amplitudes of diurnal temperature fluctuation over an extended period of time and seed germinability was examined at intervals. Germination percentage increased considerably in most species as a consequence of treatment with marked effects occurring at temperature fluctuations greater than 20<sup></sup>C and becoming detectable after 45 days. In several species the effect of applying wetting and drying cycles was to lower the amplitude of temperature fluctuation necessary to soften the seeds. Species can be grouped into physiological groups on the basis of differences in seed response to temperature fluctuations. It is suggested that these differences may help to explain the mechanisms distinguishing the different colonization patterns observed in tropical sand dune systems.
25562618|The response of tropical fauna to landscape-level habitat change is poorly understood. Increased conversion of native primary forest to alternative land-uses, including secondary forest and exotic tree plantations, highlights the importance of assessing diversity patterns within these forest types. We sampled 1848 moths from 335 species of Arctiidae, Saturniidae and Sphingidae, over a total of 30 trap-nights. Sampling was conducted during the wet season 2005, using three light-traps at 15 sites within areas of primary forest, secondary forest and Eucalyptus urograndis plantations in northern Brazilian Amazonia. The Jari study region provides one of the best opportunities to investigate the ecological consequences of land-use change, and this study is one of the first to examine patterns of diversity for a neotropical moth assemblage in a human-dominated landscape in lowland Amazonia. We found that the three moth families responded consistently to disturbance in terms of abundance and community structure but variably in terms of species richness, in a manner apparently supporting a life-history hypothesis. Our results suggest that secondary forests and Eucalyptus plantations can support a substantial level of moth diversity but also show that these forest types hold assemblages with significantly distinct community structures and composition from primary forest. In addition, the ability of these converted land-uses to support primary forest species may be enhanced by proximity to surrounding primary forest, an issue which requires consideration when assessing the diversity and composition of mobile taxa in human-dominated landscapes.
2560320|A study of seedling demography of three shade-tolerant canopy tree species (Quararibea asterolepis, Trichilia tuberculata, and Tetragastris panamensis) was initiated to integrate with long-term studies of tree fruit production and of tree population dynamics on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Over a five-year period, all seedlings (height <50 cm) and small saplings (height  50 cm to dbh 1 cm) were measured and monitored in permanent tree-centred transects (N = 10-11 trees per species). Survival rates increased with plant size class and were similar among species. Maximum height growth rates increased with increasing plant size, but average growth rates did not; this disparity suggests the importance of release from understorey suppression for long-term recruitment success. Among the three species, Quararibea had the lowest standing seedling densities and almost no sapling recruitment, whereas Tetragastris had the highest densities of both seedlings and saplings; Trichilia seedling and sapling densities were intermediate. In all three species, a few trees produced very high seedling and sapling densities in comparison with the sample average. All three species exhibited a year of exceptionally high new seedling recruitment during the study period; these good years were not coincident among the species but instead reflected the species' phenological differences. Since seedling survival becomes relatively constant and high after the first few years of life (c. 80% y<sup>-1</sup>), such large new cohorts persist as a year-class effect in the seedling population and thus maintain seedling numbers over time. The interspecific differences in seedling and sapling dynamics were consistent with overall 10-year trends of a declining Quararibea population, a stable Trichilia population, and an increasing Tetragastris population.
25562604|Immediately after their transition from aquatic to terrestrial life, juveniles of many anuran species are restricted to the margins of natal ponds. Understanding the factors determining the duration of that pondside aggregation has direct management ramifications in the case of the invasive cane toad (Bufo marinus) in tropical Australia. Previous work suggests that dispersal confers biotic advantages (reduced risk of cannibalism, enhanced feeding opportunities) to juvenile toads, but desiccation risk constrains these small animals to the moist margins of the pond. If so, juvenile dispersal should be sensitive to fluctuating hydric conditions on a diel and seasonal cycle. We tested this prediction with field observations (monitoring of dispersal to and from the pond) and field experiments (manipulating hydric regimes). Our results support a dynamic model of juvenile distribution, with a primary role for temporal variations in desiccation risk as the primary factor driving dispersal. During the dry season, strong diel cycles in desiccation risk generate a 'tidal' flow of juveniles, dispersing out in the moist morning but retreating to the pond margins at midday. Dispersal rates were enhanced by artificial watering during the dry season, and by the onset of the wet season.
4091914| The oligarchy hypothesis proposes that large areas of Amazonian plant communities are dominated by limited sets of species. We tested this hypothesis by (1) quantifying dominance of the 10 most common species, genera and families in each region; and (2) assessing the consistency of relative abundance ranks between areas and across scales in dominance patterns for trees and lianas in two distant Amazonian regions (~ 1900 km), the Yasun and Madidi National Parks in Ecuador and Bolivia, respectively. The analyses were based on sixty-nine 0.1-ha plots in which all woody plants with a diameter at breast height (dbh)  2.5 cm were inventoried (19 775 individuals and 1729 species in total). The plots were located at two Yasun and five Madidi sites, with an average of 10 plots per site. Overall, oligarchic dominance was pronounced at all the spatial scales investigated, although decreasing with increasing scale. Cross-scale relative abundance ranks were more consistent in Yasun than in Madidi. while no such difference was apparent within single sites. Quantitative dominance and consistency of relative abundance ranks increased with taxonomic rank, being stronger at the family level than at genus and species levels. Species-level dominance was somewhat stronger within the 10 most common families in either region, than in other families. Dominance was similarly strong for canopy (dbh  10 cm) and understorey trees (dbh < 10 cm), and less pronounced among lianas. In conclusion, our results provide strong evidence that western Amazonian forests can be dominated by limited oligarchies of species, genera and families over large expanses. 
2559612|Effects of extreme livestock pressure on the abundance and distribution of a drought-deciduous shrub Sericocomopsis pallida, and effects of the shrub canopy on microclimate, soil fertility and grass production, were studied in savanna grasslands of southern Kenya. Canopy volume declined with increasing herbivore pressure, but shrub density was not systematically affected, suggesting strong resilience against destruction by herbivores. However, shrubs became more aggregated with increasing herbivory, suggesting that clumps of individuals are more resilient to destruction than are isolated individuals. Grass production was three times greater under the canopy of S. pallida than in the open. Comparisons of physical-chemical properties among soils derived from four microsites revealed far higher nutrient levels in subcanopy soil than in soil derived from open ground between canopies, and radically different properties compared to soil heavily enriched with livestock dung and urine. Higher nutrient levels beneath the canopy most likely resulted from litter decomposition. A pot experiment, designed to simulate shading and soil conditions in the field, showed that grass growth promotion was largely due to a substantial increase in soil fertility beneath the canopy of S. pallida, comparable to grass productivity in soil enriched with livestock excreta. However, this increase in sub-canopy grass production did not significantly increase regional grass layer production.
2559515|An investigation into the causes of massive destruction of the vegetation around Tsekelewu Oil Field in the Niger Delta was carried out. The 200 km<sup>2</sup> area suffering varying degrees of damage was mapped and the damage quantified by photo interpretation of black and white aerial photographs. Soil, surface and ground water samples were taken from the various zones for chemical analyses which included the determination of pH, electrical conductivity and soluble salt analysis. The results showed that salt accumulation decreased from the sea inland-wards, with some upsurge in the saline-fresh water transitional zone where the greatest damage occurred. The electrical conductivity of the ground water varied from 45 dS m<sup>-1</sup> in the area of greatest damage to less than 4 dS m<sup>-1</sup> in the fresh water zone where there was no apparent damage. The salt-tolerant species along the coast were not affected, but in the transitional saline-fresh water zone in which the electrical conductivity of ground water was greater than 30 dS m<sup>-1</sup>, all the vegetation including the relatively salt-tolerant white mangrove (Avicennia africana) were killed. This destruction is attributed to high salinity caused by salt water incursion from the sea.
4092166| Germination of Acacia tortilis seeds strongly depends on micro-site conditions. In Lake Manyara National Park, Tanzania, Acacia tortilis occurs abundantly in recently abandoned arable fields and in elephant-mediated gaps in acacia woodland, but does not regenerate in grass swards or beneath canopies. We examined the germination of Acacia tortilis using field and laboratory experiments. Seeds placed on top of the soil rarely germinated, while seeds covered with elephant dung or buried under the soil surface had a germination success between 23-43%. On bare soil 39% of both the dung-covered and buried seeds germinated, in perennial grass swards 24-43%. and under tree canopies 10-24% respectively. In laboratory experiments, seed water absorption correlated positively with temperature up to 41 C, while subsequent germination was optimal at lower (21-23 C) temperatures. Seeds that had absorbed water lost their viability when kept above 35.5 C. The absence of light did not significantly influence germination success. Acacia tortilis does not actively disperse its seeds, but regeneration outside tree canopies was substantial. The regeneration potential thus strongly depends on the physiognomy of the vegetation. 
3068733|How do animals respond to an unpredictably heterogeneous environment? Ants foraging in the leaf litter of tropical wet forests experience unpredictably fluctuating food resources. To study how an ant species responds to these changes, foragers were tracked to determine home ranges of 51 colonies of Aphaenogaster araneoides, in three sites in a Costa Rican tropical wet forest. Of these colonies 16 were excavated to measure colony size, colony growth, and reproductive investment. These demographic variables were compared with two measures of home range quality: leaf litter dry weight and mass of arthropods. Home range areas of colonies were highly correlated with colony size, and moderately correlated with resource abundance. Colony growth was independent of colony size, as is found in other ants in unpredictable environments. The growth of colonies was closely associated with resource abundance. Production of the male reproductive caste was closely tied to the size of a colony rather than growth, but male production in slow-growing colonies was limited. Colonies foraging within high-quality environments grew at a faster rate, but reproduction was mainly correlated with colony size. Furthermore, it was found that the frequency of foragers in long-term treatment plots with supplemental food and reduced leaf-litter quality was not significantly different from the frequency of foragers in control plots. This rainforest and does not modify its home range areas in response to poor environments, and as a result, small-scale environmental heterogeneity strongly determines growth and reproduction.
2560113|Phenological patterns of herbaceous and woody plants well represented in the Sudano-Sahelian savannas of northern Cameroon were studied in relation to water availability in three contrasted soil types. Mean annual precipitation in this region is 800 mm, entirely restricted to the period May-June to September-October, but redistribution of rainwater by varying soil substrates leads to considerable heterogeneity in available water resources for plants. Results are discussed in terms of probable competition for water resources among co-occurring plants and the adaptations shown by observed patterns to prevailing environmental conditions. Water stress is seen to be a limiting factor to plant growth but does not constitute the sole trigger for the phenological phases observed, nor is it the principal factor responsible for the preponderance of annual species in the herbaceous stratum.
2559940|Seed dispersal of Guarea glabra and G. kunthiana (Meliaceae) in Monteverde, Costa Rica was studied to determine how seed predation and secondary dispersal affect the distribution of seeds available for recruitment. The arillate seeds are consumed mainly by birds that regurgitate or defecate the seeds intact. After dispersal, 45.6% of G. glabra and 26.6% of G. kunthiana seeds were buried 1-3 cm in the soil, presumably by scatterhoarding rodents such as agoutis (Dasyprocta punctata). G. glabra seeds that were not cached were eaten mostly by beetles, and 33.7% of the seeds remained cached after 12 wk. The cached G. glabra seeds did not germinate, however, perhaps as a result of experimental procedures used to mark the seeds. In greenhouse experiments, G. glabra seeds buried to mimic scatterhoarding had higher germination success than seeds on the soil surface. G. kunthiana seeds not cached were eaten by peccaries (Tayassu tajacu) and other seed predators (60%) or were inviable (10%). Only nine (7.5%) viable G. kunthiana seeds remained in caches after 12 wk. Secondary dispersal resulted in a rearrangement of the seed shadow. G. glabra seeds were moved to sites with less leaf litter and lower vegetation density, while G. kunthiana seeds were moved farther from conspecific trees and closer to fallen logs during secondary dispersal. Considering the high rates of seed predation in the field for both species, the germination advantages for G. glabra in the greenhouse, and the shifts in microhabitat during scatterhoarding, it is likely that secondary dispersal by scatterhoarding rodents is an important stage in Guarea recruitment.
3068676|The types and causes of death of canopy and subcanopy trees were characterized for the tropical montane cloud forest of Tamaulipas, Mexico. Field work was carried out at the Biosphere Reserve 'El Cielo', located on the eastern slope of the Sierra Madre Oriental. Three study plots, each of 2 ha, were selected within the forest differing in their degree of exposure to wind. Results indicate that the tropical montane cloud forest presents a differential treefall regime derived from the great hurricane activity to which this mountain range is exposed. This effect is illustrated by the great number of fallen logs (545 trees in 6 ha) and the high percentage of uprooted (48.3%) and snapped off (37.6%) trees. Other treefall factors included the rocky and shallow soils and weakness of the dominant trees from insect attack. A differential disturbance level was obtained between zones. The disturbance was higher for the exposed zone, where the crown cover of emergent trees was not closed. Species composition of the dead material was related to the abundance of the overstorey species as standing vegetation. Ten of the 20 recorded species were able to sprout and just 7.5% of the 545 fallen trees were sprouting. Quercus germana, Q. sartorii, Clethra pringlei, Liquidambar styraciflua and Ceris canadensis, accounted for 78.5% of the gap-forming species. The type of treefall differed between species of the same genera: Q. germana was generally found uprooted, while Q. sartorii died standing probably because of previous weakening from dipterous insects.
2559234|In humid forests tree buttresses and tree trunks are used as diurnal resting sites by phlebotomine sandflies (Diptera: Psychodidae). When several species are present on the same but-tress, the sandfly species are spatially segregated resulting in a pattern of vertical stratification on the buttress within 100 cm of ground level. A change in the distribution of one species induces a change in the distribution of an adjacent species. This is demonstrated under both natural and experimental conditions. Observations of sandflies at dawn and dusk have revealed that the buttress is used as a swarming site; this behaviour provides our favoured explanation for the patterns of vertical stratification on tree buttresses.
4091950|Soil water content and above-ground biomass accumulation, above 10 cm high, were measured monthly in a flooded savanna ecosystem under grazing pressure and under cattle exclusion, during two growth cycles. Near-to-the-ground and below-ground biomass were measured three times during this period. Besides, composition, species richness and diversity were obtained through a floristic inventory. Despite a relatively high floristic richness and diversity, Panicum laxum is the dominant species throughout the study area, while three other perennial grasses, Paspalum chaffanjonii, Leersia hexandra and Axonopus purpusii, also reach high values of cover and biomass. Each of them reacts specifically to flooding, drought and grazing conditions. This ecosystem shows a strongly seasonal behaviour, with primary production, mortality and decomposition sharply timed by soil relative water content. Both drought and water excess seem to limit plant production, even more during wet years when the savanna might remain flooded for up to 4 mo. Some structural and functional differences between the grazed and the protected systems are demonstrated, but under the actual, relatively low stocking rate, the grazed savanna produces as much forage as the ungrazed one.
4499152|Drying floodplains that were not inundated for more than 10 y were investigated to relate plant species and vegetation structure to time-since-fire for the southern Okavango Delta wetland in Botswana. The aims of the research were to study post-fire succession on savanna habitats in the Okavango Delta and to investigate the mechanisms behind vegetation changes with time-since-fire. We hypothesize that vegetation structure rather than species occurrence is affected by the fire event and that the driving forces of post-fire succession change from fire-driven to competition-driven with increasing time-since-fire. A total number of 153 study sites were investigated, representing areas of 2-12 y without a fire. Both woody and herbaceous plant species were recorded and cover/abundance values were measured. The vegetation changes with time-since-fire could be assigned to three different successional stages: (1) the post-fire conditions shortly after fire, supporting high species numbers due to open space and little competition; (2) the dominance of competitive perennial grass species (e.g. Urochloa mosambicensis) after 6-8 y; and (3) the enhanced establishment of woody species after about 10 y, creating new habitats in their vicinity. High species numbers were found after short and long fire-free periods, and different species occurred shortly after the fire event and at late stages of the post-fire succession. A variety of different inter-fire intervals is therefore expected to be responsible for sustaining plant species richness and habitat diversity in the study area. Post-fire succession could be described as not only being driven by the life history of the species, but also by seedbank dynamics and plant mobility in early successional stages and by competition and niche differentiation in late-successional stages.
23012380|As the destruction and severe disturbance of primary tropical forest continues, it is important to understand how these forests may recover from perturbations. Considerable work has been done on above-ground recovery but below-ground processes are less well understood. To determine changes in root mass during tropical secondary succession in lowland forests of Central Borneo, samples were taken from stands of increasing ages since abandonment of agriculture (1, 3, 14 and 31 y) with a primary forest control (six plots from 1-y-old stands and three from all other ages). Root mass and elemental concentrations were determined and soils were chemically analysed. There was no increase in root mass with stand age for fine-root (< 2 mm diameter) or small-root (< 5 mm diameter) mass but there was a trend for coarse-root mass (510 mm diameter) to increase with stand age. Negative correlations were shown between root mass and soil nutrient status. Fine-root C concentrations increased with stand age but there was no clear effect of stand age on fine-root N or P. Fine-root mass did not increase significantly with stand age suggesting a rapid recovery; instead, soil nutrient status appeared to be the most important factor controlling root mass. Of the soil nutrients measured in this study, N had a stronger control over root mass than P suggesting that this element may be limiting during secondary succession in tropical lowland forests of Borneo.
2559741|The effect of tree canopy cover on soil properties was studied over three periods: middry season (January), mid-growth period (August) and peak-growth period (October) in three 1 ha plots in savanna of north-west Nigeria. The objective was to find out whether tree canopies change the nutrient status of the soil under them relative to adjacent grasslands. Soils under tree canopies were found to have significantly higher levels of organic matter, calcium, magnesium, potassium, total exchangeable bases, cation exchange capacity and pH than those in open grasslands. Nitrogen and phosphorus were slightly higher in soils under tree canopies than those in the open grasslands. Trees 7 m and above had more influence on soil properties than smaller trees. Differences in soil properties among the study plots were due to differences in their soil texture. Seasonal trends were observed in organic matter, carbon : nitrogen ratio, cation exchange capacity, phosphorus, calcium, sodium, total exchangeable cations and percentage base saturation.
2559352|The reproductive process of two species of Kielmeyera, K. coriacea and K. speciosa, sympatric in savanna areas in central Brazil, has been studied. The trees have similar pollination systems and dispersal mechanisms but distinct phenological behaviours. Fast germination after the beginning of the wet season, early root swelling forming a xylopodium which enables survival during the dry season, and recurrent sprouting from the swollen root system during the first years of development were features of an establishment syndrome common to both species. The seedling survival after establishment was high; after five years 64% of the seedling cohort of K. coriacea was still alive. These seedlings, in natural conditions, remain poorly developed and resprout recurrently from the soil during some years. The recruitment of adult plants seems to occur from this `seedling bank'. The reproductive process was higher in K. coriacea during most stages of the reproductive process which may explain the smaller population size and distribution range of K. speciosa. For both species, the reproductive process as a whole was mainly affected by biotic factors in the wet season and not by seasonal drought or periodic fire.
2560222|Analysis of litterfall, nutrient return and floor mass dynamics was made in mature and recently harvested bamboo savanna sites in a dry tropical region in India. The total annual litterfall was 590 and 267 g m<sup>-2</sup> in mature and harvested sites, respectively. Of the total litterfall, 58-77% by weight was contributed by leaf litter. Although litterfall occurred throughout the year, as much as 72-83% of the leaf litterfall was recorded during winter (December-February). Seasonal distribution of total litterfall was: rainy 12-22% of annual, winter 64-65% and summer 13-22%. Nutrient concentrations in bamboo leaf litter were low compared with the other species growing in the same region. Annual nutrient return through litterfall amounted to: 28-49 kg N ha<sup>-1</sup>, 1.3-2.9 kg P ha<sup>-1</sup>, 33-85 kg Ca ha<sup>-1</sup>, 12-32 kg K ha<sup>-1</sup> and 1.4-2.8 kg Na ha<sup>-1</sup>. While maximum accumulations of fresh litter on the ground occurred in summer, the partly decayed and particulate litter categories peaked in the rainy season. Decaying litter categories showed 1.5-3 times greater nutrient concentrations than the concentrations in fresh leaf litter. Marked immobilization of N and P occurred in decomposing leaf and particulate litter. The mean annual nutrient content of the floor was (kg ha<sup>-1</sup>): N 29-40, P 1.0-1.9, Ca 13.8-23.9, K 14.6-15.3 and Na 0.85-0.99. The annual turnover in litter layer was: 63-81% for dry mass and 64-90% for different nutrients.
25790824|The Bornean climber, Nepenthes bicalcarata, is unique among plants because it is both carnivorous and myrmecophytic, bearing pitcher-shaped leaves and the ant Camponotus schmitzi within tendrils. We explored, in the peat swamp forests of Brunei, the hypothesis that these ants contribute to plant nutrition by catching and digesting its prey. We first tested whether ants increased plant's capture rate. We found that unlike most plant-ants, C. schmitzi do not exhibit dissuasive leaf-patrolling behaviour (zero patrol on 67 pitchers of 10 plants) but lie concealed under pitcher rim (13  6 ants per pitcher) allowing numerous insect visits. However, 47 out of 50 individuals of the largest visitor dropped into the pitchers of five plants were attacked by ants and the capture rate of the same pitchers deprived of their ambush hunting ants decreased three-fold. We then tested whether ants participated in plant's digestion. We showed in a 15-d long experiment that ants fed on prey and returned it in pieces in seven out of eight pitchers. The 40 prey deposited in ant-deprived pitchers remained intact indicating a weak digestive power of the fluid confirmed to be only weakly acidic (pH 5, n = 67). The analysis of 10 pitcher contents revealed that prey, mainly ants and termites, was very numerous (400 per pitcher per plant) and highly fragmented. Altogether, these data suggest a positive effect of C. schmitzi on both prey intake and breakdown. This antplant interaction could thus be a nutritional mutualism involving the unusual association of carnivory and myrmecotrophy.
2559734|The survival, height and leaf production of seedlings and juveniles of Aspidosperma fendleri and Richeria grandis were measured monthly for three-years after germination. During the first year, some seedlings and juveniles of Aspidosperma fendleri were collected and the number of rootlets, the primary root length and the shoot : root ratio were determined. Both species show periodicity in growth but their relative growth rate differs between species. For Aspidosperma fendleri, the highest relative growth rate (0.313 y<sup>-1</sup>) was found for individuals grown under greenhouse conditions followed by individuals growing in an old forest gap (0.143 y<sup>-1</sup>) and finally individuals under the forest canopy (0.137 y<sup>-1</sup>). For Richeria grandis, the relative growth rate under the forest canopy was 0.261 y<sup>-1</sup>. Leaf production for Aspidosperma fendleri in the forest (natural conditions) was 4.39 total mean leaf number for five years and 5.46 total mean leaf number under greenhouse conditions. For Richeria grandis it was 5.34 mean leaf production for four years. The root : shoot ratio for Aspidosperma fendleri was constant during the observation year. Aspidosperma fendleri showed a lower number of rootlets than did Richeria grandis. There was an inverse relationship between growth and survival during the dry season. During this period, mortality was higher and the highest mortality occurred during the first year when the total relative growth rate was highest. Slow growth is evident in both species. This mechanism may represent an adaptive advantage to remain dormant until there is an opening in the forest canopy. Since the seeds of Aspidosperma fendleri and Richeria grandis are highly vulnerable to predators and pathogens, slow growth as seedlings and juveniles allows them to survive, and contributes to regeneration in cloud forest.
25562636|Habitat fragmentation and deforestation are thought to disrupt host-parasite interactions and increase the risk of epizootic outbreaks in wild vertebrates. A total of 220 individuals from three species of African rain-forest bird (Andropadus latirostris, Andropadus virens, Cyanomitra obscura), captured in two pristine and two agroforests in Cameroon, were screened for the presence of avian haemosporidian parasites (species of Plasmodium and Haemoproteus) to test whether habitat differences were associated with differences in the prevalence of infectious diseases in natural populations. Thirteen mitochondrial lineages, including 11 Plasmodium and two Haemoproteus lineages were identified. Whereas levels of Haemoproteus spp. infections were too low to permit analysis, the prevalence of infections with Plasmodium spp. reached significantly greater levels in undisturbed mature forests. Importantly however, the significant association between forest type and parasite prevalence was independent of host density effects, suggesting that the association did not reflect changes in host species composition and abundance between forest types. Our results illustrate how characterizing land-cover differences, and hence changes, may be a prerequisite to understanding and predicting patterns of parasite infections in natural populations of rain-forest birds.
25172921|Primates are among the major groups of frugivores in the tropics, but little is known about their role in natural regeneration of African savanna ecosystems. In the savanna-forest mosaic of north-eastern Ivory Coast the olive baboon (Papio anubis Lesson) harvests fruit from at least 79 plant species. Over a 24-mo study period, 396 faecal samples from 10 groups of baboons were analysed in terms of quantitative and qualitative aspects of seed handling and dispersal (excluding grasses and sedges). Seventy-three percent of seeds in faecal samples were undamaged. Intact seeds were from 65 species. On average, defecations contained intact seeds from 2.0 species (range=0-10). Seed size varied between 1 and 27 mm, and 77% of the species had medium-sized to large seeds. No linear correlation between mean seed size and seed damage was found. Eighteen out of 19 species tested were viable after ingestion, but effects of gut passage upon germination varied widely. The baboon population in the study area (145 km) dispersed an estimated 1483 intact seeds d km (129 seeds &gt; 2 mm in size). The results suggest that the olive baboon is an important seed disperser in the savanna-forest ecosystem of West Africa.
40925442|Avian hosts may either resist the negative effects of nestling ectoparasites by minimizing the number of parasites, or tolerate parasitism by increasing their fecundity via the reproductive compensation hypothesis. Little is known about the interactions between ectoparasites and their avian hosts in the tropics. We (1) examined nestling development rates, and tested whether (2) parasitism by a subcutaneous ectoparasitic botfly (Philornis sp.) had negative effects on the condition of nestlings, and (3) these negative effects were minimized in larger broods in a tropical cavity-nesting bird, the planalto woodcreeper (Dendrocolaptes platyrostris), in primary and secondary Atlantic forests in the northern province of Misiones, Argentina. Nestling mass and ectoparasite load per nestling reached maxima when nestlings (n = 50) were between 10 and 14 d old. General linear mixed models predicted that mass at fledging declined with increasing nestling parasite load, suggesting that botflies had a negative influence on fledging condition. Parasite load per nestling declined with increasing brood size indicating that woodcreepers that increase their reproductive output minimize the negative effects of parasitism. Overall we found evidence to support the tolerance via reproductive compensation hypothesis. Future tests of the reproductive compensation hypothesis may help determine the underlying mechanism of the observed negative correlation between parasite load of nestlings and brood size.
3068797|Patterns of insect hervibore and leaf pathogen attack are described for 25 plant species (10 trees, 10 shrubs and five herbs) at a Brazilian savanna (cerrado) site. Plant and leaf traits were correlated with interspecific variation in attack by herbivores and pathogens in order to account for differences among plant species. Across all species, pathogen damage was 1.5 times higher than insect damage (17.3% vs. 6.8%, respectively). Most insect damage occurred to young leaves while they were expanding (end of the dry season). In contrast, pathogen attack was low on young expanding leaves at the end of the dry season, increased as those leaves matured in the wet season, but continued to increase through the next dry season. Protein-binding capacity was negatively associated with interspecific differences in insect damage to mature leaves. Protein availability and plant height were positive predictors of pathogen attack among plant species, while leaf expansion rate was a significant negative predictor. Interspecific differences in leaf phenology had little effect on the amount of damage caused by either insects or pathogens. However, new leaves produced during the wet season suffered less insect damage than leaves produced during the dry season, the time of greatest leaf production. Timing of young leaf production affected pathogen attack but the season of escape depended on plant species. In contrast, there was no evidence for escape in space as common species were less likely to suffer high pathogen attack than rare species. New and mature leaf toughness, and time for a leaf to reach full expansion all increased from herbs to shrub to trees, while mature leaf nitrogen decreased in that order.
25562628|In the tropical Indian Ocean, the Maldive Islands lack surface freshwater, so are unsuitable for dragonfly reproduction. Nevertheless, millions of dragonflies (Insecta, Odonata; mostly globe skimmer, Pantala flavescens) appear suddenly every year starting in October. Arrival dates in the Maldives and India demonstrate that the dragonflies travel from southern India, a distance of some 500-1000 km. Dates of arrival and occurrence coincide with the southward passage of the Inter-tropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ). Circumstantial evidence suggests that the dragonflies fly with north-easterly tail winds, within and behind the ITCZ, at altitudes over 1000 m. It is proposed that this massive movement of dragonflies is part of an annual migration across the western Indian Ocean from India to East Africa. Arrival dates in the Seychelles support this hypothesis. Dragonflies also appear (in smaller numbers) in the Maldives in May, with the onset of the southwest monsoon, suggesting a possible return migration from Africa. These proposed migrations of dragonflies, regularly crossing 3500 km or more of open ocean, were previously unknown. It is known that these dragonflies exploit ephemeral rain pools for reproduction; the monsoons and ITCZ bring not only alternating, seasonal rains to India and Africa, but also appropriate winds for dragonflies to follow those rains. Several bird species migrate from India across the western Indian Ocean to wintering grounds in Africa. They do so at the same time as the dragonflies, presumably taking advantage of the same seasonal tail winds. Many of these birds also eat dragonflies; the possible significance of this was not previously appreciated.
4091999| Leaf quality (nutrient concentration) and herbivory were studied in a set of dominant tree species in regenerating, secondary tropical dry forests growing on limestone in the Yucatn Peninsula. The study's objective was to assess how variation in nutrient availability affects leaf nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations and herbivory. Our study included an area of young forest (10 y old), with phosphorus-poor soils, and an area of old forest (~60 y old), in which soil P was comparatively less limiting. The foliage of representative species of each site was studied, including Acacia gaumeri, Leucaena leucocephala and Lysiloma latisiliquum at the young forest site, and A. gaumeri. Bursera simaruba and Pithecellobium dulce at the old forest. Four independent plots (12 x 12 m) at each forest were either left intact (controls) or fertilized with N, with P, or with N plus P for three consecutive years. Relaxation of nutrient limitations at the young forest resulted in an increase in leaf phosphorus and herbivory in all species. In contrast, N and P fertilization at the old forest site did not consistently affect leaf nutrient concentration and leaf damage. In this site the main response to fertilization was an increase in leaf nitrogen only in B. simaruba and an increase in herbivory in A. gaumeri; leaf phosphorus was unaffected by soil fertilization. Overall, we observed that, subsequent to nutrient addition, leaf phosphorus concentration and herbivory in the leguminous species increased at the young site; leaf nitrogen concentration in the non-leguminous species increased at the old site while herbivory only increased in A. gaumeri, following a pattern similar to that observed in the young site. We conclude that the regulatory mechanisms of leaf quality and damage by herbivores will vary, depending on the details of the site's nutrient limitations and the identity of species. 
23012403|The application of stable-hydrogen isotope (D) measurements to the study of animal movement, resource use and physiology depends on understanding factors driving variation in D in animal tissues. The source of micro-scale variation in D is poorly known, yet understanding micro-scale patterns of D could shed light on important ecological processes and improve our abilities to track animal movements. Using linear and additive models, we explored the influence of micro-scale habitat use, moisture and diet on tissue D values of Nicaraguan cloud-forest birds. Using mist nets, we captured 211 individuals of 22 resident Neotropical species at 5001390 m asl and collected feather and claw samples. Based on three years of data from year-round sampling, our results suggest that microhabitat, seasonal shifts in moisture D, and diet all influence bird tissue D values. Our model results reveal a previously undescribed microgeographical effect on D, where foraging level (understorey versus overstorey) and foraging location (forest interior versus adjacent coffee plantation) were significant predictors of D values in bird claws and feathers. Mean claw and feather D values among species varied from 83 to 19. Top models for claws and feathers explained 57% and 52% of variation in D respectively. Direct comparisons of understorey (mean  SD of 30  15) versus overstorey (50  15) claw values suggest that D may be useful in tracking vertical, micro-scale movement. Higher D values in forest understorey birds reveal a heavy reliance upon recycled, fog moisture. Fragmentation and climate change may result in increasingly desiccated cloud forest that may exert a more negative influence on the food webs of understorey species that seem to be supported by recycled sources of moisture in the dry season.
3068627|Amazonian forests are being rapidly cleared, and the remaining forest fragments appear unusually vulnerable to fire. This occurs because forest remnants have dry, fire-prone edges, are juxtaposed with frequently burned pastures, and are often degraded by selective logging, which increases forest desiccation and fuel loading. Here we demonstrate that in eastern Amazonia, fires are operating as a large-scale edge effect in the sense that most fires originate outside fragments and penetrate considerable distances into forest interiors. Multi-temporal analyses of satellite imagery from two frontier areas reveal that fire frequency over 12-14-y periods was substantially elevated within at least 2400 m of forest margins. Application of these data with a mathematical core-area model suggests that even large forest remnants (up to several hundred thousand ha in area) could be vulnerable to edge-related fires. The synergistic interactions of forest fragmentation, logging and human-ignited fires pose critical threats to Amazonian forests, particularly in more seasonal areas of the basin.
2559609|A total of 392 small mammals belonging to five species of small rodents and four species of shrews were caught. The small mammals and their percentage composition were Crocidura nigeriae (20.9%), Crocidura grandiceps (11.7%), Crocidura crossei (9.7%), Crocidura flavescens manni (20.4%), Mus musculoides (39.0%), Praomys tullbergi (11.5%), Lophuromys sikapusi (3.6%), Lemniscomys striatus (1.3%), and Arvicanthis niloticus (0.3%). There were monthly variations in the number of Mus musculoides and Crocidura nigeriae. In Mus musculoides breeding was at a maximum at the beginning and towards the end of the wet season and early dry season. In Crocidura nigeriae breeding was maximal during the wet season and low in the dry season. The seasonal changes in the age structure of the two most common species: Mus musculoides and Crocidura nigeriae, are described.
2559789|Long-term growth rates of 32 palms (Prestoea montana) were studied using height and diameter measurements taken four times between 1946 and 1982. All leaf scars were counted to estimate leaf production rate, and the distance between scars was measured to establish relationships between leaf production and height growth. Height and diameter growth and leaf production of these palms were not constant during this 36-year period. A greater distance between leaf scars was indicative of rapid height growth but not of high leaf production rate. Dominant palms always grew fast (>20 cm/yr) in height when they were small, but height growth slowed down when they reached the canopy. Small palms with slow height growth remained suppressed and lost the capacity to grow rapidly in height as adults. Diameter growth decreased with age from 0.07 cm/yr (SE = 0.02) between 1946-51 to 0.01 cm/yr (SE = 0.003) between 1951-82. Annual leaf production averaged 4 leaves/yr over the 36 years of study, was significantly different (P = 0.001) between 1946-51 (5.6 leaves/yr) and 1951-82 (3.8 leaves/yr), and was 4.6 leaves/yr for palms that grew >5 m since 1946 and 3.7 leaves/yr for those that remained suppressed. The best estimate for the mean age of all palms was 61.1 yr (SE = 2.4), obtained from long-term population leaf production rates.
4092020| Although fire is occurring at greater frequencies and spatial scales in the moist tropics, few studies have examined the ecological impacts of fire in tropical montane cloud forest (TMCF). This study, conducted in the Chimalapas region of Oaxaca, Mexico, documents changes in live tree biomass, live fine-root biomass, and fallen and standing dead wood 4 y following deep ground fires occurring in TMCF during the 199 7-98 El Nio Southern Oscillation event. Forests growing on two different substrates (metamorphic and sedimentary) and having three different statures (mean canopy heights: 20-30 m, 15-20 m and 4-6 m) were assessed within six paired plots established on adjacent burned and unburned forest sites. Total live tree biomass was 82% and 88% lower for burned TMCF growing on metamorphic and sedimentary substrates, respectively, compared with unburned TMCF. Nearly 100% of the living biomass was killed in elfin TMCF located on exposed sedimentary limestone at the highest elevations. Live fine-root biomass in the upper organic soil horizon of burned TMCF sites was 49% lower on metamorphic substrates and 77% lower on sedimentary substrates compared with unburned sites. The amount of total dead wood was 3- to 14-fold greater in burned forests compared with unburned forests. These results suggest that first-time fires in relatively undisturbed TMCF can cause dramatic changes in live above- and below-ground biomass at levels greatly exceeding values reported for most lowland tropical rain forests. These patterns may be attributed to the slower decomposition rates and thick organic soils typical of TMCF, combined with the relatively fast drainage associated with steep topography and, in some locations, sedimentary limestone-derived substrates. 
25172897|Although it is well known that riparian zones can contribute strongly to between-habitat beta diversity, for most taxa it is not clear how far this 'zone' extends, and whether it corresponds to easily recognizable topographic features. Forty 200-m plots were installed in a terra firme tropical forest to detect compositional variation in terrestrial herbs from the margins of small streams to the uplands. Plots were ordinated by their dissimilarity in species composition with non-metric multidimensional scaling. The riparian zone around streams was distinct in understorey herb composition from upland areas for about 100 m from the streams, or about 70 m asl in elevation, the exact distance depending on the size of the stream valley. However, the only assemblage that was almost completely distinct occurred as a narrow band a few metres wide along the streams. The rest of the riparian zone appears to represent an ecotone with continuous change, most of which occurs out to a distance of about half the width of the riparian zone as we defined it. Although riparian zones are legally protected in Brazil, they are frequently degraded. The complex factors leading to zonation around streams need to be understood to effectively manage these areas.
3068781|A study of nutrient movement through rainfall, throughfall and stemflow, as well as epiphytic bryophyte (moss and liverwort) biomass and its effect on nutrient composition of stemflow, was conducted for 2 y in subtropical montane moist forest (Lithocarpus-Castanopsis association) at Xujiaba, Ailao Mountain National Nature Reserve, Yunnan, south-west China. Base cation and fluxes were increased in throughfall, while NH
2560044|In the Cienaga Grande de Santa Marta, a brackish lagoon system on the Caribbean coast of Colombia, about 60% of the mangrove forests died from hypersalinization. The die-back was first encountered in 1964 and mass mortality started in the late 1960s. Although efforts are being made to reestablish the destroyed areas, regeneration is slow, which may be partly due to Junonia evarete caterpillars defoliating Avicennia germinans seedlings. The interaction between insects and seedlings was studied. Both J. evarete butterflies and caterpillars were abundant during the main rainy season, the time of highest fruit production in A. germinans. During the dry season the herbivore disappeared. The caterpillars fed exclusively on A. germinans propagules, seedlings, and pneumatophores. They preferred young seedlings to older plants and did not feed on trees. At some sites, 100% of the A. germinans seedlings died due to the caterpillar attack. Seedlings at open, disturbed sites were attacked more than seedlings protected by small roofs and trenches or those under a closed canopy. Only seedlings protected by insect nets or seedlings germinating at the beginning of the dry season had good chances of survival. The results suggest that in the highly disturbed areas of the Cienaga Grande regeneration of A. germinans is strongly inhibited by the feeding behaviour of J. evarete caterpillars.
4092000| We investigated the spatial distribution of fruiting in Dryobalanops aromatica (Dipterocarpaceae), a mast-seeding emergent tree that is found in the tropical rain forests of Borneo. Of 393 adults (diameter at breast height (dbh) > 30 cm) in a 52-ha area, 143 (36.4%) individuals fruited. A second-order spatial analysis, based on Ripley's K-function, revealed that fruiting trees were significantly (P < 0.05) aggregated with respect to the total population over distances of 15-115 m. Thus, the spatial distribution of fruiting trees was more aggregated than expected from the adult tree distribution, which itself was aggregated within the study plot. Logistic regression analysis showed that fruiting trees had a significantly greater dbh and were surrounded by more conspecific adults per ha than non-fruiting individuals. Moreover, fruiting trees were found at higher elevations, on steeper slopes, and on sandy rather than clayey soils. In contrast, annual diameter growth, adult density over areas < 1 ha, and slope convexity did not significantly affect fruiting probability. The ratio of seedling (20 cm  h < 60 cm) and sapling (60 cm  h < 300 cm) density to adult density was higher in sites at higher elevations, on steeper slopes, and on sandy soils than that for lower elevations, flat slopes and clayey soils. This suggests that the aggregation of fruiting trees occurred not only at the time of the study, but that it had occurred repeatedly in the past, at the high-elevation, steep-sloped, sandy sites. Thus, site conditions probably affect the dynamics and spatial structure of local populations through differences in fruiting frequency among trees experiencing different site conditions. 
4091998|Patterns of species composition in a neotropical termite assemblage were studied in relation to early effects of forest fragmentation as well as other sources of environmental and spatial heterogeneity. Termite diversity surveys were carried out at three mainland forest sites, and 10 islands of varying size, in an area of lowland tropical forest that had been flooded 4 y earlier, during the creation of the Petit Saut hydroelectric project in French Guiana. The 'ghost forest' of dead emergent trees in the flooded zone was also studied for its influence on island termite assemblages. Results suggested that the effects of forest fragmentation upon the total assemblage, and upon soil-feeders in particular, were subordinate to the influence of forest understorey palm density, and the closely associated gradients of soil humus depth and soil pH. Moreover, gradients for these three variables were uncorrelated with forest fragmentation and probably reflected spatial environmental heterogeneity pre-dating inundation events. Nevertheless, factors associated with forest fragmentation appeared to have had a significant effect on changes in termite species composition across the study site, primarily in structuring the wood- and leaf-litter-feeder assemblage. Effects upon the latter were not apparently a result of influx of species from the ghost forest. Purely spatial variation also influenced (3-diversity changes in species composition across the site. In conclusion, the effects of forest fragmentation upon termites appear to have been relatively mild compared with other faunal groups, 4 y after flooding. Nevertheless, we predict that the effects of fragmentation on termite assemblages will ultimately be negative. This study also points to the importance of Amazonian understorey palms in structuring a tropical forest termite assemblage.
2559876|Myrmecophytic species of the Paleotropical plant genus Macaranga (Euphorbiaceae) have hollow stems that are almost always occupied by ants of the genus Crematogaster and scale insects of the family Coccidae (Hemiptera: Coccoidea). The coccids have a cryptic endophytic lifestyle and are confined to this microhabitat. They are much more diverse than previously recognised. First data are presented on the diversity, prevalence, specificity and distribution of the coccids associated with myrmecophytic Macaranga species. Twenty-two species of Coccidae in total, including 15 previously unknown from Macaranga, were discovered from 19 species of Macaranga in Peninsular Malaysia and Borneo. The original describers tentatively assigned the known coccid species to Coccus (Coccinae) but the Macaranga coccids still require taxonomic research to establish their correct placing. The coccids varied in their host-plant specificity from species that occurred in most of the sampled Macaranga to one species that was found almost exclusively only on a single host species. In addition to their occurrence on Macaranga, only three species, C. macarangae and C. secretus and morphospecies C. 214 were found on rare occasions in the stem interior of a few other myrmecophytes and in a non-myrmecophytic liana, but did not regularly colonise these plants. Most of the coccids can be regarded as highly specific at the plant genus level.
2559681|Ant species in the genera Chelaner, Meranoplus and Pheidole were found to be seed-harvesters in a tropical savanna woodland in northern Australia. Despite the availability of other seed types (legume seeds in particular were abundant), all five seed-harvesting species studied are specialists in that they store only grass seeds. Depot experiments, in which seeds were placed along foraging trails, also indicate a preference for grass seeds over legume seeds. At least for some ant species the handling efficiency of legume seeds may be less than that of grass seeds. Marked differences in seed composition of granaries were observed among different seed-harvesting ant species and among colonies of the same species at different sites. All ant species studied, except Pheidole sp. 1, stored only one type of grass seed in granaries at any site despite the availability of other seed types. This contrasts with studies conducted elsewhere in Australia in which generalist foraging by seed-harvesters was found to be common. With the possible exception of Pheidole, dietary specialization does not appear to arise from a low diversity or abundance of seed supplies. In addition to differences in seed preferences, species of seed-harvesting ants also exhibited some differences in temporal foraging behaviour and some partitioning of resources may be occurring among these co-occurring species. Temporal overlap in foraging, however, was much greater than dietary overlap. The viability of granary seeds was very low for three ant species suggesting that seeds stored by these ants were largely predated rather than dispersed.
4092097| Microhabitat use by tadpole species was investigated in streams of montane meadows of the Serra do Cip, south-eastern Brazil. Microhabitats were classified into 24 types based on water depth, current, aquatic vegetation and substrate type, and quantified in 16 streams. A total of 844 tadpoles from 19 species was recorded, as well as microhabitat types used. Tadpoles, from all species pooled, used microhabitat types in the proportions available in the set of sampled streams. Diversity of microhabitats used was considered as a measure of niche breadth for tadpoles, and microhabitat diversity in streams was interpreted as available niche space. For the most part, species used microhabitats in different proportions, and conspecifics differed in microhabitat use among different streams. Neither niche breadths nor niche overlaps of tadpoles could be related to the number of species occupying streams. Thus not all available niche space may be occupied by tadpole species. More generalist species (those with broader niches) did not generally occupy more streams. Behavioural flexibility of tadpoles in microhabitat use may be a response to the unpredictability of the montane-meadow stream habitat. The role of adult anurans in choosing oviposition sites may also influence the distribution of tadpole species among streams. 
2559214|Population energy budgets of four sympatric isopods, Burmoniscus ocellatus, Burmoniscus sp. (Philosciidae), Formosillo raffaelei and Orodillo maculatus (Armadillidae), were calculated at two sites in a Hong Kong mixed forest. Mean population standing stock of the four species ranged from 1.25 to 13.61 kJ m<sup>-2</sup>. Mean total isopod biomass at the two sites was 0.85 and 1.85 g m<sup>-2</sup>. Annual production of the four species varied from 4.24 to 30.43 kJ m<sup>-2</sup> with 5.2-26.4% (energy content) allocated to reproduction. Annual production of the four species combined at the two sites was 23.22 and 50.15 kJ m<sup>-2</sup>. P/B ratios varied from 2.24 to 4.27. Annual population consumption on mixed litter by the four isopod species ranged from 28.4 to 183.0 kJ m<sup>-2</sup>. Total annual consumption by all species at the two sites was 233.7 and 360.2 kJ m<sup>-2</sup> (1.96 and 2.53% of annual litter fall). Isopod respiratory rates were proportional to body weight, with an exponent ranging from 0.68-0.78 at 23<sup></sup>C. The annual population metabolism of the four species varied from 14.62 to 86.11 kJ m<sup>-2</sup>. Total annual isopod metabolism at the two sites was 116.33 and 185.95 kJ m<sup>-2</sup>. These results are discussed with reference to the role of isopods in litter breakdown and energy flow in the Hong Kong forest.
4091943|We studied the avian foraging ecology in a single montane forest of northern Kenya, analysing the pattern of seasonal variation (wet vs. dry period) and its relationship with habitat structure. The foraging behaviour of 28 species was described in terms of four major dimensions (i.e. foraging technique, food substrate, perching site and perching height). Seasonal rainfall produced an increase in vegetation growth in the lower vegetation layers, while fruiting and flowering peaked in the dry season. We did not find much seasonal variation in foraging ecology when we analysed our data at the species or at the community levels. At the guild level, however, we found some seasonal shifts in perching height, food substrate and foraging technique. Some of these shifts seemed to be determined by food availability and distribution, as omnivores increased fruit consumption when this resource was more abundant, and nectarivores tracked the vertical distribution of flowers. The vertical biomass distribution of this avian community seemed to be largely determined by food. However, seasonal variation in the total biomass of some guilds was probably related to factors not considered in this study, such as breeding, or intra-African migratory movements. Altogether, despite marked seasonal variation in vegetation structure and food resources, the bird assemblage showed little change in its feeding ecology and micro-habitat use. Hence, we suggest that changes in habitat structure and resource levels were coped with primarily by adjusting population density and food requirements through seasonal breeding or migration.
2559894|Patterns of trap response in the Central American spiny rat (Proechimys semispinosus), a frugivorous forest rodent, were examined in relation to age, sex, density and resource abundance Populations on four small islands (designated numbers 4, 8, 14, and 52) in Gatun Lake (central Panama) were sampled by live-trapping for four nights every month for four years Trappability was calculated as the proportion of all individuals known to be alive that were actually captured Mean body mass at first capture was within the range of subadult body masses and differed among islands but not between sexes Trappabilities summed over the entire study were generally low and differed among islands and age classes (juveniles, subadults and adults) and between sexes In general, adults were more trappable than juveniles and subadults, and females (particularly adults) were more trappable than males Trappability and the number of captures per individual varied seasonally and were generally greatest during December and January. Monthly estimates of these two variables were examined for autocorrelation, and the order of the autoregressive error model was determined separately for each island population The arcsine of trappability and the number of captures per individual were regressed on log<sub>10</sub> densities of spiny rats and of fruiting trees and lianas after controlling for autocorrelation. Both trappability indices were negatively related to the density of fruiting trees and lianas on islands 8 and 14, indicating that spiny rats may be seasonally food-stressed. The number of captures per individual was related positively to the density of spiny rats on island 52 and negatively on island 8 Results indicate that spiny rat populations must be sampled with greater intensity and duration than temperate forest rodents.
25790840|Many tropical mammals reproduce seasonally, although the circum-equatorial climate is more stable and less seasonal than that of temperate zones. The mechanisms underlying seasonal reproduction in the tropics remain enigmatic. Female reproduction and its relation to environmental factors were investigated in the Neotropical bat species Saccopteryx bilineata. Colonies consist of year-round stable groups of several females that are defended each by an adult male. Females give birth to a single offspring each year and it is suggested that mating is restricted to November and December. In this study, it was asked whether females of a Costa Rican colony come into oestrus around the same time each year and whether oestrus times are synchronized. Oestrogen and progesterone metabolites were monitored from faeces between October and January in four years. Oestrus was identified in 32 females. In addition, climatic factors such as rainfall and temperature were monitored at the study site. Results indicate that (1) females exhibit monoestry, (2) oestrus dates cluster around the first half of December, (3) reproduction is strongly seasonal and highly predictable and (4) oestrus times are possibly influenced by long-term cues like photoperiod and short-term cues like sudden changes in rainfall and temperature.
2560163|The scaling of crown size and trunk diameter with tree height (allometry) was determined for 14 common species of the tropical wet lowland forest at La Selva, Costa Rica. The study showed that allometric differences between species are related to adult size, regeneration niche (gap vs. non-gap) and longevity, as follows: (1) adults of understorey species are larger crowned than similar statured (6-15 m) saplings of canopy trees; (2) species commonly found in gaps as saplings are somewhat larger crowned than shade-tolerant species over the 1-6 m height range; and (3) long-lived canopy species show greater increases in crown breadth with increasing height than do short-lived species. Trunk allometry is related to mechanical requirements for support, including the need to withstand greater wind forces in the upper canopy The common canopy species, Pentaclethra macroloba, which comprises 40% of the basal area at La Selva, is particularly wide-crowned and thick-trunked at its maximum height On the other hand, the comparatively narrower crowns and trunks of the other canopy species allow them to reach a given height with less biomass. These differences in allometry may influence tree density and forest structure at La Selva
3068648|This study describes the fruiting phenology of woody plants and their dispersal syndromes in caatinga (semi-arid region in the northeast of Brazil). The fruiting phenology of 42 species with different dispersal modes and life-forms was followed over a period of 1 y. Animal dispersal was the most commonly observed dispersal mode (36%), followed by anemochory (33%), ballistic dispersal (19%) and barochory (12%). Overall, a greater number of species fruited during the rainy season. Zoochorous species were the most representative in the rainy season, whereas anemochorous species predominated during the dry season. Five different life-forms were observed, and the occurrence of dispersal modes was discussed for each of them. In the caatinga plant community studied the patterns of life-forms, fruiting phenology and seed dispersal syndromes were similar to other tropical seasonal ecosystems.
2559338|I provide evidence that migrating birds concentrate in tropical second-growth woodlands due, in part, to a greater abundance of small fruits. Migrant birds markedly increased in abundance during spring migration in late March in a young (approximately 25 years old) second-growth woodland in Panama. Migrant abundance and diversity was greater at mist-net level on the second-growth site than in nearby old forest. Diversity of canopy migrants also was greater in the young woodland than in an old second-growth forest. Thus, many migrant species appear to select young second-growth during spring migration in central Panama. Degree of frugivory by many migrant species was greater during migration than earlier in the dry season. Most migrants selecting the second-growth site were highly frugivorous and migrants accounted for most of the visits to common fruit species, but use of fruit trees appeared to be influenced by fruit size relative to gape width. Most migrants have mouths that are better suited to eating the small fruits predominating in young forest than the larger fruits characteristic of old forest. Abundances of bird-dispersed fruit plants and, particularly, those fruit species known to be eaten by migrants were greater in young than in old forest. The high food demands of migrating birds added to the high degree of frugivory of most migrants selecting second-growth forest suggests that the abundance of small fruits in second-growth may be a strong cause for habitat selection during migration.
2560137|The number of elephants living in the forests of Gabon was estimated by a stratified dung survey. The forest zone was stratified according to the distribution of the human population. The density of dung-piles was estimated for each stratum by the line-transect method. The total number of dung-piles in the forests of Gabon was estimated to be 52.43 x 10<sup>6</sup>  13.25 x 10<sup>6</sup>. This gave an elephant estimate of 61,800 20,200. This survey shows Gabon to have one of the largest elephant populations on the continent.
2559335|The movement and spatial distribution of marked Nile rats, Arvicanthis niloticus, was traced through phases of a low density population from January to August 1981, a rapidly growing population from September to January 1982, and a high and declining post-reproductive population from February to April 1982. Apart from late in the population cycle there was considerable movement, interchange and establishment of new ranges. As the population increased individual ranges became smaller. The rats apparently preferred field edges and did not favour the fields themselves. Females frequently established themselves at certain sites where they produced their litters; some of the offspring remained with the mother in the warren. There is also evidence that ousiders of both sexes joined these warrens. Males were generally more wide-ranging than females. Agricultural practices, e.g. mowing and trampling by cattle, influenced the rats preparedness to remain within a particular location. Exploitation of all the available habitat took several months to achieve.
2559949|At Los Tuxtlas, Mexico, presence of dung and carrion beetles, were sampled using baited pitfall traps, at the following habitats: isolated forest fragments, forest edges, plantations (coffee, cacao, mixed, citrus and allspice), live fences and pastures. A total of 14,269 beetles representing 36 species were captured. Onthophagus batesi, Canthon femoralis, Canthidium centrale, Copris laeviceps, O. rhinolophus and Deltochilium pseudoparile accounted for 75% of the captures in the overall sample from 79 sites. Across forest fragments capture rates of species and individuals were associated positively to area and negatively to isolating distance. Rarefaction analysis showed that forest fragments were the most species-rich habitats followed by the mixed and cacao plantations, the forest edge, live fences and coffee, citrus and allspice plantations. Pastures were the least species-rich habitat. Horizontal and vertical diversity of the vegetation at the habitats studied influenced the species richness of dung and carrion beetles and the number of species in common between forest fragments and human-made habitats. A significant relationship existed between the number of non-flying mammals recorded at the study sites and the richness of species and individuals of dung beetles at the habitats investigated. The relevance of this information is discussed in the light of the ecological flexibility of dung and carrion beetle species and of possible conservation scenarios involving landscapes in which isolation of forest fragments is reduced by the presence in open areas of human-made vegetation such as plantations of cacao, coffee, cacao and coffee and live fences.
2560017|Seed density and seed bank species composition were determined by germination trials on soils collected during the initial phase of deforestation in a Mexican tropical deciduous forest. The reference forest, pre-burn, 1-d post-burn, and 1-y post-burn soils contained 700, 1000, 70 and 3500 germinating seeds m<sup>-2</sup>, of 30, 30, 8 and 13 species, respectively. A total of 43 dicotyledonous species were identified. Percentages of herbs, vines, shrubs and small trees/shrubs were similar in reference forest, pre-burn, and 1-d post-burn soils; herbs were the most common growth form. Pasture conversion greatly altered seed bank species composition; 81% of the species that germinated from the seed bank before burning were absent from the seed bank 1 d after the fires. One-year post-burn soil was dominated by monocots; only 3% of the seedlings were herbs; no vines, small trees/shrubs or trees germinated. The reference forest and the pre-burn soils had 18 dicot species in common and the highest similarity index, 0.43; six of the shared species were herbs. One-day and 1-y post-burn soils had the lowest similarity index, 0.05. Burning the slashed forest and conversion to cattle pasture depleted the original seed bank, replacing it by one dominated by pasture grasses.
23012373|The pitchers of Nepenthes rajah, a montane carnivorous plant species from Borneo, are large enough to capture small vertebrates such as rats or lizards, which occasionally drown therein. The interactions of N. rajah with vertebrates, however, are poorly understood, and the potential mechanisms that lure vertebrates to the pitchers are largely unknown. We observed frequent visits (average: one visit per 4.2 h) of both the diurnal tree shrew Tupaia montana and the nocturnal rat Rattus baluensis to pitchers by infrared sensor camera and video recording. Both mammalian species often licked the inner surface of the pitcher lid, which harbours numerous exudate-producing glands. Analysis of volatiles extracted from the secretions of the pitcher lids by gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC/MS) revealed 44 volatile compounds, including hydrocarbons, alcohols, esters, ketones and sulphurcontaining compounds, which are commonly present in sweet fruit and flower odours. The faeces of small mammals were repeatedly observed inside the pitcher, whereas we found the body of only one Tupaia montana drowned in the 42, vital and reasonably large, surveyed pitchers. Our findings suggest that the N. rajah pitcher makes use of the perceptual biases of rats and tree shrews by emitting volatiles known from fruits. The profits that the plant obtains from the repeated visits of two small mammals, together with the provision of exudates for the mammals, comprise an exceptional case of plantvertebrate interaction.
3068679|Epiphyte diversity as well as distribution and composition of epiphytic biomass was investigated in two lowland and two montane rain forests in Ecuador. Species numbers of epiphytes per tree were slightly higher in the montane (22-41 in Los Cedros, 33-54 in Otonga) than in the lowland forests (9-43 in Yasuni, 19-32 in Tiputini), however differences were not significant. In contrast, some epiphyte families did show significant altitudinal differences. The total epiphytic biomass per branch surface decreased from the centre of the crown to the periphery, and was generally higher in the montane (6.0 kg m
3068615| Little is known about how climatic variability affects fragmented forests and their abrupt edges. We contrasted effects of the 1997 El Nio drought between fragmented and continuous forests in central Amazonia, using long-term data on tree mortality. For 23 permanent 1-ha plots, annualized mortality rates of trees  10 cm diameter at breast height (dbh) were compared among a 'baseline' interval of 5-17 y before the drought, a 12-16-month interval during the drought, and a 12-13-month interval after the drought, using repeated-measures ANOVA. We also examined the size distributions of dead trees for each interval. During the drought, average annual tree mortality rose significantly in both forest edges (from 2.44% to 2.93%) and interiors (from 1.13% to 1.91%), and the magnitude of this increase did not differ significantly between edges and interiors. After the drought, tree mortality declined in all plots, but most dramatically on edges. Mortality rates were more variable over time on edges than interiors, and there was no evidence of time lags in mortality. In forest interiors, the size distributions of trees that died did not differ significantly among the three intervals. On edges, however, relatively fewer small (10-15 cm dbh) and more medium-sized (20-30 cm dbh) trees died in the post-drought interval, compared to other intervals. Moreover, forest edges lost a significantly higher proportion of large ( 60 cm dbh) trees than did forest interiors. These results suggest that droughts have relatively complex effects on fragmented Amazonian forests. Drought effects in our forest fragments probably were reduced by prior floristic and structural changes near edges and by adjoining regrowth forest that partially buffered edge vegetation from desiccating conditions. 
4091915|We observed a period of famine in the lowland tropical rain forest of Sabah, Malaysia from August 1999 to September 2000. All six Malayan sun bears (Helarctos malayanus) that were captured and radio-collared were in poor physical condition, and two were later found dead. The physical condition of bearded pigs (Sus barbatus) that were captured, observed or photographed by camera traps also revealed that the pigs were in various stages of emaciation and starvation. We surmise that the famine resulted from prolonged scarcity of fruit during an intermast interval in the study area. These phenomena of emaciated animals and fruit scarcity have also been reported from other areas of Borneo. Lowland tropical rain-forest trees of Borneo display supra-annual synchronized general fruiting. We believe that the starvation we observed and the generally low density of large animals in Borneo forests is a consequence of a history of prolonged food scarcity during non-general-fruiting years, but may be accentuated by anthropogenic factors such as forest fragmentation, selective logging, and reduced density of fig trees in logged forests.
3068691|The relative effects of the elevational gradient and of environmental discontinuities (ecotones) on the structure of a herpetofaunal assemblage in a tropical upland forest were contrasted by means of canonical correspondence analysis. Qualitative descriptors were used to define the elevational positions of the ecotones of interest, namely transitions in forest type and presence/absence of water bodies. The elevational gradient was coded in a form that accommodated different types of community response. Analyses were run for four subsets of the entire assemblage: (1) reptiles, (2) amphibians, (3) amphibians dependent on streams for reproduction, and (4) amphibians that do not use streams for reproduction. All subsets showed a significant relationship with the gradient, which suggested that most species respond to the physical continuum associated with the change in elevation. A response to ecotones was revealed for the amphibian subset only and associated with the presence or absence of watercourses. However, this response disappeared within subsets 3 and 4. A variation partitioning analysis was used to assess the individual and common contributions of gradient and ecotone descriptors to the elevational variation in the structure of subsets 1 and 2. The gradient descriptors explained more variation in the reptile subset than did ecotones, while the reverse was found in the amphibian subset. The dependence of most amphibians on aquatic breeding sites that were not available at all elevations reduced the relative importance of the gradient on the species distributions in subset 2 and accounted for the difference to the reptiles. In all, these findings add to the results of previous null model tests on the same four subsets, where competitive interactions were assigned a minor importance in limiting elevational distributions. The response patterns revealed by the present approach, with ecotones and gradient contrasted in a single analysis, emphasised the role of individual responses to the gradient according to the species' physiological tolerance limits.
2559826|Effects of mammalian herbivory and seasonal drought were studied for Virola surinamensis (Myristicaceae) juveniles on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Seedlings were planted at three months of age and the juveniles were monitored for two years. Treatments included: intact plants protected from mammals by cages, defoliated plants similarly protected, and unprotected plants, each planted in treefall gaps, on gap edges, and in the shaded understorey. Juveniles planted in treefall gaps survived seasonal drought far better than those planted on gap edges or in shaded understorey. Two years after establishment, juveniles protected from mammalian herbivory showed a 78% survival in gaps (mean 6.8% skylight), 50% survival on gap edges (mean 3.0% skylight), and 33% survival in shaded understorey (1.4% skylight). This advantage was due to accelerated growth in gaps. Juveniles in gaps increased 616% in height, 1075% in leaf number, and 1800% in total leaf area. Comparable numbers in edges were 247%, 378% and 690%; in understorey 33%, 222% and 289%. Accelerated growth in gaps permitted yearlings to survive drought that killed suppressed yearlings in understorey. Mean light differentials as small as 0.6% and 0.3% skylight significantly influenced survival on edges and in shaded understorey, respectively. Mammalian herbivory killed juveniles directly, and defoliation by mammals strongly accentuated drought mortality by suppressing root development. Natural defoliation was not attributable to gap conditions. Demographic projections from experimental data suggest that mammalian herbivory kills at least 48% of the juveniles of this species over two years, and contributes to the death of 32% more that actually die of drought stress. These projections suggest that 14% of the juveniles of this species die of drought mortality, independent of herbivory, during the first two years. Herbivory most strongly affects plants < 0.5 m in height, and is a continuing source of mortality among suppressed juveniles in the understorey. Steep slopes and large seed size each enhanced juvenile growth and survival in the intermediate conditions of gap edges, but not under the extreme conditions of gaps or shaded understorey. The context of establishment determines the `shade tolerance' of this conspicuous canopy tree. Without serious mammalian herbivory or extreme dry seasons, V. surinamensis can easily recruit as a shade tolerant plant in the understorey. Under present conditions on Barro Colorado Island, it cannot. Persistence involves both the chances of arrival in different microhabitats, and survival therein. Projections that include both the forest area represented by gaps, gap edges, and understorey and the experimental results from this study indicate that juvenile V. surinamensis can survive for two years in gaps, edges, and understorey, but that the higher proportions of vigorous individuals survive in edges, gaps and understorey, respectively.
25562616|We studied the habitat use, activity patterns and use of mineral licks by five species of Amazonian ungulate using data from four 60-d camera trap surveys at two different sites in the lowland rain forest of Madre de Dios, Peru. Camera traps were set out in two regular grids with 40 and 43 camera stations covering an area of 50 and 65 km, as well as at five mineral licks. Using occupancy analysis we tested the hypothesis that species are spatially separated. The results showed that the grey brocket deer (Mazama gouazoubira) occurred almost exclusively in terra firme forests, and that the white-lipped peccary (Tayassu pecari) used floodplain forest more frequently during some surveys. All other species showed no habitat preference and we did not find any spatial avoidance of species. The white-lipped peccary, the collared peccary (Pecari tajacu) as well as the grey brocket deer were strictly diurnal while the lowland tapir (Tapirus terrestris) was nocturnal. The red brocket deer (Mazama americana) was active day and night. The tapir was the species with the highest number of visits to mineral licks (average 52.8 visits per 100 d) followed by the white-lipped peccary (average 16.1 visits per 100 d) and the red brocket deer (average 17.1 visits per 100 d). The collared peccary was only recorded on three occasions and the grey brocket deer was never seen at a lick. Our results suggest that resource partitioning takes place mainly at the diet level and less at a spatial level; however, differences in small-scale habitat use are still possible.
2559685|The germination response of Uraria picta to five environmental factors was investigated. It germinated both in light and dark but germination in the light was significantly better than in the dark; there was further germination when seeds first placed in the dark were later brought into the light. It germinated well in the three soil types used but germination in humus and sand was significantly better than in red earth. There was an increase in germination with an increase in burial up to 1.5 cm, thereafter germination levelled off. There was no germination in water-logged conditions and there was an increase in germination as soil moisture decreased. Alternating temperatures of 31/21<sup></sup>C and 31/15<sup></sup>C favoured germination while 21/15<sup></sup>C inhibited germination. The results are discussed in relation to the phenology and distribution of the species.
27751639|Population structure and dynamics of the black-cheeked gnateater (Conopophaga melanops) were studied at Salto Morato Nature Reserve, in Paran, southern Brazil, from October 2006 to September 2007. Territory size and population density, breeding season (timing and length), reproductive success and annual survival rates were estimated from sightings of 18 marked adult birds and the success of 18 nesting attempts. The black-cheeked gnateater is socially monogamous and territorial, with a breeding-season length of approximately 3 mo beginning in early October. Predation caused most nest failures, nest survival was 0.96 d1 and apparent annual nesting success was 22%, resulting in annual productivity of 0.36 individuals per adult. Apparent adult annual survival was 0.44 y1. Seventy-five per cent of fledglings survived at least 2 mo after fledging. Two methods of estimating population growth rate suggest very different rates: r = 0.04 ( stable), or  varies between 0.4750.616 (declining). Yet, low apparent adult survival suggests that territories are not permanent, perhaps abandoned after nest failure. We find that by estimating population growth, even in short-term studies, testable hypotheses can be generated that will allow better understanding of population dynamics.
2559588|Site data from 291 forest inventory plots in Mixed Dipterocarp Forest in central Sarawak were simplified by factor analysis. The distribution of the 33 commonest canopy tree species was related to site factor scores by `t' tests. There appears to be a degree of edaphic influence on the distribution of many species. Fairly constant soil characteristics related to the lithology of the parent material appear to be more important than ephemerally variable properties such as organic matter or exchangeable cations. Magnesium appears to be particularly important, possibly because of an effect on the capacity of mycorrhizal root systems to absorb phosphorus.
25562620|Vascular epiphytes can be quite abundant in vegetation close to the ocean surf, where they are exposed to a more or less continuous input of salt spray. The ecophysiological basis of their occurrence, i.e. salt tolerance or avoidance, is unresolved, because all previous studies were observational and conclusions thus circumstantial. Here, the effect of varying concentrations of salt water on germination, and growth and survival of seedlings and established plants was investigated in a growth cabinet study under controlled conditions. Seeds (1500), seedlings (750) and small tank plants (336) were from four populations of Werauhia sanguinolenta that were growing either close to the sea or inland in Panama. Changes of Na and K concentrations in plant tissue were also determined. No differences in the sensitivity to salt were found among populations, nor among life stages. External concentrations
2559493|The fate of mature Acacia tortilis pods on the tree and ground and A. nilotica pods on the ground were investigated at a site in South Africa. Pods on Acacia trees were browsed only by giraffe whereas pods on the ground were browsed by kudu, impala, steenbok and duiker. In the absence of giraffe most A. tortilis pods fell from the tree to the ground. When giraffe were present they consumed most A. tortilis pods at tree level. Bruchids infested 21.6-54.0% of seeds within pods on the tree. Once fallen, in the absence of browsing ungulates, A. tortilis and A. nilotica pod and seed disappearance could be attributed to burial by termites and ants, seed consumption by rodents and to decomposition; when browsing ungulates were present they consumed most pods on the ground. Between 20.0-47.6% of A. tortilis and 31.0-58.0% of A. nilotica seeds on the ground were infested by bruchids. Ungulate browsing had no effect on bruchid infestation of seeds. This study exemplifies the importance of browsing ungulates as consumers of Acacia pods. Although survival of A. tortilis and A. nilotica seeds was greatest in the absence of browsing ungulates the survival of seeds following pod consumption by ungulates is unknown.
4092016|The dependence of tree seedling survival and growth on light availability was evaluated over 15 mo in three second-growth, wet forest stands (15-18 y old) in north-eastern Costa Rica. Seedlings of four canopy tree species {Dipteryx panamensis, Hyeronima alchorneoides, Virola koschnyi and Vochysia guatemalensis) were planted into four canopy treatments in three replicated stands and in a pasture site, spanning a nearly complete gradient of light availability. Survival and growth of all species increased in response to increasing light availability, but species differed in survival in shaded microsites (6-20% light transmittance) and in growth increments per light increase. Hyeronima showed the highest mortality at low light levels and the highest relative height growth increase per light increase. In contrast, Virola showed high survival at low and moderate light, but showed the lowest leaf area and above-ground biomass per light increase among all species. Dipteryx and Vochysia maintained relatively high rates of survival and growth across the entire light gradient. Hyeronima and Virola showed trade-offs between growth and survival responses to light, unlike Dipteryx and Vochysia. Differences among species in seedling survival at low light may be determined by a variety of physiological and morphological traits that may or may not be mechanistically linked to growth responses.
4091865|Large-scale natural disturbances, such as hurricanes, can have profound effects on animal populations. Nonetheless, generalizations about the effects of disturbance are elusive, and few studies consider long-term responses of a single population or community to multiple large-scale disturbance events. In the last 20 y, two major hurricanes (Hugo and Georges) have struck the island of Puerto Rico. Long-term population trends of 17 species of terrestrial gastropod were evaluated to determine whether gastropods respond to hurricane disturbances in a consistent fashion. Some species increased, some decreased, and some exhibited no simple trend in density or spatial variability following disturbance. In addition, some species responded differently to the two hurricanes with respect to population density, absolute spatial variability, or relative spatial variability. Population responses probably hinge on trade-offs between sensitivity to microclimatic changes and resource availability resulting from the relocation of biomass from the canopy to the forest floor. The historical context within which a hurricane occurs may be as important, or more so, than the intensity of the storm, per se.
2559475|The present study showed that the density of germinable seeds in the soil of a humid tropical forest ecosystem at Nelliampathy, in the Western Ghats of Kerala in India, fluctuates sharply at different times of the year. There were more germinable seeds in the soil during the monsoon season. Regeneration was activated after canopy gap formation and thus a decline in the soil seed density in 1-year-old gaps was recorded. However, soil seed density increased with gap age. Differences were found between primary, late secondary and early secondary categories of species with respect to their soil seed bank. There were more seeds of primary species in the soil of natural gaps than in selection felled ones, while the seeds of early secondary shrubs and herbs were more in the soil of selection felled gaps than in natural gaps. The soil seed banks of the primary forest species, being transient, are not an important conservation tool for these species.
2560142|Diameter increments, recruitment and mortality were studied over a six-year period in a 3.02 ha sample in an area of 64 ha of undisturbed gallery forest alongside the Gama stream. The study site is located in Fazenda Agua Limpa in Brasilia, Federal District, Brazil. Trees 31 cm gbh (10 cm dbh) were measured every three years from 1985 in 151 (10 m x 20 m) permanent plots in Gama forest. The mean annual diameter increment for trees 10 cm dbh was 0.25 cm y<sup>-1</sup>. Variability was high with coefficients of variation c. 100% or more. Light-demanding and large upper storey species tended to grow faster than shade-tolerant and lower storey species. Mean increments for the community increased with increasing diameter classes. The mean annual mortality rate for the community was 3.5% y<sup>-1</sup> while the recruitment was 2.7%. The community was dynamic with 86% of all species either suffering mortality or gaining recruits or both during the six years. The net difference between recruitment and mortality was zero for 55 species. The recruitment compensated for the mortality of most of the abundant species.
25790844|We describe the spatial aggregation of the magpie goose (Anseranas semipalmata) in relation to the dynamics of the ephemeral floodplains of northern Australia. Past broad-scale studies have linked geese to floodplains dominated by the sedge, Eleocharis dulcis, but the type of response has not been determined, nor the impact of predation on food plants. Moreover, departure thresholds are not known. We develop hypotheses on aggregation and departure and confront these with field data. Thus, from 20052007 we established two sites on the floodplains of Kakadu National Park (three 1-ha plots per site, six plots in total) and used for monthly, dry season bird counts. An airboat was used to collect data from each of the six plots, including sedge tubers and measures of water level and soil viscosity. Further, we built exclosures (three per site, six in total) to test the impact of herbivory on E. dulcis. Generalized linear models and information theory were used to test the strength of supporting evidence for alternate hypotheses. Geese showed a clear aggregative response to E. dulcis tubers, were forced to depart following floodplain drying and had a marked impact on E. dulcis tuber density. Despite this, there was no evidence of a negative-feedback mechanism between plantherbivore populations, suggesting that the system is driven by extrinsic parameters (here rainfall).
2560165|To examine the potential contribution of herbarium material to the description and analysis of tropical tree phenology, flowering times and geographical distribution were graphed for 1673 flowering collections from 18 species native to Neotropical dry forests and phenological differences between species were analysed These include the timing and duration of flowering as well as morphological differences such as flowering on leafless twigs vs flowering on shoots bearing old or new foliage. Species-specific flowering periods of herbarium collections are similar to those observed in phenological field studies, but are often longer because of the larger geographical and temporal sampling range. Conspecific collections of different geographical origin show distinct differences in flowering periodicity, which are correlated with differences in the timing and intensity of the dry season Interspecific differences in the timing of phenology relative to the dry season indicate differences in the control of phenology by seasonal drought. Herbaria thus represent a large potential source of phenological information which can either supplement and extend phenological field studies or provide phenological information for dry forest species not studied in the field but well represented in herbarium collections
3068819|Like many other palms, Iriartea deltoidea undergoes ontogenetic transitions in leaf morphology. It has been asked whether the transition to adult leaf form in Iriartea was a fixed developmental pattern or a more plastic response to changes in environmental conditions, but studies so far have not resolved the question. We re-examined the question by taking measurements on palms growing under the full range of conditions experienced in the natural environment. Using trunk height as a surrogate variable for ontogenetic stage, we found that individual palms undergo the transition to adult morphology over a wide range of heights from < 10 m to > 20 m. Palms growing in gaps undergo the transition early, whereas those growing under a closed canopy undergo the transition late. Noting this, we asked whether the transition occurred in individuals that were growing faster than a critical minimum rate, and found no correlation between growth and morphological stage. A post-hoc hypothesis, that structural support of the crown (measured as trunk diameter) could limit or delay the transition, was confirmed. Our results indicate that multiple conditions must be satisfied before the transition can be completed. The complex requirements for leaf morphogenesis in Iriartea confer an ability to respond flexibly to spatially and temporally varying environmental conditions.
2559881|Throughfall and soil solution chemistry were studied for 1 y in a tropical montane forest in the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico. Passage of precipitation through the forest canopy resulted in an increase in the concentration and flux of all solutes except H<sup>+</sup> and NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>. Throughfall chemistry showed no strong seasonal patterns, but concentrations of many solutes declined during weeks of high rainfall. Enrichment in throughfall relative to precipitation was similar to values reported recently for several other tropical sites, with the exception of NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup>, which was particularly high at this site. Based on net throughfall deposition of Cl<sup>-</sup>, dry deposition of marine aerosols appears to be a relatively minor component (c. 15%) of total deposition. In soil solution, no seasonal patterns in concentration were evident and variability was highest for elements with high biological activity (especially N). Concentrations and fluxes of K<sup>+</sup> and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) showed the largest declines as throughfall passed through the soil profile; concentrations of most other elements increased or were relatively constant. Declining DOC flux through the soil profile appears to be due to sorption processes similar to those observed in many temperate forests. Concentrations and fluxes of HCO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> and SiO<sub>2</sub> increased substantially in soil solution, but never approached those observed in the stream. This suggests that additional weathering must occur as groundwater moves from this ridgetop site to the stream.
2559430|Many woody species in humid tropical forests synchronously flush entire canopies of young red leaves. Numerous unsuccessful attempts have been made to explain the adaptive value of this visually striking phenomenon. In the humid tropics, fungal attack is a potentially important source of mortality for expanding young leaves. We propose that the anthocyanins responsible for the red coloration of young leaves may play a protective role against invasions by leaf-attacking fungal pathogens. Fungus-growing leaf cutting ants (Atta columbica Guerin) were used in choice tests because they are known to select against leaves or chemicals containing fungicidal properties. In feeding trials with leaf discs from 20 common species, ant preference decreased significantly with increasing anthocyanin content. In feeding trials with pure anthocyanin (3,3',4',5,7-pentahydroxyflavylium chloride) presented on oat flakes, ants again showed a significant dosage dependent preference. This suggests that even low concentrations of anthocyanins may be harmful to the fungal colonies of ants. Additional work on the effects of anthocyanin on leaf-attacking fungi is encouraged.
2559266|Terrestrial ungulates use different strategies to cope with widespread annual flooding of the Amazon basin. Red brocket deer (Mazama americana) and collared peccary (Tayassu tajacu) retreat to floodplain islands and shift from a frugivorous to a woody browse diet. However, both white-lipped peccary (Tayassu pecari) and lowland tapir (Tapirus terrestris) diets are unaffected by inundations; in the case of white-lipped peccary because they migrate into and out of flooded areas and in the case of lowland tapir because of their semi-aquatic nature. These strategies of white-lipped peccary and lowland tapir enable them to exploit the greater fruit production of flooded forests more frequently than brocket deer and collared peccary.
4499094|Seedlings in tropical forests are ultimately the source of canopy trees, thus factors controlling their composition and growth potentially influence the composition of the forest. Seedlings are primarily limited by above-ground competition with trees, but below-ground competition is potentially also important. Over 4 y we experimentally reduced below-ground competition by trenching to 50 cm and reduced drought stress by irrigating in the dry seasons (6 cm every 2 d) in the understorey of a semi-evergreen rain forest in Panama. There were four irrigated plots and four unirrigated, in each plot there were eight subplots (four trenched, four untrenched); 32 seedlings (two per subplot) of each of four tree species were equally allocated to the four treaments; the four species were: Aspidosperma cruenta; Gustavia superba; Simarouba amara and Tachigali versicolor. Over all species together, trenching increased seedling height by 41% and leaf area by 140% over 4 y. The cause was likely to be increased nutrient supply, because the amounts of N, K and Ca were higher in trenched plants, though concentrations were not higher. Irrigation had no significant effect on growth. Irrigation, but not trenching, reduced seedling mortality. We conclude that below-ground competition was a major limitation for seedling growth for at least some common species (Gustavia and Tachigali in this experiment). More experiments are necessary to determine whether below-ground competition is also important in other tropical rain forests on fairly fertile soils.
27751657|Community structure and species' abundances may be strongly correlated to patterns of forest cover, although such patterns are poorly known for tropical dry-forest birds, especially for those in Panamanian dry forests. Birds were distance-sampled during point counts in five dry-forest fragments in Panama. Distance from point count to forest edge and forest coverage at three spatial scales (500, 1000 and 2000-m radius) were compared as covariate predictors of the abundance of avian species and guilds. Each covariate was selected in at least two models of species or guild abundance. Abundance patterns were consistent with previously reported habitat associations for only two of seven open-habitat or forest-preferring species that showed forest cover-abundance relationships. Null models best described the abundance of all forest species and the subset of uncommon forest species. Thus many of these species appear insensitive to the forest-cover gradients studied. Total abundance of open-habitat-preferring species increased in dry forests with increasing forest coverage within 500 m, suggesting that the relationship between their abundance and vegetation structure are spatial-scale and habitat dependent. Nectarivores had lower abundance as forest cover within 1000 m increased, supporting previous claims that this group is tolerant of forest edges.
2559323|An investigation of seasonal changes in litterfall in a dense stand of the invasive tropical shrub Mimosa pigra was carried out in northern Australia between October 1984 and December 1986. Total annual litterfall averaged 758 g m<sup>-2</sup>, close to the value predicted for the latitude and altitude of the site. Leaf litter formed 56.6% of this total, woody material 22.7%, and reproductive material 20.7%. Total litterfall was strongly seasonal, at a maximum in the late wet season or early dry season, and at a minimum late in the dry season. A broadly similar pattern was shown by the various components of the litter, except for woody litterfall, which followed no strong seasonal trend. Variation in the amount of available soil moisture, as calculated from a simple water balance model, accounted for much of the variation in the components of litterfall. The proportion of all initiated flower heads which produce seeds was estimated to be between 2.1 and 4.5%. The mean annual seed fall was 9103 m<sup>-2</sup>, nearly two orders of magnitude higher than most native shrub populations, and it is argued that this is partly a result of the absence of natural enemies in the introduced range.
2559250|Fleshy fruits collected from abundant woody plants on the Accra Plains, Ghana, were fed to frugivorous species common in the area. Seeds of each plant species were retrieved from each frugivore species for germination trials, and ingested seeds compared to fresh seeds in germination percentage and rapidity. Altogether 85 plant x animal feeding combinations were attempted. In 73% of trials, ingestion did not affect germination percentage; the remaining trials were about equally divided between significant increases and decreases. Ingested seeds had significantly faster germination in 12%, and significantly slower germination in 8%, of the trials. Germination percentages in all samples of fresh seeds (x = 37%) did not differ significantly from those ingested seeds (x = 31%). There was a significant association between the effect of ingestion on both germination rapidity and percentage (significantly increased, decreased, or neither) and the plant species involved; there was no such association between the effect of ingestion and the animal species. Animals had inconsistent and frequently negligible effects on germination. Two-way analyses of variance (plants x animals) of germination percentage and of germination improvement showed that plant species were a significant source of variation and animal species were not. The fleshy-fruited plants of this assemblage are not generally dependent upon animals for successful germination of their seeds.
23012379|We investigated the pollinator assemblage in Myristica dactyloides, a dioecious tree species occupying the intermediate canopy stratum of the mid- and high-elevation wet evergreen forests and endemic to Sri Lanka and the Western Ghats of India. We surveyed two populations and, in one of them, marked four male and three female trees for observations on floral display and insect foraging, and two female trees for experimental pollination. Yellow sticky traps were used to sample insects in the canopy during the flowering season of December 2007 in addition to direct observations of insect activity in 2006. Myristicaceae members from other tropical areas have been reported to be specialized to beetle pollination, but our observations provide evidence of a generalist pollination system in M. dactyloides, composed of small, diverse insects: thysanopterans (thrips), coleopterans (beetles), halictid bees and dipterans (syrphid and phorid flies). Quantifying floral display, we found that female inflorescences were smaller, offered no reward and attracted significantly fewer pollinators in comparison to male inflorescences. Fruit set was low and could be attributed to a 29% flower abscission and abortion of young fruits, but a reasonably high natural pollination efficiency combined with pollination experiments established that there was no pollination limitation in the study population.
4092004|The Hellshire Hills are an extensive area of tropical dry forest over limestone, located on the south coast of Jamaica. Despite being a protected area, they are subject to encroachment and clearance by charcoal burners, leaving a relatively pristine core within more disturbed areas of forest. Future management requires a consideration of the forest's resilience to such disturbance, and this study reports on seedling dynamics before and after different intensities of disturbance. The study was conducted within twelve 225-m
4092005|This study demonstrates that elephant seed-dispersal is vital for Balanites wilsoniana (Zygophyllaceae), a forest canopy tree with no other effective dispersers. Non-dispersed seeds suffered high mortality (84%) and low germination (3%). Elephants were reliable at visiting fruiting trees (46%), ingesting available seeds (55%) and dispersing the fruit crop (26%). Compared with unpassed seeds, seeds passed through an elephant's gut had improved germination (54.9% vs. 2.9%) and reduced time to germination (82 vs. 132 d). Given predation rates under parent trees, elephant gut passage is expected to improve absolute germination by 66%. When this change in germination is divided by germination of unpassed seeds, elephant gut passage is expect to improve relative germination by as much as 4000%. Although post-dispersal predation occurred in dung containing B. wilsoniana seeds, dispersed seedlings were abundant. Compared with seedlings under parent trees, dispersed seedlings had greater survival and height. Dispersed seedlings survived in a diversity of environments, thrived under high-light conditions, and were negligibly affected by post-dispersal density. Although elephants are not essential for B. wilsoniana germination, their actions greatly increase seedling establishment and move a large proportion of seeds. This high degree of effectiveness, together with very low non-dispersed seed survival, provides strong evidence that B. wilsoniana is dependent on elephants for its long-term persistence.
4499132|Spatial distributions of many tropical trees are skewed to specific habitats, i.e. habitat specialization. However, habitats of specialist species must be divergent, i.e. habitat divergence, to coexist in a local community. When a pair of species specialize in the same habitat, i.e. habitat convergence, they could not coexist by way of habitat specialization. Thus, analyses of habitat divergence, in addition to habitat specialization, are necessary to discuss coexistence mechanisms of sympatric species. In this study, the habitat specialization and habitat divergence along topographic gradients of eight sympatric tree species of the Fagaceae were studied in a 15-ha study plot in a tropical lower montane forest in northern Thailand. A statistical test with torus shift randomizations for 96 73 trees of Fagaceae revealed significantly biased distributions for all of the species, for at least one of the four topographic variables used: elevation, slope inclination, aspect and convexity. Slope convexity was the most critical topographic variable, along which all but one species had significantly skewed distributions. Out of 112 possible combinations of species pairs and topographic variables, 18 (16%) and two pairs (1.8%) showed significant habitat divergence and habitat convergence, respectively. The observed habitat divergence alone could not completely explain the coexistence of the eight species. There was a gradation in the habitat position of each species, with relatively large overlaps between species distributed in similar habitats, and small overlaps between species associated with contrasting habitats, respectively. The gradual changes in the habitats of the species suggested that dividing the species into a small number of distinct habitat groups, such as ridge and valley specialists, would not be straightforward.
4091897|Fog drip and related microclimatic factors were measured between January 1999 and December 2002 at a tropical seasonal rain forest in Xishuangbanna, South-West China. During the study period, the annual average fog drip was
2559259|The abundance and distribution of reptiles and amphibians inhabiting tropical monsoonal wetlands in Kakadu National Park, northern Australia, were monitored between late 1979 and 1982. Seasonal trends in species richness, and the influence of various environmental attributes (including those caused by feral ungulates) on species distribution patterns were also examined. These wetlands support a high proportion of the amphibian species known from the Park, but are of less importance to reptiles. Within the wetlands, the structurally more complex forested `margins' support many more species than the treeless floodplains. Amphibian species distributions seem to be influenced primarily by elevation, through its effects on soil moisture and flooding levels, while reptile distribution patterns reflect a more complex set of environmental factors, with structural attributes (e.g. vegetation height structure and cover, refuge abundance, leaf litter cover and depth, extent of flooding) being of prime importance. Feral buffalo and pigs, through their grazing, trampling and wallowing, may considerably influence such structural attributes and change the duration and extent of water lie, and thus indirectly affect species distribution patterns. Current buffalo culling programmes provide an opportunity to monitor vegetation and faunal changes, and quantify feral animal impact post facto.
2559739|The cohesion of the arthropod community associated with the rain forest tree Argyrodendron actinophyllum was studied in a warm subtropical rain forest in Australia. The distribution of most arthropods was contagious on the foliage of A. actinophyllum. Chewers and phloem-feeders were more clumped than epiphyte grazers and parasitoids. Arthropod predator-prey ratios were high and relatively constant over time, as revealed by measures of their activity. However, similar ratios in abundance and species-richness of arthropods foraging on foliage showed high variability in space and no consistent trends. Species associations on the foliage were difficult to predict and did not constitute either a single, well-united community or well-delimited subcommunities. Most of the data suggest that on the foliage of A. actinophyllum, the cohesion of the arthropod community is not extremely strong. Apart from methodological constraints, possible reasons for this include the influence of host-tree phenology, and the high arthropod-diversity of the rain forest environment.
2560176|Nests of a fungus-growing termite Macrotermes jeanneli discharge all their metabolic gases through a single outlet to the atmosphere. This made it possible to measure the production of metabolic gases, and the rates of water loss, for intact nests in the field. Rates of production of carbon dioxide and methane from isolated nest components (different termite castes and intact fungus combs) were measured Using previously published nest population data and fungus comb weights in relation to nest size, the expected gas production rates for intact nests were calculated. These estimates were compared with direct observations of the gaseous outflow from intact nests. The rates were in reasonable agreement, but some nests emitted excess carbon dioxide, probably produced by respiration of tree roots and non-termite soil organisms. Large nests may have a total gas outflow of 100,000 to 400,000 l d<sup>-1</sup> including 800 to 1500 l d<sup>-1</sup> of CO<sub>2</sub> and 0.5 to 1.3 l d<sup>-1</sup> of CH<sub>4</sub> Nests lose water at the rate of up to 13 l d<sup>-1</sup> gross, but allowing for ambient humidity the net water loss was up to about 5 l d<sup>-1</sup>. Some of this is metabolic water, but the larger proportion comes from the soil. Area-based estimates of gas production were made for this and two other species of Macrotermes, but they are not accurate because the field distribution and mound density are not adequately known.
40665239|At Lamto, little is known about animal community responses to habitat variability resulting from fires and the mosaic pattern of the vegetation in general and in particular about that of termites which play key roles in this ecosystem. With a standardized method, data were collected on termites from four habitats differing in their vegetation cover and fire-history: annually burned savanna, savanna woodland, forest island and gallery forest. A range of environmental variables was measured and correlated with species abundances. The number of termite species collected in the savanna woodland was very close to that found in the gallery forest while the forest island was the richest habitat. The species richness of the savanna woodland and forest island seemed partly due to their heterogeneous and transitional vegetation structures and variable food resources. With regard to the fire-history of habitats, Connell's intermediate disturbance hypothesis offers an explanation for differences in the patterns of habitatspecific species richness. Variation in species abundances was significantly correlated with only two environmental variables (soil pH and woody plant species richness). The pH appeared as the most influential factor for fungusgrowers while tree invasion in the savanna strongly reduces the abundance of grass-feeding species (e. g. Trinervitermes geminatus). Although not significantly correlated with species abundances, soil carbon showed a positive correlation with the dominant soil-feeder Basidentitermespotens. As for wood-feeders, they were not strongly correlated with woody plant species richness; this fact might be linked to their use for other sources of nourishment. Overall, it appears that habitat variability in the Lamto reserve contributes to the maintenance of different subsets of the termite community.
3068642|The suitability of several methods for estimating light conditions in the understorey of tropical forests, and of different sampling schedules was evaluated. Light conditions at 16 understorey sites in a Panamanian lowland forest were continuously measured for 9 mo with quantum sensors and photodiodes. Light conditions at the sites were also assessed indirectly with hemispherical fisheye photographs, plant canopy analysis, 38-mm photographs, 24-mm photographs and a spherical densiometer. Estimates from all indirect methods, except the spherical densiometer, were highly correlated with the direct measurements. Short-term direct light measurements for a day or a week also correlated with long-term light conditions. The indirect measures differed by up to c. 70% from the direct measures relative to single site measurements. Hence, the indirect methods are inadequate where single site light conditions have to be assessed accurately. However, because light conditions encountered in the understorey varied up to 13-fold, the indirect methods were found to be well suited to rank understorey light conditions among a large number of sites. The results from frequent and infrequent sampling schedules differed only slightly, suggesting that taking indirect measures at the beginning and the end of a study offers a reasonable compromise between accuracy and sampling effort.
4091932|Secondary succession was studied in a Mexican cloud forest region along a chronosequence of 15 abandoned pastures (0.2 5-80 y). Our objective was to determine the effects of distance from the forest border on successional vegetation structure and woody species richness along the chronosequence. Vegetation structure similar to that of mature forests recovered over 40-50 y, both close to (0-10 m) and away from (40-50 m) the border. Total woody species richness was similar for both distances but species composition differed significantly. When primary forest species were analysed separately, basal area, height, abundance and richness were all significantly higher close to the forest border. Primary species such as Quercus spp. (barochorous-synzoochorous) and Carpinus caroliniana (anemochorous) had lower basal area, density and height away from the border than close to it. Secondary species such as Lippia myriocephala (anemochorous) and Myrsine coriacea (endozoochorous) did not differ in their rate of colonization between distances. The limitation of seed dispersal and establishment for primary woody species away from forest borders suggests that propagules need to be introduced to accelerate forest restoration.
3068755|Nutrient inputs into tank bromeliads were studied in relation to growth and productivity, and the abundance, diversity and biomass of their animal inhabitants, in three forest types along an elevational gradient. Concentrations of phosphorus, potassium and calcium in canopy-derived debris, and nitrogen and phosphorus in phytotelm water, declined with increasing elevation. Dwarf forest bromeliads contained the smallest amounts of debris/plant and lowest concentrations of nutrients in plant tissue. Their leaf turnover rate and productivity were highest and, because of high plant density, they comprised 12.8% of forest net primary productivity (0.47 t ha
2560177|The demographic history of a flower-cohort of the tropical tree Dicymbe altsonii (Caesalpiniaceae) was studied by collecting litter from flowers, fruits and seeds, and by monitoring seedling survival. Flower production was estimated at 137 to 172 m<sup>-2</sup> in a plot of 1 ha Four percent of the flowers yielded a pod, which contained an average of 2.0 seeds Post-dispersal mortality over 3 mo was 39% of the initial number of dispersed seeds. Most flowers and fruits were aborted Insect and vertebrate predation in the tree and on the ground was very low Reproductive litter production of this species was estimated to be equal to leaf litter production. The amount of phosphorus lost in litter from fruits and flowers was much larger than in leaf litter. This implies that the impact of the biennial flowering events on the nutrient dynamics of the trees and of the ecosystem may be large It is argued that the reproductive cycle and the pre-dispersal demography of Dicymbe seem to be determined by a scarcity of nutrient resources, and possibly by pollinator limitation.
25172923|Although herbivores may account for a significant source of seed and seedling mortality in many tropical tree species, plant species differ in their response to seed damage. Here we investigate the relative effects of seed predation on the regeneration of five tree species in a mid-elevation Papua New Guinean rain forest. Exclosure treatments and shade-house experiments were monitored from November 2004 to March 2006 to assess the differential effects of seed predation on seed viability and seedling growth. Results indicate that although seed predators attack all five focal species, they influence the seedling populations in two, Cerbera floribunda and Microcos grandiflora, and minimally affect the seedling populations of Terminalia impediens, Pandanus penicillus and Endiandra latifolia in the years measured. Predation and germination frequencies were compared to the abundance of focal species at several life stage classes to explore potential correlations between species-specific seed mortality patterns and life stage distributions. We found that the species-specific influence of mammalian seed predators correlated with abundance distributions in three life stages. Species with high survivorship after seed predator attacks displayed a significant decrease in abundance from the seedling-to-sapling transition, while those species with high seed mortality demonstrated relatively even distributions of seedlings, saplings and adults (&gt; 10 cm dbh). These contrasting patterns suggest that differential seed predation effects on regeneration may play a key role in the recruitment of individuals to the sapling stage.
40665238|Environmental factors influencing grass establishment and performance in tropical savannas are poorly understood, particularly in relation to disturbance. We describe a seed sowing experiment that examined the effects of fire regime, canopy cover and litter cover on the emergence, establishment, height and fecundity (seed production) of the regionally dominant annual grass Sorghum intrans in northern Australia. Establishment was significantly lower under the woody canopy compared with canopy gaps, and where seeds were sown on a layer of litter compared with bare soil.However, variation in fire regime had no significant effect on establishment or seed production. Additionally, a shadehouse experiment was conducted to test the effects of litter on seedling emergence of S. intrans and six other grass species representative of the local flora (Pseudopogonatherum contortimi, Sorghum plumosum, Chrysopogon latifolius, Eriachne triseta, Heteropogon triticeus and Alloteropsis semialata). AU species showed reduced emergence when sown either above or below litter, compared with bare soil. Our results demonstrate the importance of the overstorey as a determinant of S. intrans abundance and savanna grass composition more generally, through its effect on establishment. The aversion of savanna grasses to litter (and S. intrans to canopy shading) supports the notion of savanna species being highly adapted to disturbance.
2560243|Two synthetic DNA probes composed of tandemly repeated `core' sequences (GACA and GATA) were used to examine genetic diversity at multiple variable-number-tandem-repeat (VNTR) loci within and among four spatially isolated Philippine populations of Rubus moluccanus L. (Rosaceae), an uncultivated bramble widely distributed throughout southeast Asia - Malesia. Central goals were to determine whether apomictic propagation was detectable in R moluccanus and to examine whether populations isolated on separate islands, or on mountain tops on a single island, were genetically differentiated Sampling 22 individuals per population, the findings include: (1) no two individuals shared identical VNTR band profiles and thus apomictic propagation was not detected; (2) the mean number of bands scored per individual was 24.3 (SD = 3.91) and the proportion of polymorphic loci within populations ranged from 0 69 to 1.00 (mean = 0 86  SD = 0.085); (3) the average proportion of bands shared between individuals within populations ranged from 0.39 to 0.67 (0.50  0.067), while average interpopulation similarity ranged from 0.21 to 0.50 (0.32  0.092); and (4) estimated heterozygosity within populations ranged from 0 42 to 0.79 (0.62  0.083), while interpopulation heterozygosity ran from 0.62 to 0.81 (0.74  0.062) Permutation tests were used to estimate the statistical significance of differences in similarity between populations. A Luzon population isolated by 1200 km was always significantly different in similarity tests when compared with each of the other three populations, all located on Mindanao (and separated by at least 100 km but less than 250 km) Of the latter three, only one population differed significantly from the other two in the degree of VNTR markers shared, possibly reflecting biogeographic partitioning suggested for the island. Across all populations, average estimated Fst was 0.154, although mean inter-island Fst (0.224) was significantly higher than mean intra-island Fst (0.085). These results suggest that, while intra-island gene flow is relatively high, significant differentiation of tropical species may occur even over short distances on individual islands Preservation of only a limited number of populations may result in a significant loss of genetic diversity in such species.
2559356|The Auchenorrhyncha community within the understorey of a montane monsoon rain forest in Vietnam is described. It was highly diverse, with 328 morphospecies in a sample of 1611 specimens. The community was variable in species composition with respect to space (between sites 1-5 km distant) and time (between early and late wet seasons). Differences in species composition attributable to spatial heterogeneity and to seasonal variation were of a comparable magnitude when examined by the CCA ordination. Auchenorrhyncha density, estimated by sweeping, was generally low, at 1 to 2 individuals m<sup>-3</sup> of vegetation. There was a negative correlation between the species' population size in the early and the late wet seasons.
2559712|Earth mounds are important determinants of vegetation pattern in savannas, acting as foci for establishment of woody plants. In the Kenya highlands, mounds formerly attributed to termites have recently been found to be Mima mounds produced by rhizomyid mole rats. We investigated Mima mounds on black cotton soils near Kenyatta International Airport and on brown clay soils between Nairobi and Thika. At Kenyatta Airport, mounds had loamier, more granular soils than intermounds, and contained small rocks that mole rats can move. At the site between Nairobi and Thika, mound soils were more friable, higher in pH, and lower in carbon than intermound soils. Data from this and other studies indicate that Mima mound soils are more favourable for plant growth than those of true termite mounds. Mound vegetation exhibited lower coverage of grasses and greater coverage by forbs, shrubs, and bare ground, a pattern indicative of intense grazing and soil disturbance. Acacias, absent from most mounds, were abundant in the zone bordering the mound. This pattern may reflect the favourability of mound soils, combined with the effects of high grazing pressure. Future studies of savanna vegetation should distinguish between termite mounds and Mima mounds.
2559731|This study demonstrates that forest elephants (Loxodonta africana) play a key role as seed dispersal agents for the upper canopy forest tree, Balanites wilsoniana. Seed that passed through elephants had a much greater probability of germinating (50.7%) than seeds from fruits collected directly from the tree (3%). Of 515 seeds that were collected from under parent trees, 89.1% were rotten at the time of collection, 2.6% had been eaten by forest pigs, 2.8% had been killed by squirrels, and 0.7% had been killed by insect damage. The remaining 4.8% of the seeds were still alive. In 150 hours of focal observations on B. wilsoniana trees, two fruits were seen to be destroyed by squirrels, no fruits were seen to be consumed by potential dispersers, and no evidence of scatter hoarding was found. Experimental seedling stations placed out under parent trees and away from parent trees indicated no significant effect of dispersal on seedling survival. Although elephants are not essential for the successful germination of B. wilsoniana seeds, they do greatly increase probability of germination and play a vital role in their dispersal, suggesting that this is a highly interdependent plant-animal seed dispersal system.
2559896|The fate of seeds of eight tree species was followed during 4 y of storage in the soil of an Afromontane forest at Gara Ades in the eastern highlands of Ethiopia. Seeds were enclosed in nylon mesh bags and buried at 5 cm soil depth. The bags were exhumed at intervals and the viability of the seeds was assessed by germination and cutting tests Seeds of Bersama abyssinica and Ekebergia capensis germinated in the soil almost completely within a year after burial The seeds of Juniperus procera, Olea europaea and Podocaipus falcatus also germinated to a substantial degree in the soil but with a distribution over several years, and some seeds of these species remained viable at the end of the 4-y period Germination in the soil was very low in seeds of Acacia abyssinica and Croton macrostachyus throughout the whole burial period and the seeds kept their viability. In C macrostachyus fresh seeds were highly dormant, but after 3 y or more in the soil they germinated readily in the laboratory suggesting an altered dormancy with time in the soil Dormancy in seeds of A. abyssinica and Indigofera rothii was not altered throughout the study period as evidenced by marginal or no germination during incubation in the laboratory The differential seed behaviour observed during storage in the soil can be an indicator of the regeneration strategy of the species studied B abyssinica, E capensis, J. procera, O europaea and P falcatus form seedling banks on the forest floor and lack persistent soil seed reserves in contrast to A. abyssinica, C macrostachyus and I. rothii which accumulate reserves of long-lived seeds in the soil The generally high levels of dormancy and somewhat extended viability in the soil, even in several of the species producing seedlings in undisturbed forest, may have been selected for under a climate of seasonal drought and unreliable rainfall that characterizes this region.
3068631|Throughfall volume and interception of bulk precipitation events were measured during individual rain events of differing magnitudes in a primary wet tropical forest at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. The relationship between canopy structure and throughfall were examined to identify key sources of spatial variation. Geostatistical analyses were also used to examine the spatial variation in throughfall, spatial autocorrelation and to determine minimum distances for independence of collectors. Throughfall volume was collected from 56 ground-based (funnel-style) collectors. Throughfall was collected for 26 separate precipitation events during July and August 1998. Per cent cover, distance to nearest tree, distance to nearest leaf were also estimated for each collection point. A weak relationship was found with per cent cover r
25172959|Spatial distribution patterns and habitat associations of Fagaceae species in a Fagaceae-codominated hill forest in Sumatra were investigated. Ten Fagaceae species believed to be zoochorous (animal-dispersed seed) and five codominant canopy and emergent anemochorous (wind-dispersed seed) species from Anacardiaceae and Dipterocarpaceae were studied. Five Fagaceae species and all codominant anemochorous species were significantly aggregated while the other five Fagaceae species showed a random distribution pattern. The median distance of small saplings from the nearest reproductively mature tree tended to be shorter for aggregated species than spatially random species. This implied that some Fagaceae species dispersed over longer distances than anemochorous species. Relationships between four habitat variables and distribution of the target species were examined with torus-translation tests. Three Quercus and one Lithocarpus species showed positive habitat associations. Two Quercus species aggregated at the preferred habitat, but the others were randomly distributed. Thus tree species with specific habitat preference do not only aggregate at the preferred habitat. The three ridge-specialist Quercus species showed gradual changes in habitat association, which could reflect avoidance of competition among the species. Most of the Lithocarpus species showed little correlation with habitat variables. Coexistence of the three Quercus species partly reflected subtle differences in topographical preferences. Distribution of five of the six Lithocarpus species was unrelated to topography, so other mechanisms must be sought to account for the maintenance of coexistence in this species-rich genus.
2560038|Frugivorous butterflies were studied in a set of forested islands (0.1 to 1.15 ha) in a reservoir in eastern Venezuela to investigate the effects of fragmentation and the resulting isolation on their abundance, diversity and species composition. While some islands showed reduced abundance and species diversity in comparison to unfragmented (or control) sites, others did not. Isolation status affected both butterfly abundance and diversity. Islands located close to their colonizing sources (0.1-1 km) tended to support similar densities of butterflies but lower numbers of species in comparison to control sites. Far fragments (1-3 km from their colonizing sources) tended to harbour lower butterfly densities in comparison to control sites but undiminished numbers of species. Species composition varied significantly between control sites and islands and amongst control sites, near islands and far islands. Interspecific differences were observed in species' responses to fragmentation. Charaxines, medium-sized satyrines, morphines and brassolines may be vulnerable to extinction after habitat fragmentation while small-sized satyrines may be relatively resistant. Observations during the dry season indicate that butterfly species may exist as mainland-island metapopulations in Lago Guri, in which small habitat fragments require recolonization every year from source populations in large islands and mainland habitat.
2559477|Numbers of lianas 2 cm gbh were recorded on trees 30 cm gbh in two 4 ha plots of dipterocarp forest. Associations between lianas and trees of the 12 commonest families and 16 commonest species were analysed. Liana density was 882 ha<sup>-1</sup>. Fifty-seven per cent of trees supported lianas and the mean number lianas per tree was 2.1. Lianas were highly aggregated on individual trees in most families; numbers of lianas per tree followed the negative binomial distribution for the Dipterocarpaceae but not Euphorbiaceae. Dipterocarpaceae and Euphorbiaceae differed in susceptibility, with 41 and 64% of their trees respectively supporting lianas. The proportions of trees with lianas (i.e. % trees laden) were correlated between plots at the species, but not the family, level. They were not related to tree girth; differences in proportions between families and species were maintained for trees in the 30-40 cm gbh class. At the species level, proportions of trees with lianas and the mean number of lianas per tree were significantly inversely correlated with mean branch-free bole height of trees in the 30-40 cm gbh class. Increased branch-free bole height and associated branch shedding may therefore decrease the susceptibility of trees to lianas and explain the lower susceptibility in the Dipterocarpaceae than the Euphorbiaceae.
2559507|A unique stand of mangroves of the genus Bruguiera occurs on the shore terrace at Hosnies Spring, Christmas Island, Indian Ocean. The mangrove stand, of about 0.33 ha, occurs 120 m inland and over an elevational range of 13 m, from 24 to 37 m above sea level. It is flooded by freshwater from a spring which trickles over a partially-cemented calcsinter concretion gravel with mud. Trees reach 30-40 m high, and 80 cm diameter breast height. The size structure is bimodal with few trees in the 10-25 cm dbh size classes, but abundant propagules, seedlings and saplings. The shore terrace contains corals, some in their position of growth, and has been shown by Uranium-series dating to be Last Interglacial in age. Several alternative explanations of how the mangroves reached this site are examined. One explanation is that this stand of mangroves has persisted at the site for approximately 120,000 years since the Last Interglacial. While this cannot be proved it does appear that the stand is relict and is actively regenerating in this unusual location.
2560256|Seasonal variation in the consumption of cactus fruit by the bat Glossophaga longirostris was related to the availability of this resource in the arid pocket of Lagunillas in the Venezuelan Andes When fruits were scarce, G longirostris ate items not preferred in other seasons The intraspecific flowering periods of the most common cactus species, Stenocereus griseus and Subpilocereus repandus, were synchronized but the number of flowers open per night was low S. griseus and S repandus had separate flowering and fruiting periods, possibly to reduce competition for dispersers and pollinators while providing food resources for bats throughout the year G longirostris is bimodally polyestrous with extended reproductive periods, probably as a response to the continual availability of cactus flowers and fruits A strong interdependence between columnar cacti and G. longirostris was demonstrated Sexual reproduction of the cacti would be greatly reduced without the bats, which in turn could not live in the arid study area without the food sources provided by these cacti.
4091823| We investigated the effects of rainfall on the distribution and abundance of the satyrine butterfly Ragadia makuta in selectively logged and unlogged forest on Borneo. In 1997-98, there was a severe El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) drought, and annual surveys over a 4-y period showed that abundance of R. makuta was greatly reduced during the drought, but that populations quickly recovered after it. Monthly surveys over a 12-mo period of typical rainfall showed that high rainfall in the month preceding surveys significantly reduced butterfly abundance. Butterfly abundance and distribution did not differ between selectively logged and unlogged areas in either monthly or annual surveys and there was no difference between selectively logged and unlogged areas in the pattern of post-drought recovery. These results indicate that the abundance of R. makuta was significantly reduced both after high rainfall and during severe drought, but that these impacts were short-lived and were not affected by habitat disturbance. ENSO droughts on Borneo naturally often lead to widespread forest fires and thus impacts of ENSO events for butterflies are more likely to be due to indirect effects of habitat loss, rather than direct effects of drought on butterfly population dynamics. 
4499068|The proliferation of climbers can have deleterious effects on tree regeneration, especially in forest canopy gaps where climbers increase in abundance. In response to the colonization by climbers, the supporting tree can suffer a reduction in growth and its allometric relationships may be modified. We evaluated the effects of three species of climber on the performance of the pioneer tree Ceiba pentandra in a moist semi-deciduous tropical forest in Ghana. In each of three gaps, four plots were set up, each with eight Ceiba seedlings paired with a single plant of one of three climber species, planted within 5-10 cm of the tree seedling, plus a control (no climber). The climber species were: Centrosema pubescens, a nitrogen-fixing woody climber; Combretum racemosum, a woody climber and Dioscorea praehensilis, an herbaceous climber. After 12 mo, Centrosema and Combretum had about four to five times more biomass than Ceiba seedlings. There was no effect of climber competition on Ceiba biomass growth, and no relationship between climber biomass and Ceiba growth rate. Individual climber species, however, had other effects: Combretum caused a significant reduction in the height and diameter growth of Ceiba, whilst competition with Centrosema was associated with significant reduction in the crown area and increase in internode length in Ceiba. The results indicate that even very different climber species appear to cause negative effects on trees during regeneration.
4499065|Studies in western Amazonian forests have found that similarities in soil cation concentration and texture explain floristic similarities between sites, when these are measured using trees, pteridophytes or Melastomataceae. However, it is not known to what extent the three plant groups react to the same soil characteristics, because tree studies have almost always been conducted in different areas than studies on the understorey plant groups. We made inventories in 23 sites representing non-inundated rain forests on clayey to loamy soil in three regions of western Amazonia. Significant Mantel correlations between the floristic patterns of trees and pteridophytes were found in all three regions when floristic differences were measured with species presence-absence data. When species abundance data were used, and when the floristic patterns of trees and Melastomataceae were compared, significant correlations were found in one or two regions. Mantel correlations between plant groups were highest in the two regions where the observed variation in soil characteristics was largest. In all regions, the same soil variables emerged with significant Mantel correlations with trees, pteridophytes and Melastomataceae. Soil calcium and magnesium were most frequently retained in the models of multiple regression on distance matrices. On average, soil differences explained 50% of the variation in floristic differences (range = 14-84%), and geographical distances explained 16% (range = 0-64%). Our results demonstrate that beta diversities of the three plant groups are highly correlated, and that much of this congruence is explained by similar reactions to soil variation. These results support the idea that pteridophytes, and to a lesser degree Melastomataceae, can be used as indicators of general floristic and edaphic patterns in Amazonian rain forests. Since understorey plants are much quicker to inventory than trees, this would make it possible to recognize and map floristic patterns over huge areas of lowland Amazonia within a reasonable time.
2559982|A 100-ha quadrat of primary rainforest in French Guiana was censused over two consecutive years by the mapping method, and a 24-ha core area was intensively mistnetted at the same time. More extensive surveys were conducted in successively larger areas including up to a large part of the forested interior of the country. From a total of 441 resident species found in the rainforest zone, 248 were regularly recorded within the 100-ha plot, 157 of which had mean densities of more than 1 pair km<sup>-2</sup>. The total estimated density of birds was at least 829 pairs km<sup>-2</sup>. Only two dominant species exceeded 20 pairs km<sup>-2</sup>, while 52% of all the species were represented by less than 2 pairs km<sup>-2</sup>. The distribution of body masses and niche characteristics among the bird community is given as well as the sample bias of the mistnet captures. Rare species were a key component of this primary rainforest community. Several patterns of rarity were described and no marked and constant relationships were found between rarity and body size, habitat, diet, foraging behaviour or social system. Among a wide set of environmental constraints, the population of each species may be limited by a different combination of factors. Habitat heterogeneity, low, irregular and seasonal food availability, interspecific competition or heavy predation pressure were prominent and likely causes of the low density of most species which in turn facilitated the high species richness.
4091850|Dryobalanops rappa (Dipterocarpaceae), a dominant tree in wetland forests in Borneo, often produces vegetative sprouts in its juvenile stages (trees less than 25 m in height), a characteristic that is believed to be rare in tropical forest trees. We investigated the growth characteristics of this species in a tropical forest in Merimbun Heritage Park, Brunei, to verify the hypothesis that the vigorous sprouting ability enables it to grow in a wetland forest with soft soils that promote stem decumbency and to assess the adaptive significance of vegetative sprouting in the context of its regeneration. Reproductively mature trees developed buttresses and were rarely decumbent. However, if they became decumbent, they died without sprouting. Juvenile trees were frequently decumbent, and their decumbent shoots sprouted vegetatively. Therefore, vegetative sprouting acted as a countermeasure to decumbency and death on the soft wetland soil. A decumbent shoot produced only one sprout in most cases. Decumbent shoots grew little and eventually died, but new sprouts showed rapid growth. This suggests that there is translocation of resources from decumbent shoots to sprouts. If decumbency occurs, a D. rappa genet ramifies into sprouts, and helps sustain the population in the wetland environment. This vegetative life history strategy is important for regeneration in wetland forests with soft soil.
4092035|Relative size at onset of maturity (RSOM) is defined as size at first reproduction divided by asymptotic maximal size. RSOM is remarkably constant among species within many higher clades of animals, but varies widely among tree species from the Pasoh Forest Reserve, Malaysia according to the work of S. C. Thomas. RSOM was examined for 16 mid-storey and canopy tree species from a second tropical forest at Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama. Interspecific variation in RSOM was equally large for BCI and Pasoh and was unrelated to gap dependence or life form for BCI species. The shape of the relationship between size and the proportion of individuals that were reproductive differed between forests, with an abrupt increase over a narrow range of sizes at Pasoh and a more gradual increase over a wider range of sizes at BCI. Both overtopping trees and heavy liana infestation reduced the probability that BCI trees were reproductive. This presumably reflects reduced availability of carbon for reproduction. We speculate that greater liana loads and a greater abundance of large, shade-casting trees at BCI may increase variation among individuals and contribute to the relatively wide range of sizes characterized by a mixture of sterile and fertile individuals observed for most BCI species.
25172927|The production and predictability of nectar resources in a population of Stachytarpheta glabra (Verbenaceae) and their use by insects and hummingbirds on ironstone outcrops in south-east Brazil were investigated. The phenology, density, nectar production, reproductive biology and floral visitors were studied, as well as territory size and daily nectar consumption by its main pollinator, Colibri serrirostris. The plant is abundant in the area, aggregated, and has a long flowering period, with very variable daily flower output. Although it can self-fertilize, it requires a pollen vector. Insect visitors totalled 21 species of bees and lepidopterans, including both pollinators and nectar robbers. Individuals of C. serrirostris defend their territories against other hummingbirds and large insects. Nectar production per hummingbird territory (mean size c. 462 m) was estimated as 68.6-104 mL d in dense areas at the flowering peak, an amount well above the estimated daily consumption of 13 mL by territory holders. Still, defence of large areas seems necessary to reduce nectar theft and cope with spatial resource unpredictability. Phenological characteristics, high density, and the fact that plants are perennial make S. glabra an attractive resource for nectar-feeders in general, and the main long-lasting nectar source for hummingbirds in the area.
4091888| The basis of obligate epiphytism remains poorly understood. In this study we compare mortality, growth and fecundity for two populations of the epiphytic bromeliad Tillandsia brachycaulos in Yucatn. The fate of dislodged individuals of Tillandsia brachycaulos was compared with that of specimens anchored on tree bark in a dry forest in south-east Mexico. Annual percentages of dislodgement differed among location on phorophytes and epiphyte life stage, ranging from 1% on primary branches to 32% on quaternary branches, and from 7% for adult ramets to 64% for seedlings. Fallen versus attached individuals exhibited different mean annual leaf production, 18 and 21 leaves per individual respectively. The same pattern was observed for capsule (0 and 1.04  1.09 capsules per individual) and ramet production (0.01  0.08 and 0.54  0.68 ramets per individual). Annual percentage mortality was different for fallen (92%) and attached individuals (72%). The plants on the ground and those still anchored to hosts performed differently in ways that help explain why this bromeliad is an obligate epiphyte at the study site. More fundamental causes for its obligate status are also considered. 
25562635|Fallen tree trunks ('nurse logs') are important recruitment sites for trees in temperate forest, however nurse log use is seldom reported in tropical forests. We predicted that logs should be important for the regeneration of small-seeded tropical pioneer species because surface leaf litter and competition with established vegetation reduces the establishment success of these species from soil seed banks. In a survey on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, we found that pioneer seedlings were present on logs in 40 of 95 recent treefall gaps. In gaps where seedlings were present on logs, seedling density was not significantly different from adjacent areas of soil. However, species composition was significantly different; logs were disproportionately colonized by smaller-seeded and wind-dispersed species. In growing-house experiments using 12 species, we found that wood substrate had little effect on seed germination. In contrast, seedling growth was 50% lower on decayed wood than soil. Furthermore, species growth rates on wood were not significantly correlated with growth rates in soil (df = 10, r = 0.48). If establishment on logs eventually leads to recruitment to the forest canopy, then logs may promote the maintenance of diversity by favouring a different group of species from those that recruit in soil.
4092082|The abundance and species richness of highly social bees (Apinae: Meliponini, Apini) were studied at 12 dipterocarp forest sites in Sabah, northern Borneo, using standardized honey-water baiting assays. The 12 sites were grouped in five localities varying in the degree and history of disturbance from selective logging. A baiting assay consisted of spraying diluted honey on vegetation along transects and recording bee arrival on the same day. Repeated assays of the same sites were run in two consecutive years, 1998 and 1999. One-way repeated-measures ANOVAs were calculated on bee abundance and species richness, with locality and year as independent factors. There were significant or marginally significant effects of forest locality on all measures of bee abundance and species richness. However, there were also significant interactions between year and locality on these variables, thwarting conclusions on the effects of logging on bee communities. The diverging results of the two years are likely related to spatio-temporal variation of flowering activity prior to and during the assays, with between-year differences being amplified by pronounced differences in climatic conditions (ENSO). Local or regional differences in flowering phenology complicate the application of resource-based baiting techniques for between-site comparisons of bee diversity.
2559261|The permanence and stability of 20 territories of the dikdik Rhynchotragus kirki, were studied at Arusha National Park Tanzania. Response criteria included the structure, size and vegetation attributes of territories, density of dikdik, and spatial distances between neighbouring territories. Fourteen of the territories studied were spatially fixed and stable while six were unstable. Two of the unstable territories were completely abandoned. Mean territory size was 0.11 and 0.13 ha during the rainy and dry seasons, respectively. 14.2% of circular territories and 42.9% of elliptical and kidney-shaped territories were stable. The figure of 55 dikdik km<sup>-2</sup> sighted during morning censuses was lower than that for evening censuses by 13.5%. Spatial distance between territories ranged from 4.5 m to 100 m, an indication that population density might be a function of the size of suitable habitat. Although shrub canopy cover within stable territories decreased by 44.6% between 1982 and 1987, and some territories were realigned with changes in rainfall pattern, pair-bond was maintained by dikdik in 70% of the territories studied.
2560211|The short-nosed fruit bat, Cynopterus sphinx, begins to visit fruit-bearing trees about 30 min after sunset. Individual bats often hover near or land on fruits or on nearby branches to remove whole or parts of fruits with their mouth. These bats seldom remain in the fruit-bearing trees to feed, but instead carry fruits to feeding roosts, repeating this behaviour several times throughout the night. Analysis of the temporal distribution of feeding behaviour has revealed two peaks of activity, one in the pre-midnight hours when bats fed mostly on `steady state' fruits, and another during the post-midnight hours when bats fed on `big-bang' fruits. Only solitary bats visited and fed on species with steady state fruiting phenologies, whereas groups of bats regularly visited and fed on species with big-bang fruiting phenologies. Thus, plant species which produce large numbers of fruits appear to promote group foraging during the latter hours of the night. It is suggested that the temporal use of available fruits in south India made it possible for C. sphinx to successfully exploit them, and thereby reduced interference competition with conspecifics.
4092165| We aimed at (1) determining how community-wide disruptions affect visitation by frugivores at trees and (2) estimating the impact of visitation shifts on seed fate following fruit consumption, especially seed removal. We compared the seed fate of a frugivore-dispersed tree species (Tetragastris altissima, Burseraceae) in four forested islands with that for a mainland continuous forest at Saint-Eugne. French Guiana. Tetragastris trees attracted opportunistic frugivore species available in the area, the most productive trees attracting more consumer species. Only primates, which are more susceptible to forest disturbances than birds and have low abilities to cross a non-forested matrix, were more frequent at Tetragastris on the mainland than on islands. Only opportunistic frugivorous primate species acting as low-efficiency seed dispersers were recorded. As a result, seed removal was equally low among habitats (nearly 26%), high percentages of seeds dropping below tree crowns. The scarcity of large-bodied specialist frugivorous primates throughout the landscape probably explained this low removal. Our results underline how difficult it is to generalize the cascading effects of disruptions in a frugivore community on tree seed fate, these effects likely varying according to the tree species and animal community involved. 
2559229|The diet of capuchin monkeys, Cebus apella, in a 250 ha semideciduous forest in south-east Brazil was studied for 44 consecutive months. Based on 367 feeding bouts the diet of capuchins was 53.9% fruit pulp, 16.0% seeds, 11.1% flowers, 6.3% leaves and new shoots, 1.5% roots and 13.9% corn from plantations surrounding the forest. Seventy-one plant species were consumed by capuchins. Food availability was markedly seasonal. During the dry season the fleshy fruit availability decreased, and at that time the capuchins became seed predators and flowereaters. Several fruits eaten by capuchins in the dry season were not consumed by other frugivorous vertebrates, such as howler monkeys, parrots or squirrels, allowing capuchins to avoid competition with other arboreal frugivores. In semideciduous forests where fleshy fruits are less abundant than in the wet forests capuchins are important seed predators.
4091947|We investigated the relative influences of vegetation cover, invertebrate biomass as an index of food availability and the short-term effects of fires on the spatial variation in densities of the rodent Bolomys lasiurus in an Amazonian savanna. Densities were evaluated in 31 plots of 4 ha distributed over an area of approximately 10 x 10 km. The cover of the tall grass (Trachypogon plumosus), short grass (Paspalum carinatum), shrubs and the extent of fire did not explain the variance in densities of Bolomys lasiurus. Food availability alone explained about 53% of the variance in B. lasiurus densities, and there was no significant relationship between insect abundance and vegetation structure. Fires had little short-term impact on the density of Bolomys lasiurus in the area we studied. As the species appears to respond principally to food availability, habitat suitability models based on easily recorded vegetation-structure variables, or the frequency of disturbance by fire, may not be effective in predicting the distribution of the species within savannas.
4091983|Variation among forests in environmental and biotic conditions may strongly influence seed fate with important consequences for the abundance and distribution of plant species. Here we examine the post-dispersal seed removal rates of six pioneer species (Cecropia peltata, Miconia argentea, Luehea seemannii, Trema micrantha, Apeiba aspera and Jacaranda copaia) from the soil surface at five sites in Panama varying in elevation (0-1100 m) and seasonality (0-4 mo dry season). We compared removal rates of washed seeds placed in vertebrate exclosures, invertebrate exclosures, and unprotected controls in January and June. Overall, removal rates of unprotected seeds were similar among sites. Almost all seed removal could be attributed to litter ants in two subfamilies (Myrmicinae and Ponerinae). Little or no removal was recorded from invertebrate exclosures while vertebrate exclosures had no effect on removal either in lowland and montane forests. Seed removal rates were high for four animal-dispersed species (mean 45% removed over 2 d), whereas two wind-dispersed species were largely untouched (mean 2% removed). These results indicate that seed dispersal characteristics, rather than site characteristics, may be the strongest determinant of the post-dispersal seed fate of pioneers.
2560179|Damage to Hawaiian Acacia koa forest by Hurricane Iniki was assessed by comparison with our previous measures of stand structure and leaf area index (LAI) at sites along a precipitation/elevation gradient on western Kauai Reductions in LAI ranged from 29 to 80% and were correlated with pre-hurricane LAI and canopy height. The canopy damage resulted in a large pulse of litter, ranging from 4 to 19 t ha<sup>-1</sup> across our study sites. In the first year post-hurricane, LAI recovery and relative increase in stand basal area were negatively correlated with the fraction of canopy LAI lost The two major overstorey species, A. koa and Metrosiderous polymorpha, were damaged less than the sub-canopy species, Dodonaea viscosa and Psidium guajava. Although D viscosa and P. guajava were both severely damaged in the hurricane, the alien species P guajava had much higher survival than the native D. viscosa, both as adults and as seedlings. However, seedling density of P. guajava was limited by low recruitment At these sites, there was no drastic change in species composition following hurricane disturbance, and forest structure and productivity had recovered to a great degree within 2 y.
4092126|Seedling growth under three shade levels was studied at Varanasi, India, for five tree species of tropical dry forest, which differed in life-history traits. Three of these were small-seeded pioneer (Albizia procera, Acacia nilotica and Phyllanthus emblica) and the other two were large-seeded non-pioneer (Terminalia arjuna and Terminalia chebula) species. Seedlings of all the species were subjected to three light levels (80-100%, 20-30% and 3-7% of full sunlight) comparable to sunlit gaps and shaded microsites in the dry forest. After 4 mo of shade treatment, height, basal area, biomass and other growth traits, viz. RGR (relative growth rate), NAR (net assimilation rate), and SLA (specific leaf area) were determined. Etiolation and plasticity indices were calculated. Reduction in seedling height, biomass and relative growth rates and enhancement in SLA due to shade was greater for small-seeded pioneer species. Seedlings from large-seeded non-pioneer species exhibited a stronger etiolation response to shade than seedlings from small-seeded species. Phenotypic plasticity indices for basal area, plant biomass and relative growth rate were greater for the three small-seeded early successional species (A. procera, A. nilotica and P. emblica), indicating their specialization in a more favourable light environment such as large gaps and forest peripheries. The non-pioneer and pioneer species differed only in the degree of shade tolerance, and we suggest that dry forest species cannot be strictly categorized into two distinct groups (shade tolerant vs. intolerant), rather shade preference and gap preference would be the more expressive terms. Marked environmental heterogeneity in terms of irradiance and the phenology of dry tropical trees permits coexistence of species of varying ecological traits, contributing to the maintenance of diversity in the dry forest.
2560197|Fruiting phenology, habitat types and proximity to conspecific fruiting adults may influence the degree of escape from pre- and post-dispersal seed predators. Successful predator escape by means of satiation is considered to be especially important for selection of masting and monocarpic reproduction in trees, such as exhibited by Tachigali versicolor, a tropical canopy tree. How pre- and post-dispersal predation rates varied with dispersal timing and among trees in T. versicolor was examined in young and old forests on Barro Colorado Island in Panama during a 4-mo period. Seeds were collected from above-ground traps to assess predispersal predation by bruchid beetles, and from quadrats on the ground to record predation and removal by terrestrial mammals. Proportion of seeds aborted varied greatly among trees (range 6-30%, mean 16%), and was especially high for trees on the edge of the island with fruiting conspecifics nearby during the early part of fruiting season. The proportion of seeds killed by bruchid beetles varied less among trees (14-25%, mean 20%), and remained constant throughout the fruiting season. Seeds on the ground were attacked mostly by rodents, and possibly by deer (26% of all seeds and 43% of intact dispersed seeds). The post-dispersal predation level was higher in the young forest than in the old forest (61 and 26% of intact dispersed seeds, respectively), and was unaffected by the proximity of fruiting conspecifics. Temporal satiation of seed predators was evident only for post-dispersal mammalian predators in the old forest.
23012391|Island biotas often have lower species diversity and less intense competition has been hypothesized as a result. This should result in lower habitat specificity compared with mainland habitats due to larger realized niches. We investigate microhabitat associations of canopy trees with regard to differences in topography on an oceanic island (Viti Levu, Fiji) using twenty 10  60-m plots. We find high tree-species diversity (112 species with dbh  10 cm in a total of 1.08 ha) and high endemism (c. 60%), compared with other islands in Western Polynesia. Our sample plots aggregate into three distinct groups that are mostly defined by micro-topography: (1) ridges and steep slopes (welldrained sites), (2) moderate slopes and ridge flats (moderate drainage), and (3) flats (poor drainage). Associations with microhabitat are found for more than 50% of the 41 most common species but only one species is apparently restricted to a single habitat. These findings are similar to other rain forests and demonstrate considerable niche differentiation among island rain-forest tree species.
4091946|Controls over net primary productivity are the subject of a long-term experiment within a lowland subtropical wet forest in the Luquillo mountains of Puerto Rico. Responses of the fern community to fertilization and debris-removal treatments and to monitoring activities were assessed 6 y after the experiment began in October 1989, just after the passage of Hurricane Hugo. Negative fern responses to fertilization included a qualitative change in species composition and a 13-fold reduction in density compared with controls. Plants were smaller and spore production rates were lower. Debris removal reduced the number of species and increased the proportion of terrestrial species. Density of Nephrolepis rivularis individuals in debris-removal plots was only 5% that of control levels while abundance of Thelypteris deltoidea nearly doubled. Buffer-zone fern density was 36% greater than and per cent of leaves damaged was half that of the monitored zones. The magnitude of the responses of ferns to experimental treatments and to monitoring effects suggest that they may be good early indicators of change in a tropical forest.
2560240|A comparative study of seed germination was performed on 25 species of trees, shrubs, woody climbers and herbs from the dry Afromontane forest zone of Ethiopia. Despite the restricted geographical range of the species tested, the optimum constant temperature for germination varied considerably. For 17 of the species studied, it was between 20 and 25 <sup></sup>C while for three, germination was highest at 30 <sup></sup>C. Germination was virtually inhibited (<20%) for eight of the species at 10 <sup></sup>C and eight of the species at 30 <sup></sup>C. There was no clear division in temperature response between plants differing in habitat. For four out of 12 species tested, fluctuating temperatures (20/12 <sup></sup>C) resulted in significantly higher germination than the constant temperature treatment (20 <sup></sup>C), suggesting that field-germination would be favoured by disturbance to the canopy or soil Speed of germination was negatively correlated with the logarithum of seed size. Most species lay in the range 3-15 d to reach 50% of final germination at their optimum temperature for germination. Germination was significantly suppressed in darkness for a large number of species, particularly for those with seed size less than c 3 mg. When these were incubated under leaf-filtered light, germination was in most cases even more effectively suppressed Most of these species are known to have large soil seed banks Mechanical scarification improved germination over the control in nine species Five of these also reponded to heat or sulphuric acid scarification. Circumstantial evidence suggests that the species showing heat-induced germination may be fire adapted, although fire is probably a rare natural phenomenon in the Afromontane forest proper. Only one species, Bersama abyssinica, showed a classic recalcitrant behaviour. Germination dropped from 88% when the seeds were fresh to less than 20% after 1 mo of dry storage and 0% after 3 mo. Germinability of seeds of Ekebergia capensis also declined significantly with increasing storage time, although less rapidly; after 24 mo of dry storage, germination was 4%. In contrast, germinability of Juniperus procera was not significantly altered during 54 mo of storage The results indicate that dormancy plays a major role in regulating germination in dry Afromontane species. Out of the 25 species studied, 15 (60%) showed some degree of initial dormancy. In most of the species with initially non-dormant seeds, dormancy would evidently be induced if the seeds are dispersed under a closed forest canopy or buried in the soil. These patterns of dormancy may have evolved in response to a highly unpredictable climate and small-scale disturbances, and should make the Afromontane forest flora relatively resilent also to anthropogenic disturbances.
2560014|The dispersal of seeds by howler monkeys (Alouatta seniculus) and the role of dung beetles in determining the fate of the dispersed seeds were studied at Nouragues Station, French Guiana, during three 2-mo periods (April-May, 1995-97). Howler monkeys were observed to disperse seeds of 47 plant species. Monkey dung attracted 57 species of dung beetles (Scarabaeidae), including tunnellers (maximum size 37 mm) and ball rollers (12.6 mm). The rate of seed burial was negatively correlated with seed size (10 plant species) and positively correlated with dung beetle size (six species of tunnellers). More than 80% of small seeds (< 5 mm) and 30% of large seeds (22 mm), were buried by the largest tunnellers. Dung beetles buried 13 to 23% of seeds ranging 8-13 mm in width. The maximum average depth of burial was 28 cm and varied according to the species of dung beetle. The rate of disappearance of large dung clumps varied during the day and was completed by nocturnal dung beetles. Seeds of Chrysophyllum lucentifolium (Sapotaceae) buried at 5 and 10 cm depths did not suffer predation, but showed low germination success compared to seeds left at the soil surface. Dung beetles affected the survival and distribution of a portion of the seeds dispersed by monkeys, and their relative importance in shaping seed fate depended on seed and beetle size.
2559658|Aechmea magdalenae is a terrestrial bromeliad that dominates areas of forest understorey on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Nocturnal CO<sub>2</sub> uptake via crassulacean acid metabolism was the primary means of carbon gain under well-watered conditions and all light regimes. The ability to maintain a positive carbon balance under conditions of very low light was demonstrated by laboratory measurements of photosynthesis and forest measurements of growth. Low-light-grown juvenile rosettes had the same daily net assimilation whether tested at photon flux densities of 15 or 300 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. Growth rates of rosettes in treefall gaps were similar to those of plants in closed canopy forest. Growth rates of forest plants were increasingly correlated with canopy openness as the wet season progressed due to increased growth by gap plants, suggesting that water availability rather than light may limit growth during the annual dry season.
2559189|Fruit production by an understorey tree, Miconia centrodesma, was monitored in treefall gaps and under intact canopy in a Costa Rican lowland rain forest. Trees in gaps displayed much less seasonality in fruit production than trees of intact forest sites. For example, ripe fruits were common on gap trees for a six month period (January-June) when few or no trees under intact canopy were in fruit. The frequent and aseasonal fruiting of gap trees demonstrates that they are not constrained by phenological cueing mechanisms; the influence of such cues is overridden by habitat. Trees in gaps also produced larger crops, had more extended fruiting episodes, and fruited more frequently than shaded conspecifics. This level of intraspecific variation in fruiting behaviour suggests that treefall gaps play an important role in determining the reproductive success of M. centrodesma. A substantial proportion of an individual's lifetime seed output may be produced during the brief period it occupies a gap. In addition, the large and continuous supply of fruits produced in gaps by M. centrodesma and other understorey plants, may mean that gaps function as `keystone habitats' by providing resident frugivores with fruit during periods of general fruit scarcity.
4091927| Forest structure and species distribution patterns were examined among eight topographically defined habitats for the 205 species with stems  1 cm dbh inhabiting a 25-ha plot in the Sinharaja rain forest, Sri Lanka. The habitats were steep spurs, less-steep spurs, steep gullies and less-steep gullies, all at either lower or upper elevations. Mean stem density was significantly greater on the upper spurs than in the lower, less-steep gullies. Stem density was also higher on spurs than in gullies within each elevation category and in each upper-elevation habitat than in its corresponding lower-elevation habitat. Basal area varied less among habitats, but followed similar trends to stem density. Species richness and Fisher's alpha were lower in the upper-elevation habitats than in the lower-elevation habitats. These differences appeared to be related to the abundances of the dominant species. Of the 125 species subjected to torus-translation tests, 99 species (abundant and less abundant and those in different strata) showed at least one positive or negative association to one or more of the habitats. Species associations were relatively more frequent with the lower-elevation gullies. These and the previous findings on seedling ecophysiology, morphology and anatomy of some of the habitat specialists suggest that edaphic and hydrological variation related to topography, accompanied by canopy disturbances of varying intensity, type and extent along the catenal landscape, plays a major role in habitat partitioning in this forest. 
4091996|In the first 3 mo of 1998, an aseasonal tropical rain forest at Lambir Hills National Park on the north-west coast of Borneo suffered an unusually severe drought. Extreme climatic events such as this one are expected to influence tree population structure and community dynamics through differential effects on growth and mortality. The demographics of seedlings of seven shade-tolerant tree species, including two dipterocarps, during this severe drought were contrasted with baseline demographic data from two earlier census intervals, one of which included a slight drought, and one of which included no drought. Hemispherical photographs were used to document an opening of the canopy that resulted from the dieback and mortality of large trees during the severe 1998 drought. Seedlings that experienced an increase in canopy openness were less likely to die than other seedlings. Rates of mortality and height loss were significantly increased in association with drought. The overall mortality rates during the severe drought and slight drought census intervals were
2559197|There was fruiting of the dipterocarps of Pantai Aceh Forest Reserve, Penang, Peninsular Malaysia in September 1986. The opportunity was taken to investigate the establishment and seedling survival of Shorea curtisii, Shorea multiflora and Shorea pauciflora over the subsequent year. The germination and seedling survival of Shorea curtisii was compared between canopy gaps and forest understorey sites. Under the shaded conditions none of the species grew beyond the two leaf stage over their first year. Shorea multiflora seedlings suffered a 72% mortality, significantly lower than that of Shorea pauciflora (89%) and Shorea curtisii (93%). The major cause of mortality appeared to be drought, though Shorea curtisii was also prone to predation by small mammals. In a gap, Shorea curtisii seeds probably germinated less well but seedling survival (28% versus 7%) and growth was better than canopy-shaded conspecifics. Seedlings in gaps escaped small mammal predation.
40665283|Pteridium caudatum is a fern that frequently invades burnt areas in the Yucatan Peninsula and other neotropical sites. While post-fire regeneration of this fern apparently occurs mainly by vegetative means, little is known about the role of its spores in post-fire regeneration and in colonization of newly invaded fields. Central to these questions is whether bracken fern spores maintain their viability after fires. Here we experimentally evaluate the effect of fire-induced temperatures on Pteridium caudatum spore germination. We used 1200-cm 3 blocks containing a constant fuel load of 47.4 g of litter, in which we placed spores at three different depths. The blocks were then ignited, and temperatures at each depth were monitored at 1-min intervals for 2 h. One day after the experimental fires, spores were dug out and cultured at 25C and 12-h light/dark cycles. Soil temperatures decreased significantly in relation to depth during fires. Spores on the surface were severely affected by fire, while those buried at 1 and 3 cm showed 77% germination. Germination in unburned controls was 86%. Our results suggest that during fires, Pteridium caudatum spores buried a few centimetres below the surface have a high percentage of viability, which could explain the rapid establishment of this species in burnt fields.
4092093|Microhabitat use and habitat-abundance relationships of four freshwater shrimps, Atyopsis moluccensis, Macrobrachium pilimanus, Macrobrachium trompii and Macrobrachium neglectum, were surveyed in tropical streams running through primary and secondary forests in Borneo, East Malaysia. Underwater observations revealed that A. moluccensis preferred relatively high water velocity and a boulder substrate. Macrobrachium pilimanus also preferred high water velocity and a cobble substrate, whereas M. trompii occupied stream margins with slow current and fine substrates (from POM (paniculate organic matter) to pebbles). In contrast, M. neglectum was distributed relatively evenly through the stream channel. The abundance of A. moluccensis, M. pilimanus and M. trompii in the stream reaches was best explained by the abundance of boulders, cobbles and POM, respectively, suggesting that the amount of preferred microhabitat is an important factor affecting shrimp abundances in the tropical rain-forest streams. The primary-forest reaches were dominated by coarse substrates, such as cobbles and boulders, while a great proportion of the streambeds in the secondary-forest reaches were covered with sand. Owing probably to such habitat differences, the abundance of both A. moluccensis and M. pilimanus, which preferred coarse substrates, was less in the secondary- than in the primary-forest reaches. These suggested that loss of preferred habitat, namely decreased coarse substrate availability, by sedimentation resulting from riparian deforestation had altered the shrimp assemblage structures.
4092138|Predators of herbivorous insects play important roles in tropical ecosystems as herbivory may affect structure and diversity of plant populations. Although insectivorous bats are particularly abundant and diverse in the tropics, their impact on herbivorous insects is little understood. To assess prey consumption, we observed the gleaning bat Micronycteris microtis (Phyllostomidae) continuously for 3 mo including 16 full nights at a nightly feeding roost on Barro Colorado Island in Panama using infrared videotaping combined with collection of prey remains. Individual bats consumed about 61-84% of their body mass in arthropods per night. Diet analysis revealed a high percentage of herbivorous insects, constituting more than half (51%) of all prey and over 70% of prey biomass. Dominant prey were caterpillars (33% of prey biomass), and other herbivores including crickets, katydids, scarab beetles and phasmids. Furthermore, a novel feeding behaviour was observed as M. microtis selectively discarded parts of intestines of phytophagous insects before consumption, probably to avoid intake of plant material either for ballast reduction and/or for protection from secondary plant compounds. Combined with estimated feeding rates of insects in sympatric bat species, our data suggest that gleaning bats are important predators of herbivorous insects and might be underestimated reducers of herbivory in the tropics.
2559953|An analysis was conducted of floristic patterns contained in 48 1-ha tree plots distributed at 29 sites in seven neotropical countries, with a primary emphasis on the Amazonian region. Analyses were made with family level data, using detrended correspondence analysis and multidimensional scaling to generate two-dimensional ordinations. Dissimilarity values for all pairs of plots were then used to compare forest composition at both local (flooded vs unflooded forests) and regional scales (e.g., western vs central vs eastern Amazonia). The predominate family of trees in a large majority of Amazonian and Guianan forests (by number of stems) is either Palmae or Leguminosae (sensu latu), followed by Moraceae and Euphorbiaceae. The forests of western Amazonia are particularly rich in palms, Moraceae, and Myristicaceae, whereas those of eastern Amazonia and the Guianas are rich in Lecythidaceae and Chrysobalanaceae. Dissimilarity between sites increases with distance for both flooded and unflooded forests. The tree communities of flooded and unflooded forests within a region tended to resemble one another more closely than forests of either type resembled the homologous forests of the adjoining regions. Within Amazonia the edaphic properties of each region and its geological history are tightly interrelated. It is therefore difficult to distinguish between evolutionary and ecological interpretations of the results.
3068620|Although acacias are ecologically and economically important, their demography is poorly known. In part this is because few field experiments have been undertaken. Also, a bewildering diversity of factors have been suggested to determine their demography. These factors include disease, fire, large and small browsers and grazers, climatic variation, competition with grass, seed predation and anthropogenic impacts. This synthesis concentrates on the life-history period from seed to adult plant and indicates that important hurdles have been demonstrated for some species in some habitats. Seed and seedling limitation have not been clearly demonstrated, nor has the value of dispersal been quantified. In contrast, the impacts of herbivores and fire in affecting the escape or release of resprouts has been repeatedly demonstrated. Whether fire and herbivory merely slow down the rate of promotion through size-classes or actually prevent it, needs further work. We note that very little comparative work amongst Acacia species has taken place. Most studies have concentrated on single aspects of their life history (especially seed predation), and have not been analysed in relation to population growth. Few field experiments, especially concerning seedling biology, have been performed. We conclude with some suggestions of a framework for interpreting acacia demography.
23012378|We investigated morph differences in attributes that contribute to rewarding floral visitors of the distylous shrub Palicourea demissa at La Mucuy cloud forest in Venezuela. In both morphs, we measured nectar production from flowers subjected to repeated removals at 2-h intervals (10 plants per morph) and flowers that accumulated nectar for 24 h (10 plants per morph). In both cases, floral visitors were excluded. In addition, we quantified nectar availability (30 plants per morph), floral visitation (1012 plants per morph) and legitimate pollination (30 plants per morph) throughout the day. We explored morph differences in the variables mentioned above using analyses of variance, and the effects of nectar variation on floral visitation and legitimate pollination using regression models. We observed 1205 floral visits, grouped into six hummingbird (94.7%) and three insect species (5.3%), across observations (264 h). Coeligena torquata was the most frequent floral visitor (34%) in both morphs (1.41.7 visits per plant h 1 ). Nectar production and availability, and visitation rate were similar between morphs. Visitation rate and legitimate pollen deposition increased with the nectar production in both morphs, but levels of legitimate pollination were higher on short-styled flowers than long-styled flowers. These results show that short-styled and long-styled flowers reward floral visitors equally, but frequency and foraging behaviour of long-billed pollinators can promote asymmetrical legitimate pollination.
3068767|Maximum assimilation rate under saturating light level, leaf nitrogen and chlorophyll content and specific leaf mass were measured in forest plants grown under a range of canopy openness. Seedlings from three tree species co-occurring in damar agroforest (Sumatra) were examined: Shorea javanica, Lansium domesticum and Cinnamomum porrectum. A shrub species, Piper hispidum, growing in a different location was also investigated. All species showed pronounced differences in maximum photosynthetic potential when grown under different canopy openness. All tree seedlings showed an increase in maximum assimilation rate (A
2559498|Germination success of Chlorocardium rodiei is low in large gaps. High light levels, however are beneficial for the survival of seedlings. (Partial) removal of cotyledons has a large negative impact on survival especially under low light conditions. Seedlings from large gaps are larger but not taller than those from the understorey, due to differential internode growth. Although growth of seedlings is improved by higher light levels caused for example by logging, great care should be taken with logging intensity, which may increase seed mortality.
4091934|According to the Janzen-Connell model, host-specific natural enemies can promote species coexistence of canopy trees in tropical forests by attacking progeny where they are most concentrated. However, empirical evidence relating negative density-dependent mortality to herbivory and, in particular, attack by specialist herbivores, remains rare. We investigated density dependence in a natural population of Swietenia macrophylla in a south-eastern Amazon forest of Brazil. Across 24 adult trees, we found that initial juvenile densities were positively correlated with basal area of adult conspecifics whereas subsequent survivorship over 1 y for these juveniles declined strongly with increasing basal area of adult conspecifics. For 18 trees with > 5 juveniles surviving for 1 y, further evidence supporting the Janzen-Connell mechanism was obtained in that leaf herbivory and attack by a specialist microlepidopteran moth (Steniscadia poliophaea) increased, and overall foliar condition decreased, with conspecific basal area. Moreover, when differences in mean juvenile size (number of extant leaves) were accounted for, juvenile survival over 1 y decreased with increased specialist leaf herbivory. Collectively, these results indicate that herbivores, in particular S. poliophaea, may contribute to density dependence among S. macrophylla juveniles. We conclude that the survival of juveniles and their probability of recruitment into the canopy is decreased where conspecific adults are largest and/or most numerous and find support for the importance of host-specific pests in driving density dependence among tropical trees.
3068804|Reproductive phenology of 117 individuals from a total of 20 ginger species (Costaceae and Zingiberaceae) was monitored for up to 21 mo in a lowland mixed dipterocarp forest in the Lambir Hills National Park, Sarawak. Of these 20 species of iteroparous perennials, pollinated by either spiderhunters (Nectariniidae), medium-sized Amegilla bees (Anthophoridae), or small halictid bees (Halictidae), many reproduced more than once a year, or flowered continuously with short interruptions. Significant but weak synchronization in flowering events among conspecific individuals was detected for only two species out of the five examined (Etlingera aff. metriocheilos and Amomum somniculosum). The low synchronization within the population, the overlapping flowering among species sharing common pollinators, and the high flowering frequency for each species, contrast markedly with the reproductive phenology of hummingbird-pollinated and large bee-pollinated plants of related taxa in the Neotropics. Although the plants studied do not include all members of each pollination guild, at least one species within a guild was flowering at any time except in the spiderhunter-pollinated guild. Some bee-pollinated gingers may serve as keystone species for survival of the traplining bees living on floral nectar and pollen.
2559263|Seven species of rodent, Paraxerus ochraceus, Tatera robusta, Saccostomus mearnsi, Praomys (Mastomys) natalensis. Acomys dimidiatus, Thamnomys (Grammomys) dolichurus and Hystrix cristata were recorded in the riverine forests of the Jubba Valley, southern Somalia, in the dry season of 1986. Acomys dimidiatus was the most common of the five species trapped. Overall trap success was low, but increased over successive days. Saccostomus mearnsi, Praomys natalensis, Acomys dimidiatus and Thamnomys dolichurus all showed signs of breeding, and pregnant females of A. dimidiatus and T. dolichurus were trapped until the end of the dry season. Analysis of stomach contents revealed that all five trapped species relied heavily on seeds and, where comparisons could be made, the degree of overlap in diets was high. The findings are discussed in relation to the environmental conditions in the forest and neighbouring habitats.
4092122| Co-evolutionary processes have moulded interactions between hummingbirds (Trochilidae) and ornithophilous flowers. Generally, long corollas exclude short-billed trochilids, whereas short corollas allow access for both long- and short-billed species. At La Mucuy, Sierra Nevada National Park, Mrida, Venezuela, we studied interactions between Aphelandra runcinata (Acanthaceae) and its avian pollinators. Of 13 trochilid species reported from this site, only two, Coeligena torquata and C. eos, have bills long enough to allow legitimate access to the nectar of A. runcinata flowers. However, we observed that hummingbirds with much shorter bills were also able to extract nectar and pollinate the flowers. This is due to a reversible compression mechanism in A. runcinata, caused by the pressure exerted by the bird in flight and the physical opposition of the inflorescence. The compression mechanism observed in A. runcinata flowers is a morphological characteristic that provides mutualistic advantages for both the plant and its avian visitors. The spectrum of potential pollinators is increased by giving access to nectar even to species with short or medium-long bills. Moreover, nectar-robbing, a foraging strategy that does not result in pollen transfer common among short-billed trochilids, seems to be reduced. 
2560140|This study describes changes in the numbers of plant species fruiting during six years in 1 ha of Amazonian savanna on the right bank of the Tapajos River, Brazil. The work was based on fleshy fruits from tree and shrub-layer species eaten by birds. The area was burned in the first two years, protected during the following two years and burned again in the last two years. The number of tree species fruiting did not differ significantly between years with and without fire. The number of shrub-layer species fruiting was markedly reduced in years with fire, but the responses varied between species. Data on changes in shrub cover after two consecutive years of fire indicate that species also respond differently in terms of biomass lost due to fires. The two most abundant genera of shrubs, Miconia and Myrcia, had their cover reduced by up to 95% and 72% respectively. The area made available by the loss of shrubs was occupied mainly by the grass Paspalum carinatum. The fires and the decrease in the availability of fruits occurred during the season in which most species of birds breed. An interval of less than three years between fires is insufficient for shrub-layer species to recover.
4092038|Habitat selection can be detected at different scales. For small mammals, habitat studies normally evaluate micro- or meso-habitat selection, but rarely are multiple scales analysed simultaneously. These studies use quantitative data of structural characteristics around the trap stations to evaluate selection. We test an alternative method to evaluate habitat selection in three didelphid marsupials (Didelphis aurita, Philander frenatus and Metachirus nudicaudatus), using a spool-and-line device, and measure habitat selection at two spatial scales. Habitat was characterized by seven habitat variables measured at ten points of direction change along the path traversed by each individual, and at 25 trap stations distributed in a 1-ha area. Micro-habitat selection was estimated at each point by comparing habitat measures between the direction selected against other directions. Meso-habitat selection was estimated by comparing habitat measurements on the whole path of an individual against habitat measures on the 25 trap stations. Patterns of selection for each species could only be detected at the meso-habitat scale, although a few individuals in each species were selective at the micro-habitat scale. Studies of habitat selection need to address the scale of study quantitatively, if possible comparing two or more scales to determine the scale of selection.
2559387|The herpetofauna of a floodplain monsoon rain forest in northern Australia is composed primarily of species from non rain forest habitats. The majority of frog species use rain forest as a seasonal refuge, and there is a marked increase in numbers during the dry season. Faunal richness lies within limits expected on the basis of the length of the dry season and species richnesses of non-Australian faunas. There are few lizard species and an abundance of frog species (none of which is a rain forest specialist) in comparison to rain forest herpetofaunas in other tropical regions. The impoverished lizard fauna, and the paucity of rain forest specialists may be because (a) seasonal invasion of rain forest by frogs prevents evolution of, or colonization by, specialists or (b) rain forest specialists may not have been able to cross semiarid habitats separating the Northern Territory from eastern Australian rain forests. The herpetofaunas of monsoon forests in Cape York Peninsula may provide a means of distinguishing between these hypotheses.
2560077|Windthrow was assessed following a convective storm in a stand of tropical savanna in Kakadu National Park, northern Australia Over an area of 3 ha, 79 out of 810 trees (9.8%) were damaged; 27 of them were either uprooted or snapped off at the trunk Logistic regression showed that both species and tree height were significant determinants of the probability of wind damage. Branch loss and either uprooting or trunk snapping was highest in the canopy subdominant Eucalyptus porrecta. Damage was lowest in the sub-dominant trees Erythrophleum chlorostachys, a species which is relatively resistant to termite damage, and Terminalia ferdinandiana, a deciduous species which is generally shorter than the main canopy dominants. Damage was intermediate in the two most common canopy dominants, Eucalyptus tetrodonta and E miniata. Wind damage was greatest in trees taller than 9 m and relatively minor in trees below this height. Wind disturbs savanna trees in a manner opposite to that of fire, because wind damage is greatest in taller trees, whereas fire damage is greatest in smaller trees. This, coupled with significant within-patch variability in the extent of wind damage, may act to increase small-scale environmental heterogeneity in savannas.
3068810|Variation in herbivory is often associated with plant density and light environment. The effect of these variables was studied on leaf production and herbivory of Manilkara bidentata in Puerto Rico. The major herbivore of M. bidentata is the leaf miner Acrocercops sp. To determine the effect of plant density, twenty-four 20-m x 20-m plots were established and the densities of saplings, juveniles and adults were determined. Leaf production, herbivory and growth were measured on saplings. Plant density was determined in eight 20-m x 20-m plots surrounding the focal plots. The effect of light was determined by comparing leaf phenology, leaf quality and herbivory in vertical and horizontal profiles. Sapling density in 60-m x 60-m plots was associated with herbivory. In the vertical profile, leaf production was continuous only for the canopy: herbivory increased from the canopy (1.3%) towards the understorey (35.6%). In the horizontal profile leaf production was related to light. Saplings in low light environments had narrow peaks in leaf production compared with saplings in high light environments. Differences in leaf phenology did not result in differences in herbivory possibly because of variation in herbivory among leaves. Although many saplings lost more than 80% of new leaf area, there was no detectable effect on growth. High levels of intra-specific variation in herbivory suggest that to better understand plant/herbivore interactions it is necessary to consider all size classes in a population. It is also important to document these pattern across different spatial scales.
2559937|The mechanism of general flowering in Dipterocarpaceae in the Malay Peninsula is revealed through field survey and meteorological data analyses. The regions of general flowering coincide with those which experienced a low night-time temperature (LNT) c. 2 mo before flowering. This supports the hypothesis that low air temperature induces the development of floral buds of dipterocarps. LNT was found to be caused by radiative cooling during dry spells in winter when the northern subtropical ridge (STR) occasionally migrates south-wards with a dry air mass into the equatorial region. LNT events usually occur in La Nina episodes, not in El Nino episodes as believed previously. This is because the southward migration of the STR is associated with the intensification of local meridional Hadley Circulation in the western Pacific, which is strengthened in a La Nina episode. Results suggest that El Nino-like climate change in increased atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations may be critical for the tropical rain forest biome in south-east Asia.
2560253|The effect of canopy species dominance on understorey light availability in secondary forests was examined for Pentaclethra macroloba and Goethalsia meiantha, two common tree species with contrasting canopy architecture at La Selva Biological Station in the Atlantic lowlands of Costa Rica In each of six 12- to 16-year-old successional stands dominated by one of these species, relative abundance and basal area of the focal species were determined within a 20 m x 50 m plot. Light availability at 1 m height was measured within each plot using a Licor-2000 Plant Canopy Analyzer at 27 locations and by analysing hemispherical photographs taken at 10 locations Across stands, mean LAI values were significantly negatively correlated with canopy openness Understorey microsites beneath Pentaclethra had significantly higher light availability than microsites beneath Goethalsia Across stands, however, light availability was not correlated with either total basal area or stem density of trees 10 cm DBH These results indicate that basal area and stem density of trees in the upper levels of the forest canopy are poor predictors of light penetration to the understorey One hypothesis suggested here is that dense subcanopy and understorey vegetation in tropical secondary forests can strongly influence understorey light levels. Alternatively, light transmittance characteristics of the upper forest canopy may be influenced by species-specific differences in canopy architecture or foliage density that vary independently from tree diameter and density.
4091976|A trapping study of five mammal species in wet sclerophyll forest adjacent to rain forest in the Australian Wet Tropics was used to examine the seasonal diversity, abundance and dung-specificity of dung beetles associated with mammal dung. A total of 542 dung beetles from 11 species within three genera was recovered from beneath the traps of 1104 mammal captures. The diversity of beetles associated with the dung of the northern bettong (Bettongia tropica), a mycophagous marsupial, differed significantly from the diversity predicted by a null model. Numbers of beetles varied significantly with type of dung, indicating preference by beetles. Beetle numbers were related positively to a 1-mo lag in monthly mean minimum temperature and less strongly to maximum temperature and rainfall. Significantly more beetles per mammal capture were detected in the wet season than in the dry season. Dung beetles showed a strong preference for either the Eucalyptus woodland (six species) or the adjacent Allocasuarina forest (four species), with only one species occurring in both habitat types. Beetle species from the Eucalyptus woodland were typically only detected in the late wet and early dry seasons, while species in the wetter Allocasuarina forest were generally collected during the late dry and early wet seasons. A significant 'checkerboard' species effect was detected in both time and space in both habitat types, suggesting that competition for dung was strong.
2559956|Past controlled growth experiments indicate that the seedling and sapling responses of the tropical rainforest canopy tree species Toona ciliata are most consistent with a light-demanding, early successional pioneer. This ecological niche assignment was tested in the mature stage of its life cycle after it achieves a position in the upper canopy. Mortality, survivorship and crown growth rates over the 18-y period 1976-1994 were measured using co-registered repeat airborne stereophotographic coverage of a representative forest stand in northeast Queensland, Australia, where T. ciliata had the fourth highest relative importance in a population of 46 co-occurring canopy tree species. The airborne re-inventory was conducted in a 3.6-ha sample area and limited to only canopy trees. The results were compared with a ground-based inventory of both canopy and subcanopy trees 10 cm dbh in a 0.5-ha permanent plot. Over the period 1976-1994, there was no mortality and no evidence of decline among T. ciliata conspecifics having crown areas >60 m<sup>2</sup> and trunk diameters >30 cm. In the 3.6-ha airborne sample area, more than 85% of T. ciliata survivors experienced positive crown growth, in contrast to only 57% of the other co-occurring canopy trees. Toona ciliata's crown growth rates were highest in the 60-80-m<sup>2</sup> crown size class. Upon reaching an upper canopy position, T. ciliata not only persisted as a dominant canopy tree species, but it also achieved some of the largest crown areas (> 100 m<sup>2</sup>). Toona ciliata mortality in the ground-based plot involved mainly subcanopy trees of 10-30 cm dbh that had not yet assumed a canopy position and were not detectable in the aerial stereopairs. Both the crown and dbh growth rates of T. ciliata indicate enhanced vigour in the later stage of its life cycle. Its long-term survivorship and growth patterns are indicative of a persistent canopy tree species that fits the niche of a long-lived, shade-intolerant pioneer. These results demonstrate the usefulness of a long-term airborne database on the life-histories of canopy tree crowns for more clearly defining their ecological niches.
27751617|The abundance of epiphytes has been assumed to be important in explaining the high diversity of tropical canopy arthropods. In this study we assessed the possible role that the presence of epiphytes may have on the diversity and abundance of canopy insects in an experimental study conducted in a coffee plantation in Coatepec, Veracruz, Mexico. Epiphytes were removed from trees in one of two plots in two sites of the coffee plantation. In each plot we collected insects from three Inga jinicuil trees by knockdown insecticide fogging. Insects were sorted to morphospecies, counted and measured. Trees with epiphytes had significantly higher numbers of species and individuals and insects larger than 5 mm were also more species-rich and abundant in trees with epiphytes. The magnitude of the enhancement was surprisingly large with the epiphyte plot samples having on average 90% more individuals and 22% more species than plots without epiphytes. These differences were even greater for large (&gt 5 mm) insects (184% and 113% respectively). Our results support the tenet that epiphytes provide valuable resources to arthropods, which we have illustrated for canopy insects in shade trees of coffee plantations.
2559594|A quantitative analysis of the effect of fire regime on the abundance of common lizard species and genera and the species richness of two lizard groups in Kakadu National Park (12<sup></sup> S) is presented. A surprising range of relationships between species abundance and components of fire regimes was revealed. Carlia amax, Heteronotia binoei and Carlia gracilis appear to be fire-sensitive, Dip oriphora bilineata and Carlia triacantha are favoured by early hot fires, Cryptoblepharus plagiocephalus seems relatively unaffected, Carlia foliorum seems very tolerant of fires, while Ctenotus and Sphenomorphus spp. are favoured by low intensity, patchy fires with high intensity spots. Lizard species experiencing the high-frequency fire regimes of the savannas and dry forests of the Australian wet-dry tropics are not able to select habitat at different stages of regeneration after fire but select habitat produced by fires of different types. The implication for management is that no one fire regime is optimal for the fauna as a whole. A range of fire regimes within a park should be maintained in order to retain the whole fauna.
4499104|We investigated the presumption that wind-wave exposure is a major regulator of vegetation distribution within lakes. Along a 675-km stretch of shore in northern Lake Victoria (Uganda), the pattern of vegetation distribution in relation to shoreline features, and the variation of shoreline swamp area along a gradient of wave exposure were examined. The ability of wave exposure, when combined with bay morphometric characteristics, to predict the lakeward limit of vegetation distribution was assessed. Data were collected through a shoreline survey and from maps. Maximum effective fetch, computed from topographic maps, was used as a surrogate for wave exposure. Our results reinforce and amplify the notion that wave exposure is an important regulator of the within-lake distribution of vegetation. We found shoreline plants to either occupy stretches of shore shielded by coastal islands or hidden by convolutions of the lake margin. The area of shoreline swamps declined exponentially with increasing wave exposure. Of the coastal characteristics examined, bay area had the strongest influence on the lakeward expansion of vegetation. Wave exposure acting together with bay area, accounted for 64.4% of the variance in the limit of lakeward vegetation advancement.
4092164|The population dynamics of the exotic earthworm Hyperiodrilus africanus was investigated in a secondary forest of the Natural Reserve of Lamto (Ivory Coast) over a period of 19 mo. The objectives were to assess seasonal abundance patterns and to determine the adaptive strategies of this species. Each month. 10 soil samples of 100 x 100 x 40cm and 20 monolith samples of 25 x 25 x 30cm were randomly excavated in a plot of 50 x 95 m and earthworms were extracted by both hand-sorting and wash-sieving methods. The results show significant inter-annual and seasonal fluctuations in population size. Three factors are likely to control population dynamics: (1) rainfall, (2) soil water content and (3) seasonality. The dry season appears to be the most important environmental factor that regulates population abundance when predation, density-dependent regulation and competition phenomena are ignored. Hyperiodrilus africanus exhibited an r strategy, suggesting a high ability to recover populations affected by drought.
2559480|Hong Kong is on the northern edge of the tropics and near the boundary of the Paleotropical and Holarctic floral kingdoms. The phenological states of 105 plant species in secondary shrubland were recorded weekly for three years. Community patterns of reproductive phenology are highly seasonal and vary little between years. There is a flowering maximum in May and a fruiting maximum in December/January. The winter fruiting peak coincides with diet switching by resident omnivorous birds and the arrival of partially frugivorous migrants from the Eastern Palearctic. However, wind-dispersed species also have a fruiting maximum at the same time, suggesting that fruiting in winter has other advantages.
2559920|Seasonal changes in the densities of dormant seeds in the soil around eight pioneer trees in the 50-ha Forest Dynamics Plot, on Barro Colorado Island, Panama were studied, and how seed dispersal and seed dormancy influenced patterns of seed abundance and distribution were examined. Twenty-four, 3-cm-deep soil samples were collected on 30 m transects radiating out from each of the trees in each of four time-intervals through the year, and four 21-cm-deep samples were collected beneath the focal tree crowns. In the surface 0-3 cm of soil, germinable seed densities of all species combined declined from a peak of 1090 seeds m<sup>-2</sup> in the mid-wet season in August, to 330 seeds m<sup>-2</sup> by the end of the wet season in November. In contrast, at soil depths >3 cm, there was little variation in soil seed bank density through the year. Some variation in soil seed bank density for individual species could be accounted for by distance to reproductive conspecifics. Among species, abundance in the soil was negatively correlated with seed size. Seed persistence varied greatly among species at this site; after 1 y of burial in mesh bags, seed germinability of four species was near zero, while four other species showed no consistent decline in seed germinability after >2 y of burial. For at least one species, Trema micrantha, prolonged seed dormancy was also possible under natural conditions. Twenty-five percent of Trema seeds extracted from the soil at a site occupied by an isolated Trema tree that died between 1982 and 1985 were still germinable in 1994.
2559345|Two kinkajous (Potos flavus) were equipped with radio-transmitters and tracked during a 14- and a 7-day period in a primary forest of French Guiana. Both individuals were strictly nocturnal. They moved between food patches (flowering or fruiting trees) during c. 65% of the night, visited food trees during c. 20%, while the remaining time was devoted to rest. Rest time tended to peak in the middle of the night, whereas distances travelled peaked at the beginning and the end of the night. Minimum and maximum home range areas, estimated from minimum area and minimum convex polygon methods respectively, reached 15.7 and 17.6 ha in the female, 26.6 and 39.5 ha in the male. Mean daily activity area amounted to 5.5 ha in the female, 11.3 ha in the male. Distances travelled in a night averaged 1495 m for the female, 2540 m for the male. In contrast to the female, the male used the periphery more intensively than the centre of its home range. Both individuals occupied several roosts located in the canopy, but one far more frequently than the others. The male's roosts were all situated in the periphery of the home range. Kinkajous were observed feeding on flowers or fruits of 15 plant species. Among the 10 species exploited for fruits, at least seven were dispersed. Dispersal distances averaged 200  75 m (13 seed dispersal occurrences for 16 defecations), while seed transit time varied from 45 min to 3 h 35 min. P. flavus appears to be nocturnal, solitary, a generalist fruit and flower-eater and an important seed dispersal agent.
2559880|Many organisms create or alter resource flows that affect the composition and spatial arrangement of current and future organismal diversity. The phenomenon called ecosystem engineering is considered with a case study of the mound building termite Macrotermes michaelseni. It is argued that this species acts as an ecosystem engineer across a range of spatial scales, from alteration of local infiltration rates to the creation of landscape mosaics, and that its impacts accrue because of the initiation of biophysical processes that often include feedback mechanisms. These changes to resource flows are likely to persist for long periods and constrain the biological structure of the habitat. The value of ecosystem engineering is discussed as a holistic way of understanding the complexity of tropical ecology.
2559774|Zygonix iris is widespread in tropical Asia, and larvae are sprawlers/clingers on rock surfaces in fast-flowing streams and rivers. In the Lam Tsuen River, Hong Kong, this species is univoltine; emergence occurs prior to the summer monsoon and larval recruitment during the wet season. Studies on larval dietary composition in four habitats indicated that Z. iris is a generalist predator, consuming epibenthic prey taxa in proportion to their abundance in the environment. Larval Chironomidae (Diptera) and Baetis (Ephemeroptera) were the commonest food items at all sites and there was little consistent evidence of preference for individual taxa. Larger Z. iris larvae tended to consume more prey taxa than did smaller larvae, and Baetis prey size was positively correlated with predator size. No size selection of chironomid larvae was apparent. Despite its unusual larval habit, Z. iris is a generalist feeder resembling lotic and lentic temperate-zone Odonata.
3068757|The potential role of predation as a factor underlying variation in leaf-cutter ant (Atta sp.) densities was investigated on recently isolated land-bridge islands in Lago Guri, Venezuela. A survey of mature Atta colonies revealed a sharp increase in densities on small and medium islands (5.6 and 2.3 colonies ha
2559497|The spatial distribution of displaying Malaysian peacock pheasants was documented at a site in Peninsular Malaysia. Calling males were clustered and, therefore, were not evenly distributed throughout the available habitat. The location of these clusters differed between calling periods. An objective method of assessing micro-habitat structure at the forest-floor level was devised to investigate habitat use by displaying males. Habitat structure was measured at 197 points throughout the study site, both in areas used by the pheasant and in those areas not used by the pheasant. A DECORANA ordination revealed that two gradients explained much of the variation in micro-habitat structure. Male calling clusters were located in areas that were away from the river and more stable (e.g. fewer treefalls). Within these clusters, display scrapes were sited in areas that were more stable and were more influenced by the rivers than elsewhere within the area used by the calling males. It is suggested that the environmental gradients described by the ordination are more likely to determine the position of the calling cluster than individual habitat structure variables. Within calling clusters, however, it seems probable that the presence or absence of ground-level vegetation directly influences the siting of display scrapes.
2560126|Bukit Belalong, Brunei, is a small mountain (913 m) of uniform shale lithology with continuous primary rain forest from its base to its summit Three 0.25 ha plots were established at each of three altitudes (200, 500 and 850 m) to investigate the altitudinal zonation of the soils and the vegetation One soil profile from each altitude is described and chemical analyses of the soils indicate that they are similar at all altitudes In each plot all trees  10 cm dbh were measured and identified as far as possible. Maximum tree height was greatest at 200 m (60 m) and least at 850 m (33 m). Tree density (number of individuals ha<sup>-1</sup>) increased with altitude The forest at 850 m was the most species- and family-rich, but since the ratio of species to individuals did not vary significantly among altitudes, the higher species richness is attributed partly to the larger number of trees sampled. The Dipterocarpaceae was the most important family in terms of basal area at all altitudes, but its proportion of basal area was much smaller at 850 m than at the other altitudes The Dipterocarpaceae was the most diverse family at 200 m and 500 m, but at 850 m its diversity was exceeded by the Lauraceae, Myrtaceae and Euphorbiaceae and equalled by the Clusiaceae The forests at 200 m and 500 m are classified as lowland rain forest and that at 850 m is classified as a lower montane forest.
2559565|Data on the taxonomic composition of the arboreal arthropod fauna of 10 Bornean lowland rain forest trees are presented, based on samples obtained using insecticide fogging. Combined samples from all trees comprised 23,874 individuals of at least 3000 species. The mean number of species on each tree was 616.7 with one tree sample containing more than 1007 species. The relative rank of the major orders of arthropods in terms of both species and individuals was remarkably constant across the trees. Hymenoptera, Coleoptera, Diptera and Hemiptera were the orders with the most species and individuals. Formicidae, though not particularly species rich, was the most abundant family in terms of individuals and the commonest species in six of the 10 trees was an ant. Refogging of one of the trees 10 days after initial sampling showed that the arthropod fauna had not completely recovered. What many arthropods are doing in the canopy is discussed.
4092131|The species richness, number of plants, biomass, and species composition of holo- and hemi-epiphytes were recorded in fifty-six 0.04-ha plots, distributed over forest fallows of 2-30 y old and mature forests in lowland Amazonia (Amacayacu National Park, Colombia). A total of 9190 epiphytic plants representing 162 species were recorded on 4277 phorophytes. Seventy species were classified as holo-epiphyte and 85 as hemi-epiphyte. Aroids were most diverse (58 species) and represented 76% of the total recorded biomass. Anemochory was more dominant among holo-epiphytes and zoochory among hemi-epiphytes. The species richness, density and biomass of both holo- and hemi-epiphytes increased significantly from young fallows to old fallows and mature forests. Hemi-epiphytes had greater density and biomass than holo-epiphytes. In canonical ordination, forest age did not relate to the species composition of holo-epiphytes. However, for hemi-epiphytes, the age effect was significant, suggesting that species turnover takes place in the ageing fallows.
4499071|Understanding the causes of savanna-forest dynamics is vital as small but widespread changes in the extent of tropical forests can have major impacts on global climate, biodiversity and human well-being. Comparison of aerial photographs for 50 rain-forest patches in Kakadu National Park had previously revealed a landscape-wide monotonic expansion of rain-forest boundaries between 1964 and 2004. Here floristic, structural, environmental and disturbance attributes of the changes were investigated by sampling 588 plots across 30 rain-forest patches. Areas that had changed from savanna to rain forest were associated with a significantly higher abundance of rain-forest trees and less grasses, relative to stable savanna areas. Ordination analyses showed that overall floristic composition was not significantly different between newly established rain forest and longer established rain forest. Generalized linear models also indicated that contemporary levels of disturbance (fire and feral animal impact) and environmental variables (slope and soil texture) were poor predictors of historical vegetation change. We concluded that (1) the rain-forest boundaries are highly dynamic at the decadal scale; (2) rain-forest expansion is consistent with having been driven by global environmental change phenomena such as increases in rainfall and atmospheric CO
2559193|Continuous litterfall measurements were made from 1977 to 1982, at two sites with contrasting topography in a mature tropical deciduous forest in Chamela, Jalisco, on the Pacific Coast of Mexico (19<sup></sup> 30' N, 105<sup></sup> 03' W). The climate is strongly seasonal with the annual rainfall (x = 748 mm) concentrated in six months (June to November) and a mean annual temperature of 24.9<sup></sup>C. Results of the five-year study show that at the Valley Site (slope <5<sup></sup>) the mean annual litterfall was 6.58  0.15 (SE) Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> composed of 73.3% leaves, 17.1% woody material, 5.6% reproductive remains and 4.0% finely fragmented debris. At the Hill Site (slope 20<sup></sup>-40<sup></sup>) mean annual litterfall was 3.95  0.16 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>, consisting of 68.8% leaves, 17.0% woody material, 9.4% reproductive remains and 4.7% fragmented debris. At the Valley Site the year-to-year variation in total litterfall was not significant. In contrast, at the Hill Site it fluctuated markedly from year to year. Litter production exhibited a pronounced seasonality: at the Hill Site total litterfall peaked near the onset of the dry season; at the Valley Site it occurred two months later, apparently as a result of differences in soil moisture availability between the study sites.
2560078|The habit, shade-tolerance and dispersal agent of 19 bromeliad species were studied in a rainforest community in order to relate specific traits to the spatial occurrence of the species Highest density was found in riparian forest (RF), followed by restinga scrub (RE), rocky shore (RS) and dense canopy forest (DF). Terrestrial bromeliads occurred in open sites (RE and RS), epiphytes were absent in RS and facultative species occupied all four habitats. Bird-dispersed bromeliads occurred in the upper canopy, whereas those dispersed by mammals were low in the forest profile Bromeliads which are dispersed by similar fauna fruit sequentially through the year. Differences in traits may allow the sharing of habitats and strata among species
23012359|The species composition of vascular epiphytes and phorophytes (trees and lianas) was studied in ten 0.1-ha forest plots distributed over three landscape units (floodplains, swamps and well-drained uplands) in Colombian Amazonia. The aim was to analyse how host-preferences contributed to the patterns in epiphyte assemblages among the landscape units. In the plots 82 species (3310 plants) were holo-epiphytes, 11 species were primary hemi-epiphytes (179 plants) and 61 were secondary hemi-epiphytes (2337 plants). A total of 411 species of tree and liana were recorded as phorophytes. Detrended Correspondence Analysis and Mantel tests showed that the species composition of holo-epiphytes and secondary hemi-epiphytes differed among the landscape units. For both groups the effect of landscape unit on species composition strongly decreased after controlling for the phorophyte composition in the plots. The phorophyte composition significantly explained epiphyte composition and this effect was not removed after accounting for the effect of landscape unit. At the level of individual species, randomization tests yielded only few significant epiphytephorophyte associations. For 84% of the epiphyte species the average indicator of patchiness was below 1.5 demonstrating that most epiphyte individuals occurred scattered over different phorophytes. This probably hampered the analyses of host preferences for individual epiphyte species.
2559862|In a primary dense moist evergreen forest of southern India, spatial patterns of trees 30 cm gbh were investigated from three contrasting 0.4-ha plots that differed in topography and amount of disturbance due to treefall. Exploratory data analysis is based on second-order neighbourhood and pair-correlation statistics used to describe the degree of clustering/regularity in patterns of all trees, and the degree of attraction/repulsion between young trees and adults. Stochastic simulations from the Markov point process models are then used to fit spatial interaction models. The results show that spatial patterns can be related to particular dynamic processes which depend on both exogenous and endogenous factors: on steep slopes disturbed by many treefalls, spatial pattern displays large clusters which can be interpreted as within-gap regeneration stages of various ages, while in areas undisturbed over a long period, interactions between young trees and adults give rise to spatial patterns consistent with substitution dynamic processes implying standing mortality rather than treefalls. Characterizing forest dynamics through spatial patterns of trees opens up the possibility of mapping structural units that might be considered as elementary functional patches of the forest mosaic.
4092169|Animal-pollinated angiosperm plants that replenish removed nectar invest energy that can entail a reproductive cost. Here we investigated whether or not seed production is affected by replenishing nectar in hummingbird-pollinated Tillandsia multicaulis and T. deppeana (Bromeliaceae) in a montane cloud forest in eastern Mexico. These epiphytic plants respond strongly and positively to repeated nectar removal. The female reproductive cost was assessed in manually, cross-pollinated flowers with or without repeated nectar removal. Seed production from experimental flowers was then contrasted with those naturally exposed to pollination and nectar removal. Tillandsia deppeana set the same number of seeds of the same size regardless of whether or not it had to replenish nectar. Seeds were slightly smaller if the result of natural open pollination than from copious hand crossing. In contrast, T. multicaulis set about half as many seeds when it had to replenish than when it did not, indicating a substantial cost to replenishment. There was no difference in seed number of T. multicaulis between open and hand-augmented pollination. The contrasting results for plants that respond strongly and positively to repeated nectar removal suggest that the female reproductive costs of nectar replenishment can range from costly to beneficial, depending on the conditions of the plants and on the species.
4092154|Shadehouse design may have a significant influence on the results of shadehouse studies investigating the light responses of tropical seedlings. Shadehouse effects were investigated by examining the seedling growth and morphological properties of four shade-tolerant tree species from north-east Queensland in the forest and in neutral-density shadehouses for up to 1 y. Understorey plots were compared with 0.8% shadehouses, and single-treefall gaps were compared with 10% shadehouses. Seedlings of all species showed higher growth rates in the shadehouses compared with the equivalent forest treatments. Nonetheless, trends found between high- and low-light growth rates in the shadehouse seedlings were mirrored in forest-grown seedlings. Specific leaf area (SLA) values in the shadehouses provided a good approximation of SLA in the forest for species in both light treatments. In contrast, biomass allocation and leaf area ratios were only comparable for forest and shadehouse seedlings grown in the high-light treatment. Furthermore, seedlings grown in shadehouses differed significantly from forest-grown seedlings in terms of their root morphology. Despite the differences in absolute values of plant characters in the shadehouse and forest seedlings, 65% of significant differences detected between high- and low-light plant characters in shadehouse-grown seedlings were also found in the forest-grown plants.
4092187| We used regression models and information-theoretic model selection to assess the relative importance of environment, local dispersal and historical contingency as controls of the distributions of 26 common plant species in tropical forest on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama. We censused eighty-eight 0.09-ha plots scattered across the landscape. Environmental control, local dispersal and historical contingency were represented by environmental variables (soil moisture, slope, soil type, distance to shore, old-forest presence), a spatial autoregressive parameter (), and four spatial trend variables, respectively. We built regression models, representing all combinations of the three hypotheses, for each species. The probability that the best model included the environmental variables, spatial trend variables and  averaged 33%, 64% and 50% across the study species, respectively. The environmental variables, spatial trend variables, , and a simple intercept model received the strongest support for 4, 15, 5 and 2 species, respectively. Comparing the model results to information on species traits showed that species with strong spatial trends produced few and heavy diaspores, while species with strong soil moisture relationships were particularly drought-sensitive. In conclusion, history and local dispersal appeared to be the dominant controls of the distributions of common plant species on BCI. 
4091969|The distribution of the arboreal ant community plus a termite species of the genus Nasutitermes was inventoried on 938 red mangrove, Rhizophora mangle L., trees in a completely flooded mangrove forest of the Sian Ka'an Biosphere Reserve, Quintana Roo, Mexico. Colonies sheltered in dry hollow branches of the trees and the pseudobulbs of the epiphytic orchid, Myrmecophila christinae. Two size classes of dry hollow tree branches were categorized in order to test differences in ant distribution. As some trees remained unoccupied by either an ant or a termite colony, we deduced that the competition for nesting sites was low. Differences in the composition of the ant community corresponded to the nature of the shelters (i.e. diameter of the hollow branches or orchid pseudobulbs). The ant fauna was richer in the large dry hollow branches of R. mangle than in the smaller ones, with certain ant species belonging to the subfamilies Ponerinae and Formicinae being significantly more frequent in the large dry hollow branches than in the small ones. Cephalotes and Pseudomyrmex were the most frequent ant genera inhabiting the dry branches of R. mangle, while Dolichoderus bispinosus was the most frequent ant species inhabiting the orchid pseudobulbs. Arboreal Nasutitermes sp. selected mostly the orchid pseudobulbs and thus indirectly interfered with ant nest-site selection. Our results highlight niche differentiation through the selection of nest sites among different types of shelter.
4092060|Herbivory is important in tropical woody plants, but the few data available suggest that rates of herbivory are mostly low in epiphytes. We quantified herbivory at the community level in five bromeliad, three orchid and five fern species of a Mexican humid montane forest. Leaf area loss was < 1.5% in bromeliads and orchids, but much higher (7-20%) in ferns. Damage was positively correlated with leaf nitrogen content but not with leaf life span. In contrast to low leaf damage, many bromeliads were infested by curculionid larvae feeding on the meristematic tissue at the ramet base, and we estimate that this accounts for 18 and 31% of ramet and shoot death of large individuals of Tillandsia punctulata and T. deppeana, respectively. Herbivory in flowers, capsules or inflorescence stalks reduced fecundity by c. 14-18% in three of the five bromeliads and by 90% in the orchid Lycaste aromatica, but had little effect on the other species. These data show that even if the leaf area consumed is indeed low in epiphytic orchids and bromeliads, the less conspicuous damage done to reproductive organs and meristematic tissue can have a strong effect on fecundity and survival.
2560168|Palmate umbrella tents used by tent-making bats in Trinidad, West Indies, were observed in three species of Neotropical palms, Sabal mauritiiformis, Coccothrinax barbadensis and Mauritia flexuosa Tents were most common in palm leaves that have supporting petioles angled at 50-70<sup></sup> above the horizontal. The shape and volume of tents is influenced mostly by leaf morphology (leaf width and leaflet length) and age of the tent Tent-crowns varied from being heart-shaped in S. mauritiiformis, oval or round in C. barbadensis and spade-shaped in M. flexuosa. Leaves in which tents were constructed were most often beneath overhanging vegetation, and were generally free of vegetation below, allowing bats to enter and depart from tents without being impeded by the clutter of adjacent vegetation. Singles and small apparent harem groups of two bat species, Artibeus jamaicensis and Uroderma bilobatum, were captured and observed in tents made from the leaves of S mauritiiformis and C. barbadensis No bats were observed in tents constructed in leaves of M. flexuosa. The apparent harem social organization in these and other tent-making bat species suggests that leaves modified into tents may provide critical and defendable resources that promote the evolution of polygyny This hypothesis is based on the observed patchy distribution of suitable palm trees, the inappropriateness of many palm leaves as potential tents and the resultant architecture provided by palmate umbrella tents. We suggest that tent-making is an adult male behaviour.
2559987|Timing of germination and flowering under different environmental conditions was investigated in four coexisting serotinous desert plants: Blepharis grossa (annual herb), Geigeria alata, Geigeria ornativa (facultative perennial herbs) and Petalidium setosum (perennial shrub). Germination patterns were similar under varying environmental conditions in the study species, except for P. setosum, which germinated later when conditions were less favourable. B. grossa always germinated early, G. alata and G. ornativa later, which could be explained by differences in their seed dispersal mode. Thus no obvious niche separation in timing of germination was indicated in the study species. Flowering periods varied between seasons rather than between species and no niche separation in flowering times existed between the study plants. This might indicate that either interspecific competition plays a minor role in a community of desert serotinous plants or that niche separation exists in other components of the plants' niche, such as seed dispersal, seedling establishment and/or microhabitat selection.
4091838|Fragment-size determination by workers of the grass-cutting ant Atta vollenweideri and the extent of size-matching between ant size and fragment size were investigated as a function of the distance from the nest. Foragers and their loads were sampled in four different sectors along a 30-m foraging trail in the field: directly on the harvested source, in the patch, on the trail and close to the nest. Ants sampled on the source immediately after cutting were significantly larger than carrying ants on any trail sector, whereas body mass did not differ among other samples. Thus, foraging was partitioned into at least two stages, with large ants cutting the source and smaller ants carrying the fragments to the nest. Fragments collected directly after cutting were significantly larger than those carried on the trail, indicating that the fragments were cut once again on their way to the nest. Size-matching depended on the trail sector considered. It was stronger in ants sampled closer to the nest, suggesting that carriers either collect dropped fragments according to their body mass, or cut fragments out of the dropped fragments in sizes corresponding to their body mass prior to transport.
2559272|Plots in the Jamaican montane forest were fertilized with nitrogen or with phosphorus to test the hypothesis that growth of trees in this natural forest is limited by the supply of N and P from the soil. Once a year from 1983 to 1986, urea was added to one plot (at 150 kg N ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>) and triple superphosphate was added to another (at 50 kg P ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>). In each of these plots and in two control plots, foliage of four common tree species was collected immediately before each fertilizer addition. Trunk growth was measured in 105 individuals. Foliar N concentrations were not significantly higher in trees fertilized with N compared to control trees. In Dendropanax cf. pendulus and Hedyosmum arborescens fertilization with N resulted in lower P concentrations but only after the third year of fertilization, possibly due to dilution by increased leaf production. Mean trunk diameter growth was significantly higher in the N-fertilized trees than in controls. Mean foliar P concentrations were higher in Podocarpus urbanii and Clethra occidentalis following fertilization with P, but only after two years of fertilization. Trunk diameter growth was greater in the P fertilized plot. Thus growth in some Jamaican montane forest trees was limited by the natural supplies of N and of P.
4499131|Many studies suggest that edaphic variables are major determinants of frog distributions. However, leaf-litter depth and soil characteristics are influenced by distance from streams, so the apparent relationship between edaphic characteristics and species distributions could be an artefact of the dependence of species on free water for reproduction. Therefore, we investigated the effect of edaphic variables on the mesoscale distribution of frog species not dependent on free water for reproduction. We evaluated the effects of soil texture, pH, slope, number of trees and leaf-litter volume on the distribution of nine terrestrially reproducing anuran species in the Reserva Ducke, a 100-km
2560032|An evaluation of whether large arborescent palms depend on large treefall gaps for recruitment to the adult stage is reported. Specifically three hypotheses were tested: (1) The light requirement of juveniles of tall arborescent palms increases as they grow in size. (2) Tall arborescent palms depend on gaps over 0.10 ha for growth and survival to maturity, due to high light requirements during the stem height growth phase. (3) Stilt-rooted palms are not dependent on gaps for juvenile height growth. The hypotheses were evaluated using data on size and crown position of individuals of tall arborescent palm species as well as data on the forest-phase in which each individual grew. The study site was a 50-ha plot in old-growth rain forest in Amazonian Ecuador. The first hypothesis was accepted for the two most common species, Iriartea deltoidea and Oenocarpus bataua, but tentatively rejected for the arborescent palm community as a whole. The second hypothesis was rejected for Iriartea and the community as a whole. Only Oenocarpus had strongly gap-dependent recruitment. The results for Iriartea and Oenocarpus were consistent with the third hypothesis.
23012404|Relations between crown width and tree height and trunk diameter and tree height were measured for trees of all sizes of six large emergent species (Balizia elegans, Dipteryx panamensis, Hieronyma alchorneoides, Hymenolobium mesoamericanum, Lecythis ampla and Terminalia oblonga) in the lowland tropical wet forest at La Selva, Costa Rica. Thirty to 45 individuals were chosen per species to provide a relatively even height distribution from 1 m up to the maximum encountered height. Among small juveniles, the crown widths of the two species with the smallest leaves and horizontally spreading branches were greater than those of the four large-leaved species. On reaching and exceeding the canopy, all but one species showed pronounced increases in crown width with increasing height. These patterns are linked to leaf size and first branching height in small juveniles and low densities of emergent trees at La Selva and other tropical forests, where crown expansion in all directions enhances light interception under the equatorial sun in trees that are not crowded by neighbours of similar height.
27751642|To evaluate N limitation on above-ground net primary production in a tropical lower montane rain forest, an N fertilization experiment was conducted for 2 y. The study site is located at 12001300 m asl in the Fortuna forest reserve in western Panama and has a mature, mixed-species stand growing on an Andisol soil. Control and N-fertilized (125 kg urea-N ha1 y1) treatments were represented by four replicate plots (each 40  40 m, separated by at least 40 m). Stem diameter growth was analysed by diameter at breast height classes and also for the three most abundant species. The three species did not respond to N addition. The response of stem growth and above-ground woody biomass production to N fertilization varied among dbh classes. Stem growth of trees of 1030 cm dbh increased only in the first year of N addition while trees of 3050 cm dbh responded in the second year of N addition, which may be due to differences in light conditions between years. Trees &gt 50 cm dbh did not respond during 2 years of N addition. As a result, the overall stem growth and above-ground woody biomass production were not affected by N fertilization. Annual total fine litterfall increased in the first year of N fertilization, while annual leaf litterfall increased in both years of N addition. Above-ground net primary production, of which total fine litterfall constituted 68%, also increased only in the first year of N addition. The magnitude and timing of response of stem diameter growth and litterfall suggest that these aspects of above-ground productivity are not uniformly limited by N availability.
4092061|We compared seedlings of sandy-soil specialist species (Dryobalanops aromatica and Scaphium borneense) and clay-rich-soil specialist congeners (D. lanceolata and S. longipetiolatum) in a tropical rain forest in Lambir Hills National Park, Malaysia, to determine whether variations in belowground seedling architecture and allometry were related to edaphic specialization. A convergent trait that was phylogenetically independent across the two genera was the presence of a deeper tap-root at any height and any root biomass in sandy-soil specialists than in clay-rich-soil specialists. This trait was fixed independently of the edaphic conditions in which the trees actually grew. Finer-textured soils generally have better water-holding capacity; we concluded that seasonal water limitation would be more severe in sandy soils than in clay-rich soils, and that water limitation would provoke convergence in seedling root depth among species with the same edaphic preferences. All significant differences found in interspecific comparison within Dryobalanops were consistent with the water-availability hypothesis; the sandy-soil specialist had larger root biomass at any total biomass and had smaller leaf biomass at any root biomass than the clay-rich-soil specialist. However, for Scaphium this was not the case, suggesting that factors other than water-limitation may also underlie seedling allometric relationships.
2559592|The contribution of a population of mound building, detritivorous termites (Amitermes laurensis (Mjoberg)) to nett carbon mineralization in an Australian tropical semi-arid woodland has been examined. Carbon mineralization rates were estimated by measuring daily CO<sub>2</sub> flux from five termite mounds at monthly intervals for 12 months. Carbon flux from the mounds was found to be due to microbial activity as well as termite activity. It is conservatively estimated that the association of A. laurensis and the microbial population present in their mounds is responsible for between 4%-10% of carbon mineralized in this ecosystem, and the contribution of all termites together (mound builders and subterranean) may account for up to 20% of carbon mineralized. Regression analysis showed that rates of carbon mineralization in termite mounds were significantly related to mound moisture and mound temperature. Soil moisture was the most important factor in soil carbon mineralization, with temperature and a moisture x temperature interaction term also exerting significant affects.
2559544|The density of arboreal arthropods in a dry evergreen forest in Northeastern Thailand was investigated by the insecticide fogging (knockdown) method. Arthropod densities of 256.4 and 140.4 m<sup>-2</sup> were recorded in the dry season and 195.2 and 123.1 m<sup>-2</sup> in the rainy season. The main orders were Collembola, Thysanoptera, Hymenoptera (mainly Formicidae) and Hemiptera. Distinct differences were not found in the arthropod faunal structure and density between the dry and rainy seasons. However, this fauna is completely eliminated by the clearing and burning of forest for shifting cultivation. The results of an experiment investigating the rate of arthropod fall after application of insecticide are presented and problems concerning the efficiency of the estimation methods used in this study are discussed.
2559481|Light environment, leaf physiological characteristics, and growth were compared for forest-grown saplings of three species of tropical trees with known life histories. Light environment was assessed both by hemispherical canopy photography and a quantitative visual index of crown illumination. Leaf gas exchange characteristics were measured by infrared gas analysis. The species tested included Lecythis ampla, a species tolerant of understorey conditions, Pithecellobium elegans, a species found in relatively bright sites, and Simarouba amara, a fast-growing, light-demanding species. Annual height and diameter growth did not significantly differ between the three species, but highest average rates were found for Simarouba. Likewise, saplings of the three species were found in similar low light environments although Simarouba saplings were found in slightly brighter sites and Lecythis saplings were found in the lowest light environments. Despite similar light regimes, the species differed markedly in leaf area and gas exchange. Leaf areas of Lecythis saplings were five and ten-fold greater than Simarouba and Pithecellobium saplings, respectively. Light-saturated leaf photosynthesis and leaf dark respiration rates of Lecythis were about half those of Simarouba; rates of Pithecellobium were intermediate. Lecythis had the highest leaf photosynthesis at understorey diffuse light levels. Measures of annual growth were positively correlated with estimates of both direct and diffuse light with the strongest correlations between sapling performance and diffuse light.
2559968|A comparative study of the damage caused by Hurricane Hugo on the three main types of forest in the lesser Antilles was carried out in the mangrove forest, the semi-evergreen forest and the rainforests of Guadeloupe Hurricane impact on these forests showed at first that high canopy trees generally prevented understorey trees from heavy direct damage (shield effect) In the species-poor, structurally homogeneous stands, in the mangrove forest, species' susceptibility was the major determinant in both intensity and type of damage. Damage was heavy in places and showed a certain spatial uniformity In the rainforest, the high structural complexity of the vegetation generally induced a great variability in the spatial distribution of damage even at a small scale. Due to the presence of tall trees, indirect damage was locally very heavy Clumps of large trees formed resistant structures which diminished lethal damage below the main canopy (cluster effect) In such a highly structured, species-rich forest, species' susceptibility was concealed at the local scale by the prevailing influence of vertical structure. Because of its relatively rich flora but low stature, the semi-deciduous forest exhibited intermediate patterns of damage. It was concluded that floristic composition and forest structure help to explain, and to predict, hurricane damage to forest cover.
4499084|Treefalls gaps contribute to the habitat heterogeneity of tropical forest floors. Previous studies have shown that these gaps play an important role in plant and bird communities, however less is known about their role in arthropod communities. Using eight Malaise traps we investigated the difference in arthropod abundance of 19 taxonomic groups between gaps and understorey for 21 wk during the rainy season and 8 wk in the dry season on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. More (33.8%) arthropods were collected in gaps during the rainy season and 32.2% more in the understorey during the dry season. To assess the possible factors contributing to these differences we measured light, plant densities and young leaf densities, as indicators of abiotic factors and food resources for insect herbivores. Arthropod abundance was negatively correlated with light in the dry season. Thus, abiotic stress may explain the pattern of abundance in the dry season. While there was no correlation with light in the rainy season, predator abundance was positively correlated with herbivore abundance. The plant and young leaf density data suggest that there is significantly higher food availability for herbivores in gaps. Thus, less stressful abiotic conditions and more food resources may contribute to more herbivores followed by more predators in gaps during the rainy season.
4499114|Evaluation of proximate mechanisms (e.g. dispersal, immigration, competition, facilitation) that determine patterns of assemblage or community structure is an important step in the development of paradigms in ecology. Host-parasite systems are useful for such studies because host-parasite assemblages are easily defined units of study, each host individual harbours a sample from a community or assemblage, and many host species are common, providing replicate samples. I used ectoparasite assemblages from Noctilio leporinus collected from Paraguay to evaluate effects of host sex and body size on ectoparasite abundance and to determine if these assemblages exhibit a nested pattern of species co-occurrence. A total of 533 ectoparasites representing seven species and four families were collected from 28 hosts. Abundances of Paradyschiria fusca and Noctiliostrebla aitkeni responded positively to host body size. Host sex had no affect on ectoparasite abundances. Streblid bat fly assemblages from Noctilio leporinus were strongly and significantly nested. Abundances of all species of streblid were positively correlated with one another with Pearson product moment correlation coefficients between 0.424 and 0.646. Competition does not appear to affect community structure of streblids from Paraguayan Noctilio leporinus. Independent responses of species of streblid to host characteristics appear to mould assemblage structure in this system.
2559239|The altitudinal zonation of forests on Mount Kerinci, Sumatra (3800 m) is described and compared with that in the temperate region of east Asia. Nine plots were selected between 1750 m in altitude and the upper limit of vegetation at 3250 m, at intervals of about 200 m in altitude. The plots are distinguished according to their main dominants, and the population structure of the dominant species is examined. The lower forests have species showing the whole range of size classes as well as solitary giants as dominants, but the upper forests lack these giants and are floristically poorer. Between 1750 m (the start of well preserved natural vegetation) and 2950 m (the forest limit) three forest zones are distinguished, and between 2950 and 3250 m a scrub zone. Upper forest zones tend to be dominated by species of the same genus or family which form important understory components of the zone below. Based on floristic comparisons with mountains of higher latitudes (i.e. Himalayas and Japan), the two lower forest zones (up to 2400 m) represent a subtropical zone, and the upper forest zone a warm-temperate zone. Climatic conditions at the forest limit on Mount Kerinci are similar to those at the latitudinal limit of warm-temperate evergreen trees; in the Himalayas the forest limit represents the latitudinal limit of the cool-temperate, and in Japan of the subarctic. Altitudinal zonation patterns change with latitude, reaching their most complex on subtropical mountains where the two floristic realms, the Boreal and Palaeotropical, meet. A scheme for the pattern of vegetation zonation in east Asia is proposed.
25172978|One manner in which elephants utilize trees is by removing their bark. This type of utilization is concentrated on the largest trees in the landscape. The role of bark removal in increasing the vulnerability of large trees to fire and the mechanism through which fire damage is mediated were investigated in Kruger National Park. South Africa, by experimentally removing bark and burning Acacia nigrescens stems with diameters ranging between 30 and 68 mm. Also, field surveys were conducted subsequent to natural fires in order to investigate mortality patterns of large trees with dbh greater than 15 cm with bark removed by elephants. An increasing probability of mortality was associated with increasing amounts of bark removal but only if trees were burned. When trees had bark removed but were not burnt, simulating damage only to cambium and phloem, none of the 12 treated stems died in the 4-mo period over which the experiment ran. Moreover, low levels of cambium damage were detected in large burned stems. This suggests that bark removal increases fire-induced xylem damage and that this damage contributes towards stem mortality. In a survey of 437 large trees, bark removal by elephants was frequent on large stems (44%) and larger trees have greater amounts of bark removed. Post-fire mortality of large trees was significantly associated with increasing bark removal and stem diameter. These results indicate that bark removal by elephants increases the vulnerability of stems to fire, resulting in mortality of large stems otherwise protected from fire.
27751637|Several South-East Asian anuran species can breed year-round near the equator (due to abundant rainfall in all months in Singapore, for example) but are limited to a 6-mo breeding season in other areas (including central Thailand). In order to investigate the extent to which such differences in breeding season length are associated with differences in reproductive measures such as clutch size, reproduction of three common species, Polypedates leucomystax, Microhyla heymonsi and Hylarana erythraea, was compared in Singapore and Thailand over a 2-y period. All three species produce nearly twice as many eggs per clutch in seasonal environments compared with aseasonal environments, although annual fecundity may be similar in both environments. In Polypedates leucomystax, increased clutch size and volume are associated with larger female size, but in the other two species female size is unchanged with respect to latitude. In H. erythraea, the increased clutch size in Thailand was observed early in the breeding season; later clutches were not significantly different between sites. Collectively, these data suggest that these widespread species have adapted to shortened breeding season length by increasing clutch size.
2560302|Cape clawless otters Aonyx capensis and African mottled eels Anguilla bengalensis were suspected of reducing numbers of rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss in the upper Kairezi River, Zimbabwe, by preying on them and competing for the river crab Potamon perlatus The analysis of otter, eel and trout diets showed that this is unlikely. Trout was an unimportant prey item for otters, none were found in the stomachs of 13 large eels, and any predation was probably minimised by the low densities of these predators. Some competition was probably present because crabs occurred in the diets of otters (relative occurrence 41.9%), eels (63.2%) and trout (7.4%), but it was impossible to quantify. Since these predators shared the crab food resource, the guild concept provided the basis for an analysis of their potential competitive relationships. Comparisons between the sizes of crabs selected and those available suggested that resource partitioning was occurring Trout selected small crabs from the invertebrate drift, and because they were restricted by their mouth gapes. Otters and large eels ate larger, more abundant crab sizes; it is proposed that they instead partition resources spatially by feeding in separate micro-habitats. Intraguild predation by otters on eels may benefit trout by reducing competition for aquatic insects. Competition within the guild probably recedes in the dry season, when eels become inactive.
4092036|To investigate whether seedlings of ten dipterocarp species differed significantly in terms of growth and mortality or whether species were not significantly different and could be considered ecologically similar, seedlings were grown, two per pot, in two experiments: (1) where the two seedlings were of equal height (30 cm); and (2) where one seedling was 10 cm shorter than the other. Seedlings were grown in a shade house with 15% above-canopy light in a 50:50 forest soil-sand mixture and were watered frequently; pots were placed so that seedling density was 130 seedlings m
2560162|Cordia elaeagnoides is locally important within a large area of southern Mexico as a highly gregarious canopy tree of dry forest and as a timber species. Its recruitment is problematic so studies of its reproduction and population dynamics were undertaken. The distylous flowers are apparently self-compatible, and pollination and seed dispersal are by wind Pre-dispersal mortality is largely from embryo abortion, and post-dispersal predation is mostly by generalist rodents. Some seeds may survive in enforced dormancy for two or more years Recruitment was apparently absent for more than a decade, but had previously occurred within established stands, where size classes were interspersed at random Population size structure suggests that recruitment over the last century occurred in several pulses. Growth rates determined from ring counts and remeasurement of marked trees support a size-age relationship. The youngest reproductive trees are estimated to be about 18 years old, and about 5% of the present population is over 95 years old.
2559897|Isolated in forest patches, mangrove stands often experience different physical conditions (rainfall, tide, salinity) despite similar floristic composition and structure. These abiotic factors are known to influence mangrove phenology but their potential effect on the local invertebrate and bird fauna have not been investigated This study contrasts two sites of black mangrove (Avicennia germinans) located on the Caribbean and Pacific coasts of Panama. The two mangrove sites are characterized by different rainfall and tide patterns, and consequently ground inundation and salinity. These mangrove sites also differed in their plant phenology as well as invertebrate and bird composition. Although 95% of the bird species sampled occur on both coasts, the two mangrove sites shared only 34% Moreover, each bird community was composed of a particular feeding guild assemblage consistent with the abundance distribution of their invertebrate-prey. Because floristically similar mangrove stands can support different invertebrate and bird faunas, conservation efforts should target mangrove patches submitted to different physical factors in order to preserve biodiversity
2560025|The ant communities of the leaf litter were studied along an elevational gradient on Mount Kinabalu in primary rain forest systems ranging from dipterocarp hill forest to dwarf forest of the highest altitudes (560, 800, 1130, 1360, 1530, 1740, 1930, 2025, 2300, 2600 m a.s.l.). The litter ant fauna along the gradient included 283 species of 55 genera. The number of ant species in the leaf litter decreased exponentially without evidence of a peak in species richness at mid-elevations. This result is in contrast to many findings on altitudinal gradients in ants and other animal groups. Most ant species have a very limited altitudinal range leading to high turnover values when comparing communities of different altitudes. Of the ant species, 74% were even restricted to one site. As evident from this study, altitudinal ranges of species are very narrow. Elevational gradients are therefore extremely species-rich and might serve as a prime example of hot spots of biodiversity. This fact is of great concern when implementing conservation strategies.
27751677|Trees growing in a seasonally tropical dry forest, with its characteristic 57 rainless interval, possess a variety of physiological adaptations to drought, the most common being leaf abscission. At the Estacion Biologia de Chamela in western Mexico, we experimentally examined the relationship between one-time experimental irrigation ranging as 0 (control) to 200 mm, and (1) the degree of bud burst (and, for a single species, flowering), and (2) the formation of a false ring. Additionally, we used long-term records at a nearby meteorological station to determine the probability of a rain event exceeding a particular intensity (mm). For our seven species (particularly the two most common species: Cordia alliodora and Piptadenia constricta), we found that the degree of budburst and leaf extension was a function of irrigation intensity. In no case, however, did we find false rings, or indeed any indication of cambial activity initiated by the irrigation event. Further, there was no effect of intensity on subsequent relative growth rate in the following wet season. While sufficient rainfall (200 mm) to cause full leaf deployment is rare, nonetheless we estimate that a canopy tree in the study area would experience an event of this magnitude at least a few times per century. In any case, it will have no effect on the reliability of annual rings in this biome, nor any effect on diameter growth in (at least) the following year.
4092081|In dioecious plant species differences in morphology and resources between female and male flowers can have consequences for flower visitation rates. Female flowers sometimes lack pollen and can be less attractive to pollinators than male flowers. We studied the pollination ecology of the dioecious tree Commiphora guillauminii in a dry deciduous forest in western Madagascar. We recorded floral display, visiting insect species and visitation rates for female and male trees. The results showed that female trees produce significantly larger but fewer flowers per inflorescence than male ones. Number of flowers per tree did not differ between the sexes. During 270 observation-hours we observed 17 insect and two bird species visiting the flowers. Mean visitation rates of male flowers were 6.1 times higher than those of female flowers (1.07 vs. 0.18 visitors per flower
2560170|Data on densities, biomass and ecological factors governing the distribution of various wild ungulate species in the different management units of Gir forest from 1987 to 1989 were collected. Density of ungulates ranged from 50.8 km<sup>-2</sup> to 0.42 km<sup>-2</sup>, the highest for chital (Axis axis), followed by chinkara (Gazella gazella), sambar (Cervus unicolor), nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus) and chowsingha (Tetracerus quadricornis). The density of chital did not vary significantly between different censuses and management units. The wild ungulate biomass ranged from 3290 kg km<sup>-2</sup> in the National Park to 1900 kg km<sup>-2</sup> in the Sanctuary East Following the partial removal of people and livestock in the mid-1970s, there was an increase in the population of all wild ungulates except nilgai and wild pig (Sus scrofa). Concurrently, there was an increase in the proportion of wild ungulate prey in the lion's diet Chital density has shown a 1320% increase. An increase in suitable habitats and a decrease in direct competition with livestock are the most likely factors to have triggered the eruption in chital population. These density estimates are discussed in relation to the prevailing ecological conditions in different management units of Gir.
2559287|Present theories of tropical rain forest regeneration dynamics suggest that different tree species specialize on the microclimates of different sizes of canopy gap. A detailed analysis of the microclimates of closed forest and 10 canopy gaps of different sizes was carried out in lowland dipterocarp rain forest, Sabah, Malaysian Borneo. It reveals that gaps exhibit considerable spatial and temporal variation in microclimate. As a consequence the relationship between microclimate and gap sizes is not simple. Gaps of the same size do not necessarily have the same microclimate and may favour the growth of different seedling species. Chance location and timing of gap creation play an important role in regeneration dynamics.
2559552|Brachystegia-Julbernardia (miombo) woodlands inside and outside the Sengwa Wildlife Research Area, Zimbabwe, show major differences in structure, biomass and species composition. The woodlands inside the research area have a lower stem area, tree density and biomass than those outside it. The shrubs inside the research area occur at a higher density than they do outside it, but the biomasses of shrubs in the two woodlands are similar. The woodlands inside the research area are affected by elephants and fire, whereas those outside it are affected mainly by fire. It is postulated that the policy of maintaining the elephant population at 250 in the research area is having a beneficial effect and, provided elephants and fire are kept in check, the woodlands inside the research area will eventually recover.
2559478|The species richness of pimpline ichneumonids was examined using catches from a network of Malaise traps operated throughout Costa Rica. More species were caught at some sites than at reasonably well-collected sites in other countries. When corrected for area, the species richness of `Pimplinae' and Pimplini in Costa Rica as a whole is greater than that for virtually any other region recorded to date. The local richness of both groups appears to be a function of their regional richness. Many of the species found in Costa Rica apparently have large geographic ranges.
27751640|A sample of 1834 leaves from 83 plants in 26 families was collected in tropical rain forest in Madagascar from three vertical strata: top of emergent trees (up to 37 m), top of trees in upper canopy (about 22 m), and shrubs and saplings at ground level. These leaves were examined for damage by seven different agents: fungi, epiphyllae, mechanical injury, galls, leaf miners, grazing insects and skeletonizing insects. Fungi affected more than 60% of the leaves and grazing insects 4565%, with other agents each affecting 330%; fewer than 4% of the leaves escaped unscathed by any agent. Individual leaves were attacked by up to five agents. There was a sharp decline in proportion of leaves affected by fungi, leaf miners, epiphyllae and mechanical breakage with increasing category of severity. Grazing insects, mechanical injury, and perhaps galls, had greater impact at ground level than in the canopy, with fungi and skeletonizing insects showing the opposite pattern. Leaf miners had lower incidence in the canopy than elsewhere. The observed vertical stratification means that a tree not only needs to balance its defences to meet multiple threats in any stratum, but must adapt to a different suite of challenges during its lifetime. Attack by grazing insects and fungi are major challenges for saplings at ground level, but with increasing height above the ground fungal attack on leaves becomes more prevalent, but attack by grazing insects less so.
2560073|Seeds of Dryobalanops aromatica and D. lanceolata (Dipterocarpaceae) were sown in gaps and understorey on a ridge and a valley in a Bornean rainforest. Germination rates were 92-100% regardless of site and species. On the ridge, the proportion of seedlings that opened primary leaves was larger in D. aromatica (19-30%) than in D lanceolata (7-19%) due to higher root predation on D lanceolata. In the valley, on the other hand, the proportion was larger in D. lanceolata (71-74%) than in D. aromatica (56%). After primary leaf production, seedlings of both species had higher survivorship in the gaps than in the understorey. Interactions between predators, soil conditions and light environment and their effects on seedling establishment are discussed.
25172942|The present study investigated how climate and plant size affect the growth of Bauhinia thonningii and how fire and source of regeneration (grown from coppice versus seedlings) might modify the results. The study was conducted over a period of 10 y, from 1997 to 2007, at a savanna site in central Zambia. Trees were marked and monitored throughout the entire period; they showed a phase of declining growth (1998-2003) and a phase of low growth (2004-2007). During the phase of declining growth autocorrelation was high but either weakened or disappeared during the phase of low growth. After adjusting data for autocorrelation, climate factors and tree size accounted for between 14% and 35% of the variation in annual tree radial growth. However, the growth responses of trees to climate factors and tree size varied with the source of regeneration (i.e. coppice or seedling) and fire treatment. Trees of seedling origin were only affected by climate factors and tree size when exposed to annual burning whereas all trees of coppice origin were significantly affected by climate factors and tree size, regardless of the fire treatment. However, basal radial growth of saplings that were monitored for 4 y (2003-2007) was significantly influenced by maximum temperature and rainfall that accounted for 33-47% of the variance in annual radial growth under fire protection. Saplings recovered from shoot die-back during the cool dry season by resprouting in the hot dry season and this annual die-back slowed the height growth of B. thonningii saplings.
2559307|Changes in the lowland dipterocarp forest structure and composition are described for a 34-year period between 1947 and 1981 in Sungei Menyala Forest Reserve, Peninsular Malaysia. Although tree density declined by about 10%, basal area changed little, averaging 32.4 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup>. Size class distributions in 1947 and 1981 were not significantly different. Mortality rates were independent of size class. Mortality exceeded recruitment during the first 16 years to 1963, but was thereafter almost exactly balanced by recruitment. Recruitment rate increased significantly for the latter part of the study. Mortality was greater than average for understorey species and lower for emergents. Pioneer and late seral species together showed significantly higher mortality rates. Amongst the commoner species, emergent, late-seral and pioneer species showed the highest annual diameter growth rates with species averages over all size classes exceeding 3 mm yr<sup>-1</sup>; rates for maincanopy species were between 1.5 and 2.5 mm yr<sup>-1</sup>, and understorey species generally less than 2 mm yr<sup>-1</sup>. Species richness was almost identical in 1947 and 1981 (243, 244 species), but a clear decline (to 229 species) between 1953 and 1971 was recovered by 1981. Most species showed little net change in density over the 34-year period, but eight of the 32 commoner species showed significant changes, all unidirectional. These changes in species composition are not negligible, but further analysis is needed to determine if, for example, they are related to disturbance of part of the plot in 1917.
4091984|Abundance of floor-dwelling frogs was studied in the humid subtropical lowland forest of Iriomote Island, the Ryukyu Archipelago, southern Japan. Field survey was conducted monthly for 1 y, and the seasonal pattern of abundance was examined for each species. We observed 251 frogs belonging to four species of three families in a total sampling of
2559759|The seasonal patterns of surface activity and behaviour were recorded for three species of juliform millipede in a savanna habitat in south-east Botswana. Initially, surface activity followed rainfall events but this association weakened as the season progressed and, although significant, the correlation between the magnitude of rainfall events and activity was weak. Activity also occurred on moist, relatively cool and cloudy days, particularly in Alloporus uncinatus which was much larger than the other species. The onset and duration of surface activity varied between species. Observations of feeding behaviour suggested that millipedes in semi-arid savannas did not subsist exclusively on tree leaf litter but appeared to select a range of food types. Mobility is necessary to obtain these patchy resources but differences between the sexes in patterns of behaviour are more likely related to the mating patterns of these species.
25562582|Estimation of tree growth is generally based on repeated diameter measurements. A buttress at the height of measurement will lead to overestimates of tree diameter. Because buttresses grow up the trunk through time, it has become common practice to increase the height of measurement, to ensure that measurements remain above the buttress. However, tapering of the trunk means that increasing measurement height will bias estimates of diameter downward by up to 10% per m of height. This bias could affect inference concerning species differences and climate effects on tree demography and on biomass accumulation. Here we introduce a hierarchical state space method that allows formal integration of data on diameter taken at different heights and can include individual variation, temporal effects or other covariates. We illustrate our approach using species from Barro Colorado Island, Panama, and La Selva, Costa Rica. Results include trends that are consistent with some of those previously reported for climate responses and changes over time, but differ in relative magnitude. By including the full data-set and accounting for bias and variation among individuals and over time, our approach allows for quantification of climate responses and the uncertainty associated with measurements and the underlying growth process.
2559374|The growth response of Paspalum vaginatum S.W. and P. orbiculare Forst to different environmental conditions and the interactions between the two species were determined experimentally in order to find out some of those factors which may be responsible for the species distribution. There was no difference in response (as measured by growth) of P. vaginatum to any of the soils tested but this was not so for P. orbiculare. P. vaginatum grew significantly better in waterlogged soil than in either moist or dry soil, while the soil moisture conditions had no significant effect on the growth of P. orbiculare. Salinity in the range of 0-50% that of sea water had no significant effect on the growth of P. vaginatum, however higher salinity significantly suppressed the growth. In P. orbiculare, salinity above 10% caused a significant decrease in growth to the extent that the species did not survive at 100% sea water concentration. In competition, P. vaginatum was the stronger competitor in red earth, the soil from its natural habitat, under saline conditions and in waterlogged conditions. The results are discussed in relation to the natural habitats of the species and used to explain, in part, their distribution.
3068732| We examined the effects of the 1997-98 El Nio drought on nine rain forests of Mount Kinabalu, Borneo, at four altitudes (700, 1700, 2700 and 3100 m) on contrasting geological substrata (ultrabasic versus non-ultrabasic). Measurements of rainfall and atmospheric aridity indicated that the departure from normal conditions during the drought became greater with increasing altitude. During 1997-99 (drought period) compared to 1995-97 (pre-drought period), median growth rates of stem diameter of trees decreased for both smaller (4.8-10 cm) and larger ( 10 cm) diameter classes in the six upland forests ( 2700 m on ultrabasic substrata and 1700 m on non-ultrabasic substrata), but for neither diameter class in the other forests. The majority of species decreased or did not change growth rates during 1997-99, whereas some did increase. Tree mortality increased during 1997-99, at the larger diameter class in the two lowland forests (700 m) on both substrata, and at least at the smaller diameter class in the four upland forests ( 1700 m) on non-ultrabasic substrata. In two of these upland forests, mortality was restricted to particular understorey species. Mortality did not significantly increase in the three upland forests ( 1700 m) on ultrabasic substrata; this suggests that the adaptation to nutrient-poor soils might have provided the resistance to drought. 
2559864|Meteorological variables, bulk cloud water and precipitation (BCWP), and bulk precipitation (BP) were measured above the canopy, and throughfall (TF; n = 20) was collected beneath an epiphyte-laden canopy of a tropical montane forest (TMF) for 1 y at Monteverde, Costa Rica. Total deposition (cloud + wet + dry) of inorganic ions to the canopy was estimated using a sodium (Na<sup>+</sup>) mass balance technique. Annual BCWP and BP depths were 2678 mm and 1792 mm for events where mean windspeeds (u)  2 m s<sup>-1</sup>, and 4077 mm and 3191 mm for all events, respectively. Volume-weighted mean pH and concentrations of nitrate-N (NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>-N) and ammonium-N (NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup>-N) were 4.88, 0.09 and 0.09 mg l<sup>-1</sup> in BCWP, and 5.00, 0.05 and 0.05 mg l<sup>-1</sup> in BP, respectively. Cloud water and mist deposition to the canopy was estimated to be 356 mm. Estimated deposition of free acidity (H<sup>+</sup>), NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>-N, and NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup>-N to the canopy was 0.49, 3.4 and 3.4 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Mean TF depth was 1054  83 mm (mean  S.E.) for events where u  2 m s<sup>-1</sup>, and 2068  132 mm for all events. Volume-weighted mean pH and concentrations of NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>-N and NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup>-N in TF were 5.72, 0.04 mg l<sup>-1</sup>, and 0.07 mg l<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Mean fluxes of H<sup>+</sup>, NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>-N, and NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup>-N in TF were 0.04  0.01, 0.6  0.2 and 1.3  0.2 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>, and percent net retention of these ions by the canopy was 92  2, 80  6, and 61  6%, respectively. Phosphate, potassium, calcium and magnesium were leached from the canopy. Seasonal data suggest that biomass burning increased concentrations of NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> and NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup> in cloud water and precipitation at the end of the dry season. Regardless, a large majority of the inorganic N in atmospheric deposition was retained by the canopy at this site.
2559322|During the unusually extended breeding season of 1984/85 in Tsavo-East National Park, Kenya, Quelea quelea were sampled and moult patterns recorded. Particular attention was paid to individuals with an interrupted moult pattern. These were further classified as either having their moult arrested or suspended. Apparently, post-nuptial moult begins earlier in males than in females. Although the majority of quelea bred and moulted sequentially, these activities overlapped in many individuals and moulting suspended after the replacement of a few feathers. The initiation of post-nuptial moult before the cessation of breeding, followed by moult interruption, is evidence for the physio-ecological drive in quelea to complete their moult as soon as possible to prepare for the next breeding opportunity.
3068829| The abundance and diversity of lianas were examined along a tropical forest chronosequence at the Barro Colorado Nature Monument, Panama. Lianas  0.5 cm diameter were sampled along transects in two replicated stands in secondary (20, 40, 70 and 100 y after abandonment) and old-growth (> 500 y) forests. Ordination of stands based on relative abundance, but not presence-absence, showed a significant separation of stands by age. Lianas were significantly more abundant and diverse (Fisher's ) in younger forests (20 and 40 y) than in older forests (70 and 100 y, and old-growth). The decline in liana abundance with stand age was offset by increased mean basal area per individual, resulting in a relatively constant total basal area and estimated biomass across stand age. The proportions of tendril climbers decreased and stem twiners increased over stand age. Decline in liana abundance and changes in liana composition may be related to changes in support and light availability. Although lianas are recognized as playing an important role in the early secondary succession of many tropical forests, these results have shown that their important contribution to total basal area and biomass can continue as the forest matures, even as the number of established lianas declines. 
2559909|The ant fauna of a rain forest in Sabah, Malaysia was sampled by using different collecting methods in three strata. In total, 524 morphospecies of ants could be distinguished. They belong to seven subfamilies and 73 genera. So far, the ant community described is the most species rich published for a primary tropical rain forest. Regarding the stratification in the forest, the leaf litter community comprised as many ant species as the lower vegetation or canopy. Furthermore the litter stratum had the highest generic diversity. The stratification of ants in rain forests seems to be a very strict one with the majority of species (75%) being related to only one stratum. This is in contrast to findings on the stratification of beetles in rain forests. The stratification and a radiation of some groups into vegetation and canopy, where a broad spectrum of permanent habitats exist, is responsible for the high diversity of ants in tropical rain forests.
2559991|Bioassays of nutrient limitation were carried out for Melastoma malabathricum growing on soil from primary lowland dipterocarp rainforest in Singapore, and for Dillenia suffruticosa on soil from adinandra belukar, a nutrient-poor secondary forest type dominated by Adinandra dumosa. Three questions were addressed. 1. What is the nutrient most limiting to growth in primary forest? 2. What is the nature of nutrient limitation under conditions of adequate P supply? 3. Is there a qualitative difference in the nature of nutrient limitation under primary forest and adinandra belukar? Results showed that there was a strong limitation by P availability in both primary forest and adinandra belukar under the experimental conditions used. Once plants had an adequate P supply, all other nutrients became limiting to growth in primary forest soil. These findings are interpreted as support for the hypothesis that P availability would limit the productivity of moist tropical forests in general in the absence of mycorrhizas; tentative conclusions are drawn on the assumption that most woody tropical plants are mycorrhizal. It is argued that limitation by major cations may be common on old, highly leached tropical rainforest soils.
2559672|Nanophyes shoreae is a pre-dispersal fruit-predator of several species of Dipterocarpaceae. The timing of oviposition of this weevil was monitored in six trees in Pasoh Forest Reserve, West Malaysia from September 1986 to February 1987. A flowering event occurred during this period. Oviposition started within 12 days after peak anthesis, and continued within any one tree for 11-39 days. Host trees of N. shoreae flowered over a 75 day period. Intraspecific flowering synchrony was high but different species flowered sequentially. The behaviour of N. shoreae and the period of the oviposition `window' strongly suggest that this pre-dispersal fruit-predator `tracks' the sequence of flowering shown by its host species. The implications for predator satiation through mass-flowering of the Dipterocarpaceae are discussed.
3068700| In central Amazonian white-water floodplains (vrzea), different forest types become established in relation to the flood-level gradient. The formations are characterized by typical patterns of species composition, and their architecture results in different light reflectance patterns, which can be detected by Landsat TM image data. Ground checking comprised a detailed forest inventory of 4 ha, with Digital Elevation Models (DEM) being generated for all sites. The results indicate that, at the average flood level of 3 m, species diversity and architecture of the forests changes, thus justifying the classification into the categories of low vrzea (vrzea baixa) and high vrzea (vrzea alta). In a first step to scale up, the study sites were observed by aerial photography. Tree heights, crown sizes, the projected crown area coverage and the gap frequencies provide information, which confirms a remotely sensed classification into three different forest types. The structure of low vrzea depends on the successional stage, and species diversity increases with increasing age of the formations. In high vrzea, only one successional stage was found and species diversity is higher than in all low-vrzea formations. The more complex architecture of the high-vrzea forest results in a more diffuse behaviour pattern in pixel distribution, when scanned by TM image data. 
2559324|Tubificid worms that live in the paddy mud increase in numbers when an organic fertilizer is applied. They mix the soil by passing it through their gut as well as by their burrowing and respiratory movements, thereby checking the sprouting of paddy weeds. Tubificids inhabiting the pond's mud also serve as fish food. It is suggested that such a pond might be appropriate for aquaculture. This study considers a method to control paddy field ecosystems based on the above to produce rice and freshwater fish, with organic fertilizers but without the use of herbicides and insecticides.
4091942| A 272-ha grove of dominant Microberlinia bisulcata (Caesalpinioideae) adult trees  50 cm stem diameter was mapped in its entirety in the southern part of Korup National Park, Cameroon. The approach used an earlier-established 82.5-ha permanent plot with a new surrounding 50-m grid of transect lines. Tree diameters were available from the plot but trees on the grid were recorded as being  50 cm. The grove consisted of 1028 trees in 2000. Other species occurred within the grove, including the associated subdominants Tetraberlinia bifoliolata and T. korupensis. Microberlinia bisulcata becomes adult at a stem diameter of c. 50 cm and at an estimated age of 50 y. Three oval-shaped subgroves with dimensions c. 850 m x 1350 m (90 ha) were defined. For two of them (within the plot) tree diameters were available. Subgroves differed in their scales and intensities of spatial tree patterns, and in their size frequency distributions, these suggesting differing past dynamics. The modal scale of clumping was 40-50 m. Seed dispersal by pod ejection (to c. 50 m) was evident from the semi-circles of trees at the grove's edge and from the many internal circles (100-200 m diameter). The grove has the capacity, therefore, to increase at c. 100 m per century. To form its present extent and structure, it is inferred that it expanded and infilled from a possibly smaller area of lower adult-tree density. This possibly happened in three waves of recruitment, each one determined by a period of several intense disturbances. Climate records for Africa show that 1740-50 and 1820-30 were periods of drought, and that 1870-1895 was also regionally very dry. Canopy openings allow the light-demanding and fast-growing ectomycorrhizal M. bisulcata to establish, but successive releases are thought to be required to achieve effective recruitment. Nevertheless, in the last 50 y there were no major events and recruitment in the grove was very poor. This present study leads to a new hypothesis of the role of periods of multiple extreme events being the driving factor for the population dynamics of many large African tree species such as M. bisulcata. 
2560002|Petioles are not usually thought of as a habitat for wood-boring insects. The large, woody leaf petioles of Neotropical Cecropia trees, however, have a diverse coleopterous fauna: 36 beetle species in three subfamilies of Cerambycidae and Curculionidae were recorded from Cecropia leafstalks in Costa Rica. A high percentage of the petioles were colonized by beetles in many patches, though fewer were colonized in sun-exposed sites. Community composition was dependent on forest type, petiole moisture and geographical location, but not on the species of Cecropia. Species of Scolytinae were most abundant though species of Zygopinae and Lamiinae were found regularly. The host-specific scolytine genus Scolytodes dominated in most localities, although species of Hypothenemus, Coccotrypes and Xylosandrus morigerus occurred frequently. Sympatric species of Scolytodes clearly used different parts of the petioles. Brood sizes of scolytine beetles were extremely low, ranging from two to ten offspring on average. However, mortality due to parasitoid wasps or predators was low, and since fresh leaves fall close to the previously fallen ones, mortality due to dispersal may also be low. Thus, large beetle populations can exist despite extremely low brood sizes.
4092037|To study vertical gradients of arthropod species richness in tropical forests, adult chrysomelids were surveyed with similar sampling effort by beating in four plots of 0.8 ha, representative of the canopy and understorey of one wet and one dry forest in Panama. Samples included in total 4615 individuals representing 253 species, and were of similar species richness at the two study sites. At both sites, chrysomelids were significantly more species-rich in the canopy than in the understorey. The proportion of species shared between the two study sites was 24%, whereas 16% and 28% of species were shared between the canopy and understorey of the wet and dry sites, respectively. Mature trees supported more and different chrysomelid species than conspecific saplings. A higher proportion of liana feeders vs. tree feeders occurred at the dry site than at the wet site. Multivariate analyses confirmed the faunal differences between the wet and dry sites and that stratification was more marked at the wet site than at the dry site. The latter observation may relate to differences in forest physiognomy (a tall and closed canopy at the wet site) and to the high interconnectivity via lianas between the understorey and canopy at the dry site.
25172924|In this paper, we investigate which factors determine tree clustering in Southern African savannas. This was tested by measuring clustering of trees using the T-squared sampling method in plots of the Kruger National Park experimental burning programme in South Africa. Fire return interval is the main treatment in these plots, but also several auxiliary determining parameters like clay content in the soil, diameter of tree canopies, understorey composition, tree species diversity and average annual rainfall were measured while sampling. In the Kruger National Park 48 plots distributed over four different landscape types and with three different burning treatments (never, once every 3 y and annually) were sampled. First, we related the clustering of trees to these environmental variables. When looking at the most abundant species in each plot, the analysis revealed that clustering is mainly correlated with clay content in the soil. This analysis also showed that fire frequency had a positive effect on the clustering of tree species that are not very abundant. We suggest that less abundant species might be less resistant to fire and therefore adopt a mechanism of clustering to exclude grass fires under their canopy. Finally, we tested the effect of clustering on the impact of fire on trees by analysing the relationship between the distance of a tree to its nearest neighbour and its canopy diameter. We found that clustering reduces the damaging effect of fire on trees. Our study contributes to understanding of savanna functioning by showing which processes are relevant in the distribution of savanna trees.
23012410|Abstract: Although many studies have now demonstrated that both richness and abundance of gall-inducing insect species are directly and indirectly (via the host plant) influenced by soil quality, the empirical evaluation of it in the field remains anecdotal at best. The effects of soil fertility on richness and abundance of gall-inducing insects associated with a widespread savanna species, Eremanthus glomerulatus, were evaluated under experimental field conditions in Brasilia, central Brazil. The effect of soil fertility on gall-inducing insects species richness was evaluated using three treatments: (1) plots fertilized with nitrogen; (2) plots fertilized with phosphorus; and (3) control plots: soils without fertilization. Species richness of gall-inducing insects (six species of Cecidomyiidae) did not differ among the treatments. Leaves with galls had higher nitrogen concentrations (mean = 15.0  0.5 mg g -1 ), compared with leaves without galls (mean = 9.0  0.7 mg g -1 ) on plants that occurred in soils with addition of nitrogen. Similarly, leaves with galls had higher foliar phosphorus concentration (mean = 1.0  0.04 mg g -1 ) than leaves without galls (mean = 0.6  0.05 mg g -1 ) in plots with addition of phosphorus. In galled leaves, a negative relationship between gall density and nitrogen concentration was found for one gall-inducing insect species, while three species showed a positive relationship between gall density and leaf nitrogen concentration. A negative relationship between gall density and concentration of leaf phosphorus was observed for four of the six gall-inducing insect species studied. No relationship was found between gall density and leaf nitrogen and phosphorus concentration in ungalled leaves. We argue that foliar nitrogen and phosphorus concentration respond to gall density in galled leaves and therefore, gall-inducing insect species are capable of manipulating their host plant, modifying the foliar nutrients of E. glomerulatus in sclerophyllous savanna.
4499067| Parasites are ubiquitous in wild animals, with host-specific life histories considered as major determinants of prevalence and parasite assemblage patterns. It is predicted that habitat differences in logged rain forests influence population performances of small mammals and consequently may change the infection patterns of local animal populations with regard to endo- and ectoparasites. We investigated patterns of helminth species assemblages (Nematoda, Platyhelminthes) in two rat species (Leopoldamys sabanus, Niviventer cremoriventer) and two tree shrew species (Tupaia tana, T. longipes) in three logged and three unlogged rain forests in Borneo by examining 337 faecal samples with non-invasive faecal egg count (FEC). Nematode eggs prevailed in 95% of all samples with up to five (mean 1.9  1.1) morphotypes. Whereas members of Strongylida were most prevalent in L. sabanus, T. tana and T. longipes, Spirurida dominated in N. cremoriventer that revealed at the same time the lowest average nematode prevalence and FEC. Cestode eggs were only found in L. sabanus and T. tana. Composition and abundance patterns of the parasitic helminth assemblages were influenced by logging. As hypothesized, species richness of nematode morphotypes and mean number of infections per host of T. longipes were larger in logged than in unlogged forest. In contrast, L. sabanus was more heavily infected with cestodes in unlogged than in logged forest and also revealed larger egg counts for strongylids and spirurids in unlogged forest. Our results suggest that forest degradation and altered environmental conditions influence helminth diversity and infection patterns of small mammals with contrasting trends among host species. The inconsistent logging-induced changes in helminth assemblages from different hosts indicate that specific sets of habitat-host-parasite interactions are uniquely influenced by the effects of logging. Consequently, predictions on changes of parasite diversity and prevalence with regard to habitat disturbance need to be based on the individual life histories of the hosts (and the parasites). 
2559354|Eight species of Myzolecanium Beccari (Hemiptera: Homoptera: Coccoidea: Coccidae) are reported from ant nests in stem cavities of living lowland rain forest trees in Papua New Guinea. The coccids are confined to this microhabitat but are associated with a taxonomically broad range of ants and host trees. Attendant ants belonged to six species in three genera and two subfamilies: Anonychomyrma Donisthorpe (Dolichoderinae), Crematogaster Lund (Myrmicinae) and Podomyrma F. Smith (Myrmicinae). Host plants belonged to at least five families and included both apparently specialized (with domatia) and unspecialized species. Saplings containing the nests of Anonychomyrma scrutator (F. Smith), Anonychomyrma sp. 1 and Podomyrma laevifrons F. Smith were dissected and the structure of nest chambers and their contents recorded. Only some chambers had entrance holes, but many were interconnected by transverse passages. The coccids were in low numbers and fairly evenly distributed between ant-occupied chambers. The characteristics of the Myzolecanium-ant association, the role of the coccids as trophobionts, and the nature of the plant associations are discussed. Taxonomically, new combinations are proposed by P.J. Gullan for three species previously placed in Cryptostigma Ferris: Myzolecanium endoeucalyptus (Qin & Gullan), M. magnetinsulae (Qin & Gullan), and M. robertsi (Williams & Watson).
2559285|Study of forest dynamics commonly requires measurement of canopy gap size. Hemispherical photographs can be analysed to provide various measures whereby gaps can be ranked in order of size. For ten artificial gaps in a Bornean tropical rain forest these measures were better correlated with gap microclimate than gap area measured physically on the ground. All these measures are however relative. For detailed (e.g. ecophysiological) studies the greater detail provided by absolute measures of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) are required. Long term PAR values can be computed from hemiphots so long as measurements in the open nearby are available. Correction for cloudy weather is essential. Computed and measured PAR are compared for the test gaps. Both have inherent limits which means that below c. 15% canopy openness, differences in PAR between gaps cannot be assessed accurately.
2559268|The germination of 43 tree species native to the lowland forests of Malaysia was monitored on forest soil in trays placed in closed-canopy forest, an artificial forest gap, and a large clearing. Germination varied significantly among habitats, with only seven species germinating well in all three sites. Seed germination of most species demonstrated clear patterns of shade tolerance or intolerance identical to those long recognized for tree seedlings. Favoured locations for germination were similar to known distributional patterns of adult individuals in mature and secondary forests. Most forest canopy species germinated in the gap, but germination in the large clearing was dramatically reduced or nil; the regeneration of these species in large clearings will be severely retarded even when seeds are present. Canopy-induced inhibition of germination was apparent in several pioneer species; seeds moved from the forest into the gap or clearing germinated rapidly. Results indicate that natural treefall gaps do not inhibit the germination of most species, but do allow pioneer species to germinate, and therefore regenerate. Although germination occurred in all three locations, the level of germination for particular species varied greatly among habitats. We conclude that germination requirements play a very important role in controlling the species composition of regeneration in forest understorey, gap, and large clearing habitats.
2559248|Bee colonies in lowland forest in Panama were monitored for pollen and nectar harvest, pollen species utilization and nectar quality and quantity per returning forager. Despite sharing most pollen resources and nectar of the same quality with 20 introduced colonies of the African honey bee (Apis mellifera), native stingless bees of 12 species were largely unaffected by its activity. Pollen and nectar harvested by the honey bees were 10-200 times that procured by 17 stingless bee colonies. This discrepancy in total harvest and general lack of competitive effect is explained by a honey bee foraging area over 10 times that of the native bees, and apparent foraging shifts to escape competition with honey bees, thus reduced potential overlap in foraging sites. Seven cases of direct resource competition for pollen or nectar were documented, out of 31 tests. Rare periods of intensive harvest were diminished by competing African honey bees. Such harvest peaks lasted for only a few hours in 13 days of observation. Despite average duration of 4% foraging time for each species, peaks included as much as 51% total harvest. Calculations based upon colony populations, food stores and flight range show that if African honey bees persist at a density of 1 colony per km<sup>2</sup>, colonies of some stingless bee species may disappear after 10 years. Their chances of escaping food competition by taxonomic specialization on flowers seem slight.
25172891|Spatial and temporal variation in seedling dynamics was assessed using records of community-wide seedling demography collected with identical monitoring methods at four tropical lowland forests in Panama, Malaysia, Ecuador and French Guiana for periods of between 3 and 10 y. At each site, the fates of between 8617 and 391 777 seedlings were followed through annual censuses of the 370-1008 1-m seedling plots. Within-site spatial and inter-annual variation in density, recruitment, growth and mortality was compared with among-site variability using Bayesian hierarchical modelling to determine the generality of each site's patterns and potential for meaningful comparisons among sites. The Malaysian forest, which experiences community-wide masting, was the most variable in both seedling density and recruitment. However, density varied year-to-year at all sites
4091966| Tree characteristics were recorded from 2829 standing trees in 24 0.25-ha terra firme forest plots in central Amazonia, 3 y after a surface fire had swept through the study area. Sixteen of the plots were within forest that burnt for the first time at the end of the 1997-98 El Nio (ENSO) event, and the remaining eight plots were within unburnt primary forest. In order to investigate the morphological correlates of tree mortality, we measured tree diameter at breast height (dbh) and bark thickness, and recorded burn height, bark roughness and the presence of latex, resin and buttress roots. Leaf litter depth was also recorded at the base of all trees in the unburnt forest. Using logistic regression models, tree mortality was best explained by the burn height, although dbh and the presence of buttresses were also important. Buttressed trees were associated with deeper leaf litter accumulation at their bases and higher char heights than trees without buttresses. Moreover, trees surviving the fire had significantly thicker bark than living trees in unburnt forest plots, indicating that thin-barked trees are more prone to selective mortality induced by heat stress. Latex did not appear to have had any significant effects on mortality, though resins were less abundant amongst the live trees in the burnt forest than in the unburnt controls. Levels of fire-mediated tree mortality in this study are compared with those in other Amazonian forest regions in light of historical factors affecting tree resistance to fires. 
25562600|The pollination ecology, breeding system and population genetic structure of three climbing Bauhinia species B. championii (4 populations, 23 individuals), B. corymbosa (2 populations, 25 individuals) and B. glauca (8 populations, 76 individuals) were studied in Hong Kong, southern China. We hypothesize that the climbing Bauhinia species will attract targeted pollinators to achieve out-cross success and high levels of self-incompatibility will be expected to maintain diversity, with local population expansion relying on vegetative propagation. All three species have inflorescences consisting of numerous small, pale, fragrant flowers, which show diurnal anthesis. Field observations revealed that all three species are predominantly pollinated by bees (particularly Apis mellifera) and butterflies (Graphium and Papilio species), although B. championii is also pollinated by wasps and flies. Bauhinia corymbosa and B. glauca have sucrose-dominant nectar, whereas B. championii has hexose-dominant nectar. In controlled-pollination experiments fruit and seed set were generally highest following artificial out-crossing. The index of self-incompatibility of B. championii is 1.07, indicating self-compatibility; B. corymbosa and B. glauca were obligately self-incompatible. The population genetic structure and variation of the Bauhinia species was investigated using ISSR markers. Generally the three species have moderate within-population (mean
4091874|We studied oribatid (Acari: Oribatida) communities in two distinct microhabitats (litter and root) of the bird's nest fern (Asplenium nidus) in an approximately 4-ha area in a subtropical forest, Okinawa, Japan. We collected a total of 15 729 oribatid mites from 37 ferns and examined whether the size and height of the ferns and the distance between ferns affected the structure of the oribatid communities in terms of the species composition, number of individuals, density (individuals per 100 g dry wt of substrate), number of species and species diversity (Simpson's index). Oribatid communities differed significantly in species composition and density between litter and root components and were evenly distributed horizontally throughout the plot. The density of oribatid mites in the litter decreased significantly with increasing height of the ferns, and the species composition and the numbers of individuals and species in the litter were affected by fern size. Our results suggest that the litter and root of bird's nest ferns allowed diverse oribatid communities to become established, and variations in size and height of the ferns may help to maintain or enhance the diversity of oribatid communities in bird's nest ferns in subtropical forests.
4092083|Lake Titicaca is the largest freshwater lake in South America and one of the highest and oldest of the world's large lakes, but very little of its ecology is known. We report results from a study on the spatial variation of decomposition rate of Schoenoplectus tatora in Inner Puno Bay affected by direct wastewater discharges. The aims of the research were: (1) to evaluate the effect of benthos exclusion and the influence of other environmental factors on decomposition and (2) to map the decomposition rate in order to describe the spatial heterogeneity in the water body. We carried out the study at 21 sampling points using both fine-meshed and coarse-meshed litterbags to exclude and to allow detritivore action, respectively. Decomposition was on the average faster in the former than in the latter treatment. However, the difference decreased with increasing detritivore abundance, and reversed in the most densely populated waters of the bay. Coupled spatial dependence of the decomposition rate and temperature was observed. Both variables were related with the distance from the wastewater discharges, suggesting that thermal pollution constrains the decomposition rate within the inner bay. Detritivores did not change the general trend imposed by temperature, but their presence increased the spatial heterogeneity of the process.
27751638|Temporal niche partitioning can be a viable mechanism for coexistence, but has received less attention than other niche axes. We characterized and compared patterns of activity, and overlap of temporal activity among the five common rodent species from a tropical semideciduous forest (TSF) and between the two common rodent species from cloud forest (CF) at El Cielo Biosphere Reserve in Mexico. Capture frequencies over 2-h intervals, obtained via live trapping (6850 trap-nights) in chosen months over 3 y formed the empirical basis for analyses. Trap transects were set from 19h00 to 07h00 and checked every 2 h. Analyses of 484 captures evinced two distinct assemblages. The TSF assemblage was diverse and with non-random temporal niche segregation, whereas the CF assemblage was depauperate with its two dominant species evincing the same activity pattern. Predator avoidance between open- and closed-microhabitat species, as well as niche complementarity may explain temporal segregation at TSF. This is the first documentation of assemblage-wide non-random temporal segregation of neotropical rodents. Time of activity may be a largely under-appreciated mechanism in other species-rich tropical rodent assemblages as well as in other species-rich biotas.
2559934|The abundance, richness and species composition of frog, reptile, bird and mammal faunas varied along an extensive gradient from 470 to 1406 mm annual rainfall, and between three contrasting soil types (clay, loam and sand) in northern Australia. Patterns varied between and within vertebrate classes. In general, the most fertile soils in the highest rainfall sites supported the greatest species richness and abundance, but this association with fertility broke down at lower rainfall sites. Frogs were richest and most abundant at high rainfall sites, especially on clay soils, presumably because these had greatest water availability. Clay soils supported few reptile species, but these were often at relatively high abundance. High rainfall sites supported the richest reptile faunas. On sand and loam soils, bird species richness varied little along the rainfall gradient, but richness declined very substantially on clay soils. This was probably largely due to the far more marked vegetation structural change on clay soils than on other substrates. Few mammals were reported, and no clear trends were associated with either rainfall gradient or soil texture. Turnover in species composition along the rainfall gradient was gradual and limited on sand and loam soils, but far more marked on clay soils. There were few cases of replacements of ecologically comparable species along the gradient. These patterns reflect the disparate history, fragmentation and landscape positioning of clay soil environments, relative to the far more homogeneous eucalypt-dominated vegetation on sand and loam soils. Although comparable studies are lacking on other continents, patterns revealed here may be idiosyncratic due to the virtual monopolisation by eucalypts of the environment across the very extensive rainfall gradient.
3068769|Human pressure on forest resources in southern Benin has led to a dramatic reduction and disturbance of natural forest patches. The largest remaining forest reserve in southern Benin is the Lama forest, which is known to be a reserve for many endangered species and situated in the boundary between dry forest and savanna. From cluster analysis and hierarchical classification of tree species composition, five forest types were identified in the Lama forest, and ordination techniques were used to determine to what extent these forest types were associated with physiognomic tree characteristics. The geographical position of vegetation plots was used to examine the spatial distribution of the identified forest types. The forest types were interpreted as levels in a successional sequence ranging from either disturbed forest or formerly cultivated farmland to dense forest. Based on the outlined succession sequence it was suggested that reforestation should focus on establishment of Anogeissus leiocarpus, Albizia zygia, Lannea nigritana, Ficus exasperata and Lonchocarpus sericeus as these tree species are associated with the initial forest types.
25562615|In this study we examined the size-structures and allometric relationships between height and diameter over 2 y in populations of the pioneer tree Trema micrantha on a large landslide (Casita Volcano, Nicaragua). The landslide comprised three different zones (erosional, depositional and transitional) based on fertility and geomorphological stability. We attempted to analyse the development of canopy hierarchies and intraspecific competition, and the existence of different growth strategies, within the T. micrantha populations of the different landslide zones. Vegetation was surveyed in 28 10  10-m plots in which a total number of 307 T. micrantha individuals were recorded and tagged. In the depositional zones, size-hierarchies and one-sided competition for light were apparent and, among the short stems (0.0-2.5 m) of the understorey, plastic responses to shade consisting in a marked increase in height in relation to diameter were evident. In the erosional zones, size-hierarchies were not apparent. All stems were small and, among them, the shortest ones (0.0-1.0 m) were dead whereas the tallest (&gt; 1.5 m) grew slowly, increasing their diameter to a greater extent than their height. Our study shows that T. micrantha individuals developed different growth strategies in the different areas of the landslide and suggests that this species allocates resources to growth and survival differently depending on environmental conditions. Trema micrantha is a highly versatile species capable of dealing not only with extremely infertile substrates and conditions of high light availability, but also with partially shaded environments such as those in secondary forests.
2559704|Litterfall (leaves, woody < 5 cm diameter, flowers and fruits) was estimated monthly using 20 litter traps, each 1 m<sup>2</sup>, and litter standing crops were collected every three months using 20 samples of 0.5 m<sup>2</sup>, for Altitudinal forest (AF) and Semideciduous forest (SF) in south-east Brazil (Serra do Japi, Jundiai, Sao Paulo State) from March 1985 to March 1986. The total litterfall was 7 t ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> for AF: 4.9 leaves, 1.8 woody, 0.13 flower, 0.16 fruits; and the total for SF was 8.6 t ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>: 5.5 leaves, 2.1 woody, 0.5 flower, 0.4 fruits. Litter standing crop was 5.5 t ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> for the two forest sites studied with a turnover coefficient (K<sub>1</sub>) of 1.3 for AF and 1.6 for SF. Litterfall occurred throughout the year but was greater during the dry season (August-September); seasonality of litter and leaf fall was greater in SF than in AF but in both followed the litterfall patterns of other southeast Brazilian forests.
2560167|A bibliographical and herbarium investigation on the pollination syndrome of Mexican columnar cacti (tribe Pachycereeae) was conducted. Most Mexican species of columnar cacti show a chiropterophilic-pollination syndrome and they flower synchronously in March to May. The floral biology, reproductive system and visitors (to both fruits and flowers) of Neobuxbaumia tetetzo, the most abundant and dominant columnar cactus of succulent forest in the Tehuacan Valley, were studied. This species reached densities of c 1200 individuals ha<sup>-1</sup>. The bats Leptonycteris curasoae and Choeronycteris mexicana were its only pollinators, whilst a more diverse array of visitors disperse seeds. Contrary to findings for multiple pollinators of columnar cacti in extratropical deserts in North America, the relationships between N. tetetzo and nectar-feeding bats was strong and tightly coupled in Mexico.
25790846|Sprouting may play a significant role in maintenance of plant diversity where prevailing disturbance frequency and severity allows. When disturbance frequency and severity decrease, strong sprouters may be outcompeted. As a result, species composition and diversity may change. This study was carried out to investigate the relationship between sprouting, succession and species diversity in a coastal dune forest that currently suffers from low-severity, chronic disturbance due to sea winds and loose sand substrate. Historically, the site was occupied by shifting cultivators who left the site about 80 y ago. Data on trees that were at least 1.3 m tall from 42 sample plots measuring 20  20 m were used. The plots were ranked in order of advancement of succession using the first axis of Principal Components Analysis of forest structural variables. Regeneration pattern was examined using analysis of stem diameter frequency distribution. Abundance and regeneration of strong basal sprouters, incidence of basal sprouting and species diversity decreased with advancement of succession. Only a few species could regenerate under the canopy of late-successional sites. Basal sprouts decreased with advancement of succession whereas trunk sprouts increased. These results suggest that maintenance of high species diversity may need a level of disturbance that allows regeneration and maintenance of strong basal sprouters.
4091967|The otolith micro-increment technique was applied to assess the growth trajectory of early stages of the neotropical catfish Megalechis thoracata in Kaw Swamp, a coastal swamp in French Guiana, and two contrasting habitats in Suriname: the coastal Lelydorp Swamp with standing water and a rain-forest creek with running water, the Maykaboeka Creek. Daily deposition of increments on the lapilli was validated for the first 35 d after hatching and the innermost increments were deposited from hatching onwards. The natural habitats of M. thoracata in French Guiana and Suriname showed considerable variation in physico-chemical characteristics of the water, density of food organisms and fish fauna. Instantaneous growth rates and size-at-age differed significantly among two vegetation types in Kaw Swamp (
2560238|Disjunctions between Africa and the Neotropics present a puzzle that is key to understanding the biogeography of the diverse floras and faunas of both continents. Many authors have proposed that Raphia taedigera Maur., the sole Neotropical representative of an otherwise African genus, has been introduced to the New World Paleoecological data from a freshwater swamp in Nicaragua, which yielded R. taedigera pollen dating to 2800  90 y before present (BP) and Raphia seed fragments from 2040  60 BP are presented These illustrate that Raphia taedigera arrived in the New World before trans-Atlantic trade by humans and thus arrived as a result of a natural phenomenon The lack of differentiation of R. taedigera from the African sister taxon, R vinifera, suggests recent separation of the two species (i.e after the creation of the southern Atlantic Ocean by the splitting of West Gondwana). Other evidence supports dispersal of Raphia by ocean currents. The palm probably arrived from Africa by floating as an individual fruit or on a raft of vegetation. Thus, R. taedigera represents another example of trans-Atlantic dispersal, strengthening the link between the flora and fauna of Africa and the Neotropics.
2560108|We investigated the influence of a four-year-old forest edge near Manaus, Brazil, on soil moisture and vertical profiles of air vapour pressure deficit (VPD) within the forest. Soil moisture was measured (with a neutron probe) 0, 5, 10, 20, 40, 60, 80, 100, 150 and 200 m into the forest from the edge, in undisturbed control areas, and in the pasture. Control soil moisture was better explained by rainfall in the previous 2 or 10 days than by longer-term totals. Soil water potentials -1.5 MPa occurred at some forest locations during the driest period. The variation in soil moisture with distance from the forest edge was complex, with higher values just inside the edge and depleted zones at the edge and 40-80 m inside it. At a given height, VPD (standardized relative to measurements in the open) was not related to distance from the edge, but VPD increased more with height near the edge than in control areas. The complexity of the edge's influence and the contrast with earlier data from the same edge can be explained by the changing vegetation structure near the edge. Regrowth `seals' the edge with more leaves that transpire and deplete soil moisture, while protecting the understorey just inside the edge from desiccating conditions. A mosaic of gaps of differing ages develops behind the edge, increasing the variation in microclimatic conditions near the ground and consequently in evapotranspiration and soil moisture.
2560295|The flowering phenology and flower predation of Cullenia exarillata, a canopy tree at Kakachi in the southern Western Ghats, India, was studied from 1991 to 1993 in relation to general phenological patterns at the community level. Flowering was monitored from 30 marked trees and flower predation estimated from fallen flowers in 40, 1 m<sup>2</sup> nets placed under the trees. Flowering occurs in the dry season and coincides with the period of fruit scarcity in the forest Flowering is synchronous in the population and each tree produces a mean of c 8730 flowers per tree over a period of c. 47 d. Flowers produced little nectar but the edible fleshy sepals compensated for this. Six species of arboreal mammals and seven species of birds ate the flowers. These consumed 57% of the flower crop of which 37% were completely destroyed. Flower predators could be important in flower fertilization. The overabundance of the flower crop and the timing of flowering, may have evolved as a strategy to satiate predators and enable the flowers to be pollinated during the annual period of fruit scarcity in the forest This in turn makes Cullenia exarillata a possible keystone species in this forest.
2559808|Surveys of the microhabitat distribution of adult butterfly species were undertaken at three rain forest sites in North Queensland, Australia, encompassing a range of rain forest vegetation types. These surveys found little evidence for a specialist canopy fauna. Most species recorded in the canopy were often seen close to the ground. At all sites, most species were observed at the edge of the rain forest habitat; within the rain forest, more species were observed near the ground than in the canopy.
2560227|The central Ituri Forest of Zaire is characterized by monodominant stands of Gilbertiodendron dewevrei (mbau forest) within a matrix of mixed forest where Julbernardia seretii is subdominant. Both species produce supra-annual, synchronous (mast) seed crops. The relationship of mast seed production to monodominance for the two tree species was evaluated by investigating: (1) the relationship between seed density and seed survival, (2) the relative impact of mammal versus insect seed predators in high and low seed density areas, and (3) post-germination survival in the understorey. For the latter, tagged seedlings were monitored over 10 years and both species were censused in different understorey size classes. Percentage seed survival was significantly greater for Julbernardia (but not for Gilbertiodendron) in areas of high conspecific seed density. Generalist fruit- and seed-eating mammals were the principal predators on seeds of both species when removed to areas without seed-fall. In mast areas high seed densities appeared to satiate mammalian seed predators but not the specialized beetle seed predators that were the major cause of seed destruction. Gilbertiodendron seedlings survived longer in the forest understorey than did seedlings of Julbernardia. Furthermore, Gilbertiodendron made up a greater proportion of the larger subcanopy size classes in monodominant forest than did Julbernardia in mixed forests. These results suggest that, irrespective of mortality to seeds, the ability to persist in the understorey may confer on Gilbertiodendron a greater probability of reaching and dominating the canopy.
4092059| Few studies have contrasted faunal communities between flooded and unflooded tropical forests, and such attempts have largely been restricted to a few taxonomic groups. We present the first comparison of the composition and structure of an entire assemblage of mid-sized to large-bodied mammals in adjacent unflooded (terra firme) and flooded (vrzea) forests of central-western Amazonia. We extend this comparison to 13 other terra firme and vrzea forest sites in order to examine the fundamental dichotomy between mammal communities in these Amazonian environments. We found a consistently impoverished fauna in vrzea environments both in terms of primates and other non-volant mammals, although primate density and biomass was substantially higher in vrzea than in terra firme. The average Bray-Curtis mammal community dissimilarity between terra firme and vrzea forests was 74%, whereas mean dissimilarity within vrzea and terra firme samples was 40% and 39%, respectively. The results seem to be largely a function of high habitat heterogeneity and floristic diversity in terra firme and the physical connectivity and proximity of vrzeas to adjacent terra firme forests. We suggest that inundated forests should be set aside as a crucial complement to Amazonian reserves dominated by terra firme forests in future biodiversity conservation planning. 
25562621|Quantitative analyses of the factors driving the distribution of bryophytes in the phyllosphere of tropical rain forests are rare. In this study we sampled epiphyllous bryophytes on two leaves of each of 57 individuals belonging to four phorophyte species (Asplundia pittieri, Carludovica drudei, Costus laevis and Dieffenbachia concinna) at three adjacent, but microclimatically varied sites in the Esquinas forest, Costa Rica. Microclimatic parameters and phorophyte identities were correlated to differences in cover, diversity and species composition of bryophyte assemblages by means of Kruskal-Wallis tests, non-metric multidimensional scaling and indicator species analysis. High relative humidity and in particular daily fluctuations in relative humidity proved to be the most important factors for epiphyll distribution suggesting severe constraints of epiphyll colonisation by pronounced humidity fluctuations. Differences in air temperature and light availability as well as phorophyte identity were only weakly correlated with bryophyte cover and diversity. However, species composition of epiphyllous assemblages was related to all microclimatic variables as well as to phorophyte identity. The strong response of epiphyllous bryophytes to even subtle microclimatic variations suggests that undisturbed forest canopies and their control on microclimate may be essential for the development of epiphyll communities.
2559389|Early studies comparing adult and juvenile tree populations in West Africa described a contrast in floristic composition between the two age classes. These studies have been mis-represented in more recent literature, and confusion has arisen over their interpretation. Similar comparisons are reported here for six forest sites in Ghana. At any one site, clear differences in composition were recognized between adult and juvenile samples, but in terms of the variation in floristic composition over the whole of the forest zone, they are slight and forest types appear to `breed true'. At one site, Kade, compositional differences between size classes are fully described for all canopy species on a 0.25 ha plot. There was an abrupt change in composition at about 30 cm gb h. At this site, mortality rates for trees  30 cm gb h were greater amongst species with a high proportion of juveniles in the population. At other sites, changes in composition were sometimes abrupt, occurring at various size classes, or were more gradual. The populations of some species included a large number of juveniles at all sample sites, but the converse, where species always have low densities of juveniles, were not seen. The possible implications of these results for future canopy composition are discussed in relation to temporal equilibrium, or lack of it, in tropical forest composition.
2559638|Soil microbial biomass (C<sub>mic</sub>) and its relation with soil carbon and nutrient contents in a tropical rain forest (Bawangling Nature Reserve, Hainan Island, P.R. China) were studied. C<sub>mic</sub> was determined by the substrate induced respiration (SIR) method; bacterial and fungal fractions were measured using a selective inhibition technique. For the A horizon, C<sub>mic</sub> ranged between 350 and 700 g g<sup>-1</sup> soil in April (beginning of the rainy season) and 250-600 g g<sup>-1</sup> in October (end of the rainy season). C<sub>mic</sub> contents of the AB and B horizons were lower, ranging from 80 to 350 g C<sub>mic</sub> g<sup>-1</sup> soil. On average, 75% of the biomass was bacterial, in the AB and B horizon this was slightly higher than in the A horizon. C<sub>mic</sub> was closely correlated with C<sub>org</sub> and N content. N and P contents as well as the respiratory response upon glucose addition indicated that towards the end of the rainy season compared with the start the soils were depleted in nutrients. These observations stress the importance of microbial biomass as a factor for nutrient retention in tropical forest ecosystems.
23012405|Biopedturbation, or animal-caused soil disturbance, may be important for development and maintenance of small-scale heterogeneity in ecosystems with the potential to alter seed mortality and recruitment. However, its role in tropical forests has been largely ignored. This study explored effects of vertebrate biopedturbation on seed (1) microsite heterogeneity, (2) predation and (3) germination in a West African rain forest. Exclosure experiments were used to study how biopedturbation altered burial and movements of seeds of four common canopy species. Effect of seed burial on removal by seed predators was also examined. Germination of the dominant canopy species (Raphia palma-pinus) in swamp forest was tested within artificial disturbances mimicking that of a locally common but endangered mammal, the Liberian mongoose (Liberiictis kuhni), which was estimated to turn over the entire forest floor in this habitat in c. 8 mo. Seed exposure to biopedturbation for 20 d (n = 80) led to an overall 6.5-fold increase in small-scale horizontal movement and increased probability of burial (652% higher), varying by species. Burial effectively eliminated seed removal for all four species (n = 160) by seed predators over 20 d. Germination of Raphia palma-pinus seeds (n = 100) was enhanced by 17.5% on average over 4 mo in simulated disturbances. Results suggest biopedturbation may be important for seedling recruitment and that loss of species with this functional role could have underappreciated yet important impacts on tropical plant communities.
40665240|A honeydew-producing scale insect, Stigmacoccus garmilleri (Margarodidae), is associated with oak trees (Quercus spp.) in highland forests of Mexico. Although feeding by ants on scale-insect honeydew is more frequently documented in the literature, the honeydew produced by feeding instars of S. garmilleri is sufficient to provide nourishment for birds. This study elucidates bird use of honeydew in the tropical montane forests near Chiconquiaco, Veracruz, Mexico, and uncovers patterns in honeydew foraging. Over a 2-mo period, 40 trees harbouring scale insects, located in both forest and pasture areas, were intensely studied (160 h of bird-foraging observations along with quantitative measurements of honeydew production). Fifteen resident bird species and 18 migrant species were observed visiting observation trees. Approximately 72% of the resident bird species and 83% of the migrant bird species observed were recorded to forage on scale-insect honeydew. Audubon's warbler (Dendroica coronata auduboni) was the most active consumer and defender of the resource. Of 118 aggressive chases observed, only 9.65% occurred in forest observation trees, and 90.3% in pasture trees. Audubon's warbler demonstrated preferential defence and territorial patrolling of scale-insect honeydew in scattered pasture trees.
3068639|This study compares leaf anatomy, chlorophyll content and photosynthetic induction rates for seedlings of five dipterocarp species growing both by a path and in the understorey of a Bornean heath forest. Hemispherical photographs were used to estimate the light level. Although three of the five species showed significantly higher photosynthetic capacity in high light conditions, there were no significant within-species differences in induction rates. Average induction times to reach 50% (T
40925449|The wet tropical forests in Madagascar have endemic dung beetles that have radiated for tens of millions of years using a limited range of resources produced by the species-poor mammalian fauna. Beetles were trapped in two wet-forest localities over 4 years (6407 trap nights, 18,869 individuals). More limited data for six other local communities were used to check the generality of the results. Local communities are relatively species poor (around 30 species) in comparison with wet-forest-inhabiting dung beetle communities elsewhere in the tropics (typically 50 or more species). The species belong to only two tribes, Canthonini and Helictopleurina (Oniticellini), which have evolved, exceptionally for dung beetle tribes, completely nocturnal versus diurnal diel activities, respectively. Patterns in the elevational occurrence, body size and resource use suggest that interspecific competition restricts the numbers of locally coexisting species exploiting the limited range of resources that are available. On the other hand, regional turnover in the species composition is exceptionally high due to a large number of species with small geographical ranges, yielding a very large total fauna of dung beetles in Madagascar (> 250 species). Apart from exceptionally low local (alpha) diversity and high beta diversity, the Malagasy dung beetle communities are ecologically distinctive from comparable communities in other tropical regions in having high numerical dominance of the most abundant species, small average body size and low degree of resource specialization.
2559660|Tropical forests offer many more products than the category for which they are best known, viz. wood products. They can supply a host of raw materials, such as resins, oils, fibres and fruits, which collectively represent a commercial value far higher than is generally recognized. In addition they provide an exceptional abundance and variety of genetic resources, which make substantial contributions to modern agriculture, medicine, industry and energy. On top of these materials, tropical forests supply significant environmental benefits, such as protection of the soil and safeguards for watershed systems. While it is sometimes difficult to quantify the economic values of these diverse goods and services, they are often to be reckoned as equal to, if not higher than, the marketplace values represented by the commercial hardwood timber. Yet when the forests are exploited for their hardwood timber, the process is usually so disruptive to forest ecosystems that the other outputs are severely reduced. By contrast, one may exploit the forests for their other outputs with virtually no disruption to forest ecosystems. The paper describes the main categories of non-wood products available from tropical forests, analyses their relative worth, and offers summarized proposals for an expanded approach to forest development in order to take integrative account of the full range of forest benefits.
4499087|Barn owl pellet content was studied on seven occasions over a 2-y period during which terrestrial small-mammal populations were assessed via a capture-mark-recapture (CMR) programme in a Sahelian agro-ecosystem of the Inner Delta of Niger River in Mali. Rodents (especially Mastomys huberti representing 78.5% of the total number of prey) were the major prey of the barn owl on all but one occasion, when bats were dominant. This exception coincided with the period of lowest abundance of M. huberti at the study site. Distribution of M. huberti prey into four age classes was assessed through analysis of tooth wear in remains from the seasonal pellet samples. Comparisons with age structure of the CMR population indicate that the barn owl tended to prey on smaller-than-average (thus younger) individuals, especially when these are rare in the population (non-reproductive period between June and October). The spectrum of prey consumed is compared with data previously reported in Sahelian Africa, showing for the first time in this region a major shift in prey choice by the barn owl when its preferred prey becomes rare. At the rodent population level, the apparent choice of younger M. huberti prey at some periods is interpreted in the light of our knowledge on population dynamics of the species in this habitat.
25562598|The factors that influence food choice have implications for animal survival, reproduction and population growth. We conducted a 1-y study of food choice by four mountain gorilla groups that consumed herbs and fruit at two locations differing spatially and temporally in food availability in Bwindi Impenetrable National Park, Uganda. We collected data on 45 important foods consumed by the gorillas, the availability of those foods in each gorilla group's home range and their corresponding nutrient and phenolic concentrations. Employing a linear multiple regression, we tested three hypotheses regarding the influence of food availability and the nutritional and phenolic concentrations of food on food choice. Regardless of changes in herb availability, the choice of herbs was positively influenced by their abundance and sugar concentrations and negatively influenced by their fibre, condensed tannin and protein concentrations. Furthermore, regardless of changes in fruit availability, the choice of fruit was positively influenced by its abundance and negatively influenced by its condensed tannin concentrations. During periods of low fruit availability, the gorillas did not increase the consumption of herbs high in fibre and sugar. The choice of herbs low in fibre had less of an influence on food choice at the location with lower fruit availability than the other location. Our results underscore the importance of incorporating both availability and nutrient concentrations into studies of food choice; by doing so we found Bwindi gorillas were able to choose abundant, relatively high-quality foods year round.
3068823|The pollination ecology and reproductive phenology of a dioecious palm, Chamaedorea alternans were studied at Los Tuxtlas Biological Station in Veracruz state, Mexico during the 1995-96 flowering season. The sexes flower synchronously from October to January. Field observations investigated reproductive phenology, flower visitors and inflorescence and fruit production. Males produce more flowers and inflorescences than females. Seed-set was 13%, indicating low reproductive efficiency. Individual plants showed a great variation in number of inflorescences produced. Five female and eight male plants (out of 25 and 37 plants, respectively) produced 45% of all inflorescences in the population studied. These five females also produced c. 75% of all fruits. Seed production did not show significant differences between insect-excluded and open-pollinated inflorescences, in experiments to test the efficiency of wind pollination. Flowers of this species are wind-pollinated but a great activity of undetermined species of thrips (Thysanoptera) was observed in male inflorescences.
4092124|Fig pollinators (Agaonidae, Chalcioidea) lay their eggs in fig inflorescences (Ficus, Moraceae). Reproductive success for both partners is thus largely dependent on the dispersal of these tiny wasps. Some are known to cover substantial distances (> 10 km) using wind above the canopy. However, fig ecology is extremely varied, and hence one might also expect a diversity of pollinator dispersal strategies. We studied fig pollinator dispersal in Sarawak (2001 and 2004) and Peninsular Malaysia (2003). The results indicate substantial differences in dispersal ecology between the pollinators of monoecious and dioecious figs. Monoecious-fig pollinators were common, and species composition and rank abundances were similar between years despite short sampling periods. Substantial temporal and spatial variation in their production is thus smoothed out by long-distance dispersal. Some species whose hosts do not occur at our Sarawak site and are rare throughout Borneo were caught, suggesting exceptionally long-distance dispersal in these species. Conversely, few dioecious-fig pollinators were caught and species overlap between years was low. Dispersal range in many dioecious-fig pollinators may be more restricted. At a finer scale, among genera pollinating monoecious figs we found marked differences in flight behaviour (height and time-of-dispersal). We relate these findings to the ecology of their hosts, and discuss the implications for fig-fig-pollinator coevolution.
4092108| A severe outbreak of Lepidoptera followed the 1997-98 El Nio Southern Oscillation event, during which the climate in central Panama was unusually dry. The outbreak involved the larvae of at least 12 species of Lepidoptera and occurred at a seasonally dry, deciduous forest site, where extensive background data were available regarding climate, tree species and non-outbreak herbivory levels. Most Lepidoptera were associated with only one or two larval host plant species belonging to the same family, and the majority were monophagous during this study. During the outbreak, caterpillar densities for the major outbreak species averaged 1.6 larvae per young leaf and 0.18 larvae per leaf for leaves of all ages. For canopy trees and lianas, the mean level of leaf damage was 13.8%, ranging from 1-100%. Seven out of 20 tree species sustained most of the damage, with 21-3 7% of the leaf area consumed. Relative to non-outbreak years, damage levels increased by more than 250% during the outbreak. Single-species outbreaks were observed in other areas with a similar drought, but wetter forests in central Panama did not experience outbreaks during this period. Historically, fewer outbreaks have been reported from tropical forests than from temperate forests, however, similar El Nio-related outbreaks have occurred recently in several other locations throughout the tropics. 
4091944|Tropical pioneer tree species are considered as a functional group characterized by a suite of ecological characteristics such as high light demand and high photosynthetic capacities. This study compared the photosynthetic characteristics of eight co-existing pioneer tree species in 3-4-y-old and about 6-m-tall secondary forest stands in Sulawesi, Indonesia. Its objectives were (1) to determine the range and interspecific variation in six photosynthetic parameters, and (2) to identify morphological and chemical leaf traits that can predict light-saturated net photosynthetic rates (on a leaf area or leaf mass basis,
25172929|Soil processes are essential in enabling forest regeneration in disturbed landscapes. Little is known about whether litterfall from dominating pioneer species in secondary rain forest is functionally equivalent to that of mixed rain-forest litter in terms of contribution to soil processes. This study used the litterbag technique to quantify the decomposition and nutrient dynamics of leaf litter characteristic of three wet tropical forest communities in the Paluma Range National Park, Queensland, Australia over 511 d. These were: undisturbed primary rain forest (mixed rain-forest species), selectively logged secondary rain forest (pioneer Alphitonia petriei) and tall open eucalypt forest (Eucalyptus grandis). Mass loss, total N, total P, K, Ca and Mg dynamics of the decaying leaves were determined, and different mathematical models were used to explain the mass loss data. Rainfall and temperature data were also collected from each site. The leaves of A. petriei and E. grandis both decomposed significantly slower in situ than the mixed rain-forest species (39%, 38% and 29% ash-free dry mass remaining respectively). Nitrogen and phosphorus were immobilized, with 182% N and 134% P remaining in E. grandis, 127% N and 132% P remaining in A. petriei and 168% N and 121% P remaining in the mixed rain-forest species. The initial lignin:P ratio and initial lignin:N ratio exerted significant controls on decomposition rates. The exceptionally slow decomposition of the pioneer species is likely to limit soil processes at disturbed tropical rain-forest sites in Australia.
4091868| We investigated the association between lianas and Bertholletia excelsa (Brazil nut), a long-lived, emergent tree of significant ecological and economic importance in Amazonia. Our objectives were: (1) to determine the relationship between crown liana load and liana number, basal area, and origin in relation to the B. excelsa host; and (2) to determine the relationship between liana load and B. excelsa fruit and nut production, diameter growth, and crown form, position and area. One hundred and forty trees ( 50 cm dbh) were selected with representatives of 10 diameter classes and four liana load categories. To quantify fruit and nut production, fruit counts and nut fresh weights per tree were measured in 2002 and 2003, and annual diameter growth was quantified using dendrometer bands. Trees with lianas produced significantly fewer fruits and had reduced nut fresh weights than liana-free trees. Trees with the most extensive liana loads (> 75% crown coverage) were 10.2 times more likely to have crown forms categorized as less than half-crowns or few branches than trees with reduced liana loads. No statistically significant relationship was found between liana load and tree diameter growth. Results suggest that liana cutting might increase B. excelsa fecundity and commercial nut yields. 
4092094|The effects of defoliation on leaf and propagule production, and leaf chemistry of the mangrove Kandelia candel (L.) Druce were evaluated in a manipulative experiment in Hong Kong. Artificial defoliation of leaf lamina at 50% of the length of midrib resulted in significant reduction in leaf, twig and propagule production, and size of the latter. Through the negative effects on propagule number and size, severe herbivory may influence fitness of the mangrove, and, thus, community structure. In contrast, no apparent adverse effects on growth and production were observable at 25% defoliation. Defoliation also significantly affected leaf chemistry of the trees, particularly those suffering 50% defoliation. Concentrations of soluble tannins and carbohydrates in leaves were significantly lower at 50% defoliation compared with the control. Total nitrogen also decreased significantly with increased per cent defoliation. Plants surviving in stressful habitats, such as mangroves, are probably more affected by loss of leaf biomass than those surviving in favourable environments.
40665281|Dioecious plants often exhibit male-biased sex ratios and sexual differences in life history traits such as plant size, growth rate and frequency of flowering, which arise from the different costs of reproduction for male and female plants. In tropical dioecious species sexual differences in reproductive costs have been demonstrated for several subcanopy species, but few canopy dioecious trees have been studied. We recorded the sexual expression of c. 2600 trees of Cecropia schreberiana and Dacryodes excelsa, two canopy dioecious species, during several censuses over 2 y in a 16-ha plot located in 'subtropical wet forest' in the Luquillo Mountains, Puerto Rico. There were similar numbers of male and female trees of C. schreberiana but D. excelsa had a female-biased population. Cecropia schreberiana showed no differences in male and female diameter distributions or growth rates, suggesting that reproductive maturation and longevity are similar for both sexes. This lack of differences in size and growth rate in C. schreberiana may result from mechanisms to compensate for the higher cost of reproduction in females, no resource limitation related to its pioneer life-history, or similar male and female reproductive costs. In contrast, D. excelsa males were larger than females, probably because males grow slightly faster than females. This sexual difference in D. excelsa may reflect a higher cost of reproduction in females than in males. Spatial segregation of males and females into different habitats is not common in tropical forest and neither C. schreberiana nor D. excelsa males and females exhibited significant spatial segregation. The contrasting results for these two canopy species reflect their different life history strategies in this hurricane-affected forest.
2560169|Introduced either accidentally or purposefully for the creation of cultivated pastures, African grasses are becoming major invaders of ecological reserves and national parks of the Brazilian savannas, the cerrado. African grasses are particularly good colonizers of disturbed sites. Germination in the field and laboratory, and seedling establishment in the field were studied for the African species Andropogon gayanus Kunth var. bisquamulatus (Hochst.) Hack., and for the native species Echinolaena inflexa (Poiret) Chase and Schizachyrium tenerum Nees. The African species had a higher and faster germination rate than the two native species, but its seedling mortality was higher The main cause of seedling mortality in the field was herbivory by ants It is suggested that the invasion of cerrado by African grasses depends on the kind of management being practised.
27751618|Photosynthetic responses of 12 species including six fern species (Neottopteris nidus, Microsorum punctatum, Pseudodrynaria coronans, Asplenium finlaysonianum, Paraleptochilus decurrens and Tectaria fauriei) and seedlings of six fig species (Ficus curtipes, F. gibbosa, F. altissima, F. auriculata, F. oligodon and F. hookeriana) in different life forms to lightfleck were investigated, to test whether epiphytes and hemiepiphytes display a slower response to lightfleck and fast induction loss after a lightfleck compared with their terrestrial counterparts, and whether ferns display a slower response to lightfleck and slower induction loss compared to figs. The measurements of functional traits and physiological parameters were determined in a screenhouse of 4% full sunlight. Epiphytic ferns and hemiepiphytic figs had thicker leaves compared with their terrestrial counterparts. Compared with figs, ferns had thicker fronds, larger stomata with a low density, and lower stomatal conductance and photosynthetic capacity; ferns had lower light compensation point and dark respiration rate, conferring a positive carbon gain under low diffuse light beneath the canopy. The induction time to reach 90% maximum net photosynthetic rate (T90) upon the exposure to a saturated light varied strongly among life forms. Epiphytic ferns had slower T90 than terrestrial ferns (19.926.3 vs 5.916.3 min, respectively), and hemiepiphytic figs had slower T90 than terrestrial figs (13.120.4 vs 5.27.8 min, respectively). Compared with figs, ferns showed a slower response to lightfleck. Across ferns and figs, the induction time was negatively correlated with initial stomatal conductance. No significant difference in induction loss was found between two life forms within ferns or figs, whereas ferns had a significantly slower induction loss compared with figs. These results showed that the inherent conservative water use strategy of the epiphytes and hemiepiphytes constrain their lightfleck utilization.
2560198|Light fluctuations and crown traits were studied for saplings of four tree species in a Costa Rican rain forest. Light fluctuations (1988-1994) were assessed by annual light estimations above saplings, using a visual crown position index. Crown traits in 1994 and growth between 1994 and 1995 were measured. Crown position values varied between 1.5 and 2.5. Of the 70 saplings only four were found at higher light levels (crown position of 3 or 3.5), but for 1-2 y only. Over the 6 y of investigation, 55-75% of the saplings experienced no or only one light fluctuation, and 25-45% two or three fluctuations. Crown traits in 1994 were either most strongly correlated with light levels in 1993 (Lecythis) and with light levels in 1991 and 1992 (Dipteryx and Simarouba), or they were not significantly correlated with light levels (Minquartia). It is hypothesised that: (1) the saplings require 1-3 y to establish a crown trait in response to light levels in the forest; and (2) and species that can economically produce a leaf can adjust crown traits more quickly in an environment dominated by low light levels than species that are less economic. Crown trait responses may track environmental changes in three of the four species, in particular in Lecythis In this latter species, leaf area had no significant effect on growth and survival, whereas light level had a positive effect. Conversely, in the other three species, light levels had no discernible effect on growth and survival (due in part to low variation in crown position in two of these species), whereas leaf area had a positive effect on both.
2559211|Using data from forest sites in Sarawak, East Malaysia, a demographic comparison is made of pioneer species in the genus Macaranga with understorey trees of the primary forest in the closely related genus Mallotus. In primary forest, saplings and trees of these genera are uncommon and have low growth rates. For the six years following disturbance by logging, a Macaranga population was characterized by high rates of diameter growth and recruitment. Eleven years after disturbance, seedling and sapling abundance had declined sharply. In contrast, the Mallotus population was stable in size class distribution and increased slightly in total population size during the 11 years after logging. Growth rates of Mallotus trees increased after logging but were still much less than Macaranga trees. A morphological comparison shows that most Macaranga species, in contrast with Mallotus species, have large hollow twigs that are occupied by ants and have larger, hairier, thicker, more toothed leaves with longer petioles, axillary inflorescences with more flowers, infructescences with more fruit, fruits that are smaller in size and smaller seeds.
25562587|Perceptual range is used as a measure of the ability of animals to perceive the landscape, and can be used to infer functional connectivity between habitat patches such as forest remnants. A relationship of perceptual range with body mass was proposed by Mech and Zollner, but effects of life-history traits and environmental conditions were also acknowledged. We evaluated perceptual ranges and the influence of body mass, wind speed and direction, and grass height in four marsupial species of the Atlantic Forest of south-eastern Brazil. Release experiments were conducted and orientation towards the forest was determined using the spool-and-line technique. In 111 animals released, Didelphis aurita had the highest perceptual range (200 m), followed by Philander frenatus and Micoureus paraguayanus (100 m), and by Marmosops incanus (&lt; 100 m). None of the species presented homing behaviour, and there was no difference in orientation abilities between sexes. Perceptual range was overestimated based on the equations of Mech and Zollner, but species were ordered in perceptual range according to their body size. Distance to the forest was a common determinant of the orientation in P. frenatus and M. paraguayanus, but grass height and wind direction were also important. Orientation of Didelphis aurita was determined by wind direction, showing anemotactic behaviour. Body mass is likely to affect perceptual ranges in didelphid marsupials, but only in interspecific comparisons. Within a species perception depends on the environmental context. Variables other than distance must be considered to estimate functional connectivity of the landscape based on perceptual range.
2560094|Trapping was conducted in primary and secondary forests to investigate the effects of past logging on small mammal communities. Thirteen 1-ha sites were snap-trapped for three consecutive days in tropical monsoon rainforest in Xishuangbanna Nature Reserve, southern China. A total of 3900 trap-days yielded 198 captures, of which 118 were in the primary forest and 80 in the secondary forest A total of 12 ground-dwelling species (eight Rodentia, Muridae; three Insectivora, Soricidae; one Insectivora, Erinaceidae) were caught, five (all Rodentia, Muridae) occurred in the primary forest and 11 in the secondary forest. The most abundant species was Niviventer confucianus, accounting for 62% and 39% of the total captures in the primary and the secondary forests, respectively. In the secondary forest the mean abundances of the two dominant species, N confucianus and Maxomys surifer, were reduced, and a non-commensal form of Rattus rattus disappeared, but N fulvescens showed no change while Mus pahari increased. The seven species which occurred only in secondary forest had very low abundance. Overall, the multivariate Mantel test showed the two communities to be significantly different After logging, species diversity increased, and the two dominant species had increased body mass and their mean abundance decreased.
2559350|The effect of the red land crab (Gecarcinus lateralis) on leaf litter biomass and nutrient transformation was investigated in a semi-deciduous tropical forest on coastal dunes using access and exclusion plots observed for six months. Crabs were in burrows during drought, but began foraging immediately after rainfall. Crabs accelerated litter disappearance significantly during the wet season at one site located beneath Brosimum alicastrum, but had no effect beneath a nearby Enterolobium cyclocarpum. The difference is tentatively attributed to small leaflet size in the latter species which crabs were unable to handle and consume. At both sites, litter in exclosures had approximately doubled by the end of the ensuing dry season. At the Brosimum site it is attributed to sporadic crab detritivory occurring after dry seasonal rains. At the Enterolobium site it is attributed to preferential retention of litter in the exclosures during strong dry season winds. The nutrient content of litter exposed to, or protected from, crabs was not significantly different at either site and differences in litter nutrient pools reflected differences in litter biomass. Accelerated nutrient mineralization due to crab detritivory was concentrated early in the wet season before leaching began from the soils, and it is suggested that this altered seasonal pattern of mineralization may reduce the loss of nutrients from the site in percolating water.
4092163|Litter production from above-ground (leaves, twigs, fruits, flowers) and below-ground (roots) plant organs is an important component of the cycling of carbon and nutrients in forests. Tropical montane forests possess comparatively large quantities of fine-root biomass, suggesting that litter production by dying fine roots may represent a major component of total litter production. In a comparative study in three tropical montane forests of southern Ecuador at 1890, 2380 and 3060 m elevation, we measured leaf-fall by litter trapping and fine-root litter production by sequential soil coring and fine-root biomass and necromass analysis for about 1 y with the objectives (1) to quantify annual above- and below-ground litter production, and (2) to investigate elevational differences in litter production. Leaf litter mass decreased to less than a third (862 to
4092181|Seedlings of five species in the Dipterocarpaceae were grown in experimental plots in Sabah, Malaysia. These were sited both in gaps and understorey and on alluvial and sandstone soils. Half of all seedlings were provided with a complete fertilizer. Herbivore damage levels were recorded on over 25 000 individual leaves in four surveys over the course of 2 y. Rates of herbivory were lower on mature leaves (0.07-0.8% leaf area mo
4092023|The photosynthetic light response of Amazonian semi-deciduous forest trees of the rain forest-savanna transition near Sinop Mato Grosso, Brazil was measured between July 2000 and September 2003 to test the hypothesis that the photosynthetic capacity of trees acclimated to different growth light environments will decline during the dry season. Maximum photosynthesis (A
27751621|We studied the effect of climate on the plant-pollinator communities in the West Indies. We constructed plots of 200 m  5 m in two distinct habitats on the islands of Dominica, Grenada and Puerto Rico (total of six plots) and recorded visitors to all plant species in flower. In total we recorded 447 interactions among 144 plants and 226 pollinator species. Specifically we describe how rainfall and temperature affect proportional richness and importance of the different pollinator functional groups. We used three measures of pollinator importance: number of interactions, number of plant species visited and betweenness centrality. Overall rainfall explained most of the variation in pollinator richness and relative importance. Bird pollination tended to increase with rainfall, although not significantly, whereas insects were significantly negatively affected by rainfall. However, the response among insect groups was more complex; bees were strongly negatively affected by rainfall, whereas dipterans showed similar trends to birds. Bird, bee and dipteran variation along the climate gradient can be largely explained by their physiological capabilities to respond to rainfall and temperature, but the effect of climate on other insect pollinator groups was more obscure. This study contributes to the understanding of how climate may affect neotropical plant-pollinator communities.
3068646|Growth, photosynthesis and carbon allocation pattern were studied in four dry afromontane forest tree species (Olea europea subspecies cuspidata, Podocarpus falcatus, Hagenia abyssinica and Juniperus procera) under varied light regimes in a greenhouse. The objective of the study was to assess the potential of the species for growth under forest canopies and to identify their habitat preferences. The light regimes were created using shade cloth and they corresponded with deep forest understoreys (2% of the light in the open gap); moderate shade (10%), slight shade as is found in edges of forest gaps (20%) and 100% representing open gaps. Seedling biomass was significantly influenced by light regimes for all species as were total leaf area and relative growth rate. H. abyssinica had the highest growth rate but the lowest survival rate in shade. There was a consistent trend for higher specific leaf area (SLA) and leaf area ratio (LAR) at lower growth light regimes in O. europea and P. falcatus. O. europea and P. falcatus had similar allocation patterns whereby between 20-40% of the total biomass was allocated to stem, 20-30% to roots and 50-60% to leaves. In H. abyssinica up to 80% was allocated to leaves and only a small percentage to stem and to roots. Within species there were significant differences in the light saturated rate of photosynthesis (A
40925439|The frequency of selection of functional groups and plant species by free-ranging cattle foraging in a diverse environment and its changes during the dry and the following prehumid seasons were investigated using direct observations and bite counting. The study was conducted at two sites in the Bolivian-Tucuman montane forests in southern Bolivia, by including datasets of a total of 16 animals. Across both study sites and the entire observation period (May to October/November), the cattle were found to select a broad spectrum of plant species from different functional groups. However, just a limited number of species made up a considerable contribution to overall plant selection. The functional group of the graminoids was selected most frequently, but their contribution to plant selection decreased significantly from 63.5% of total bites in May to 15.9% in September/October, in accordance with a decrease in availability. Selection of woody plants (shrubs and tree parts, the latter mainly in the form of leaf litter and fruits) increased with time, reaching its peak at the beginning of the prehumid season, while the herbs showed a curvilinear pattern of selection which was highest in August. Plant species belonging to the functional groups of ferns, climbers and epiphytes were also selected by the cattle, but generally at low relative proportions. Plant selection might be influenced by temporal differences in nutritional quality and availability of the preferred plant species and functional groups. Sampling behaviour seems to be the most likely reason for the inclusion of a broad range of plant species with overall low contribution to plant selection.
4091851|The impact of seed size on germination and seedling growth, as affected by water stress, was studied for five tree species from tropical dry forest of India, viz. Albizia procera, Acacia nilotica, Phyllanthus emblica, Terminalia arjuna and Terminalia chebula. Germination tests were conducted under five osmotic potential levels. Seedlings from large (LS) and small (SS) seeds were grown at four soil moisture levels. Observations were made on height, leaf area, biomass and other growth traits such as relative growth rate (RGR), net assimilation rate (NAR), specific leaf area (SLA), and root:shoot (R:S) ratio. Seeds of pioneer species and large seeds, within species, germinated earlier, and with increasing water stress, per cent germination and germination velocity declined. RGR was inversely related with drought tolerance. R:S ratio increased, RGR and SLA declined, but NAR increased with water stress. Notwithstanding successional status, the slow-growing species registered minimum reduction in biomass due to water stress. The response of LS and SS seedlings also differed for some of the growth variables. Increase in NAR could be a compensatory response to water stress, and the marked allocational plasticity could help maximize capture of the limited resource. Seedlings from smaller seeds, particularly of fast-growing species, would be able to cope with mild drought by morphogenetic and physiological plastic response in a better way than those from large seeds. However, seedlings from large seeds had greater survival than those from smaller seeds under intense water stress.
2560180|The seed dispersal system of a neotropical tree, Cabralea canjerana (Meliaceae), was studied in two forested areas in southeastern Brazil. The first study site, Parque Estadual Intervales (PEI), is a 49,000-ha reserve composed mostly of old-growth Atlantic rain forest. The second site, Mata de Santa Genebra (MSG), is a 250-ha fragment of old-secondary semideciduous forest whose present bird fauna differs markedly from the original, in part as a consequence of forest fragmentation. At PEI 35 bird species ate the diaspores of C canjerana. Black-tailed tityra (Tityra cayana, Tyrannidae) was the main seed disperser, but several other species were also important seed dispersers. In contrast, at MSG C canjerana diaspores were eaten by 14 bird species. At this area, the red-eyed vireo (Vireo olivaceus, Vireonidae) was the most important seed disperser, but it was also a `waster' which dropped seeds beneath parent plants, or carried them to sites unsuitable for germination. At PEI, exposed seeds on the forest floor were heavily preyed upon by rodents and insects. Insects destroyed mainly seeds deposited near to parent plants. Insect predation was less intense at MSG than at PEI. The rodent density at MSG was unusually small, and part of the post-dispersal seed predation may be done by terrestrial birds, such as doves and tinamous, which are especially common at MSG. Some of the differences recorded between the seed dispersal systems of C canjerana at PEI and MSG may have been the result of the fragmentation and isolation of the latter area.
4092185|The presence and density of two sympatric, large-sized vipers (the Gaboon viper, Bitis gabonica and the nose-horned viper, Bitis nasicornis) were studied along several transects, during both dry and wet seasons, and at different times of day, in southern Nigeria (West Africa). Three habitat types were found along the various transects (mature rain forest (MF), secondary rain forest (SF), swamp forest (SW)). The detection probabilities for these vipers were modelled with a set of competing models, and the various models were ordered by Akaike Information Criterion procedures. Two classes of models were used: the single-season model, and the multi-species model. The best models (single-season model) suggested that: for the Gaboon viper, habitat types SF and SW were particularly important in detecting this species, especially during the rainy season at 08h00-16h00. For nose-horned vipers, the best models had SW and MF as site-covariates. Application of the multi-species model revealed that there were different detection functions if both species are present at a site, with a 'negative' interaction of occupancy between the species. Females and males were similarly detectable in a logistic regression model, but feeding status and pregnancy slightly increased detection probability in a logistic regression model. Viper density was modelled by a DISTANCE sampling procedure. The density of one species tended to be inversely correlated to the density of the other, suggesting that (1) the rain-forest environment does not support abundant populations of both vipers when sympatric, and (2) the two Bitis species subtly partition the habitat resources.
2560216|Life table studies were conducted on the flowers, pods and seeds of the tree Pithecellobium pallens to assess the extent of damage by the seed predators Stator limbatus and Merobruchus insolitus (Coleoptera: Bruchidae). Brachyacma palpigera (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae) was also found to feed on the seeds of this tree. Seed predation and herbivore damage destroyed 41% of the seeds. Pods were taken to the laboratory and seed predators within were reared and identified. B. palpigera and M. insolitus were major causes of mortality, whereas damage by S. limbatus was slight. The growth ratio of pods to seeds did not indicate a rapid development of seeds as an evasive strategy against bruchid attack. Experiments showed no successful attack by bruchids on seeds exposed on the ground after dispersal from the tree.
4499066|One possible mechanism underlying species losses in the tropics is an increase in predation due to habitat degradation. Relative levels of predation at three heights (ground, 1-1.5 m, > 5 m for nests and > 3 m for caterpillars) were compared across a gradient of disturbance in the Subic Bay Watershed Forest Reserve, Philippines over a 2-mo period. Four 750-m transects were established in each habitat type (closed-canopy forest, open-canopy forest, rural areas) where artificial nests and caterpillar models were placed within 10-m-radius plots and checked after a 5-d exposure period. Nests in open-canopy forest were least predated (16.7%), with predation in rural areas (58.3%) being higher than in closed-canopy forest (32.8%). Predation on nests at 1-1.5 m was significantly lower than ground nests. General linear mixed model analysis suggested that effects of habitat type on nest predation differed among heights. Attacks on caterpillars increased with disturbance (46.1-59.4%), but height was not found to have a significant effect on predation. Markings on plasticine models, camera traps and live traps were used to establish possible predators. Shifts in predator dominance among the habitats were observed. Vegetation cover, tree density and small mammal abundance were not correlated with mean predation in the transects.
2560083|We compared reproductive characteristics of the dendrobatid frog Colostethus trinitatis at the Tamana cave in the Central Range hills and at five forest stream sites in the Northern Range hills of Trinidad. There were significant differences between sites in adult female body size, intraovarian clutch size (in absolute terms and relative to body size) and the size of tadpoles carried by male frogs. Clutch sizes ranged from 6 to 13 in the Northern Range samples and from 12 to 26 at Tamana. Adult male body size was similar at all sites. Tadpoles carried by male C. trinitatis at Tamana were significantly smaller (mean length 14.2 mm) than those carried by males at the five Northern range sites (mean length 16.4-16 7 mm) The smallest clutches and largest tadpoles were found at Mount St Benedict, where there was evidence of size-selective predation on tadpoles by fish. Tamana, where clutches were large and tadpoles small, differed from the Northern Range sites in terms of the physical environment (cave vs forest) and the abundance of invertebrates. We discuss possible ultimate and proximate causes of the differences in clutch size and tadpole size, particularly size-selective predation and availability of food
2559851|Concentration of CO<sub>2</sub> above and below the soil surface and <sup>13</sup>C values of plant tissues, soil litter and organic matter were measured in a caatinga forest of the upper Rio Negro basin in southern Venezuela. CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations near the forest floor were consistently higher than in the atmosphere. CO<sub>2</sub> gradient in the soil was very steep probably because of the poor aeration in this flood-prone forest. <sup>13</sup>C values of plant tissues showed a clear pattern with lower values in the ground herbaceous plants and under-canopy trees. Tree seedlings showed <sup>13</sup>C values similar to the upper-canopy trees indicating their dependence on reserves carried in the seed from the mother tree. Decomposing litter and soil organic matter also showed <sup>13</sup>C values similar to the upper-canopy trees. It is suggested that lower <sup>13</sup>C values of the shade flora result primarily from the assimilation of CO<sub>2</sub> depleted in <sup>13</sup>C originating from soil respiration. Probable effects of low light intensity and physiological factors are discussed.
25172906|The relationship between leaf longevity and other leaf traits was compared among different life-form categories (trees, herbs, climbers and epiphytes) of 101 plant species in a tropical montane forest on Mt. Halimun, West Java, Indonesia. We applied the Cox proportional hazards regression to estimate the leaf longevity of each species from 30 mo of census data. We examined whether estimated longevity was explained by either species life-form categories, taxonomic groupings (eudicots, monocots, magnoliids and chloranthales, and ferns) or such leaf traits as leaf area, leaf mass per area (LMA), mass-based leaf nitrogen, penetrometer reading, condensed-tannin-free total phenolics and condensed tannin. There was a wide-ranged interspecific variation in leaf longevity, mostly 10-50 mo, similarly across life-form categories. LMA showed a strong positive influence on leaf longevity. We found that relationships between leaf longevity and some leaf traits were different among various life forms. Trees tended to have high LMA, while climbers tended to have low LMA at the same leaf longevity. We hypothesize that such difference among life forms reflects shoot architecture characteristics. Multi-shoot trees with branching architecture need to have self-supporting leaves, whereas semi-epiphytic climbers can maintain relatively low biomass investment to leaves hanging or relying upon the mechanical support from host plants.
2559670|An assessment of carnivore species richness and food habits was carried out in a 100 km<sup>2</sup> area of dry tropical forest in Huai Kha Khaeng Wildlife Sanctuary, Thailand. Twenty-one carnivore species of five families were found to be feeding on at least 34 mammal species, as well as birds, lizards, snakes, crabs, fish, insects, and fruits. Forty-four percent of the prey identified in faeces of larger carnivores, primarily leopards, consisted of barking deer, Muntiacus muntjak. Sambar deer, macaques, wild boar, porcupine, and hog badger were important secondary prey items. In faeces from small carnivores (< 10 kg), murid rodents accounted for 33% of identified food items. The two most frequently encountered mammalian prey species were the yellow rajah rat, Maxomys surifer, and the bay bamboo rat, Cannomys badius. Non-mammal prey accounted for 21.3%, and fruit seeds for 12.4%, of all food items found in small carnivore faeces.
3068681| The feeding behaviour of free-ranging black-handed tamarins, Saguinus midas niger, was monitored over 6 mo in a forest fragment in eastern Amazonia. The tamarins' diet included arthropods and plant exudates, but was predominantly frugivorous (87.5% of feeding records, 18 plant species) in all months. The seeds of at least six species were ingested whole and defecated intact. Ingested seeds were relatively large, but those with diameter > 1 cm or length > 2 cm were discarded. Seeds took 2-4 h to pass through the digestive tract, and more than half (50.6%) were dispersed to a habitat different from that in which they were ingested. A fifth (19.3%) of all seeds were dispersed from primary to secondary forest, indicating that S. m. niger may play an important rle in forest regeneration, a rle that will become increasingly important in the fragmented landscape of eastern Amazonia. 
2559677|In tropical seasonal forests, mass seedling death may incidentally occur early in the rainy season following untimely germination provoked by an isolated heavy rainfall. We hypothesized that, in a soil with little moisture retention capacity, irregular rainfall patterns would result in large fluctuations of water supply and, in the early wet season, drought episodes could cause seedling death. This hypothesis was tested in a seasonal tropical forest in Mexico where seedling density is low and the soil consists of almost pure sand with a low water retention capacity. Various patterns of simulated rainfall were applied in the forest to seeds and seedlings of three common tree species. Overall very little difference in germination and seedling survival was observed between the various rainfall treatments. The results showed that rainfall patterns and the soil texture may interact in a much more complex way than was initially hypothesized, and that water availability to seeds and seedlings is not necessarily predictable. The absence of seedlings of the three tree species might be better explained by high seed predation and low light level in the understorey.
25172939|Multimammate rats of the genus Mastomys are among the most widespread pest species in Africa. Previous studies of Mastomys population dynamics have generally reported variation in abundance but few have investigated the demographic parameters underlying this variation, and in particular recruitment. Capture-mark-recapture data were collected for Mastomys erythroleucus several times a year from 2000 to 2004 at a site annually flooded by the Niger River in Mali. Closed-population models were used to estimate population abundance. Both seniority (a parameter inversely linked to recruitment) and survival probabilities were estimated by capture-mark-recapture models. The impacts of water level, population abundance and cumulative rainfall were assessed for each demographic parameter. Survival probabilities (local survival) were negatively correlated with water level, suggesting that rodents emigrated out of the study zone during flooding. As for seniority probabilities, 86% of temporal variation was explained by a model with season, abundance, water level and the interaction between abundance and water level. This suggests that density-dependence in recruitment was mediated by intraspecific competition for food or refuge from floodwaters, or by predation. The flood of the Niger River greatly impacts Mastomys erythroleucus population dynamics, affecting both survival and seniority probabilities.
2559423|The study was conducted in tropical lowland forest in the Dumoga Bone National Park, Sulawesi, Indonesia. It sought (a) to establish the typical densities of sap-sucking Hemiptera, (b) to quantify the intensity of Hemiptera feeding on leaves, and (c) to investigate, using multivariate techniques, the relationships between Hemiptera density and/or feeding damage and a range of leaf or plant characteristics. Only 3% of shrubs examined had colonial Hemiptera feeding on growing shoots. Feeding punctures on leaves were common but the insects which produced them such as the Cicadellidae and various Heteroptera were scarce. Coccoidea and Aleyrodoidea were the dominant and ubiquitous Hemipterans, feeding primarily on the surface of the leaves. Psylloidea were relatively rare and Aphidoidea were not recorded. For the complete data set, which included all leaves examined, there were few significant correlations, either singly or in combination, between the various measures of insect abundance and the state of the 17 leaf characteristics recorded. However, when the data for young leaves were extracted there was evidence to suggest that the number of feeding punctures cm<sup>-2</sup> of leaf and the number of coccids cm<sup>-2</sup> of upper leaf surface increased rapidly to a maximum as the young leaf aged and certain characters changed accordingly. Other more stable leaf characteristics such as hairiness, spininess, glossiness, etc. explained only a small additional amount of the total variance in Hemiptera abundance.
2560271|The dioecious character (sex ratios and stand structures, conspecific neighbour relationships, inflorescence numbers and structure) and reproductive process (phenology, anthesis, flower visitors and fruit production) of a miombo woodland species, Uapaca kirkiana were investigated in natural populations in Malawi. The sex ratio of reproductive individuals  10 cm diameter at breast height was about 1:1 and departures from this ratio mostly resulted from a higher proportion of the males. Spatially, the sexes were randomly distributed but generally within 10 m of each other with no obvious gender differences in size. Throughout Malawi, male and female reproductive individuals flower synchronously between October-April (with a peak period in February-March). A 6 : 1 male to female inflorescence sex ratio was common. Anthesis in female inflorescences lasts almost twice as long as in male inflorescences and only the latter have any odour. On male trees, inflorescences are in fascicles, whereas on female trees, they are solitary. In both cases, the infloresences are generally similar in size except for the peduncles of the male inflorescences which are longer than the female's. A range of insects visits U kirkiana flowers but the most likely pollinators are bees (Apis mellifera), and beetles (Dothera bennigseni, Chelomenes lunata, Alcidodes denticulatus and Mitracamenta sp.). Apart from pollen from the male inflorescences, female flowers do not offer any obvious reward for flower visitors. Pollination studies revealed that assisted pollination did not significantly improve fruit production or seed quality over unpollinated or naturally pollinated inflorescences. Facultative agamospermy (apomixis) is suspected as a phenomenon requiring further attention in U kirkiana.
2559771|Praying mantids (Insecta: Dictyoptera, Mantodea) attracted to light at a savanna site in Ghana (Legon) were studied over 34 months. 1771 insects of 26 species were recorded, most of which were males. There was a gradual decline in numbers during the study, which was probably due to habitat deterioration. Significantly more mantids were attracted to light on new moon nights than when the moon was full. For the second commonest species, Sphodromantis lineola, a significant correlation was found between mantid numbers and rainfall per month. Some species appear to have two peaks of abundance per year, others only one, while the commonest species, Miomantis paykullii, shows no clear seasonal pattern, but longer term studies are required to confirm these tentative conclusions. Three measures of diversity are calculated and compared with mantid data from elsewhere in the tropics. Diversity at Legon was found to be very similar to that at Lamto, Cote d'Ivoire, despite different methods of collecting the insects, but the mantid fauna of Panama is less diverse than at the two African sites. Suggestions to account for this result are presented.
2560259|Two formicarial ant-plants endemic to Panama and adjacent areas of Costa Rica co-occur in mid-elevation cloud forest yet have distinctive modifications to house and feed small, retiring ants Besleria formicaria (Gesneriaceae) hosts only Pheidole sp. which harvest the oil-rich seeds of its host and other plants and insect parts. Hoffmannia vesciculifera (Rubiaceae) hosts only Solenopsis sp ants which obtain lipid and possibly other nutrients from vescicular tissues Judging by their abundance in refuse deposits, fern sporangia appear to be a plentiful and evenly distributed resource exploited by both ant species.
23012407|West African savannas are habitats with unpredictable rainfall. Species with varying life-history traits may be more successful in these environments than species with fixed traits. We studied the reproduction strategies of the microhylid frog Phrynomantis microps in different savanna types, a humid savanna in Ivory Coast and a drier one in Benin. We recorded 5437 clutches in eight ponds in the humid savanna during five consecutive rainy seasons. A further 694 clutches were investigated in 10 ponds in Benin in one rainy season. For each clutch, we recorded egg numbers, deposition time, location within the pond and rainfall. Precipitation was important in triggering reproduction. However, the amount of rainfall needed differed in relation to rainy season length and total annual rainfall. Especially in years and regions with a late rainy season a threshold of minimum precipitation was needed to initiate spawning, indicating a trade-off between the need to reproduce and the survival probabilities of offspring in ponds with a high desiccation risk. Egg numbers per clutch further differed between pond sizes, breeding season length, as well as to time within the rainy season. Potential explanations for these differences, in particular desiccation and predation risks are discussed, but need further experimental support.
3068632| Pollen analysis of a 150-cm-long core from Pantano de Pecho (020S, 7837W) at 3870 m altitude in the Ecuadorian pramo documents altitudinal migrations and the composition of the upper forest line prior to deforestation. Four successive radiocarbon dates of 293  41
3068730|Growth and survival of plants of eight species of epiphytic bromeliad were studied over a period of 5 y in a humid montane forest in eastern Mexico using repeated photographs of branches. Growth was calculated from annual size increment and used to predict the time taken to reach fertility. Most intermediate-sized plants grew at a rate of 2-3 cm y
27751620|Our study presents experimentally based results on how large herbivore species affect savanna vegetation and thus murid rodents in the Hluhluwe-iMfolozi Park in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. We permanently excluded groups of large herbivore guilds of various body sizes (ranging from white rhino to hares) from sixteen 40  40-m plots of vegetation by using different fence types. We determined grass species composition and vegetation height and collected capturemarkrecapture data on murid rodents. Nutrient concentrations of the dominant grass species and rodent diet compositions were analysed. We found that herbivore species of different body sizes had different effects on murid rodents. The exclusion of medium-sized herbivores, such as warthog, impala and nyala increased the abundance of high-quality grass species, especially Panicum maximum. However, the dominant rodent species Lemniscomys rosalia preferred the most abundant grass species, rather than high-quality grasses. The absence of large bulk feeders, such as zebra, buffalo and white rhino led to an increase in vegetation height. In response, tall vegetation promoted both rodent abundance and species diversity and altered rodent species composition. Ultimately, our results indicate that the greatest effect on murid rodents came from the reduction of vegetation cover by large bulk feeders, which likely increased rodent predation risk.
2559879|The spatial heterogeneity of element fluxes was quantified by measuring litterfall, throughfall and litter decomposition for 1 y in 30 randomly located sampling areas in a lowland dipterocarp rain forest. The idea tested was that turnover of elements is more variable than turnover of dry matter in a forest with extremely high tree species diversity. In spite of the low fertility of the soil (an ultisol), total litter production (leaves, trash, and wood <2 cm in diameter) was high (1105 g m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>) with inputs to the forest floor of carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, potassium, manganese and iron of 550, 15.3, 0.47, 6.26, 2.49, 4.75, 0.95 and 0.14 g m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> respectively. Throughfall was 81% of the annual rainfall and transferred 22.2, 1.37, 0.14, 1.07, 0.67, 0.39, 7.92, <0.06, and <0.06 g m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> of organic carbon, nitrogen (all forms), phosphorus, sulphur, calcium, magnesium, potassium, manganese and iron, respectively. Average turnover rates of nutrients in litter were highest for potassium and decreased in the sequence calcium, magnesium, carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus. Concentrations of phosphorus, nitrogen and potassium in litterfall, litter mass and topsoil were closely correlated with each other. Concentrations of calcium and manganese were positively correlated with each other and with elevation. Variations in leaf chemistry and total litterfall caused the spatial heterogeneity of element input to the forest floor to have a coefficient of variation of 30 - 70%, depending on the element. Due to the strong positive correlation between element fluxes and pools, the spatial variability of turnover rates (CV c. 20%) was lower than that of element input. Turnover rates for K varied by a factor of 4, and for Ca by a factor of 2.8 when the different sites were compared. The results strongly suggest that the most important factor determining spatial heterogeneity of organic matter and element dynamics on the forest floor is the site-specific amount of leaf fall, rather than spatially variable decomposition rates.
2560209|Hemiepiphytic plants grow for part of their life as true epiphytes, then become terrestrial through the production of aerial roots that grow from the canopy to the ground. Long-term measurement of growth, dieback and mortality of aerial roots of hemiepiphytic plants in a lower montane moist tropical forest in western Panama was used to elucidate life-history strategies of hemiepiphytes from two families. The fates of 156 aerial roots of five species of Clusiaceae and Araceae were followed for 10 mo. Some roots were cut to experimentally study the effect of injury on resprouting and survival. Aerial roots of Araceae grew more than twice as fast as those of Clusiaceae but had a much greater mortality rate. Roots of both families grew much faster during the wet than dry season. Even for the fastest growing roots, growth and survival models suggest that only 18% of Araceae roots were likely to survive long enough to reach the ground from a branch 10 m high, whereas 87% of roots of Clusiaceae were likely to do so. This suggests that only those Araceae hemiepiphytes that produce a large number of aerial roots or are located close to the ground are likely to reach the soil.
3068760| Data from a hilly forest study site at Batang Ule, Sumatra, are organized into 30 100-m x 10-m subplots lying perpendicular to the line of maximal topographic gradient, from the valley to the plateau/ridge. The following methodological question is addressed: what species diversity measures are best used in order to reveal the ecologically distinct regions in the site. The main tool used to answer this question is the -diversity curve (H
4499074|The tree Lysiloma microphyllum (Fabaceae) dominates in the seasonally tropical dry forests of central Mexico. In this study foliar N and P concentrations (on leaf mass basis), foliar N and P resorption efficiency and proficiency, as well as the decomposition of senescent leaves of L. microphyllum were studied in primary and in regenerating, secondary seasonally tropical dry forests. Our study included an area of early successional forest (10 y old), with phosphorus-poor soils and comparatively abundant nitrogen, an area of late-successional forest (~60 y old), in which soil P and N were comparatively abundant, and an area of primary forest, in which soil P was comparatively abundant and N was less abundant than in the secondary counterparts. N and P concentrations in mature leaves varied across forests, reflecting soil nutrient availability. Nitrogen concentration in senescent leaves did not change among sites, which led to very different patterns of N resorption. In contrast, P concentration in senescent leaves was lower in the early than in late-successional and primary forests, which resulted in similar patterns of resorption. Leaf decomposition increased from 70% mass loss in the first year in the early successional to ~80% in the same period in late-successional and primary forests. The element loss during decomposition change across forests in the following order: for N, early successional = late-successional > primary forest, and for P, primary forest > late-successional > early successional forest. Overall, the pattern of variation in leaf chemistry and nutrient release on the forest floor among sites is consistent with soil nutrient availability along this sequence, while decomposition rate may be related with the P concentration in senescent leaves.
3068628|We tested the hypothesis that tree species in a subtropical rain forest in south-east Queensland are ecologically equivalent and therefore have identical environmental requirements for their regeneration. We assessed the evidence that juveniles of species differed in their distributions in treefall gap microsites and along gradients of light availability, soil pH, soil PO
23012406|Orchid species are well known for their highly specialized pollinator interactions. To better understand the reproductive biology of the tropical epiphytic orchid Bulbophyllum variegatum on Runion, we investigated the floral morphology, breeding system, pollinator diversity, floral scent profile and fruiting success of about 30 individuals in three natural populations during two consecutive flowering seasons. Controlled hand-pollination experiments in two populations showed that the species is self-compatible, but requires pollinator service to achieve reproduction. Videotape pollinator observations were conducted during two flowering seasons for 56 h and revealed that B. variegatum is pollinated by a single species of fly from the Platystomatidae. This fly seems to be attracted by the unpleasant scent produced by the flowers, and does not receive any reward after achieving pollination. In addition, no egg-laying behaviour was observed. Bulbophyllum variegatum thus exhibits a typical sapromyiophilous pollination syndrome which constitutes the first proven case of sapromyiophily within the genus Bulbophyllum on the Mascarene Archipelago. Hand pollinations further showed that fruit set was not significantly higher for flowers that received outcross pollen than for those that were self-crossed (53% and 44% respectively). Fruit sets under natural conditions were significantly different among populations, ranging from 0.5% to 24.3%. This low fruit production is likely due to infrequent pollinator visits, particularly in disturbed forests where the pollinator has never been observed.
4092018|Sexes and also within sex phenotypes, frequently differ in morphological traits associated with efficiency and performance in foraging and mating behaviours. In butterflies and other flying animals, phenotypic differences in wing size and traits associated with flight are involved in flight performance and individual fitness, but explorations of links among two or more traits and intrasexual differences are scarce. Foraging patterns were studied in a population of Heliconius charitonia butterflies having three phenotypes (females and two male phenotypes) which differ in their wing morphology and reproductive behaviour. As in previous studies, intersexual differences in foraging patterns were found; more interestingly, intrasexual differences were found between alternative male mating strategies. Using morphological and behavioural data, as well as data from previous flight analyses in Heliconius butterflies, we show that intrasexual differences may be explained by the energetic demands of each phenotype. Energetic expenditure is partially related to phenotypic variability in flight morphology and efficiency, and at least in both male phenotypes, differences may also be related to the energetic demands of alternative mating strategies.
4092066|The induction of carbon-based secondary metabolites in leaves following damage has been proposed to be a result of a shift in the carbon:nutrient balance, when growth is limited by nutrients in relation to carbon. Here we test this hypothesis using seedlings of a tropical tree, Shorea leprosula (Dipterocarpaceae). In the short term, we analysed the phenolic content of leaves 7 d after damage on seedlings grown under differing light and nutrient treatments. In the long term, we examined the effect of nutrients, over 12 mo, on leaf phenolic concentration and seedling growth. In both the long and short term, levels of phenolics increased in damaged leaves under low nutrient treatments. No changes in leaf phenolics were detected under high nutrient regimes, or in the short term under low light. In addition, it was found that defoliation of seedlings in high-nutrient environments led to greater rates of leaf production than in undamaged seedlings, suggesting compensation.
3068816|With 86 species, Iwokrama Forest in central Guyana has the highest reported bat biodiversity for a protected area in the world. Using standardized capture data for 73 of these 86 species, we document community structure of bats in terms of species diversity, relative abundance, gross biomass, feeding guilds, vertical stratification and a trophic-size niche matrix. Based on faunal surveys in 1997, with similar amounts of effort in the forest canopy and at ground level, the greater fruit-eating bat (Artibeus lituratus) was by far the most ecologically dominant species in terms of frequency of capture and biomass. In total, frugivores comprised 70% of the species diversity and 78% of the biomass. The most common species of bat were fully partitioned in a resource niche matrix of size and trophic guild when vertical stratification was included as a variable. We conclude that resource partitioning and species packing differentially affect relative size in tropical bats, and are better summarized and analysed in three dimensions.
25172925|Elephant are believed to be one of the main ecological drivers in the conversion of savanna woodlands to grassland. We assessed the impacts of elephant on large trees ( 5 m in height) in the southern section of the Kruger National Park. Tree dimensions and utilization by elephant were recorded for 3082 individual trees across 22 transects (average length of 3 km and 10 m wide). Sixty per cent of the trees exhibited elephant utilization and 4% were dead as a direct result of elephant foraging behaviour. Each height class of tree was utilized in proportion to abundance. However, the size of the tree and the species influenced the intensity of utilization and foraging approach. Sclerocarya birrea was actively selected for and experienced the highest proportional utilization (75% of all trees). Interestingly, the proportion of large trees that were utilized and pushed over increased with distance from permanent water, a result which has implications for the provision of water in the KNP. We conclude that mortality is likely to be driven by a combination of factors including fire, drought and disease, rather than the actions of elephant alone. Further investigation is also required regarding the role of senescence and episodic mortality.
2560026|The spatial patterns presented by the marsupial Micoureus demerarae were studied through capture-mark-recapture in two small Atlantic Forest fragments (areas 7.1 and 8.8 ha). The study took place from March 1995 to August 1997. Considering all captures of each individual, males did not have larger home ranges within the fragments than did females. A negative correlation was found between home range sizes and population densities. For males, home ranges overlapped often, and were larger during the breeding season. For females, home ranges did not overlap except for a short period when there were many individuals present, and home range sizes were not significantly larger in the breeding season. Five movements between the two forest fragments were detected, across 300 m of open vegetation. All the movements were performed by males during the reproductive season. M. demerarae in the small fragments therefore displays a metapopulation structure, although possibly an atypical one where only males disperse.
2559694|Natural forests on Java have been generally cleared and remnants are now confined to mountain areas. Although legally protected, these forests are used by local people for products like firewood, timber and fodder. Locally, such exploitation is carried out daily by hundreds of people, whose livelihood depends on forest products. Using a landscape-guided approach, a 15,500 ha area of montane forest in East Java has been sampled and analysed at the sylvatic mosaic level. Vegetation types, sociologic species groups and vegetation structure are described for landscape units. The most accessible landscape units have the most degraded forest with basal area values < 15 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup> and a canopy closure of <20%. The least accessible units have relatively undisturbed forest with basal area values of >45 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup> and a canopy closure of >60%. Human activities such as tree cutting have altered species composition and modified forest structure to such an extent that large stretches of forest have been replaced by woodland or shrubland. Forest degradation is described as a human-induced process in which basal area and canopy closure are ultimately reduced, in spite of regrowth. Comparison with other forest areas on Java shows that degradation as a result of tree cutting is a widespread phenomenon.
2560260|Clusters of four circular forest plots, 0 2 ha in total area, were inventoried for canopy tree (30 cm gbh) and terrestrial herb floristic composition at 46 sites in the Central Catchment Nature Reserve, Singapore The Nature Reserve covers a complex mosaic of lowland tropical forest of different successional stages, with much of the area covered in secondary forest 50-100 years old developed on exhausted agricultural soils A total of 449 species of tree and 59 species of terrestrial herb were recorded from the clusters Facultatively-terrestrial epiphytes were excluded from the analysis Possible reasons for the low herb diversity are discussed There was a marked similarity between ordinations (detrended correspondence analysis) of the clusters based on tree canopy composition weighted by species relative contribution to cluster total basal area and the herb flora composition, with a highly significant correlation between first axis scores of the two ordinations. Both ordinations showed the three clusters from freshwater swamp forest to be highly distinctive from the rest. The two forest strata exhibited a parallel response to the successional gradient, though the low diversity and patchy distribution of the herb flora blurred the distinction between primary and secondary communities more clearly seen in canopy composition
27751672|Differences in growth patterns between the sexes of the gracile mouse opossum Gracilinanus microtarsus and the consequences for home range size were investigated in a savanna habitat (cerrado) of south-eastern Brazil. A total of 51 juvenile individuals of Gracilinanus microtarsus was monitored using capturemarkrecapture from November 2005 to August 2006. The increase in body mass of gracile mouse opossums was described using the Gompertz growth model. Male gracile mouse opossums grew faster than females (dimorphic ratio of 1.5). Home range size, estimated with the minimum convex polygon method, was positively related to body mass. Model selection using Akaike's Information Criterion (AICc) and incorporating body mass, sex and season as independent variables showed that the best-supported model describing variance in home range sizes included only body mass. Our data suggest that a greater body mass gain in juvenile males is probably the proximate cause of sexual dimorphism in adult gracile mouse opossums and that energetic needs required for growth have a greater influence in home range size.
2559535|This paper introduces studies of nutrient cycling in disturbed and undisturbed rain forest plots in the upper catchment of Birthday Creek, near Paluma, North Queensland. The catchment is underlain by granite and has soils of comparatively low fertility. Differences between unlogged plots and plots disturbed 25 years previously by selective logging are still apparent. Disturbed plots have soils with higher bulk densities and pH, lower CEC, kjeldahl nitrogen and available phosphorus concentrations, and changed species composition. The data suggest that recovery from selective logging is dependent on soil fertility and intensity of disturbance.
23012389|Food webs of streams draining tropical rain forests on Costa Rica's Pacific and Caribbean coasts were examined in the 1980s via dietary analyses, and the same streams were surveyed again in 2004 to compare trophic structure based on analysis of stable isotope ratios of fish, macro-invertebrate and plant tissues. Estimates of species' trophic positions (TP) were calculated from stomach-contents data (51 species; 5420 specimens) and compared with TP estimates derived from analysis of nitrogen isotope ratios (82 taxa; 240 samples). Coefficients of determination for TP based on dietary versus isotopic analysis ranged from 0.18 (Quebrada Camaronal, Corcovado) to 0.73 (Quebrada Estacion, Tortuguero). Consumer taxa within all four streams spanned a broad range of carbon isotope values, indicating assimilation of variable proportions of carbon from periphyton and terrestrial vegetation that in all but one of the streams had similar  13 C values. Approximately half the consumers in all four streams had carbon ratios heavier than any of the in situ production sources examined. This pattern could be explained by consumption of other production sources that were not sampled, including periphyton taxa with variable carbon isotope signatures, or migration of prey and/or consumers between these freshwater and coastal marine habitats.
2560308|Five species of rodent (Rattus rattus wroughtoni, Mus platythrix, Funambulus tristriatus, Cremnomys blanfordi and Golunda ellioti) were live-trapped over a period of eight months in three different habitat types (moist evergreen forest, moist deciduous forest and teak plantation) in Anaimalais Wildlife Sanctuary, Tamil Nadu, India Small mammal densities ranged between 16.3 individuals ha<sup>-1</sup> and 20 7 ha<sup>-1</sup> for the natural forest sites and were 10.4 ha<sup>-1</sup> in the teak plantation. Moist deciduous forest had the highest species richness and diversity scores. Although the teak plantation site had the same mammal species richness as the moist evergreen forest, numbers of individuals and overall small mammal biomass in the plantation was far lower than on the natural forest sites. Compared to moist deciduous forest, species richness and diversity were significantly lower on the teak plantation R. r. wroughtoni and M. platythrix were the two most common species captured on all three sites. R. r. wroughtoni was the most common small mammal species captured, reaching densities of 14.5 ha<sup>-1</sup> in moist evergreen forest. G. ellioti was the least common species, present only in moist deciduous forest. Demographic patterns and microhabitat selection were examined for R. r. wroughtoni, M. platythrix, and F. tristriatus. Only M. platythrix appeared to show any distinct seasonality in reproduction, with an increase in capture of breeding individuals towards the end of the wet season Discriminant analysis did not reveal any distinct microhabitat preferences for any of the species However, R. r. wroughtoni showed a significant association with bamboo, and F. tristriatus was associated with areas of higher canopy height and density in moist deciduous forest.
23012375|Lantana camara, a shrub of Central and South American origin, has become invasive across dry forests worldwide. The effect of the thicket-forming habit of L. camara as a dispersal and recruitment barrier in a community of native woody seedlings was examined in a 50-ha permanent plot located in the seasonally dry forest of Mudumalai, southern India. Sixty 100-m 2 plots were enumerated for native woody seedlings between 10100 cm in height. Of these, 30 plots had no L. camara thickets, while the other 30 had dense thickets. The frequency of occurrence and abundance of seedlings were modelled as a function of dispersal mode (mammal, bird or mechanical) and affinities to forest habitats (dry forest, moist forest or ubiquitous) as well as presence or absence of dense L. camara thickets. Furthermore, frequency of occurrence and abundance of individual species were also compared between thickets and no L. camara. At the community level, L. camara density, dispersal mode and forest habitat affinities of species determined both frequency of occurrence and abundance of seedlings, with the abundance of dry-forest mammal-dispersed species and ubiquitous mechanically dispersed species being significantly lower under L. camara thickets. Phyllanthus emblica and Kydia calycina were found to be significantly less abundant under L. camara, whereas most other species were not affected by the presence of thickets. It was inferred that, by affecting the establishment of native tree seedlings, L. camara thickets could eventually alter the community composition of such forests.
2559367|The Asian elephant's foraging strategy in its natural habitat and in cultivation was studied in southern India during 1981-83. Though elephants consumed at least 112 plant species in the study area, about 85% of their diet consisted of only 25 species from the order Malvales and the families Leguminosae, Palmae, Cyperaceae and Gramineae. Alteration between a predominantly browse diet during the dry season with a grass diet during the early wet season was related to the seasonally changing protein content of grasses. Crop raiding, which was sporadic during the dry season, gradually increased with more area being cultivated with the onset of rains. Raiding frequency reached a peak during October-December, with some villages being raided almost every night, when finger millet (Eleusine coracana) was cultivated by most farmers. The monthly frequency of raiding was related to the seasonal movement of elephant herds and to the size of the enclave. Of their total annual food requirement, adult bull elephants derived an estimated 9.3% and family herds 1.7% in quantity from cultivated land. Cultivated cereal and millet crops provided significantly more protein, calcium and sodium than the wild grasses. Ultimately, crop raiding can be thought of as an extension of the elephant's optimal foraging strategy.
4092096|Dominance of primary rain forests by the ectomycorrhizal, leguminous canopy tree Dicymbe corymbosa (Caesalpiniaceae) was investigated in the Pakaraima Mountains of western Guyana. In five 1 -ha forest inventory plots in the Upper Ireng and Upper Potaro River drainages basal areas of D. corymbosa ranged from
4091985|Due to the unbalanced distribution of their fauna and flora, which leads to the creation of a niche opportunities, it is generally accepted that island communities offer weak biotic resistance to biological invasion. In order to empirically test this statement, we compared resource use by ants in the understorey of an undisturbed New Caledonian rain forest recently invaded by the little fire ant, Wasmannia auropunctata. We tested the exploitation of: (1) food sources by placing baits on all trees with trunks greater than 5 cm in diameter; and (2) nesting sites on two tree species likely to shelter ant colonies. In non-invaded areas, the native ants occupied only 44.6% of the baits after 2 h of exposure, while in invaded areas all the baits were occupied by numerous W. auropunctata workers. Similarly, in non-invaded areas only 48.9% of Meryta coriacea (Araliaceae) trees and 64.5% of Basselinia pancheri (Arecaceae) sheltered ants, while in invaded areas W. auropunctata nested in 92.6-98.3% of these trees. Also, workers attended native Margarodidae (Hemiptera) for which they promoted the development of populations significantly larger than those attended by native ants. Thus native ants appear unable to efficiently exploit and defend several of the available food sources and nesting sites, providing a niche opportunity for an invader like W. auropunctata.
2559657|Dormancy and germination ecology of two Harpagophytum species (Pedaliaceae) from an open Acacia savanna in Botswana were investigated. The maintenance of dormancy is governed partly by the seed coat but mainly by the endosperm and the embryo itself, as demonstrated by removal of the endosperm. Dissemination of the seed from the fruit can be delayed for several years without affecting the viability of the embryo, due to very low respiration rates. Germination can be enhanced slightly by high temperatures under natural conditions, and by gibbcrellic acid or removal of the endosperm under laboratory conditions. Relative growth rates for both Harpagophytum species are lower than for subtropical grasses and legumes, due to a strong investment in root and tuber biomass. Germination and seedling growth is discussed in relation to the drought avoidance syndrome and the animal disperser syndrome.
40925448|The agouti (Dasyprocta punctata) meticulously defleshes Astrocaryum standleyanum palm seeds before scatter hoarding. On Barro Colorado Island, Panama, we experimentally tested three hypotheses on how this behaviour could reduce seed predation to the mutual benefit of the tree and the rodent. The first and established hypothesis - that defleshing reduces seed predation by bruchid beetles by intercepting larvae - was rejected. Experiments in which manually defleshed seeds or entire fruits were incubated at different times showed that defleshing reduced bruchid infestation before fruit fall but not after fruit fall. The second hypothesis - that defleshing reduces cache pilferage by making seeds less conspicuous - was supported. An experiment in which intact fruits and manually defleshed seeds were placed in mimicked agouti caches and followed showed that seeds with flesh were pilfered at higher rates than defleshed seeds. The third hypothesis - that defleshing reduces post-dispersal infestation of cached seeds - was rejected. An experiment in which intact fruits and manually defleshed seeds were placed in mammal exclosures and later collected to assess infestation showed that burial reduced seed infestation but defleshing did not. Thus, seed defleshing reduced palm seed predation, but in a different way than previously believed. We also found that (1) bruchid beetles can be pre-dispersal rather than post-dispersal seed predators, (2) seed infestation by scolytid beetles may control bruchid larvae, and (3) scolytids rather than bruchids are the main invertebrate seed predators of this palm.
4092052| In a subtropical montane forest of north-western Argentina (27S, 1000 m elevation), we analysed the effect of crown illumination, trunk diameter, foliar phenology and tree species identity as determinants of liana-host tree associations, as well as the spatial pattern of liana abundance in a 6-ha permanent plot. We recorded 2346 liana individuals  2 cm and 2320 trees  10 cm dbh. Sixty-five per cent of the trees hosted at least one liana stem. Large and well-lit trees were more likely to support lianas and supported more liana abundance than small and shaded trees. Yet, when trees were standardized by their size (liana basal area/tree basal area ratio), lianas were more abundant in smaller and less-exposed trees. Foliar phenology and tree species identity showed no association with the frequency of liana colonization and their abundance. Overall, tree features played a minor or even neutral role in structuring the liana community within this forest. Instead, lianas showed a positive autocorrelation at spatial scales up to 40 m. This suggests that lianas might be mostly structured by light- and dispersal-related factors such as those involving canopy access or canopy disturbances, with a negligible effect of host species identity and foliar phenology. 
4092099|Conversion of tropical evergreen forests to crops or pastures results in significant depletions of terrestrial carbon (C) pools. Root biomass and root C pools were quantified in tropical evergreen primary forest, and in secondary forests and pastures of different ages, in the Los Tuxtlas Region, Veracruz, Mexico. Total root biomass to 1-m depth ranged from
25562602|Diversity is positively correlated with water availability at global, continental and regional scales. With the objective of better understanding the mechanisms that drive these relationships, we investigated the degree to which variation in water availability affects the performance (recruitment, growth and survival) of juvenile trees. Precipitation was supplemented throughout two dry seasons in a seasonal moist forest in south-eastern Peru. Supplementing precipitation by 160 mm mo, we increased soil moisture by 17%. To generate seedling communities of known species composition, we sowed 3840 seeds of 12 species. We monitored the fates of the 554 seedlings recruited from the sown seeds, as well as 1856 older non-sown seedlings (10 cm  height &lt; 50 cm), and 2353 saplings (&gt; 1 m tall). Watering significantly enhanced young seedling growth and survival, increasing stem density and diversity. Watering diminished the recruitment of species associated with upland forests, but increased the survival of both upland- and lowland-associated species. Though supplemental watering increased the growth of older seedlings, their density and diversity were unaffected. Sapling performance was insensitive to watering. We infer that variation in dry-season water availability may affect seedling community structure by differentially affecting recruitment and increasing overall survival. These results suggest that differential seedling recruitment and survival may contribute to the observed relationships between water availability, habitat associations and patterns of tree species richness.
2559850|Samples of 29 distinct larval forms of anurans were collected in streams flowing through primary rain forest at Nanga Tekalit, Sarawak, at three periods spaced over 22 years. This assemblage of tadpoles lives in torrents, riffles, shingle areas, open pools, leaf drifts, protected side pools, potholes in rocky banks, bank seepages, and pools of small intermittent streams. Positive associations of species in types of microhabitats and co-occurrence within sites lead to recognition of four taxonomically heterogeneous groups: one concentrated in leaf drifts; one using riffles, shingle areas, and open pools; one concentrated in potholes; and one using side pools and potholes. Most pairs of larval forms having strong negative association are characterized by differences in morphology and feeding behaviour; they show little evidence of competitive relations. Between-sites variation in species composition differs among the types of microhabitats, leaf drifts showing the least amount of variation. Species composition within a site shows less change over intervals of 1-5 days than over intervals of 13-18 days. Variation in species composition is greater between sites than within sites over intervals of 9-31 days. Organization in this community seems to be effected by three factors: reproductive behaviour of adults and morphological and behavioural adaptations of tadpoles.
2559922|One of the major uncertainties concerning the role of tropical forests in the global carbon cycle is the lack of adequate data on the carbon content of all their components. The goal of this study was to contribute to filling this data gap by estimating the quantity of carbon in the biomass, soil and necromass for 23 long-term permanent forest plots in five life zones of Venezuela to determine how C was partitioned among these components across a range of environments. Aboveground biomass C ranged from 70 to 179 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> and soil C from 125 to 257 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup>, and they represented the two largest C components in all plots. The C in fine litter (2.4 to 5.2 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup>), dead wood (2.4 to 21.2 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup>) and roots (23.6 to 38.0 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup>) accounted for less than 13 % of the total C. The total amount of C among life zones ranged from 302 to 488 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup>, and showed no clear trend with life zone In three of the five life zones, more C was found in the dead (soil, litter, dead wood) than in the live (biomass) components (dead to live ratios of 13 to 2.3); the lowland moist and moist transition to dry life zones had dead to live ratios of less than one. Results from this research suggest that for most life zones, an amount equivalent to between 20 and 58% of the aboveground biomass is located in necromass and roots These percentages coupled with reliable estimates of aboveground biomass from forest inventories enable a more complete estimation of the C content of tropical forests to be made.
2559993|I investigated the extent to which adult butterflies with different wing colours display preferences for flying heights within a lowland tropical forest. Observations on eight colour groups, some of which comprised putative aposematic models and mimics while others contained non-aposematic species, were made from the forest floor and from a scaffold tower that reached above the canopy. Two groups (yellow pierids and papilionids and orange heliconiines) were most frequently observed in or above the canopy, and other groups were most frequently observed in or below the canopy. The evidence suggests that significant differences exist between some groups, but stratification does not occur among all colour groups. In particular, flight distributions of some mimicry rings overlap considerably. The light environments of different forest layers are variable, and the role that butterfly wing colours play in signalling or avoiding predation is little understood. However, the general lack of fine stratification of colour groups suggests that flight preferences do not occur because wing colours and patterns are especially cryptic against the background of particular forest layers.
2560082|The relationship between Camponotus sp. ants and the carnivorous pitcher plant, Nepenthes bicalcarata, from Borneo were investigated. The ants nest in the hollow tendrils of the plant, and feed on large prey items caught by the pitchers. These are hauled from the pitcher fluid by the ants and consumed. When large prey items are absent, the ants feed upon mosquito larvae which inhabit the pitcher fluid The accumulation of excess prey in pitchers can lead to putrefaction of the contents, and disruption of the pitcher's digestive system. Experiments on the possible benefits of the ants' behaviour to the plant showed that the accumulation of excess prey and the putrefaction of the pitcher contents were significantly reduced in the presence of the ants. The accumulation of ammonia in pitchers was unaffected by the presence of the ants when small prey were added to pitchers, but was reduced significantly in the presence of ants when large prey were added. It is suggested that Camponotus sp. and N. bicalcarata have a mutualistic association, from which the ants obtain food and nesting sites and, in return, prevent damaging accumulation of excess prey in the pitchers.
25562601|To understand how fruit tree characteristics and microhabitats shape the assemblage of birds on fig trees and the pattern of fig-bird interactions, we observed and recorded, over 96 d and 816 h, the frugivorous birds visiting 32 individual trees belonging to 14 species of Ficus that were distributed across four different sites. A total of 30 bird species were recorded as eating figs, comprising 66.7% of the total number of frugivorous bird species recorded at the four sites. Small passerine birds such as bulbuls were the dominant frugivores for fig species. The number of bird species visiting different fig trees was significantly influenced by the crop size and canopy volume. Fruit colour and fruit size did not significantly influence the number of bird species, whereas habitats appeared to influence the composition of visiting birds. The fig-frugivorous bird interaction was asymmetrically structured, and the degree of nestedness appeared to be influenced by the forest type and degree of disturbance: the degree of nestedness in non-limestone forest tended to be higher than limestone forest; forest with less disturbance tend to be more nested compared with the open forest with high disturbance.
2559549|The chemical composition of bulk precipitation was studied for a period totalling 18 months between 1975 and 1978 at a high rainfall site in central Java. The following elements were determined: calcium, magnesium, sodium, potassium, nitrate-nitrogen, chlorine, phosphate-phosphorus, silicon, aluminium, iron, manganese and pH. Ammoniacal nitrogen, total nitrogen and sulphate-sulphur were determined during four weeks in May 1983. Concentrations of all elements rose dramatically during the exceptionally severe dry season of 1977 which may have caused accession rates for some nutrients to be overestimated (i.e. compared to a year with `normal' rainfall) by about 10%. Results are explained in terms of prevailing wind directions and proximity to, or absence of, particular solute sources, such as the ocean, volcanoes or eroding lands. Most elements exhibited intermediate concentrations when compared with data for other humid tropical locations; sodium and perhaps nitrogen were on the low side and pH on the high side of the spectrum. Annual accession rates at the study site were considerable by pan-tropical standards, mainly as a result of high rainfall totals. Comparing accession rates with 25-year-average nutrient immobilization rates in stemwood of local plantations of Pinus merkusii Jungh. et de Vr. and Agathis dammara Warb. showed atmospheric inputs of magnesium and potassium to be high enough (theoretically) to account for losses of these elements in stemwood removal. Corresponding figures for nitrogen were 90% (Pinus) and 50% (Agathis), and for calcium and phosphorus 60 and 40% respectively (both species).
40665234|Precise estimation of root biomass is important for understanding carbon stocks and dynamics in tropical rain forests. However, limited information is available on individual root masses, especially large trees. We excavated 121 root systems of various species (78) and sizes (up to 116 cm in dbh), and estimated both above-and below-ground biomass in a lowland primary dipterocarp forest in the Pasoh Forest Reserve, Peninsular Malaysia. A tree census was conducted in four research plots (each 0.2 ha) and stand-level biomass was estimated. We examined relationships between tree size parameters and masses of coarse roots (roots  5 mm in diameter) and derived a dbh-based allometric equation. The amounts of coarse roots that were lost during excavation were corrected. Coarse-root biomass before and after correction for lost roots was estimated to be 63.8 and 82.7 Mg ha indicating that significant amounts of roots (23%) were lost during the sampling. We also estimated the biomass of small root (< 5 mm) by applying pipe-model theory. The estimate, 13.3 Mg ha , was similar to another estimate of small roots, 16.4 Mg ha , which was obtained directly by the soil-pit sampling method. Total below-ground (BGB) and above-ground biomass (AGB) was estimated to be 95.9 and 536 Mg ha , respectively. The biomass-partitioning ratio (BGB/AGB) was about 0.18. In conclusion, the dbh-based allometric equation for coarse roots developed in this study, which kept good linearity even including the data of larger trees, might be useful for evaluating below-ground carbon stocks in other stands of similar forest (old-growth dipterocarp) in South-East Asia.
2559420|A survey of the 1:100,000 topographic maps of Papua New Guinea revealed that there are about 5383 freshwater lakes in the country. They range in size up to 647 km<sup>2</sup> but the majority are less than 10 ha. They are found at all altitudes to over 4000 m but most are situated below 40 m in the floodplains of the Fly, Sepik and Aramia rivers. The majority of lakes are undoubtedly shallow but depths range up to 360 m. The lakes were formed in at least 20 different ways but the majority by fluviatile action. The few data on chemical and physical conditions suggest that most lakes are chemically poor with low light penetration and low pH values. With the possible exception of the macrophytes the fauna and flora of the lakes are virtually unstudied, particuarly from a quantitative aspect. Most lakes are probably polymictic.
3068669|During the flooding of primary lowland rain forest by the filling of a hydroelectric reservoir in French Guiana, live-trapping was conducted on 175 subsequently formed islands. Different factors affecting the mammal trap efficiency were analysed. The main results show the real complexity of the sampling problem and the influence of the habitat disturbance due to the flooding. The location and/or the type of traps influenced captures of Dasypus novemcinctus, Proechimys spp., Metachirus nudicaudatus and Philander opossum in relation to their foraging and/or locomotion behaviour, and to their size. The conformation of the islands (height and size) had no influence on the number of captures, nor on the species richness. The number of captures increased with the number of trapnights during the first water inflow and the level stretch. The best trapping success was observed during the wet season, when the strong habitat modification and the forest fragmentation became more significant. It resulted from the reduction of available land area and trophic resources. One year after the beginning of the water inflow, the decrease of the number of captures with the increasing number of trapnights reflected a real decrease of the number of mammals on the islands. The species richness increased with the number of trapnights in all periods, and was also the highest during the wet season.
3068645|Woodpeckers (Picidae) are a group of birds particularly sensitive to logging and deforestation because they nest in cavities located in large trees and often forage on large trunks or standing dead trees. The diverse woodpecker community of lowland dipterocarp forests in Peninsular Malaysia was investigated in a forest selectively logged 40 y ago and in adjacent primary forest at Pasoh Forest Reserve (PFR). Line transects were conducted at dawn and dusk in each forest type to document potential differences in the woodpecker communities in logged vs. unlogged forest. A total of 121 woodpeckers were recorded along transects, including 14 of the 15 species known to occur at PFR. Eleven species were encountered in logged forest, 12 species were encountered in primary forest, and nine species were found at both sites. A significant difference in the overall woodpecker community between the two forest types was found. Of the most common species, Meiglyptes tristis, Reinwardtipicus validus and Dryocopus javensis were significantly more common in primary forest. Only one species, Picus mentalis, was significantly more abundant in logged forest. Possible causes for the differences observed are discussed.
2559751|The habitat distribution and relative abundance of 113 species of Gramineae were documented by releves in 82 stands near Concepcion, Santa Cruz, Bolivia. A factor analysis was used to compare the floristic similarity of stands situated in semideciduous forest, cerradao, cerrado, campo rupestre, valley-side campo, pantanal complex or on granite outcrops. Individual grass species usually had a preferred habitat and occurred with decreasing abundance in stands judged to be transitional by physiognomic, edaphic, and floristic criteria. Stands situated in cerrado vegetation were most similar to one another in grass species composition. Cerradao was transitional to semideciduous forest and cerrado but certain grasses were characteristic of this vegetation type. The floristic composition of the single campo rupestre locality was somewhat similar to cerrado; however, several of the more abundant grass species of this vegetation type did not occur in any nearby cerrado stand. Granite outcrops had a distinct grass flora and showed little similarity to other vegetation types. In savanna wetland communities, grass species distribution was influenced by water regime. Differences between stands on valley-side campo corresponded to topographic position on a gradient of increasing water surplus. Seasonally humid/dry stands on valley-side campo and pantanal complexes had a high degree of similarity. Stands lower on the catenary sequence of pantanal complexes and valley-side campos were increasingly dissimilar, a result of the different edaphic conditions of the seasonally flooded soils of pantanal complexes when compared with the permamently saturated (but never flooded) soils of valley-side campos. Pantanal complexes had the richest grass flora of all vegetation types because their microtopographic variability creates numerous micro-habitats with distinct water regimes, each supporting different grass species.
4091931|Intraspecific synchrony in the phenology of tropical forest trees has implications for satiation of browsers and seed predators, pollination, dispersal and interpreting plant responses to environmental cues and stresses. Community phenological studies have been constrained in their consideration of these issues by the lack of concise quantitative measures of intraspecific synchrony. We propose a novel application of Colwell's predictability indices to overcome this deficiency. Its application is demonstrated by evaluating the leaf and reproductive phenologies of 8-16 individuals of each of 20 monsoon forest tree species from northern Australia monthly for 30 mo. The indices yielded substantial additional information over that provided by summaries averaged amongst conspecifics. Marked intraspecific asynchronies in leaf flush or flowering occurred in five evergreen species and two deciduous fig species, and were associated with prolonged individual commitments to these states. Five partly deciduous species exhibited marked intraspecific variation in the seasonal extent of leaf loss. We interpret the observed variation in intraspecific synchrony in terms of contrasting water-use and pollination strategies. The synchronicity indices are concise and robust to small and variable sample sizes, and may thus enhance studies of species-rich assemblages.
2560040|The spatial and temporal variation in litter disturbance by a medium-sized bird, the chowchilla (Orthonyx spaldingii Ramsay, Orthonychidae) was documented, and its potential impacts on tree seed germination and early seedling survival in an Australian tropical rain forest experimentally investigated. Chowchilla disturbances occurred on ridges, slopes and drainages in all four seasons surveyed. In some areas litter was completely turned over as frequently as every 5 wk. Tethered seeds exposed to disturbance were moved farther and experienced significantly greater variation in litter cover than those protected from disturbance. When seeds of two canopy trees were placed in litter environments simulating those created by chowchillas, the seeds of one species showed significant effects of litter treatment on germination while those of the other showed no significant effects. Seedling cohorts of four tree species were followed for 6 wk soon after germination and all showed higher survival in vertebrate exclosures. The two most abundant species suffered 68% and 35% mortality in six wks, with the majority of that unambiguously due to chowchillas. It is argued that litter-disturbing birds increase litter heterogeneity and significantly impact early seedling mortality. These effects could be important in maintaining evenness and diversity of the seedling community.
4091872|Nutrient resorption efficiency of woody plants, litterfall and nutrient fluxes were investigated in a burned and an unburned cerrado plot between October 1997 and September 1999. A large experiment (Fire Project,
2560290|Striga asiatica (Scrophulariaceae) is an obligate root hemiparasite of mainly C<sub>4</sub> grasses (including cereals). It is the most widespread of the 42 Striga species occurring in many semi-tropical, semi-arid regions of mainly the Old World. Examination of herbaria specimens revealed that S asiatica has a wider geographical distribution, is present at higher altitudes and occurs in a more diverse range of habitats than previously reported. The host range is also larger than previously reported and is likely to include a large number of C<sub>3</sub> plants. Morphology of examined specimens revealed variation in size and corolla colour suggesting the existence of ecotypes Climate may exert a significant influence on the distribution of S. asiatica given the diversity of potential host plants and their distribution beyond the current recorded range of S. asiatica.
2560087|During the course of a population study of small mammals in a Brazilian coastal shrubland we calculated the movements between successive captures, the residence time, the indices of aggregation and the kinds of movements of the five most common species of small mammal A capture-mark-recapture study was undertaken over two years, quarterly. Philander opossum, Akodon cursor and Proechimys iheringi presented low mobility, with a high proportion of restricted movements, long residence time and larger coefficients of aggregation. Didelphis aurita and Metachirus nudicaudatus presented higher mobility and exploratory movements, short residence time and small coefficients of aggregation The species with lower mobility had permanent populations within our sampling grid, while the species with higher mobility used areas outside the grid, presenting no local populations but occupying portions of regional metapopulations
25790823|To assess the impact of habitat fragmentation on tropical avian communities, we sampled lowland forest birds on six land-bridge islands and two mainland forest sites in Lake Kenyir, Peninsular Malaysia using timed point counts, hypothesizing that insectivorous birds are the worst affected guild. We used an information-theoretic approach to evaluate the effects of area, isolation, primary dietary guild (omnivore, frugivore and insectivore) and their interactions in predicting species richness, abundance and diversity. Our analysis showed that a model that considered the effects of area, dietary guild and their interaction best explained observed patterns of species richness. But a model considering both area and dietary guild best explained the variation in abundance. Notably, insectivorous birds were singled out as the dietary guild most sensitive to fragmentation, followed by frugivorous and omnivorous birds and hence provide support for our hypothesis. Assemblages of insectivorous birds were clearly depauperate on anthropogenic forest islands in Lake Kenyir and are consistent with forest fragmentation studies in the Neotropics. Given their specialized foraging ecology and diversity, conservation of intact communities of insectivorous bird guilds in Malaysia will be critical for maintaining predatorprey interactions in lowland tropical forests.
4499081| To understand the population dynamics of a species, it is necessary to document the way in which its demographic behaviour varies through space and time. Anthropogenic disturbance, such as shifting cultivation, is an important factor causing demographic variation in many tropical non-timber forest products. The leaves of the palm Sabal yapa are an important non-timber forest product used for thatching by Mayan peoples. The demography of Sabal yapa was studied in three habitats (mature forest, successional forest and crop fields), representing successional phases along the slash-and-burn agricultural cycle in the Yucatan Peninsula. Matrix population models, along with elasticity analyses and life-table-response experiments were employed. Population growth rate differed between patches (MF:  = 1.043; SF:  = 1.027; CF:  = 0.959). Only the  value of the mature forest was significantly higher than unity. Fecundity and seedling survival were lowest in the crop fields and highest in the mature forest. The elasticity analyses and life-table-response experiments showed that entries with a high positive contribution to  also showed high elasticity values, while those with a negative contribution to  showed low elasticity. Thus, both analyses are crucial to understand the demography of a species and to aid in conservation and management practices. 
2559683|Soil mineralization and nitrification rates were measured in (1) undisturbed and felled gaps of varying size in terra firme forest, and (2) along a forest - savanna transect, on Ilha de Maraca in northern Brazil. Both rates were similar to those found in studies of other forests with a marked seasonal rainfall pattern. However, rates were much lower than those of tropical forests where there is little seasonality in rainfall. A major finding was that the highest rates were during the transition between dry and wet seasons, implying that wetting and drying may be an important initiator of soil nitrogen flux. Felling had little effect on either process up to a gap size of 2500 m<sup>2</sup>. In the forest-savanna study, nitrogen mineralization was lower in the savanna in all seasons, but in the wet season when the savanna soils were water-logged NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup>-N was immobilized. Experimental additions of nutrients identified two important results; first that added NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup>-N was quickly immobilized rather than nitrified - this may be an important nutrient conservation mechanism, and second that soil calcium appeared to be a limiting factor, either directly or through a pH effect.
2559852|Plant and soil samples collected from four tropical forest areas were used to examine the correlation between the chemical abundances in soil and vegetation. On fertile soils in Panama and Colombia soil concentrations of copper, manganese, cobalt and zinc were correlated with plant concentrations. Calcium, caesium, iron, lead, magnesium, phosphorus, potassium, sodium and strontium concentrations were not correlated. Factor analysis of plant chemistry at nine sites showed very little commonality between sites, even of vegetation belonging to the same plant association. A copper, manganese, cobalt, zinc factor was not recognized except in one case. A similar study of plant soil correlation in Colombia supported the conclusions from Panama; for most elements there was little evidence for significant correlation between plant and soil concentrations. Analysis of plant-soil relationships on very infertile latosols with terra firme forest in the Amazon at San Carlos de Rio Negro, Venezuela and Manaus, Brazil revealed a soil effect on the statistical distributions of the elements in the plant biomass. This effect was strongest on the least fertile site at Manaus and was strongest for essential elements. The pattern of chemical distributions appears to be due to the fact that some species are capable of concentrating high levels of elements even under conditions of very low supply in the substrate.
2560039|A new method for investigating the age structure of the patch mosaic of a tropical forest by utilizing radiocarbon dating techniques on fallen trees is proposed. Aboveground nuclear explosions in the early 1960s, before the nuclear test ban treaty, created a spike in the <sup>14</sup>C concentration content of the atmosphere. The amount of radiocarbon in the outer layers of wood collected from trunks of trees that had died in known years (1970-1989) on Barro Colorado Island (BCI) and Gigante Peninsula (Panama) was analysed to test the hypothesis that radiocarbon concentration was predictive of year of tree death. The date of tree death was negatively related to the level of <sup>14</sup>C, following a trend similar to published data on tree rings from German and Amazonian trees. Combining our data with these data in a statistical analysis revealed a significant predictive effect of radiocarbon on year. Analysis of covariance showed that there was no significant difference among the slopes of the three groups of data, but there was significant heterogeneity among the intercepts. The differences suggest a need for site-specific calibration and refinement of field protocols. The technique shows promise and suggestions are made to improve its usefulness for future studies.
4092067|Guiera senegalensis tolerates repeated cutting and pruning to which it is increasingly subjected at the onset of each cropping period, and one to three times during the annual cropping period (June-September). It responds by profusely branching at the shrub base. The topographic and geomorphic influences, and the effect of clearing on the relationships between shrub density, mean individual above-ground biomass and leaf water status were analysed for seven fallow sites. They were sampled 75 km east of Niamey in Niger. Surprisingly, shrub density and mean individual above-ground biomass were highest in the sites that had been recently in fallow and intensively cultivated prior to crop abandonment. Stand above-ground biomass was also positively related to mean predawn and daily minimum leaf water potentials. Consequently, in the studied G. senegalensis stands, above-ground biomass appeared to be controlled by water availability - rainfall, runoff, infiltration - rather than by cropping intensity. Anisohydric stomatal regulation, resulting in large safety margins from critical transpiration, was inferred from the diurnal amplitude of leaf water potential during the dry season. The plant physiological resistance to water stress combined with its population adjustment in density and growth contributes to the sustainable dominance of G. senegalensis.
25790826|A chronosequence was used to study seed-bank communities during the first 12 y of tropical-dry-forest regeneration in abandoned pastures in Chamela, Mexico. Prediction that seeds of woody species replace those of herbaceous species during succession was tested and mechanisms of species replacement (facilitation, tolerance, inhibition) were assessed. Four successional categories (three sites each) were considered: pasture (01 y since abandonment), early (35 y), intermediate (1012 y), and old-growth forest. At the end of the dry season, 20 cylindrical soil samples (10 cm diameter, 15 cm depth) were randomly obtained within a 20  50-m plot in each site. Seeds  1 mm were counted and identified. Overall, 2941 seeds and 102 morphospecies (52 taxonomically identified) were recorded. Seed bank density reduced, species diversity remained fairly constant and seeds of herbaceous species were replaced by those of woody species over the chronosequence. A clear species-by-species replacement pattern was detected, as expected under a mechanism of succession by facilitation. Twelve years after abandonment, a diverse seed bank of woody species did exist, indicating a fast recovery of the tropical-dry-forest regenerative potential; nonetheless, the structure and composition of the seed bank was still different from that in the old-growth forest.
2560164|The Kibale Forest, western Uganda, is the only site where studies have compared the impact of elephants on rainforest regeneration in logged and unlogged control areas. Elephants used heavily logged areas more than lightly logged and unlogged areas. Forest gaps were used more by elephants than closed-canopy areas and large gaps more than small ones. Gaps were larger in logged than unlogged forest There were lower densities of young trees (saplings and poles) and a higher incidence of elephant damage to them in heavily logged forest than in lightly logged and unlogged sites Elephant use of an area and damage to young trees was inversely or unrelated to the density of young trees and directly related to the density of herbaceous tangle Heavy logging resulted in large areas of herbaceous tangle, which attracted elephants who suppressed forest regeneration by damaging young trees and perpetuating the herbaceous tangle The tangle directly competed with regeneration of young trees while also attracting elephants and rodents (seed and seedling predators) and facilitating increased windthrow of trees. Selective browsing of young trees by elephants affected rates of regeneration, growth form and species composition Rather than remove elephants, a more effective and humane approach to long-term management of logging is to reduce logging offtake and incidental damage caused by timber extraction
2559529|The food habits of four hypogeous Macrotermitinae species were studied using stable carbon isotope analysis in several biotopes of a humid savanna of West Africa (Lamto, Cote d'Ivoire) The proportion of woody and herbaceous material in the diet of the different species was determined by measuring the <sup>13</sup>C natural abundance in the fungus comb. The diet varied with season and biotope, especially tree density The results confirm the flexibility of the food habits of the fungus-growing termites as a consequence of their exosymbiosis with the fungus Termitomyces sp
3068822| The influence of gamma- () and beta- () diversity on modern pollen rain is assessed using data from three Amazonian forests. Pollen rain of 79 forest locations was collected in modified Oldfield pollen traps between 1991 and 1993. Pollen diversity in the traps was high with > 280 palynomorph types recognized. Gamma diversity was assessed by comparing lowland terra firme forests in Cuyabeno, Ecuador, with two terra firme forests near Manaus, Brazil. The influence of -diversity on local pollen rain was investigated using samples collected from neighbouring terra firme, forests, seasonally flooded forests, and Mauritia-rich forests at Cuyabeno, Ecuador. Multivariate analyses revealed that -diversity produces a stronger signal in the pollen rain than -diversity. However, -diversity is accurately reflected in the pollen rain when the diversity is an expression of strong environmental gradients. 
2560166|A population of the tropical lizard Tropidurus hispidus, isolated on a granitic rock outcrop in tropical forest of northern Brazil, was studied during the 1993 wet season. Four types of observational studies revealed that lizards are active throughout most of the day During 10-minute intervals, individual lizards moved five times for an average of 240 cm and tongue-flicked once Habitat temperatures vary considerably during the day, with rock and air temperatures in sun exceeding body temperatures of lizards during much of the activity period. During most of the day, lizards thermoregulate by moving among shady, filtered sun, and sunny microhabitats maintaining body temperatures near 35<sup></sup>C. Temperatures of lizards active during cloudy periods were significantly lower than temperatures of lizards during sunny periods, indicating that clouds decrease the ability of lizards to effectively thermoregulate. Most feeding occurs in the afternoon at edges of rock outcrops with ants, insect larvae, termites and beetles dominating the diet Comparisons with a near-by savanna population revealed differences in body size (males only), activity period (longer on rocks), body temperatures (higher on rocks), number of prey categories consumed (lower on rocks), mean size of prey (larger on rocks), number of prey eaten (fewer on rocks) and microhabitat use (more restricted on rocks).
4092152|Gaps created by the death of one or more contiguous trees are common in mangrove forests but are poorly understood. In Kosrae, Federated States of Micronesia, where mangrove wood is harvested for local use, most natural gaps were
2559762|This paper presents the quantities of macro-nutrients (N, P, K, Ca, Mg and S) released from the ground layer vegetation to the atmosphere during six experimental burnings, in a Brazilian open savanna, named `campo-cerrado'. The values were obtained by comparing the amounts of nutrients in the fuel and in the ash resulting after the burn, in three different seasons. On average, 20.6 kg of N, 1.6 kg of P, 7.1 kg of K, 12.1 kg of Ca, 3.0 kg of Mg, and 3.2 kg of S ha<sup>-1</sup> were transferred from the plant biomass to the atmosphere, representing mean percentages of 95% for N, 51% for P, 44% for K, 52% for Ca, 42% for Mg, and 59% for S. The burn season showed no significant influence on the amounts of nutrients transferred to the atmosphere. Some relationships involving the quantities of macro-nutrients released, fuel moisture, the combustion efficiency during the burns, and the initial standing biomass in the area were also tested. Comparing the average output of macro-nutrients to the atmosphere obtained in this study with their inputs via rainfall, in the same area, it was estimated that three years would be an adequate interval between prescribed burnings for this campo-cerrado, to speed up nutrient recycling without impoverishing the system.
25790832|Does competition prevail in large size classes of trees in tropical forests? This question is fundamental to our understanding of the demography and dynamics occurring in rain forests. We investigated this question based on an undisturbed late-secondary forest on a 1-ha plot in central Cameroon. Trees were stem-mapped and classified into three size classes: understorey, midstorey and overstorey. The diameter at breast height and yearly biomass increment were determined as measures of plant growth and performance. Spatial statistics such as pair- and mark-correlation functions were used to detect scale-dependent patterns that could be caused by competition within and between the three size classes. The results revealed a random pattern and spatially uncorrelated measures of plant growth of overstorey trees. This suggests that competitive effects are of minor importance in the large size class of overstorey trees. Likewise, only weak evidence for competition between trees was found within the two lower size classes. However, negative distance correlations were found between the different size classes. We suggest that competition within height classes was relatively low due to the diversity of species with their variable niche differentiations and phenotypic plasticity that may compensate for competitive effects.
2559626|A population of Garra ceylonensis in a rocky, hill stream was studied by monthly sampling over a period of two years. The monthly population density, which varied from 1.28 to 4.16 m<sup>-2</sup> with a mean of 2.37 m<sup>-2</sup>, was negatively correlated with the water speed. Asymptotic length (L<sub></sub>) and the growth constant (K) were found to be 180.5 mm total length and 0.62. Maximum size observed was 174 mm, which is attained in about five years, but 99% of the population had a life expectancy of less than 3.4 years. The overall male to female ratio of the population was 0.58. The sex ratio was 1.0 in smaller size classes but decreased steadily with increasing size. There was a major spawning season following the main rainy period in contrast to the trend of most tropical freshwater fish species, which show enhanced breeding during the rainy season. The mean length and age at sexual maturity in females appear to be 109 mm and eighteen months. Fecundity varied between 740 and 4390. Average longevity and natural mortality were 4.8 years and 1.86. The mean biomass, average annual production and turnover ratio of the population were about 23.7 g m<sup>-2</sup> wet weight, 41.2 g m<sup>-2</sup> and 1.7, respectively.
2559891|The red crab Gecarcoidea natalis is the most abundant land crab on Christmas Island, Indian Ocean, and is found wherever native rain forest is still intact. The largest crabs grow to > 120 mm carapace width and reach > 500 g in mass. Red crabs are diurnally active, and moisture appears to be the most important factor governing surface activity - activity was nil below 77% RH, relatively low at 87% RH, and high above 95% RH The crabs retreat to the interior of their burrows during dry periods, but emerge rapidly in response to rain. Because of their dependence on moisture for surface activity, red crabs show greater levels of activity during the wet season Annual breeding migrations and moulting activity decreased the density of surface-active crabs at the main study sites for several weeks at the start of the wet season, and fruit and leaf fall caused dramatic local increases in the density of active red crabs. Density and biomass at the main study sites averaged 1.3 crabs m<sup>-2</sup> and 1454 kg ha<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, and 1 2 crabs m<sup>-2</sup> and 1137 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> at a total of five sites across the island. Rough calculations suggest that the island-wide population is at least 100 million individuals. Red crabs are the dominant consumer on the forest floor, and consume seeds, seedlings and leaf litter. Because they are both abundant and widespread, these animals have the potential to be the most important determinant of pattern and process in rain forest on Christmas Island
2559783|The numbers and biomass of litter and soil invertebrate fauna were investigated in six plots at altitudes of 280 m, 330 m, 480 m, 610 m, 790 m and 870 m on Gunung Silam, Sabah, East Malaysia. There were relatively high numbers and biomass in the lower plots, where the Oligochaeta were a high proportion of the total invertebrate biomass. The biomass of other invertebrate groups was low in the soil. There was a marked effect of altitude, particularly for the Oligochaeta above 610 m. The low biomass of the Oligochaeta in the higher plots suggested that the importance of this group may be diminished at relatively low altitudes on small mountains. However, several other soil faunal groups showed no evidence of an altitudinal effect, and it is suggested that the stunted forests near the summits of small mountains such as Gunung Silam may have a different litter and soil fauna from forests of a similar physiognomy at high elevations on large mountains.
3068619|Four common fallow tree species were tested for a response to nitrogen and phosphorus fertilization. Seedlings or cuttings of Melicope glabra (Rutaceae), Macaranga gigantea (Euphobiaceae), Persea romosa (Laureaceae), Peronema canescens (Verbenaceae) were grown in pots of a 50:50 mix of native soil and sand under 18% full sun for 18 weeks. Every 2 weeks, plants received either added N, added P, added N+P, or no added nutrients (control). Persea, a shade-tolerant species, and Macaranga, a light-demanding pioneer, improved relative growth rate with the addition of both N and P. Neither responded to N or P alone. Peronema and Melicope demonstrated luxury consumption of both N and P but did not show enhanced growth. Two of the four species tested (Persea and Melicope) were more limited by P than N. Macaranga was equally limited by both and Peronema was more limited by N. Along with previous studies, evidence for positive growth response and luxury consumption among light-demanding species suggests that P, rather than N, should limit seedling performance and may ultimately influence tree diversity in young secondary tropical forests.
3068731|The spatial organization of epiphytes has come under increasing attention. This kind of information is necessary for the general understanding of their ecology and for the design of sustainable harvesting methods. In this study, the small-scale (local) distribution of epiphytic bromeliads was studied using correlograms and permutational regression on distance matrices. Fieldwork was carried out in a young secondary forest stand in the central cordillera of Colombia at 3150 m asl. A complete census of the bromeliads in this plot was made, using a lattice with 400 quadrats. Six species of bromeliad were found (1008 individuals). All of these except one showed an aggregated spatial pattern. This pattern was independent of the position of the trees in the sampled plot. The distribution of the bromeliads was determined by the availability of substrate (branch surface area per quadrat), the proximity of conspecifics and the geomorphology of the terrain. The structure of the forest surrounding an epiphyte had an influence on the position of the epiphyte in the tree (height measured as distance from the canopy). The use of two-dimensional, lattice-based sampling strategies is discussed as a possible method for comprehensive surveys of epiphyte populations in natural forests.
3068694| Changes in floristic composition and structure in a cerrado sensu stricto area were studied over a 9-y period. A sample of 19 (20-m x 50-m) permanent plots was assessed at 3-y intervals from 1985 to 1994, when all stems  5 cm at 0.30 m above the ground level were measured. There was little change in species composition over the period. Changes in density and basal area of the whole community were in the range of 5% over the 9 y. These parameters fluctuated over the years with the greatest differences found in the comparisons of 1991, 2 y after an accidental fire reached the site, with other years. The changes in density and basal area were greater than in several tropical forests, probably due to disturbances such as fire occurring at 3 to 5-y intervals. The nearly constant density and basal area suggested a highly resilient community. 
2559834|Various aspects of the reproductive biology of a montane population of Colostethus trinitatus were quantified during the transition from a prolonged dry season to a wet season with abnormally low rainfall. One-third to three-quarters of the females collected in the dry period (March to June) had mature ovarian follicles. The proportion of ovigerous females did not increase in July or August when the number of rainy days was greater. However, breeding and egg laying were only observed in the latter season. The principal environmental change that stimulated oviposition was frequent daily rain which increased humidity in the terrestrial nest sites. Pair formation, nests, and males carrying larvae are reliable criteria that indicate the breeding period of Colostethus trinitatus. The average number of mature ovules (2 mm) was greater in the wet season (x = 13.1) than during the dry months (x = 11.3). Female standard length and the number of yolked follicles was positively correlated. Five nests contained an average of 13.6 eggs, and males carried only slightly fewer larvae (x = 11.5). One female and one individual of unknown sex were found with eggs at two different nests. Five nests were unattended.
4499129|Seed dispersal by frugivorous animals has the potential to affect both the demography and the patterns of gene flow of plant populations. In many tropical and subtropical forests a large number of seeds are efficiently dispersed by 'non-restricted frugivores' (NRFs, animals for which fruits do not represent the main bulk of their diet), a group commonly underestimated as seed dispersers. Here, we synthesize data from three different neotropical forests (Argentina, Panama and Costa Rica), evaluating several aspects of seed dispersal by two species of Cebus monkeys. Capuchin monkeys are NRFs broadly distributed throughout Central and South America that are potentially long-distance seed dispersers. In this study we evaluated the influence of the foraging behaviour of Cebus apella and C. capucinus on the patterns of seed dispersal. Even though the distribution of fruit types significantly differed among forests, no evidence of diet selection was found, indicating that the fruits consumed by monkeys represent a random sample of the pool available at each site. Neither seed treatment, nor the evenness with which fruit species were consumed, differed among forests. In contrast, the feeding time per fruiting tree (10-45 min), the diversity of fruits consumed (H = 2-3.3), and seed dispersal distances (100-400 m), differed among the three forests. Thus, capuchin monkeys consume a high diversity of fruits in transit producing a scattered dissemination of seeds in all study forests. This study highlights the ecological and evolutionary significance of seed shadows generated by NRFs, without neglecting the possibility that differences in the distribution of fruit patches, species richness and a range of environmental attributes among the studied forests, exert a strong influence on the outcome of the interaction between NRFs and plants.
4092080|Estimates of roosting habitat availability and population size using unbiased sampling regimes are completely lacking for any bat species. The use of conspicuous and accessible roosts in the developing, rolled leaves of Heliconia and Calathea plants by Thyroptera tricolor (Spix's disc-winged bat) provided an ideal opportunity to address this need. To assess roost availability and population size, the number of occupied and unoccupied leaves and bats in known areas in an area of lowland rain forest in north-eastern Costa Rica were quantified in 1998-99. A high density of leaves was available on any given day (mean: 43 leaves ha
4092158|The paper presents climatic and plant ecological data for unusually severe dry-season conditions on Mt. Elgon (Uganda/Kenya) and the Bale Mountains (Ethiopia). There is clear evidence that plants are exposed to desiccation stress during high-altitude droughts, which occur on average every 7-10 y in the study sites. Although high vapour-pressure deficits and consequently high potential evapotranspiration led to conspicuous wilting of several plant species, no lethal damage was observed and plant communities maintained increased flowering activity under drought conditions. Moreover, highest outposts of ericaceous vegetation were regularly found on thin soil covering rocky outcrops, where water stress apparently is high. Probably more important than direct water stress are the extensive fires occurring under drought conditions, which cause large-scale replacement of woody vegetation by grasslands. Additional consequences of drought include adverse conditions for seedling establishment.
3068629|On clearing fields, Ntumu farmers in southern Cameroon leave some large trees. The seed rain beneath 30 such remnant trees (12 species) was compared with that 10 m away from the edges of their crowns. Of a total of 39 765 seeds recorded in 90 seed traps over 2 y, 73.6% were of species different from the tree associated with each set of traps ('foreign seed rain'). Seed rain included 100 morphospecies, two-thirds of which possessed endozoochorous seeds. Seeds of the pioneer tree Musanga cecropioides accounted for 71.4% of total foreign seed rain; seeds of this and other animal-dispersed species accounted for 94.5% of the total. Seed rain was 25 times higher beneath remnant trees than 10 m away. Mean species richness of monthly seed rain was three times higher beneath remnant trees than 10 m away. Both fleshy-fruited and wind-dispersed species of remnant trees attracted seed-dispersing animals which greatly enhanced the seed rain; attraction thus did not depend solely on presence of fleshy fruits. Seed rain was lower when human activity in fields was intense and increased during the period of growth of the last crops, which were not usually weeded. Heavy seed rain just before fallow may contribute significantly to regeneration, as does the presence of remnant trees.
2560182|As a consequence of its relatively high productivity in primary successional sites on Mauna Loa, Hawai'i, the mat-forming fern Dicranopteris linearis can influence attributes of soil detrital pools Decomposition, nutrient release and rates of asymbiotic N fixation in Dicranopteris litter were determined over an elevational range of oligotrophic sites. `Hot spots' of nitrogen fixation occurred in Dicranopteris litter, as evidenced by acetylene reduction rates as high as 22 nmol g<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>. However, potential N fixation rates for the entire litter mass were 0-0 1 g m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>, less than other N inputs such as rainfall. Dicranopteris' decomposition rates were low compared to other tropical species, even under high temperature and rainfall conditions, with 50% of the original leaf and >77% of the stem mass remaining after 2 y of decomposition Slow decomposition was related to high lignin:nitrogen ratios (56-129) in litter and above-ground positioning of unabscised, decomposing litter. As a result of its slow decomposition rates, Dicranopteris is an major contributor to soil detrital pools. Aggradation of the detrital pool is an important process whereby nutrients are accrued within these ecosystems. Consequently, Dicranopteris exerts an important influence on soil genesis and ecosystem development during primary succession on pahoehoe lava.
2559713|Chemical baits corresponding to natural orchid fragrance chemicals were used to attract and sample male orchid bees in terra firme and flood plain forest sites on the Tambopata Reserve in south-eastern Peru. The study was conducted monthly for two years. A total of 38 species of bees was collected at these chemical baits, and although most species were collected from both habitats, 11 species were significantly more common in one habitat than the other. There was considerable variation in the number and types of chemicals to which each of the orchid bee species was attracted. Two cycles of seasonal abundance occurred annually in the number of orchid bee individuals and species collected at the chemical baits. A major peak occurred a month following onset of the wet season, and a minor peak occurred during the dry season. Species body size was related to seasonal activity, but additional factors such as flowering phenology and nest parasites were also probably involved. The number of orchid bee species found on the Tambopata Reserve was similar to the number found in forest sites of eastern and central Brazil, Costa Rica, and Panama. This homogeneity in species richness is in marked contrast to other insect groups such as Odonata, Lepidoptera, Asilidae (Diptera), Tabanidae (Diptera), and Cicindelidae (Coleoptera), for which the species numbers recorded on the Tambopata Reserve are the highest for any similar sized area in the world.
40665282|We tested the hypothesis that species of a diverse leaf-litter ant community are separated by the temperature preferences of their broods along a thermal gradient. Therefore, temperature preferences of brood-tending workers from 41 ant species co-occurring in four types (alluvial, limestone, kerangas and dipterocarp forest) of primary rain forest in Sarawak, Malaysia were measured in an experimental set-up. Preferred temperatures of species ranged from 16.0C to 31.7C, with the median at 25.8C. The ten commonest species (n  4) showed significantly different temperature preferences. In particular, species of the genus Pheidole differed clearly in their preferences over a broad range of temperatures. Temperature preferences varied significantly among ant assemblages from different forest types and nest sites. Experimentally obtained temperature preferences of species correlated significantly with vegetation density in the plots inhabited by the respective species, but not with plot canopy cover. When we tested the temperature preferences of all ant species with null models for niche overlap, we found a significant niche separation only among the tested species from the kerangas. Our results suggest that nest temperature is an important ecological factor for leaf-litter ants in rain forests on Borneo, but other factors may override its influence during community assembly.
4091881| Dipterocarp seedling populations arising from a 1996 mast fruiting in closed-canopy primary lowland rain forest in Sabah, Malaysia, were monitored through the 1997-8 El Nio event to investigate the effects of drought and other factors on dipterocarp regeneration. Of particular interest was the influence of herbivory and its relation to drought, since water stress is known to influence herbivore performance. For seedlings with less than 10% leaf damage, mortality during a 6-mo period spanning the driest part of the drought was three times higher than mortality in the previous and subsequent 6-mo periods (~10% vs. ~30%). Leaf production was also higher during this period. Survival was positively related to leaf number and negatively related to leaf damage. Dryobalanops lanceolata was the tallest and leafiest species, and had low levels of leaf damage. Depending on sample period, abscission of leaves with more than 50% damage was between two and three times more likely than those with less than 10% damage. Mortality of seedlings defoliated by more than 50% was around twice that of seedlings defoliated by less than 10%. However, fewer than 10% of seedlings were defoliated by more than 50% at any time. The effect of defoliation did not seem to be altered by drought. Defoliation levels increased after the drought, perhaps due to a resurgence of insect populations. Drought may become a more important influence on dipterocarp regeneration in future, since El Nio events are thought to be increasing in frequency. 
25172926|In this paper, we report on range use patterns of birds in relation to tropical forest fragmentation. Between 2003 and 2005, three understorey passerine species were radio-tracked in five locations of a fragmented and in two locations of a contiguous forest landscape on the Atlantic Plateau of So Paulo in south-eastern Brazil. Standardized ten-day home ranges of 55 individuals were used to determine influences of landscape pattern, season, species, sex and age. In addition, total observed home ranges of 76 individuals were reported as minimum measures of spatial requirements of the species. Further, seasonal home ranges of recaptured individuals were compared to examine site fidelity. Chiroxiphia caudata, but not Pyriglena leucoptera or Sclerurus scansor, used home ranges more than twice as large in the fragmented versus contiguous forest. Home range sizes of C. caudata differed in relation to sex, age, breeding status and season. Seasonal home ranges greatly overlapped in both C. caudata and in S. scansor. Our results suggest that one response by some forest bird species to habitat fragmentation entails enlarging their home ranges to include several habitat fragments, whereas more habitat-sensitive species remain restricted to larger forest patches.
2559628|A comparative analysis of earthworm populations in seral Khasi pine forest represented by Pinus kesiya 5- and 35-year old stands, and a climax broad-leaved mixed forest represented by a sacred grove was done at altitudes of 1500 m in Meghalaya in north-east India. Tonoscolax horaii occurred under all forest types whereas Amynthas diffringens and Eutyphoeus festivus were confined to pine forest stands only. Perionyx sp. and Drawida assamensis were restricted to the sacred grove. T. horaii had larger numbers in all three different forest types. This species offers possibilities of vermiculture for biologically improving soil fertility in manmade ecosystems because of its wide range of tolerance. Generally earthworm populations were more active during the monsoon season; A. diffringens was however, more active during the winter, thereby conferring an advantage on this species as it was enabled to avoid competition during the monsoon season when other species dominate. Earthworm activity was generally higher in the sacred grove than in the pine forest stands. Population size was significantly correlated with soil moisture, temperature and pH. Wormcasts had a higher pH and nutrient status than the soil. In the highly leached soils of the humid tropics where there is a large concentration of fine root biomass in the surface soil layers, earthworm activity is beneficial because it helps incorporate detritus into the mineral soil rapidly and locally concentrates nutrients in the surface layers.
25172908|Decomposition was studied in a reciprocal litter transplant experiment to examine the effects of forest type, litter quality and their interaction on leaf decomposition in four tropical forests in south-east Brazil. Litterbags were used to measure decomposition of leaves of one tree species from each forest type: Calophyllum brasiliense from restinga forest; Guapira opposita from Atlantic forest; Esenbeckia leiocarpa from semi-deciduous forest; and Copaifera langsdorffii from cerrado. Decomposition rates in rain forests (Atlantic and restinga) were twice as fast as those in seasonal forests (semi-deciduous and cerrado), suggesting that intensity and distribution of precipitation are important predictors of decomposition rates at regional scales. Decomposition rates varied by species, in the following order: E. leiocarpa &gt; C. langsdorffii &gt; G. opposita &gt; C. brasiliense. However, there was no correlation between decomposition rates and chemical litter quality parameters: C:N, C:P, lignin concentration and lignin:N. The interaction between forest type and litter quality was positive mainly because C. langsdorffii decomposed faster than expected in its native forest. This is a potential indication of a decomposer's adaptation to specific substrates in a tropical forest. These findings suggest that besides climate, interactions between decomposers and plants might play an essential role in decomposition processes and it must be better understood.
2559319|(1) During 1978-1981, marked individuals of 107 species of treelets and shrubs in three forest types between 1300-1650 m elevation at Monteverde, Costa Rica, were monitored at monthly intervals for behaviour of leafing, flowering, and fruiting. (2) Although there was not a pronounced seasonal pattern of leafing activity, more species produced new leaves in the dry season. Species that flush large quantities of new leaves do so more commonly in the drier months. Leaf loss was gradual and unobtrusive in species observed. (3) Flowering activity was greatest in the late dry season and early wet season. Most species exhibited extended flowering; only 15% of the species were massively flowering. Massive flowerers showed less seasonality than extended flowerers. (4) Of the species studied, the majority had relatively unspecialized flowers which were visited by a variety of insects; small bee-pollination was the next most common, followed by hummingbird, beetle, settling moth, sphingid, butterfly, large bee and fly pollination (the pollination system of 18 species was unknown). Hummingbird pollinated species showed little seasonality of flowering when compared with species exhibiting small moth, and beetle pollination syndromes, as well as those with unspecialized flowers. (5) The vast majority of species studied have fleshy fruits (sarcochores). Fruiting activity was less markedly seasonal than flowering. Species with fruit are more numerous in the second half of the year (the wet season and early dry season). The second year of the study saw substantially fewer species in fruit than the first year; this is attributed to the greater than usual rainfall and inclement weather during the peak flowering season. (6) Cloud forest shrub and treelet phenology is compared with patterns of other forests that have been studied. In general, the greater the rainfall, the less seasonality of flowering and fruiting is seen. Although Monteverde is very wet, rainfall is intermediate between that of lowland dry and lowland wet forest in Costa Rica. Seasonality of flowering and fruiting at Monteverde is more pronounced than at La Selva (wet) and less obvious than in Guanacaste (dry).
40925444|Wild populations of a small neotropical primate, Geoffroy's tamarin (Saguinus geoffroyi), were studied through 30-s instantaneous observational sampling to identify different canopy habitats used by this tamarin. Tree and shrub canopies were sampled in randomly selected plots and in nearby plots that tamarins were observed to use in the forests of Agua Clara, Panama (28 d, 59 100-m plots, 32.25 h of tamarin observations, 27 tamarins in total), and in the nearby forests of Barro Colorado Island (49 d, 29 100-m plots, 29.6 h of tamarin observations, 14 tamarins in total). Light penetration through the canopy, ambient temperature and humidity, presence of other primates, stem diameters, plant life-forms, distribution of woody flora, abundance of fleshy fruits and arthropods typically consumed by tamarins and abundance of thorny vegetation and biting arthropods in plots used by tamarins were compared with control plots. Habitats used by tamarins had significantly shorter distances between adjacent tree canopies and between canopies and the ground. There was a random distribution of large insects and fleshy fruits that tamarins are known to eat. Habitat selection by tamarins may not be influenced by spiny vegetation, but tamarins may avoid areas with abundant hooked thorns and blood-sucking arthropods. Mobility along runways in various tiers of a rain-forest canopy may be of primary importance, with local abundance of food being a secondary consideration in habitat selection by this small primate.
2559898|The change of mound structure of the fungus growing termite, Macrotermes gilvus, which has no clear air passage system in the mound, was examined in relation to the mound growth in a rubber plantation of southern Thailand The nest proper consisted of the hive with a royal chamber and nursery, and diffused chambers with fungus combs The location of the hive became higher with the growth of the mound Therefore, colonies with a very large mound utilize only the upper mound part and this may be due to the lack of air passage systems in this species A colony with a very large mound is not in reality commensurately large in colony size and this may be the reason why the density of huge mounds of M gilvus in Thailand is much higher than that of Macrotermes in Africa.
2559371|Flooded savannas in south-west Venezuela consist of seasonal, marshy and flooded grassland communities, the distribution of which depends on soil level. Seasonal grasslands are dominated by tuft-forming, rhizomatous C4-grasses (exemplified by Paspalum chaffanjonii in this study), while flooded grasslands are dominated by stoloniferous grasses which develop rooted, floating culms during the rainy season (Leersia hexandra and Hymenachne amplexicaulis). The interface between these two communities is a marshy grassland dominated by stoloniferous grass species which tolerate flooding to a depth of 10 to 25 cm (Panicum laxum and Leersia hexandra). All perennial grass species in flooded grasslands behave as typical C3 plants, while marshy grasslands are dominated by Panicum laxum, a species with reduced photo-respiration, low RuBP/PEP-carboxylase ratios, and low absolute RuBP-carboxylase activity compared to C3 grasses. It also has lower photosynthetic rates than the other grass species. Hymenachne amplexicaulis appears to be the least drought tolerant from the species selected, in accordance with its distribution in the wettest side of the flooding gradient studied. The other species showed marked reduction in relative water content and pronounced increase in leaf proline content in drought experiments lasting 6 to 30 days. Alcohol dehydrogenase increased markedly in response to anaerobiosis in the root environment in the tuft forming grasses, while the stoloniferous species with ascending culms were least affected by this treatment, probably as a result of better aeration inside the culms and also to the production of adventitious roots in upper nodes. Nitrate reductase activity increased as a result of anaerobiosis in the roots but not in the leaves, of all species except Leersia hexandra. No difference among the species was found in malate accumulation, or the activity of malic enzyme.
25172971|We used long-term population data for the ruddy-capped nightingale thrush (Catharus frantzii Cabanis), to examine the influence of forest conditions on annual productivity, survival and growth rate () in a montane forest reserve of Chiapas, southern Mexico, from 1995 to 2003. Productivity was higher in primary, mature forest than in secondary, young forest. More adults were captured in primary forest (n = 132) than in secondary forest (n = 64). Adult survival ( = 0.79) and encounter rate ( = 0.36) did not vary across habitats. Males and females had similar survival between primary and secondary forests ( = 0.80 vs. 0.83, and 0.77 vs. 0.79, respectively). Juvenile survival ( = 0.67) was only 12% lower than for adults. Overall, the population of C. frantzii appeared to be declining at 3% y ( = 0.97, SE = 0.09, 95% CI = 0.88-1.03). Productivity and survival correlated positively with  across years within habitats, although survival was the primary, significant demographic parameter determining . Although habitat alteration may have reduced the carrying capacity and productivity in secondary forest, there was no apparent negative effect on population persistence in this habitat. Thus, secondary forests represent habitats that may facilitate the long-term persistence of C. frantzii populations.
3068766|Because seasonality in tropical environments is driven by variation in rainfall, phytophagous tropical organisms are expected to exhibit mechanisms of escape in space and time that allow them to synchronize their breeding efforts with suitably wet periods of the year. This hypothesis was addressed by studying the breeding phenology of the nymphalid butterfly Hypolimnas bolina (L.) in the Australian wet-dry tropics. This species favours small, herbaceous larval foodplants that either die off annually or exhibit marked declines in leaf quality during the dry season. As expected, reproductive activity in H. bolina was broadly correlated with both rainfall and humidity, with individuals spending part of the dry season (early April to late August) sheltering in overwintering sites in a state of reproductive diapause. The timing of the overwintering period was similar between the 2 years, which suggests that individuals respond to seasonally predictable cues such as photoperiod. At least in 1998, the exit of butterflies from overwintering sites was relatively sudden and coincided with the first spring rainfall event. These findings suggest that H. bolina copes with seasonal adversity in the tropics by means of a regularly timed diapause.
27751660|Previous studies in Sundaland (Borneo, Sumatra, Java and Peninsular Malaysia) have shown that termite assemblages in natural forests have a characteristic structure. These typical forest assemblages contain many soil-feeding species. However, this study investigated four natural forest sites in Borneo with depauperate termite assemblages, and compared their soils with soils from four other sites that have typical termite assemblages. In contrast to the typical assemblages, the four depauperate assemblages all have low species density (&lt 35%), low relative abundance (&lt 30%), a virtual absence of soil-feeders, significantly fewer wood-feeders, and a near-absence of species of Rhinotermitidae, Amitermes-group, Termes-group, Pericapritermes-group and Oriensubulitermes-group. The depauperate sites are on ultramafic-derived soils and have significantly higher concentrations of calcium, magnesium, nickel, chromium, cobalt, copper and zinc compared with the non-ultramafic soils at sites with typical assemblages. In addition, soil pH at the depauperate sites is significantly higher (&gtpH 5.4) compared with soils at the typical sites (which are all below pH 4.7). Possible mechanisms to explain the depauperate termite assemblages on ultramafic soils include metal toxicity, high pH disrupting gut physiology, and microbial interactions with metals.
4091920|The distribution and formation of foraging trails have largely been neglected as factors explaining harvesting patterns of leaf-cutting ants. We applied fractal analysis, circular, and conventional statistics to published and newly recorded trail maps of seven Atta colonies focusing on three aspects: permanence, spatio-temporal plasticity and colony life stage. In the long term, trail patterns of young and mature Atta colonies revealed that foraging activities were focused on distinct, static sectors that made up only parts of their potentially available foraging range. Within these foraging sectors, trails were typically ephemeral and highly variable in space and time. These ephemeral trails were concentrated around permanent trunk trails in mature and around nest entrances in young colonies. Besides these similarities, the comparison of trail systems between the two life stages indicated that young colonies exploited fewer leaf sources, used smaller and less-complex systems of foraging trails, preferred different life forms as host plants, and switched hosts more often compared with mature colonies. Based on these analyses, we propose a general hypothesis which describes the foraging pattern in Atta as a result of initial foraging experiences, spatio-temporal distribution of suitable host plants, energetic constraints, and other factors such as seasonality and interspecific predation.
4091854|We investigated the seed dispersal of Aglaia spectabilis, a large-seeded tree species in a moist evergreen forest of Khao Yai National Park in Thailand. Although one-to-one relationships between frugivores and plants are very unlikely, large-seeded plants having to rely on few large frugivores and therefore on limited disperser assemblages, might be vulnerable to extinction. We assessed both the frugivore assemblages foraging on arillate seeds of Aglaia spectabilis and dispersing them and the seed predator assemblages, thereby covering dispersal as well as the post-dispersal aspects such as seed predation. Our results showed that frugivores dispersing seeds were a rather limited set of four hornbill and one pigeon species, whereas two squirrel species were not dispersers, but dropped the seeds on the ground. Three mammal species were identified as seed predators on the forest floor. Heavy seed predation by mammals together with high seed removal rates, short visiting times and regurgitation of intact seeds by mainly hornbills lead us to the conclusion that hornbills show high effectiveness in dispersal of this tree species.
4092019|We used traps baited with fruit to examine how the temporal variation of butterflies within primary forest in Sabah, Borneo differed between species. In addition, we compared patterns of temporal variation in primary and selectively logged forest, and we tested the hypothesis that selective logging has different recorded impacts on species diversity of adults during the wet monsoon period and the drier remaining half of the year. Species of Satyrinae and Morphinae had significantly less-restricted flight periods than did species of Nymphalinae and Charaxinae, which were sampled mainly during the drier season, especially in primary forest. Species diversity of adults was significantly higher during the drier season in primary forest, but did not differ between seasons in logged forest. As a consequence, logging had opposite recorded impacts on diversity during wetter and drier seasons: primary forest had significantly higher diversity than logged forest during the drier season but significantly lower diversity than logged forest during the wetter monsoon season. The results of this study have important implications for the assessment of biodiversity in tropical rain forests, particularly in relation to habitat disturbance: short-term assessments that do not take account of seasonal variation in abundance are likely to produce misleading results, even in regions where the seasonal variation in rainfall is not that great.
25172975|Many studies conclude that light is the most important resource that determines plant performance of tree saplings in tropical rain forests, and implicitly suggest that soil resources are less important. To provide a quantitative test for soil versus light effects on sapling performance, we studied how saplings of the shade-tolerant tree species Brosimum alicastrum responded to contrasting levels of light availability and soil fertility in a Mexican tropical rain forest. Therefore saplings were selected from ten low-light exposure (crown position index &lt; 1.5) and ten high-light exposure (crown position index  2.5) sites either on productive alluvial soils, or on poor sandy soils on adjacent hills. Annual growth responses were scored for 58 saplings. The soil-light interaction had a strong positive effect on branching rate and leaf area production, rather than light or soil alone. Height growth only increased at higher light availability. Herbivore damage was higher on the more productive soil and, to a lesser extent, at higher light availability. Our results suggest that saplings (1) responded differently to soil and light availability, (2) expanded in overall size when both soil and light limitations are released, but only increased in height with increasing light intensity (3) and faced a trade-off between expansion and defence along both soil and light gradients. This study emphasizes the role of soil resources, in interaction with light availability, on the plastic responses in saplings living in a tropical forest understorey.
4091902| The flowering phenology of five alpine dwarf-tree species was observed in the summit region (3900-3950 m elevation) of Mt. Kinabalu on Borneo Island from March 1998 to November 2001. For each target species, 20-50 individual plants were numbered in two observation plots and the number of inflorescences was monitored at 2-3-mo intervals. The flowering patterns varied among species. Rhododendron buxifolium bloomed extensively every March-May at the main plot but the flowering pattern at the subplot was less predictable. Mass flowering occurred in March 1998 when drought stress was very severe due to an El Nio event. Rhododendron ericoides showed continuous flowering throughout the year and high synchrony between the plots. Extensive flowering of Leptospermum recurvum occurred synchronously within and between plots in the early half of 1999, then flowering activity decreased greatly. Photinia davidiana showed an annual flowering cycle but the timing of the peak flowering differed between the plots. Vaccinium stapfianum showed synchronous flowering between the plots and the flowering peak appeared at longer than 1-y intervals. Plant size was positively correlated with mean flower production in all species, and with the flowering frequency of R. ericoides, R. buxifolium, and V. stapfianum at one of the plots at least. Two fleshy-fruited species, P. davidiana and V. stapfianum, had high selfing ability for fruit production and showed relatively low flowering synchrony among individuals in comparison with the other species. These results indicate that the trigger for initiation of flowering may differ among sympatric species in a tropical-alpine ecosystem at least in normal years. 
4499100|Carbon and nutrient stocks in below-ground biomass have rarely been investigated in tropical montane forests. In the present study, the amounts of carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, sulphur, potassium, calcium and magnesium in root biomass were determined by soil coring and nutrient analysis in forests at three altitudes (1900, 2400 and 3000 m) in the Ecuadorian Andes. Root biomass increased markedly from
4091819|Using
2560316|Plots of 1.25 and 11.25 ha were enumerated for trees and lianes  10 cm and trees  70 cm dbh respectively along a line transect in the Lope Reserve, Gabon. In the small plot 511 trees and lianes of 116 species were found, and 175 trees of 48 species were present in the large plot. The plots were then subject to commercial mechanised logging and the enumerations were repeated once logging had been completed. The extraction rate was two trees ha<sup>-1</sup> and in the large plot a total of 31 (17.7%) trees representing 20.6% of the total original basal area died. Incidental damage in the small plot resulted in the loss of 10.8% of trees and lianes present, and 12.9% of the original basal area. Canopy cover was reduced by 10%. Damage levels were low compared with figures from most other tropical regions. The relevance of these figures to forest management in Gabon are discussed.
4092142|Tropical plants have been suggested to have higher levels of mechanical, chemical and biotic defences than temperate plants. However, comparisons have usually included deciduous species within the temperate group, which confounds the analysis since deciduous species are predicted to have a different strategy with respect to investment, nutrition and defence than evergreen species. In this study we examined levels of defence and nutrition in five evergreen species of Eucryphia occurring along a latitudinal gradient in eastern Australia, grown under common conditions in a glasshouse. From the resource-availability hypothesis we predicted the opposite gradient in defence investment, i.e. that lowest levels of defence will occur in tropical species with potentially high growth rates and annual productivity. However, we found an increase in cell wall content, total phenolics and tannin activity, and a decrease in protein availability, with decreasing latitude and/or increasing mean annual temperature. Hence, there was a trend of increasing defence (although not in leaf toughness) and declining nutritional quality towards the tropics. These latitudinal trends were recorded in both mature and expanding leaves. The same trends were observed in leaves of two species collected from the field, indicating that the results were not peculiar to the experimental growth regime. The latitudinal trend in defence did not support our prediction based on the resource availability hypothesis and may indicate that herbivore pressure is providing an overriding selection pressure, although there are alternative explanations.
23012376|Litter-feeding termites influence key aspects of the structure and functioning of semi-arid ecosystems around the world by altering nutrient and material fluxes, affecting primary production, foodweb dynamics and modifying vegetation composition. Understanding these complex effects depends on quantifying spatial heterogeneity in termite foraging activities, yet such information is scarce for semi-arid savannas. Here, the amount of litter that was removed from 800 litterbags in eight plots (100 litterbags per plot) was measured in HluhluweiMfolozi Park (HiP) South Africa. These data were used to quantify variation in litter removal at two spatial scales: the local scale (within 450-m 2 plots) and the landscape scale (among sites separated by 825 km). Subsequently, we attempted to understand the possible determinants of termites' foraging patterns by testing various ecological correlates, such as plant biomass and bare ground at small scales and rainfall and fences that excluded large mammalian herbivores at larger scales. No strong predictors for heterogeneity in termite foraging intensity were found at the local scale. At the landscape scale termite consumption depended on an interaction between rainfall and the presence of large mammalian herbivores: litter removal by termites was greater in the presence of large herbivores at the drier sites but lower in the presence of large herbivores at the wetter sites. The effect of herbivores on termite foraging intensity may indicate a switch between termites and large herbivore facilitation and competition across a productivity gradient. In general, litter removal decreased with increasing mean annual rainfall, which is in contrast to current understanding of termite consumption across rainfall and productivity gradients. These results generate novel insights into termite ecology and interactions among consumers of vastly different body sizes across spatial scales.
25172899|The canopy disturbance regime and the influence of gap methods on the interpretation of forest structure and dynamics were evaluated in a tropical semi-deciduous forest in south-eastern Brazil. We encountered a gap density of 11.2 gaps ha and an average size which varied from 121 to 333 m depending on the gap delimitation method considered (minimum gap size was 10 m). Although average size was slightly higher, the median value obtained (78 m) was comparable to other tropical forest sites and the gap size-class distribution found supported the pattern described for such forest sites. Among 297 gap makers. snapping and uprooting were the most common modes of disturbance. The number and basal area of gap makers were good predictors of gap size. Almost 25% of all gaps suffered from repeated disturbance events that brought about larger gap sizes. Such processes, along with delimitation methods, strongly influenced the estimation of turnover rate and therefore the interpretation of forest dynamics. These results demonstrated the importance of further studies on repeated disturbances, which is often neglected in forest studies.
40925450|We determined seasonal variation in soil matric potentials ( soil ) along a topographical gradient and with soil depth in a Bolivian tropical dry (1160 mm y-1 rain) and moist forest (1580 mm y ). In each forest we analysed the effect of drought on predawn leaf water potentials ( pd ) and drought response (midday leaf water potential at a standardized  pd of-0.98 MPa;  md ) of saplings of three tree species, varying in shade-tolerance and leaf phenology.  soil changed during the dry season and most extreme in the dry forest. Crests were drier than slopes and valleys. Dry-forest top soil was drier than deep soil in the dry season, the inverse was found in the wet season. In the moist forest the drought-deciduous species, Sweetia fruticosa, occupied dry sites. In the dry forest the short-lived pioneer, Solarium riparium, occupied wet sites and the shade-tolerant species, Acosmium cardenasii drier sites. Moist-forest species had similar drought response. The dry-forest pioneer showed a larger drought response than the other two species. Heterogeneity in soil water availability and interspecific differences in moisture requirements and drought response suggest great potential for niche differentiation. Species may coexist at different topographical locations, by extracting water from different soil layers and/or by doing so at different moments in time.
2559911|New leaf production in seasonal tropical forests may result from changes in water or light availability. In this study, the relationship between leaf flushing, photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) and rainfall was examined for understorey saplings in a moist tropical forest over one year. During the wet season, weeks with greater PAR were correlated with a greater proportion of saplings flushing new leaves during subsequent weeks in nine out of ten species. Rainfall was negatively correlated with subsequent leafing during the wet season for six of ten species. However, during the dry season, rainfall was positively correlated with leafing during the following weeks for six species, but the relationship was much weaker. PAR in the dry season was negatively correlated with flushing in eight species. These results support the hypothesis that under well-watered conditions, light limits leaf production, and peaks in insolation result in greater leaf production.
2559473|We report long-term observations on leaf herbivory in the mangroves Rhizophora mangle and Avicennia germinans, on the Placencia Peninsula of Belize. We labelled and traced leaves and recorded the amount of damage appearing over a period of 310 days. Herbivores had damaged 1-4% of total mean leaf area within the first 10 days, but damage rates levelled off thereafter, to a final total of 4-10% damage. Herbivores did not concentrate on leaves of younger age classes. Rhizophora mangle growing in the high tidal zone (HHW) exhibited the highest initial and total attack rates at all but the final sampling dates. We also documented the dynamics of injury expansion and necrosis following artificial injury to seedling and tree leaves. Artificial holes in leaves were associated with higher subsequent rates of herbivory that varied among leaf age classes, and particular damage types were more prevalent in previously injured leaves. Artificial holes expanded significantly more in young leaves of both species. Holes in young leaves of both species expanded by up to 45.1% in area over 50 days, consistent with a similar study in Australia. Substantial necrotic areas developed around the injury site; a secondary effect of damage not often considered in herbivory studies. We discuss the implications of hole expansion and necrosis in estimating error in herbivory measurements. Temporally dynamic studies of herbivory are especially needed in tropical systems that show non-deciduous phenologies and long-lived leaves.
2559727|Soil-vegetation relationships were examined in a tabonuco forest community in eastern Puerto Rico using canonical correspondence analysis. Ca and pH were strongly correlated with the first ordination axis (r = 0.84 and 0.76, respectively), while Mg and Na were correlated with the second axis (r = 0.65 and 0.64, respectively); other soil variables were not significantly related to the first two axes. Four previously identified soil series corresponded well with the ordination, and statistically significant differences in soil variables were found among the soil series. Dominant canopy tree species Dacryodes excelsa and Manilkara bidentata were negatively associated with the first ordination axis and positively associated with dry soils having low concentrations of Ca and Mg and low pH. The palm Prestoea montana was positively associated with the first axis and with wet soils having high concentrations of Ca and Mg and higher pH values. Another canopy species Sloanea berteriana was associated with the second ordination axis and with lower slope positions having higher concentrations of Mg.
27751624|Terrestrial insectivorous birds in a cloud-forest on the north-western slope of the Peruvian Andes were described in terms of species richness, abundance, density, territory size and biomass. Abundance, density and territory size were also characterized for several understorey insectivores. The three terrestrial insectivore species, all in the genus Grallaria, had 35.25 territories on a 26.2-ha plot, defended territories of (mean  SD) 1.65  1.34 ha, dwelled at an average density of 4.4  2.7 pairs per 10 ha per species and constituted a biomass of 2470 g per 10 ha. Eight understorey insectivore species had 122.75 territories on the plot, held territories 0.86  0.62 ha in size, and lived at an average density of 5.0  2.7 pairs per 10 ha per species. Six of the 11 species studied each occupied over 50% of the plot. Data on terrestrial insectivores from this study were compared with data from other Neotropical plots to examine how properties of guild structure relate to one another. Increasing densities, smaller territory sizes and higher biomasses appeared to be linked with decreasing species richness and increasing elevation, suggesting consistent patterns of covariance.
4092077|Aerial photographs were used to assess changes in woody vegetation cover at 122 locations within a sandstone-plateau savanna woodland in the Victoria River region, Northern Territory, Australia. Despite locally variable vegetation responses, there has been little change in total woody vegetation cover since 1948. Thirty-three locations were also surveyed on the ground. It was found that sites for which vegetation cover had changed over the 50-y period were not significantly different from stable sites in terms of floristic composition, recent fire history, demographic stability among the dominant tree species, or edaphic setting. However, two of the dominant overstorey tree species - Eucalyptus tetrodonta and Eucalyptus phoenicea - showed significantly higher mortality on sites that had experienced vegetation cover decline since 1948. We suggest that observed changes in woody vegetation cover are a consequence of natural cycles of die-back and recovery of at least these two species in response to spatially heterogenous variables such as dry-season moisture stress. Although the widespread decline of fire-sensitive Callitris intratropica populations clearly indicates a historical shift from lower- to higher-intensity burning conditions within the study area, we reject the hypothesis of a landscape-wide process such as changing fire regimes or climatic change as the driving factor behind large-scale vegetation changes detected by aerial photographic analysis.
27751673|The direct removal of adult trees by logging affects tree recruitment in tropical rain forests. However, secondary effects of logging, such as loss of vertebrate seed dispersers may also affect tree recruitment. We studied the recruitment and spatial distribution of five tree species namely Balanites wilsoniana, Celtis zenkeri, Chrysophyllum albidum, Cordia millenii and Ricinodendron heudelotii in Kibale, Budongo and Mabira Forests in Uganda. These forests have been subjected to varying degrees of disturbance leading to changes in their vertebrate seed dispersers. Vertebrate frugivores of the five tree species were identified. Three 1-ha plots were established around adult trees of the same five species in each forest and the distance from the juveniles to the nearest adult conspecific was measured to generate a recruitment curve. Frugivore visitation rates were high in the less disturbed Budongo and Kibale (2.2 and 1.6 individuals h1 respectively) compared with the highly disturbed Mabira (0.9 individuals h1). In the frugivore-impoverished forest, 7090% of juveniles established beneath adult conspecifics, whereas in the less-disturbed forests juveniles were established up to 80 m from adult conspecifics. Shade-tolerant species capable of recruiting beneath adult conspecifics appeared to maintain their populations without dispersal. Consequently, disturbances leading to significant loss of vertebrates may alter tree recruitment and spatial distribution with consequences for long-term population viability of shade-intolerant tropical trees.
25172895|Fragmented forest landscapes with large proportions of edge area are common in the tropics, though little is known about functional responses of trees to edge effects. Foliar C can increase our understanding of tree function, as these values reflect changes in
4091930|Ontogenetic and seasonal variation in diet was examined for 11 species of insectivorous forest-floor frogs and lizards from a lowland wet forest in north-eastern Costa Rica. Specimens were collected systematically over an entire seasonal cycle and represented individuals of all sizes. Individual prey items were removed from stomachs of preserved specimens, measured and identified. Ontogenetic shifts in prey size were pervasive. Ontogenetic shifts in prey composition were limited to four species; these were not the species with greatest range in body size, nor the species with the broadest diets. Small prey types (ants, mites, collembolans) decreased in representation and large prey types (roaches, or thopterans, millipedes) increased in importance over ontogeny; this could be because prey selection is based primarily on prey size or because of different prey preferences among age classes. There is little evidence for size-structure in this assemblage. There is no evidence that total availability of arthropod prey varies among seasons, but some evidence that preferred prey are less common in the wet season. Diet was similar between lizards and frogs. Lizards were more likely to have empty stomachs, but also greater stomach volume, than frogs; this indicates a difference in food-gathering strategies. Our study indicates strong similarity between frogs and lizards in diet despite enormous differences in physiology and behaviour.
3068654| Geometrid moths were collected on Mt. Kinabalu (Sabah, Malaysia) along two habitat gradients, ranging from primary rain forest to cultivated areas. During 135 nights' trapping in 1997, 4585 individuals representing 500 species were attracted by light. Primary forest samples and those from old-grown regenerated forest exhibited high diversity (Fisher's  = 75-128), while agricultural areas as well as most secondary forests had a significantly lower diversity ( = 34-61). One 15-y-old secondary forest with a rich undergrowth vegetation also housed a diverse geometrid community ( = 89). In three paired samples, diversity of geometrid moths in the canopy was equal to or lower than in the understorey. Of six habitat variables tested, only undergrowth plant species diversity emerged as a significant predictor of geometrid diversity. The NESS index, in combination with multi-dimensional scaling, was used to investigate patterns of between-habitat diversity. Of two dimensions extracted, one represented the degree of habitat disturbance, while the other separated the two study areas. Geometrid samples of strongly disturbed habitats did not converge between sites, indicating that apart from the degree of human interference the regional species pool was also important in determining similarity among local communities. 
4091997|Patterns of vertical stratification and canopy utilization by rodents and marsupials were analysed in two contiguous Atlantic forests at different altitudes (100 m and 900 m asl). Twenty-two species were captured using live traps placed at ground level, in the understorey (1.5-2.0 m), and in the canopy (6-15 m) over 2 y; seven species (32%) were mainly or exclusively arboreal. Community composition and relative abundance of species in the different vertical strata were not similar, with a general reduction in the number of species, and in abundance in the upper layers. The following species were captured mainly or exclusively in the canopy: Micoureus demerarae and Gracilinanus microtarsus (Didelphimorphia, Didelphidae); Wilfredomys pictipes, Oecomys aff. concolor, and Rhipidomys aff. macrurus (Rodentia, Muridae); and Nelomys nigrispinus (Rodentia, Echimyidae). Our results indicated that altitudinal changes in Atlantic forest areas may alter the community composition of different forest layers but they do not seem to alter greatly specific patterns of vertical habitat utilization. Similar-sized species tended to differ in their patterns of vertical utilization of habitat with the exception of terrestrial akodontine rodents (genera Akodon, Thaptomys, Oxymycterus and Brucepattersonius). Rodents (mainly Oryzomys russatus) dominated captures at ground level at both sites but Akodontinii were numerous only at the highest site. Unlike other neotropical forests, marsupials did not dominate canopy captures.
2560104|Bolomys lasiurus is the only species of rodent commonly found in the savanna of Alter do Chao, central Amazonia. Peak densities during 42 months were less than have been reported from the cerrado biome of central Brazil. However, the population at Alter do Chao appears to be more stable than those in other areas and we never recorded zero densities. Many animals were captured over periods greater than 7 months, indicating that either mortality or dispersal was less than in previous studies. Mean home-range size of females was inversely related to the proportion of females that were gravid or lactating. Female home ranges were mutually exclusive and averaged 35% (SD = 8.2%) of male home ranges. Male home ranges overlapped extensively. Indices of home-range size varied seasonally and among years.
4092015|We tested the response of seedlings of Dicorynia guianensis, a major timber tree species of French Guiana, to mycorrhizal symbiosis and water limitation in a semi-controlled experiment under natural light conditions. Under well-watered conditions, mycorrhizal colonization resulted in an increase of net photosynthesis, growth and phosphorus uptake. When submitted to water stress, no growth reduction of mycorrhizal seedlings was observed. Mycorrhizal seedlings were more sensitive to drought than non-mycorrhizal ones in terms of carbon assimilation, but not with regard to stomatal closure. In contrast to previous studies on temperate tree seedlings, this result precludes a mycorrhizal effect on the hydraulic properties of this species. Furthermore, our results suggest that below a specific threshold of soil moisture, carbon assimilation of D. guianensis seedlings was decreased by the mycorrhizal symbiosis. This is probably related to the competition between the plant and its host fungus for carbon allocation under low light intensity, even though it did not seem to have a significant effect on mortality in our experiment.
3068772|Results of a 3-y study on the populations of three evergreen woody species (Byrsonima crassifolia, Palicourea rigida and Bowdichia virgilioides), from a regularly burnt savanna, in Venezuela, are reported. Tree density, size structure, fruit-seed production per tree of different size classes and soil seed bank were estimated. Viable seed production was one order of magnitude higher in B. crassifolia, which was also the only species with a permanent soil seed bank. Seeds of B. virgilioides germinated readily after dispersal, whilst seeds of P. rigida showed an innate dormancy synchronously released after a year. Both of the latter species seemed to maximize the first growth season by germinating at the beginning of the favourable season. In B. crassifolia, germination proceeds with an early small burst of germination, possibly followed by a second peak at the beginning of the next rainy season and little or no germination thereafter. The results showed that despite the high fire frequency, the studied species produce a substantial number of viable propagules, and have the capacity to germinate in field conditions (readiness depending on the species). Sexual reproduction is expected, therefore, to play an important role, as suggested by their reproductive investment, in long-term population maintenance.
27751676|Parrots represent a large biomass of canopy granivores in tropical forests, and may be effective pre-dispersal seed predators. We evaluated the importance of the lilac-crowned parrot (Amazona finschi) as a pre-dispersal seed predator of Astronium graveolens (Anacardiaceae) in tropical dry forest. Seeds were collected in fruit-traps beneath 22 trees to compare pre-dispersal seed predation by parrots and insects, and determine whether intensity of seed predation was related to fruit-crop size or the aggregation of fruiting conspecifics around focal trees. Ground-level exclosures were established to compare post-dispersal seed predation by vertebrates and insects. The lilac-crowned parrot predated 43% of seeds pre-dispersal, while insects predated only 1.3%. Intensity of pre-dispersal seed predation by parrots was significantly greater in high-fruiting 0.79-ha resource patches, and was not related to fruit abundance of the focal tree. Foraging parrots also discarded immature fruits below the tree, causing a total 56% pre-dispersal loss of seed production, which was greater than post-dispersal removal by vertebrates, mainly rodents (51%) or insects (36%). Our results show that parrots play an important role as pre-dispersal seed predators in tropical dry forests. The reduction of parrot populations in tropical forests may have consequences for seed predation, affecting recruitment patterns of canopy trees.
2559938|The spatial patterns of canopy tree and seedling life stages in the African Tropical Tree Milicia excelsa were examined to test the Janzen-Connell hypothesis (escape hypothesis). The Janzen-Connell hypothesis states that the mortality of seeds and seedlings is highest near the adult tree and declines with distance away from the adult tree of the same species. This hypothesis argues that this effect is partially responsible for maintaining the high tree species diversity of tropical forests. Solar radiation and fruit dispersal were investigated as possible explanations of observed patterns in seedling distribution. Milicia excelsa trees  30 cm DBH were found to be randomly dispersed and occurred at a density of  1 ha. Milicia excelsa seedlings were located in small clumps between parent trees and up to 150 m from parents at a mean density of 65 seedlings ha<sup>-1</sup>. Fruits were in abundance (> 9000 on the ground) beneath female trees. Light levels at locations of natural seedlings ranged from 2-29% of full irradiance. Planted seedlings did not suffer greater mortality closer to adult conspecifics, and survived at light levels between 2-37% of full irradiance. Phytolyma spp., gall-forming psyllids which cause high mortality in Milicia seedlings in large openings and plantations, were not observed on any natural or planted seedlings, although galls were present in the crowns of dominant trees.
4092182|We used tree-rings to reconstruct long-term patterns of suppression, release and growth among five sympatric canopy tree species representing the full range of shade tolerance in a seasonal tropical forest in western Thailand. We expected that the frequency and duration of suppression and release events would be positively correlated with shade tolerance. All five species showed evidence of major and moderate growth releases. As expected, Melia azederach, an extreme heliophile, had the fewest releases. However, among the other species the number of major releases was consistent across the range of shade tolerance. The most significant difference among the species was the number of moderate releases recorded. There was a general positive correlation between the number of moderate releases and shade tolerance; however, Chukrasia tabularis, a relatively shade-intolerant species, had an anomalously high number of moderate releases. The study species also showed considerable variation in canopy accession strategies. The least common canopy accession strategy was establishment in the understorey and growth into the canopy in the absence of any gaps. However, with the exception of Melia, all four study species had one or more individuals that successfully reached the canopy using each of the four canopy accession strategies. These results highlight the importance of periodic or episodic bouts of gap formation on canopy tree recruitment and the utility of tree-rings for reconstructing long-term growth patterns in tropical trees.
2559806|We studied the population structure, density and biomass of seven ungulate and two primate species in the tropical forests of Nagarahole, southern India, using line transect sampling and roadside/platform counts, during 1986-87. The estimated ecological densities of large herbivore species in the study area are: 4.2 muntjac km<sup>-2</sup>, 50.6 chital km<sup>-2</sup>, 5.5 sambar km<sup>-2</sup>, 0.8 four-horned antelope km<sup>-2</sup>, 9.6 gaur km<sup>-2</sup>, 4.2 wild pig km<sup>-2</sup>, 3.3 elephant km<sup>-2</sup>, 23.8 hanuman langur km<sup>-2</sup> and 0.6 bonnet macaque km<sup>-2</sup>. Most ungulates have female-biased adult sex ratios. Among common ungulate species, yearlings and young of the year comprise about a third of the population, suggesting relatively high turn-over rates. Three species (muntjac, sambar and four-horned antelope) are solitary, while others form groups. The study area supports a wild herbivore biomass density of 14,744 kg km<sup>-2</sup>. Among the three habitat types within the study area, biomass is lower in dry deciduous forests when compared with moist deciduous or teak plantation dominant forests. Using our results, we have examined the factors that may contribute towards maintenance of high ungulate biomass in tropical forests.
2559725|This paper describes estimates of canopy openness and associated light availability in the understorey of a north-east Australian rain forest before and immediately after a tropical cyclone. On the basis of 20 hemispherical (fisheye) canopy photographs it was shown that direct, diffuse and total site factors increased significantly as a result of the slight-to-moderate canopy disturbance caused by the cyclone. In the understorey, median total site factors ranged from 2.5-3.4% before the cyclone and from 6.0-8.6% after the cyclone, representing a 2- to 3-fold increase in potential light availability. Following the cyclone, mean relative gap frequencies increased substantially at all altitudes but particularly at canopy positions more than 70<sup></sup> above the horizon. Cyclone-induced canopy disturbance not only reduced the complexity of the understorey light regime but may have also increased the seasonal variability of light within the understorey of the forest during the interval of canopy recovery. The implications of these results for the ecophysiology of understorey tree seedlings and saplings at several temporal scales are discussed.
2559570|Some aspects of the ecology of bagrid catfishes in River Ase, southern Nigeria were studied for a period of two years. Nine species of Bagridae were recorded and these accounted for 15.0% of the number and 24.4% of the weight of all fish captured. Chrysichthys nigrodigitatus and Chrysichthys auratus longifilis were the principal species. C. nigrodigitatus was a rainy season species, while C. auratus longifilis was abundant in both dry and rainy seasons. Both species showed a major peak in catches between 0600 and 0900 h. C. nigrodigitatus exhibited a minor peak in catches between 1500 and 2100 h, while C. auratus longifilis showed a minor peak between 1500 and 1800 h. The spatial distribution of C. nigrodigitatus and C. auratus longifilis populations was heterogeneous. Bagrid fishes were an important component in the fish yield of the study river and its species composition has been compared with those of other Nigerian waters. The distribution and abundance of C. nigrodigitatus and C. auratus longifilis are discussed in detail.
3068762|Keystone plants that produce seasonally critical trophic resources comprise one of the main classes of keystone species, yet no studies have attempted to examine the ecological attributes that might help us recognize them and evaluate their importance in species-rich plant assemblages. In this paper the concept of keystone plant resources is reviewed using potential candidates proposed in the literature for neotropical forest sites. A poorly known example of a potential keystone resource-the gums produced by mature pods of two emergent tree species (Parkia nitida and P. pendula, Leguminosae: Mimosoideae)-is described for primates and other arboreal vertebrates in Amazonian forests. In particular, the fruiting phenology, tree density, patterns of vertebrate consumption, and nutritional quality of Parkia gums in Amazonian terra firme forests are considered. Putative neotropical keystone resources are then divided into four intersecting ecological attributes defining their community-wide importance to vertebrate frugivores: (1) temporal redundancy, (2) degree of consumer specificity, (3) reliability, and (4) abundance. From a vertebrate perspective, keystone plants are here defined as those producing reliable, low-redundancy resources that are consumed by a large proportion of the bird and mammal assemblage with which they coexist. Plant populations proposed to date as keystone species range widely across two of these four variables, which may disqualify most putative taxa (including Parkia spp.) from a more formal definition of keystone resources. Other importance attributes, the context-dependent role, the taxonomic refinement, and removal effects of the keystone plant resource concept as applied to tropical forests are also discussed.
25172973|Some large-seeded tree species have cotyledonary reserves that persist for months after seedling establishment. We carried out two screened growing-house experiments with seedlings of Gustavia superba (Lecythidaceae) to test hypotheses proposed to explain why cotyledons are retained. We grew seedlings from large and small seeds in sun and shade to determine if cotyledon reserves supplement photosynthetic carbon gain, and in a second experiment applied defoliation and shoot removal treatments to determine if reserves are allocated to resprout tissue. In each experiment we tracked cotyledonary resource use over time and measured the fraction of seedling biomass allocated to roots and shoots. We found no evidence that light environment, seed size or damage treatment affected the rate of cotyledon resource usage; 20% of the cotyledonary mass remained 9 wk after leaves were fully developed in both sun and shade and 25-30% of the cotyledonary mass remained 6 wk after leaf or shoot removal. Instead, cotyledon reserves appear to be slowly translocated to roots regardless of light environment or seedling damage. Once seedlings are established, lost tissue is replaced using reserves stored in roots; in high light, damaged seedlings had a lower root mass fraction (0.42) than undamaged ones (0.56) when considering the mass of tissue removed and resprout tissue combined. We conclude that cotyledon reserves are important for resprouting during early seedling emergence and establishment, but do not directly contribute to seedling growth or biomass recovery from herbivores at the post-establishment stage. Persistence of cotyledons may ultimately depend on the development of sufficient root mass for reserve reallocation.
2559231|This paper examines the floristic changes that occur following human disturbance in mid-montane forest in the Wau area in Papua New Guinea. The study was restricted to a 1600-2400 m altitudinal range on Mt Kaindi, with disturbed forest, and Mt Missim, with undisturbed forest. Special attention was given to the status of Nothofagus pullei which is locally dominant on Mt Kaindi. A major change in floristic composition was observed between 1800 and 2000 m. The abundance and species composition of ferns and mosses above 2000 m characterizes the floristic differences. Nothofagus pullei was found to be a pioneer species with a long life-span, one which does not regenerate under its own cover. There were no other important floristic differences between Nothofagus-dominated forest and mixed mid-montane forest. Nothofagus pullei locally dominates the canopy and thereby suppresses the growth of other trees.
2560033|Studies of niche overlap within communities of lizards have shown that separation may be along the three major dimensions of space, time and food. Space is usually the most important dimension where a range of habitats are involved; there is less information on the importance of microhabitat separation within a single habitat type. This study investigated microhabitat relationships of small diurnal lizard species occupying granitic rock habitat in Zimbabwe. There was statistically significant niche separation among all species in both the type of rock occupied (size, shape, number of cracks, closeness to other rocks, and vegetation cover) and the position of the lizard in the microhabitat (height on rock, slope angle, and distance to cover). Overlap of microhabitat was lowest between the generalist terrestrial skink Mabuya varia and all other species. The arboreal skink Mabuya striata was found on rocks at one site where the more saxicolous Mabuya quinquetaeniata was absent, due to competitor release. Overlap of microhabitat among rock specialists was lowest between the sit-and-wait foragers Agama kirkii and Platysaurus intermedius, as in other tropical lizard communities. The high degree of microhabitat separation was attributed to the high structural complexity of the granitic rock habitat.
4092050|A recently developed technique in soil ecology is the use of the bait lamina method, for assessing the feeding activity of soil animals in situ. Here the bait lamina method (slightly adapted to tropical conditions) was used for the comparison of four closely situated sites (a primary rain forest, a secondary rain forest and two mixed- species tree plantations) in the Brazilian Amazon (project SHIFT ENV-52). The total feeding activity (portion of empty apertures in a set of laminae) and the vertical distribution of the feeding activity were evaluated for differences between the sites. The feeding activities in the primary and secondary forest were at the same level and significantly lower than in the two plantations. Feeding activity in subplots where surface litter has been experimentally removed was significantly lower than in the controls with the litter layer intact, at all four sites. The abundance of soil macrofauna or Enchytraeidae was not correlated with the results of the bait lamina tests, while the abundance of mesofauna (probably mainly Oribatida) was consistent with the pattern of feeding activity. The feeding activities as determined with bait laminae did not correlate with the decomposition activities determined with litterbags. Due to the easy applicability in combination with its feasibility for statistical evaluation and its consistent responses to site differences in experimental treatments we consider the bait lamina method to be a promising approach for the biological assessment of tropical soils.
2559438|Field experiments comparing leaf-fall in the presence and absence of the red land crab, Gecarcoidea natalis, in rain forest on Christmas Island, Indian Ocean showed that, by eating and returning leaves to their burrows, they significantly reduced accumulation of leaf-fall on the forest floor. Red crabs removed 30-50% of the leaf-fall at the experimental sites during the study. Differences in leaf-fall mass between crab-access and exclusion quadrats were positively correlated with the density of foraging red crabs. Red crabs also generated spatial heterogeneity in the distribution of litter on the forest floor by returning litter to their burrows. Leaves lined chambers of 64% of excavated burrows and litter biomass around the entrances was significantly greater than that on off-burrow locations. This was reflected in the significantly higher concentrations of organic matter and nutrients (N, P, K, Ca, Na, and Mg) associated with soils near burrow entrances. These results suggest that a single species, G. natalis, is the major processor of leaf-fall in rain forest on Christmas Island and may affect (1) the temporal and spatial patterns of nutrient availability and (2) the diversity and biomass of the litter fauna.
4091935| The temporal pattern of reproduction and its consequences for age structure and density were investigated in a population of the gracile mouse opossum Gracilinanus microtarsus in south-eastern Brazil. Individuals ofG. microtarsus were monitored through capture-mark-recapture methods from August 2000 to February 2003 in a remnant of cerrado, a forest-like physiognomy of the highly seasonal cerrado biome. The temporal pattern of reproduction of the population studied was highly seasonal with rearing of the offspring occurring in the first half of the warm-wet season, when the abundance of food resources - primarily insects - in the cerrado is high. Shortly after reproduction, the density of adults decreased sharply, possibly because of high post-mating mortality, leading to a gradual replacement of adults by their offspring in the following months and little overlap of generations. Our data suggest that climatic and environmental factors affect the onset of reproduction and interact with endogenous factors that decrease post-mating survival to produce the observed pattern of seasonal variation in age structure and density. It is suggested that the dynamics of populations of G. microtarsus may be driven primarily by food limitation and that long-term studies are needed to understand its feedback structure. 
2560294|A new technique for estimation of tree species richness in tropical forests was developed and tested in this study. The missing species extrapolation technique is based on the assumption that the rate of accumulation of new species with increasing area is the same within sampled and unsampled areas of similar habitat within a region. This new technique was tested on four 1-ha sites of subtropical moist forest in Rio Bravo, Belize for which complete species counts of trees 10 cm dbh are available Estimates given by the technique are 115, 98, 93 and 106% of the actual species counts within the four sites. The accuracy of these estimates was found to be equal to or better than most others obtained by using existing methods of extrapolation. The missing species extrapolation technique was also applied to a 21-ha riparian forest patch in the Mountain Pine Ridge, Belize, where it was used to obtain an estimate of the number of tree species 10 cm dbh in the entire patch.
3068630|Remnant trees in fields may facilitate regeneration in fallows by attracting seed dispersers and creating favourable sites for plant establishment. Ntumu shifting cultivators in Cameroon clearing rain forest spare some trees to provide shade for crops. This study examines their effects on regeneration by comparing vegetation in quadrats beneath and away from their crowns, in fallows of varying age (3-20 y). For fallows of all age classes, plant diversity was not significantly different between positions. Trees accounted for larger proportions of species and stems beneath remnant trees. Herbs, principally large monocots, accounted for larger proportions away from trees. Basal area was much higher in quadrats beneath trees. In all quadrats, the majority of individuals belonged to species with animal-dispersed seeds. These accounted for a larger proportion of individuals beneath trees (75%) than away (64%). Wind-dispersed species accounted for a larger proportion of stems away from trees (23.6%) than beneath (11.7%). These data suggest that enhanced seed rain by attraction of perching animals, demonstrated in a companion study, influenced regeneration patterns. Effects on regeneration were similar beneath trees of an animal-dispersed (Pycnanthus angolensis, Myristicaceae) and a wind-dispersed (Triplochiton scleroxylon, Sterculiaceae) species. Remnant trees in fallows may facilitate succession by nucleation, resulting in more rapid restoration of forest and conservation of nutrients in plant biomass.
25172892|We irrigated and fertilized (with nutrients) seedlings of Doliocarpus olivaceus (Dilleniaceae, a shade-tolerant liana). Faramea occidentalis (Rubiaceae, a shade-tolerant understorey tree) and Tetragastris panamensis (Burseraceae, a shade-tolerant canopy tree) growing in the understorey of an old-growth tropical moist forest in Panama to assess the impact of seasonal water availability and nutrient-poor soils on seedling growth rates. In control plots, height growth rates were greater in the dry season than in the wet season for Doliocarpus (21%) and for Faramea (89%), whereas Tetragastris had similar seasonal rates. For numbers of leaves, Faramea had 3.5-fold greater relative growth rates in the dry season than in the wet season, while Doliocarpus and Tetragastris lost leaves (semi-deciduous) during the same period. Irrigation and nutrient augmentation increased height growth rates for all three species (45% to 272%). For Doliocarpus, irrigation and nutrient augmentation prevented leaf fall during the dry season. For Faramea in the dry season, irrigation and nutrient augmentation when applied independently reduced the growth of new leaves by 65% to 87%, but relative growth rates for number of leaves were the same as the control rates in the combined irrigation and nutrient augmentation treatment. The growth of new leaves for Tetragastris responded to dry-season irrigation but not nutrient augmentation. Although all measurements occurred beneath the forest canopy, during the dry season, Tetragastris had a negative relationship between canopy openness and relative growth rate for number of leaves, whereas the other two species had a positive relationship. Our results show that soil resources influence growth rates even in the deep shade of the forest understorey, and demonstrate different responses to soil resources among species that might contribute to niche differentiation and species coexistence.
2560031|The last population of giraffes in west Africa lives in Niger in an unprotected Sahelian region inhabited by farmers and herders. The spatial behaviour of each individual of the population (n = 63) was studied by direct observation during 15 mo. Two-thirds of the population were resident in the tiger bush in the rainy season and in the nearby area of Harikanassou, a sandy agricultural region, in the dry season. Rainy season and dry season home ranges were mutually exclusive and individual home ranges were overlapping when considering one season (rainy season: 84%; dry season: 67%). The mean size of the seasonal home ranges of these resident giraffes during the dry season (90.7 km<sup>2</sup>) was twice the mean size during the rainy season (46.6 km<sup>2</sup>). A third of the population moved 80 to 200 km in three directions, and two giraffes from an isolated group from Mali moved 300 km along the Niger River. Long distance movements of such length have never been reported before, and several explanations are proposed: previous distribution, social transmission, hydrographic network and food availability, poaching events. The giraffes in Niger do not avoid rural communities; indeed, they live in densely populated regions. Furthermore, their movements, synchronized with human activities in these regions, are representative of life conditions in the Sahel.
4091980| Patterns of leaf phenological diversity were documented in nine key tree species of a tropical deciduous forest in the Vindhyan region of India. Monthly leaf counts on 160 tagged twigs on ten individuals of each species were made through two annual cycles. Tree species exhibited a gradient of deciduousness (~ leafless duration), ranging from semi-evergreen species (entire population never becoming leafless) to 7-mo-deciduous species. The semi-evergreen species initiated leaf flush (bud break of vegetative bud) earlier around the spring equinox. In all deciduous tree species synchronous leaf-flush initiation, with low inter-annual variability, occurred during the hot dry summer (May-June, day temperature > 40  C), prior to the onset of the rainy season. Based on the quantification of leafless period, leaf-flush duration, and leaf strategy index (leaf-flush rate/leaf-fall rate, proposed in this study) in different species, four plant functional types were recognized: (a) semi-evergreen, spring flushing, showing leaf exchange, with mean leafless period 8 d, leaf-flush duration 6-7 mo and leaf strategy index < 0.5 (Shorea robusta); (b) < 2-mo-deciduous, summer flushing, leafless period 3-8 wk, leaf-flush duration 5-6 mo, and leaf strategy index > 0.5 - < 0.7 (Anogeissus latifolia, Diospyros melanoxylon and Hardwickia binata); (c) 2-4-mo-deciduous, summer flushing, leafless period 2-3 mo, leaf-flush duration 4-5 mo, and leaf strategy index > 0.8 - < 1.0 (Acacia catechu, Lagerstroemia parviflora and Terminalia tomentosa); and (d) > 4-mo-deciduous, summer flushing, leafless period > 4-7 mo, leaf-flush duration 3-4 mo, and leaf strategy index 1.0 (Boswellia serrata and Lannea coromandelica). Conspecific trees showed asynchrony with respect to leaf-flush completion, initiation and completion of leaf-fall, and extent of leafless period. Leaf strategy index (indicating rate of resource use and conservation) was strongly related with the leafless period in different species (r = 0.82) and can serve as a useful index in leaf phenological studies and classification of plant functional types. 
4499083|Few studies have been conducted to investigate ecological roles of litter amphibians in forest ecosystems. In this study, ten field enclosures (3 m x 2 m x 0.4 m) were used to evaluate effects of the toad Bufo bankorensis on the abundance of litter invertebrates (microbivores, fragmenters and predatory arthropods) and litter decomposition rates in a subtropical forest of southern Taiwan. Litterbags collected from toad and control (toad-excluded) enclosures were analysed for the communities and abundances of litter invertebrates and decay loss during this decomposition study from September to December 2001. The presence of B. bankorensis significantly changed phosphorus concentrations in the litter, but not the densities of litter invertebrates (microbivores, fragmenters and predatory arthropods) or rates of litter decomposition. These results were not consistent with previous studies, which have shown that Plethodon cenereus in a temperate forest of north-east USA and Eleutherodactylus coqui in a tropical rain forest of Puerto Rico significantly changed decomposition rates. We suggest that ecological roles of ground-dwelling amphibians may be species-specific and vary with different terrestrial ecosystems.
27751670|Defoliation, often caused by herbivory, is a common cause of biomass loss for plants that can affect current and future growth and reproduction. There are three models that predict contrasting compensatory growth responses of plants to herbivory and resource availability: (1) Growth rate model, (2) Compensatory continuum hypothesis and (3) Limiting resource model. The predictions of these three models were tested on the tree Brosimum alicastrum and the liana Vitis tiliifolia. Seedlings were subjected to three levels of experimental defoliation (0%, 50% and 90% leaf removal) along a light resource gradient (1%, 9% and 65% of full sun). In both species, defoliation significantly increased leaf production rate and relative growth rate of leaf area, but not of biomass. Net assimilation rate was the strongest driver of biomass growth in both species, but leaf area ratio and specific leaf area were also important in B. alicastrum. Compensatory responses of leaf area growth in B. alicastrum were significantly greater in higher than lower light availability, consistent with the compensatory continuum hypothesis predictions, but in contrast to the growth rate model predictions. The limiting resource model offered an explanation for all possible experimental outcomes by directly considering the effects of environmental differences in resource availability. /// La defoliacin ocasionada por herbivora causa prdida de biomasa que puede afectar el crecimiento y la reproduccin en plantas. Tres modelos que predicen respuestas contrastantes del crecimiento compensatorio de plantas a la herbivora y a la disponibilidad de recursos son: (1) Modelo de la tasa de crecimiento, (2) Hiptesis de la compensacin continua, y (3) Modelo del recurso limitante. Se examinaron las predicciones a estos tres modelos en la especie arbrea Brosimum alicastrum y en la liana Vitis tiliifolia. Las plntulas se sometieron a tres niveles de defoliacin experimental (0, 50 y 90% de defoliacin total) a lo largo de un gradiente de luz (1, 9 y 65% de luz total). En ambas especies, la defoliacin afect de manera positiva y significativa la tasa de produccin foliar y la tasa relativa de crecimiento en rea foliar, pero no afect la biomasa. La tasa de asimilacin neta fu el parmetro que mejor explic las diferencias en la tasa relativa de crecimiento en biomasa en ambas especies, pero en B. alicastrum la relacin foliar y el rea especfica foliar tambin fueron factores importantes. Las respuestas compensatorias de B. alicastrum en la tasa de produccin foliar fueron significativamente mayores en alta disponibilidad de luz comparadas con baja disponibilidad de luz, consistente con la hiptesis de la compensacin continua pero contrario a las predicciones esperadas por el modelo de la tasa de crecimiento. El modelo del recurso limitante ofrece la mejor explicacin para todos los posibles resultados experimentales, ya que considera directamente los efectos de diferencias ambientales en la disponibilidad de recursos.
4091903|The optimal defence hypothesis predicts that plant parts characterized by a high value and/or a high risk of being attacked should exhibit the highest level of defence. We tested this hypothesis with Macaranga bancana ant-plants, which are protected efficiently by resident, mutualistic ants from herbivores, parasites and encroaching vegetation. Because cost-effective defence of the host by ants increases ant fitness, selection should act on ant behaviour to produce patterns of distribution of defence as predicted for direct chemical defence traits. Termites and pieces of tape were equally distributed over the uppermost ten leaves and over the leaf-bearing part of the stems (with termites mimicking a transient herbivore, while tape mimics a long-term stress caused by a climber or plant parasite). This arrangement allowed a separation of putative coevolutionary adaptations in the ants' behaviour from other potential sources of spatial patterns in ant defence, such as differences in herbivore pressure, in the vulnerability of different herbivores, or in direct plant defences. Ant activity dropped rapidly at termite baits, but remained high at tapes for at least 5 h, thereby demonstrating adaptive differential responses to the differences between the two stressors. Most importantly, ants preferentially defended young leaves and shoot parts. The temporal and spatial patterns of ant attention to exogenous stressors thus were clearly adaptive, varying with likely costs and benefits of defence as formulated in the optimal defence theory.
40665233|To prevent seed losses from prdation, plants have developed protective strategies. Seeds may utilize chemical or structural defences to deter predators.Mucuna holtonii (Fabaceae) has large seeds containing a toxic amino acid, L-dopa, and covered with a hard seed coat. Our study assessed the effectiveness of chemical and mechanical seed defences against vertebrate and invertebrate seed predators within Estacin Biolgica La Selva, Costa Rica. Pre-dispersal insect and fungus attack of M. holtonii seeds was low (95.7% of 1493 seeds were undamaged). Camera traps monitoring 90 marked M. holtonii seeds showed that the collared peccary (Pecari tajacu) consumed 98.6% of 69 removed seeds over 16 d. Field experiments involving 100 seeds with intact and 100 with opened seed coats found that only opened seeds had endosperm removed by Sericomyrmex amabilis ants (0.5-100% of endosperm removed). Shade-house experiments showed that seeds with high amounts of endosperm removed by ants resulted in low germination success and low seedling biomass production. Although M. holtonii seeds are rich in L-dopa, this compound is not an effective chemical defence against mammals that possess foregut fermentation. The seed coat of M. holtonii is an effective structural defence against invertebrate seed predators, preventing endosperm removal and enhancing seedling survival.
25172898|Although levels of parasitism can vary greatly among individual bats of the same species, little is known about the characteristics of hosts that affect such variation. Bats were captured via mist nets from June 1995 to July 1997 from 28 localities throughout Paraguay. Over 17 500 ectoparasites were collected from 2909 bats; however, analyses of ectoparasite abundance were restricted to more abundant taxa of host and ectoparasite. We quantified the abundances of 29 taxa of ectoparasite on 19 species of bat host, as well as total abundance of ectoparasites regardless of taxonomic affiliation for 22 species of bat from Paraguay. The effects of host sex and host body size on these estimates of ectoparasite abundance were evaluated separately for each species of host. Ectoparasites did not respond consistently to host body size: ectoparasite abundance increased with host body size in 12 instances and decreased with host body size in 11 instances. Regardless of the existence or direction of effects of host body size on ectoparasite abundance, female hosts generally harboured more ectoparasites than did male hosts. Differences in host quality associated with the sex of bats, especially those related to behaviour, may be a more important determinant of ectoparasite abundance than are differences in size. Opportunities for host transfer are critical for species persistence of ectoparasites: consequently, ectoparasite populations on host individuals that form social groups or colonies should be larger, less prone to stochastic extinction, and have greater opportunity for speciation.
2559295|Orchid diversity, distribution and host specificity were examined in a tropical watershed in the Luquillo Experimental Forest of Puerto Rico. Eleven orchid species occur in the area. The low diversity is attributed to island isolation and large-scale hurricane disturbances. Pleurothallis ruscifolia and Maxillaria coccinea were by far the most abundant species in the area and occurred on the largest number of host species and host zones. None of the orchids were host specific or host zone specialists although preferences for hosts and vertical host zones were encountered. Only 8.2% of the 426 trees and shrubs and 24.4% of the 45 species surveyed were orchid phorophytes (= hosts). Examination of host distribution by diameter at breast height (DBH) showed that 80.5% were greater than 16 cm DBH. Orchid species in the area tend to occur on rough bark hosts, but their preferences are not statistically significant. Guarea guidonia (Meliaceae) and Dacryodes excelsa (Burseraceae) are the two most important orchid hosts in our study site comprising 62.9% of all host trees. Careful management of these two tree species is suggested, since these species may be crucial to the maintenance of orchid abundance and diversity in the area.
3068817|Above- and below-ground morphology of seedlings (up to 98 cm in height) were compared by allometric analyses in tropical heath forest and peat-swamp forest in Central Kalimantan. Thirteen abundant species were selected, including two species found in both forests. In above-ground morphology, heath forest seedlings invested more in leaf mass, while peat-swamp forest seedlings invested more in stem mass, stem height, crown area and leaf area. In below-ground morphology, heath forest seedlings invested more in root mass and depth, while peat-swamp forest seedlings invested more in lateral development of the root system. Both specific leaf area and area per leaf of heath forest seedlings were lower than those of peat-swamp forest seedlings. This differentiation in seedling morphology between forest types was evident as a plastic response in the two shared species. Heath forest seedlings on coarse-textured bleached sand with low water retention suffer occasional drought whereas peat-swamp forest seedlings on waterlogged peat rarely experience drought. We concluded that seasonal water limitation brought about the convergence in seedling morphology within heath forest because average understorey irradiances and soil nutrient concentration were assumed to be similarly low in both forests.
4092179|Although the potential contribution to tropical tree species coexistence of niche differentiation along light gradients has received much attention, the degree to which species perform differentially along soil resource gradients remains unclear. To examine differential growth response to soil resources, we grew seedlings of nine tropical tree species at 6.0% of full sun for 12 mo in a factorial design of two soil types (clay and white sand), two phosphate fertilization treatments (control and addition of 100 mg P kg
4092112|Allomerus octoarticulatus is a plant-ant that colonizes domatia of the understorey tree Hirtella myrmecophila in the Central Amazon and forages for invertebrates, including leaf herbivores, on the host plant. We conducted manipulative experiments to study the ant's recruitment response to damaged leaves and leaf extracts of the host and to extracts of Protium hebetatum, a non-myrmecophytic sympatric tree species. Artificial damage to leaves of H. myrmecophila caused an increase in the number of recruits to the leaf. Ant response was stronger in young than in mature leaves. Recruitment was restricted to damaged leaves. No increment in recruitment rates was observed in undamaged, adjacent leaves. Different levels of leaf damage did not elicit differences in recruitment rates. Aqueous extract of leaves, placed on undamaged leaves of the host plant, also led to increased recruitment compared with water (control), and more ants were recruited to extracts from young than from mature and old leaves. Extracts of both H. myrmecophila and Protium hebetatum induced recruitment. We discuss the evolutionary importance of plant leaf components for maintenance of the ant-plant mutualism.
27751675|Leaf blade physical and chemical characteristics, wood composition and anatomy, as well as long-term water-use efficiency and hydraulic characteristics of leaf-bearing terminal branches were assessed in tree species growing in contrasting forests of the Venezuelan Amazonas: mixed forest on oxisol soil and caatinga on podzol soil. Two upper-canopy tree species were selected in each forest, and three individuals per species were tagged for sampling. Leaf nitrogen isotopic signatures (15N) were negative and species-specific, which suggests that in species of both forest the N-cycle is closed, and that tree species can withdraw N from a variety of N-pools. Leaf construction costs, dry mass to leaf area ratio, thickness and sclerophylly index tended to increase in microhabitats with lower fertility and large water table fluctuations. The hydraulic characteristics and long-term water use are species-specific and related to the particular conditions of the habitat at the local scale. Ocotea aciphylla (mixed forest) with a combination of low 13C and high hydraulic sufficiency may maintain high water loss without risk of xylem embolisms. By contrast, Micranda sprucei (slopes of the caatinga forest), had a combination of relatively high hydraulic sufficiency and the highest long-term water-use efficiency, which suggest that embolism risk would be avoided by water loss restriction. Assuming a warmer and drier climate in the future, the species with more conservative water transport and/or better stomatal control would be at lower risk of mortality.
4091918|We tested whether species endemic to Sri Lanka were less able than non-endemics to tolerate disturbed habitats. Small mammals were surveyed in four habitat types along a disturbance gradient (unlogged forest, selectively logged forest, cultivated areas and areas abandoned after cultivation) within and around the Sinharaja rain forest in south-west Sri Lanka. Twenty 90-m x 40-m plots were live trapped in each of these habitat types. Twelve taxa: nine rodents (Srilankamys ohiensis, Rattus rattus kelaarti, R. r. kandianus, Mus mayori, M. cervicolor, Bandicota indica, Funambulus layardi, F. sublineatus and F. palmarum) and three insectivores (Crocidura miya, Suncus zeylanicus and Feroculus feroculus) were recorded. Of these, five were endemic to Sri Lanka at the species level (species confined to the island) and six at subspecies level (subspecies confined to the island; other subspecies occurring on the Indian subcontinent). Species richness of small mammals decreased with the magnitude of forest disturbance. The endemic species selectively utilized sites within the forest whilst the majority of the other taxa used both forest and non-forest habitat types or were restricted to the latter. Bird surveys were carried out in the same plots, using sightings and calls. Sixty-six bird species were recorded, of which 21 were endemic species. Twenty endemic bird species preferentially used sites within the forest. The findings suggest that the forest-dwelling endemic species of both small mammal and bird encounter difficulties in tolerating modified landscapes, whilst other taxa are less affected. This highlights the vulnerability of endemic species to forest conversion.
2559989|The soil of remnant primary rainforest on granite in Singapore is very acidic (pH mostly 3.5-4.2 at 0-10 cm) and has unusually low total concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus, but the mean concentrations of N and P in the living leaves and freshly fallen leaves of the more shade-tolerant species are within the ranges found for other lowland forests on infertile oxisols and ultisols. The concentration of Ca in freshly fallen leaves is very low. The soil under secondary forest (belukar) on sandstone dominated by Adinandra dumosa (Theaceae) was degraded during use for agriculture. It has the same pH range but even lower values of total N and P. The mean concentrations of N, P, K, Ca and Mg in the living leaves are slightly higher than in leaves of the more shade-tolerant trees of primary forest, but lower than in the leaves of the species which require canopy gaps for establishment or early onward growth. The few species sampled in both primary forest and belukar show no consistent trend in foliar concentrations. The degraded soil has selected species with inherently lower foliar concentrations.
4092049|In tropical West Africa, distribution patterns of forest islands in savannas are influenced by fires which occur regularly in the grass stratum. Along continuous forest-savanna transects in the
4091948| Epiphytes are one of the most ubiquitous elements of tropical forest canopies, including seasonally dry tropical forests. Given the temporal variation in weather conditions in the latter, epiphyte populations may be subject to wide temporal variation in seedling recruitment, reproductive success, vegetative propagation and mortality rate. In this study, we use a 3-y demographic data set for Tillandsia brachycaulos to project its long-term population dynamics through the use of average and periodic matrices, as well as stochastic simulations. The results show that demographic behaviour varied over the 3 years of study, apparently in relation to rainfall. The first 2 years yielded a low  value (0.79 and 0.80 - although only the former was significantly lower than unity), while the third year resulted in a  = 1.08 (not significantly different from 1.0). When incorporating this demographic variation in an average matrix, a periodic matrix and stochastic simulations, the resulting overall  was below unity in all three cases. The projections of the stochastic simulations suggest that the population would be able to persist in the long run only if the frequency of 'good' years (defined here as those with an August rainfall above 200 mm) was above 0.6, which appears unlikely given that global warming might result in a lower frequency of rainy years in tropical dry forests. 
2559196|A possible mutualistic dispersal system between a large-seeded tree of French Guiana, Vouacapoua americana (Caesalpiniaceae), and caviomorph rodents, Myoprocta exilis and Dasyprocta leporina, is described. Mast fruiting of Vouacapoua at the beginning of the wet season coincides with scatter-hoarding seed dispersal. During the wet season, almost 100% of marked seeds on three sites were removed: nearly 70% were buried and the rest were eaten by mammals. Unburied seeds were attacked by insects and/or lost their ability to germinate. Rodents preferred ungerminated seeds, and had no interest in germinated seeds. Seeds were buried individually near natural objects such as palms, branches, logs, lianas, roots and trees. After predation by rodents, seedling distribution did not differ from seed distribution. Most seeds were transported less than 5 m from the feeding plots but some were carried as far as 22.4 m. Between 40 and 85% of dispersed seeds were retrieved during the following month by rodents and eaten. The disinterest of caviomorph rodents in germinated seeds, because of rapid exhaustion of endosperm reserves, prevents feeding from hoarded Vouacapoua during the long dry season when resources are scarce. Seedlings emerging from forgotten or abandoned cached seeds appear to increase the recruitment of Vouacapoua americana.
2560004|The effect of the change in vegetation structure from closed rain forest to tall open forest on the small mammal assemblage was studied by live trapping at three sites where the ecotone was very narrow (<20 m) near the southern end of the Wet Tropics World Heritage Area of Australia. Habitat heterogeneity was significantly higher in the mixed open forest/ecotone area than in the adjacent rain forest. There was a large change in the structure of the small mammal assemblage coincident with the vegetation discontinuity. Although the species richness of small mammals was relatively constant across the gradient, the evenness and diversity of the assemblage declined across the transition from open forest into rain forest and biomass increased, largely due to the high abundance of Rattus fuscipes in the rain forest. The results suggest that the species richness of the small mammal assemblage was not determined by the spatial heterogeneity of the vegetation structure. The species composition of the rain forest is probably related to the historical biogeography of the area whereas the species richness of the wet sclerophyll forest is probably due to a mass-area effect from the adjacent large areas of rain forest and dry sclerophyll forest. However, the evenness, and therefore the diversity of the assemblage, was strongly affected by habitat heterogeneity.
40665274|Nepenthes madagascariensis is a carnivorous plant which captures its prey in pitcher-like leaves. It is endemic to Madagascar where it occurs along the eastern coast. Altogether 94.3% of its prey animals belong to three taxa: Formicidae (80.2%), Diptera (9.7%) and Coleoptera (4.4%). The prey compositions of the dimorphic lower and upper pitcher types differ significantly, especially in the markedly higher proportion of ants in lower pitchers and the higher number of flying insects in upper pitchers. A comparison concerning the trap frequency of taxa with literature data from Asian Nepenthes species showed that the upper pitchers of N. madagascariensis contained much higher proportions of Coleoptera, Diptera and Lepidoptera; these differences may partly be due to seasonal reasons. No significant correlation could be established between the numbers of prey items with pitcher size. This paper is the first characterization of the prey composition of the little known N. madagascariensis.
2559882|The diets of 17 lizard species (seven families) studied simultaneously in a Caribbean lowland forest of Nicaragua were compared. Lizards varied in body size over nearly one order of magnitude. Twelve species for which there were adequate samples separated by prey types and most diet overlaps were low. A pseudocommunity analysis on volumetric diet data revealed significant guild structure in the assemblage. At each nearest neighbour rank in niche space, observed overlaps were higher than expected based on chance alone when all values in the consumer-resource matrix were randomized. There was no difference between observed and pseudocommunity overlaps with zero positions in the consumer-resource matrix retained (conserved-zero overlaps) indicating that the zero structure of the community matrix was important in maintaining structure and that lizards were converging on key resources. Individual prey size varied among species and mean prey size was significantly correlated with body size of lizard species. A phylogenetic analysis revealed no relationship between similarity in prey use (dietary overlap) and evolutionary relationships - more closely related species did not eat more similar prey types. Based on this analysis of Nicaraguan lizard diets and comparisons with other New World tropical lizard assemblages, it is suggested that factors contributing to the organization of tropical lizard assemblages are complex including historical differences in morphology (size), prey types and sizes, habitat structure and species interactions.
3068830| The Atlantic forest of Brazil is considered to be a high priority for conservation in South America. Despite its importance, few phenological and ecophysiological data are available for plants of this area. In this study the seasonal changes in the water potentials () and the phenological behaviour of three woody legumes are related to environmental conditions, particularly air vapour pressure deficit (VPD). The values of  at predawn were greater than -0.75 MPa for all species even during the dry season (May-September). The minimal daily value of  was -3.8 MPa. The maximum daily amplitude of  ( parameter) was correlated with the air vapour pressure deficit, showing high correlation coefficients in linear equations. A high recovery rate of  after rain (greater than 0.80) was registered for all species, suggesting a high hydraulic conductivity. The high values of  at predawn during the year and the strong relationship between the daily amplitude of  and VPD suggested that the changes in the canopy cover are related more to atmospheric drought than to soil water deficit. 
4091933|This study investigated the nutritional ecology of forest elephants in Kibale National Park, Uganda relative to crop-raiding behaviour, and examined nutritional differences between crops and food consumed by wild elephants. An index of dietary nutrient concentration was determined by quantifying the species and parts of plants consumed along feeding trails, collecting food items, and analysing foods for energy, fibre, protein, minerals and secondary compounds. Frequency of crop raiding was quantified over 13 mo. Energy and protein concentration was within suggested levels, but concentrations of several minerals, particularly sodium, were low relative to requirements based on captive elephants and values reported for other wild populations. The very low sodium concentrations of Kibale elephant diets and low availability of alternative sodium sources, such as soil or water, suggest that sodium drive is very likely in this population. Crops consumed by Kibale elephants had higher Na concentrations and lower concentrations of fibre and secondary compounds than wild diets. The known attraction of elephants to mineral sources throughout their range and the low mineral concentration of leaves, fruits, bark, and stems consumed by forest elephant in this study suggest that mineral nutrition is likely to be an important factor driving elephant behaviour and patterns of habitat use.
2559941|Leafing, flowering and fruiting of the 24 most representative species of trees and shrubs in Sudanian savannas and fallows near Bondoukuy (Burkina Faso) were studied for 2 y (May 1992 to June 1994). The period of defoliation was generally brief, and leaf flushing, flowering and fruiting occurred mostly in the dry season. The phenological behaviour varied nonetheless across species and individuals. A classification taking into account synchrony/asynchrony and duration in foliation, flowering, fruit ripening and seed dispersal phases allowed comparison of species' phenological plasticity. Species were distributed along a scale of increasing plasticity, from trees to shrubs. Along this scale, species of the Leguminosae appeared to be separated from those of the Combretaceae, the latter being generally considered as characterising fallow farming systems. These results provide new evidence about the effect of phylogenetic constraints on the phenological behaviour of the woody species of the Sudanian savannas.
4091844|Spider monkeys (Ateles geoffroyi) detect sucrose at a threshold lower than any primate yet tested and prefer sucrose to glucose or fructose in laboratory tests. This preferential selection of sucrose led to the hypothesis that such acute discrimination is related to a diet of sucrose-rich fruits. Furthermore, it has been suggested that fruit sugars may be related to distinct guilds of vertebrate seed-dispersers. The objectives of this study were: (1) to test if spider monkeys select sucrose-rich fruits both within and among plant species and (2) to test the hypothesis that sugar concentration is related to bird, bat or monkey seed-dispersal syndromes. Data were collected from one troop of spider monkeys in south-western Costa Rica. Interspecific comparison of ingested fruits shows that spider monkeys consumed species with significantly higher concentrations of glucose and fructose than sucrose. Similarly, at the intraspecific level, food-fruits had significantly more fructose and glucose than non-food fruits, but no difference was found for sucrose. The three different sugar types were not correlated with the importance of the species in the diet based on the amount of time they spent consuming each species. Although sucrose concentrations were significantly higher in primate-dispersed species compared with those dispersed by other vertebrates, soluble carbohydrates in primate-dispersed fruits were principally composed of glucose and fructose. Neither fructose nor glucose concentrations showed significant differences across the three categories of seed dispersal.
4092153|A population of the giant leather fern Acrostichum danaeifolium was observed during an 18-mo period at La Mancha
2559698|The adult Auchenorrhyncha community within the understorey of a montane tropical forest in Vietnam is described. A total of 1132 specimens representing 223 morphospecies and 16 families was found in a 4300-sweep sample. None of the species exceeded the 5% dominance level. More than half the species are represented by single individuals within the 309 m<sup>3</sup> of vegetation. Spatial community pattern is mosaic-like at a scale of hundreds of metres as the similarity of 100-sweep samples does not depend on their spatial distance. Areas 1.5-3 km distant from one another differ markedly in their Auchenorrhyncha communities. These between-site differences exceed the intra-site community heterogeneity. Population density of Auchenorrhyncha species is not correlated with their body size. The Auchenorrhyncha community within a forest markedly differs from the community of an adjacent ruderal area. A transitional zone between these habitats is intermediate in Auchenorrhyncha species composition.
2559607|Litterfall in primary and secondary forests ('capoeira') in eastern Brazilian Amazonia was measured fortnightly from August 1979 to October 1980. The nutrient contents of the litter (N, P, K, Ca and Mg) were determined. Litterfall differed between the two forest types (primary forest -8.04 t ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>; secondary forest -5.04 t ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>). The value obtained for primary forest was similar to those reported elsewhere in Brazil (mean = 8 t ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) and from other regions of S. America (mean = 7.20 t ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>). Prediction of net primary production from litterfall at the primary forest site gave rise to values of 14.47 and 26.53 t ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. Estimates of net primary production in `capoeira' ranged from 9.07 to 16.63 t ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. Seasonality of litterfall was more marked in `capoeira' than primary forest but in both cases was less pronounced than elsewhere in Brazil. Nutrient concentrations were highest in `capoeira' litter, a finding which accords with results from other tropical sites; nevertheless input of nutrients per unit area of forest floor was greatest in the primary forest.
4499101|Resolving the carbon (C) balance in the Amazonian forest depends on an improved quantification of production and losses of particulate C from forested landscapes via stream export. The main goal of this work was to quantify litterfall, the lateral movement of litter, and the export of coarse organic particulate matter (>2 mm) in four small watersheds (1-2 ha) under native forest in southern Amazonia near Juruena, Mato Grosso, Brazil (
2559543|A floristic and ecological study of epiphytic bryophytes and lichens on standing mature Eperua trees was carried out in dry evergreen (walaba) forest in Guyana, South America. The trees were sampled from their base up to the highest canopy twigs, using mountaineering techniques. Clear vertical distribution patterns of epiphytic species and life-forms were found. Many species, particularly foliose lichens, appear to be preferential or exclusive to either Eperua grandiflora or E. falcata (Leguminosae), which are the dominant trees in the walaba forest. Special attention is given to the species-rich epiphyte vegetation on the upper canopy twigs, which include two categories of species: the sun epiphytes and the pioneers (facultative epiphylls).
4091840|The aims of this study were to investigate the roosting ecology and social organization of the spotted-winged fruit bat, Balionycteris maculata (Megachiroptera), within an old-growth Malaysian dipterocarp forest, and test the hypothesis that males spend a significantly greater proportion of the night in the immediate vicinity of their day roosts than females. Balionycteris maculata roosted in cavities and formed small harem groups that consisted of one adult male accompanied by up to nine adult females and their dependent young. Both male and female bats foraged locally, within approximately 1 km of their roost sites. However, in contrast to females, which remained away from the roost site throughout the night, both harem and solitary adult males divided their nightly activity between foraging and returning to their roost sites. Individual females were also found roosting sequentially with up to three different males. Hence, these results suggest that B. maculata has a resource-defence polygynous mating system, in which the roost cavity may represent a critical and defendable resource by which males recruit and gain improved reproductive access to females. Roost cavities occupied by B. maculata were found within a number of different forest structures, including ant nests, termite nests and the root masses of epiphytes. The consistent shape and position of the cavities, along with a single observation of cavity enlargement, provide the first evidence of roost-cavity excavation, by a megachiropteran bat, within the nests of social insects. Although the cues by which females select their roost sites are unclear, some aspect of roost cavity size, or condition, may provide a possible means by which females can assess the reproductive fitness of potential mates.
2559768|A study of the benthic leaf litter community of the Tarumazinho, a central Amazonian stream (03<sup></sup> S, 60<sup></sup> W) is presented. This small tributary of the Rio Negro is of the blackwater type with a very low nutrient content. The sampling stations were towards the mouth of the tributary where it flowed through annually inundated forest and the work was carried out during the low water season. Previous studies concluded that these acid waters were of very low productivity and held impoverished faunas. However, this study showed that leaf litter banks held a diverse aquatic community of unexpectedly high biomass. This was because the banks supplied food and shelter and were available during the low water period when other habitats had dried out. The macrofauna was dominated by fish and shrimps. From an examination of gut contents a food web was produced. Primary consumers were found to take mainly detritus and fungi and it was concluded that allochthonous inputs were the main source of energy and nutrients. No feeding specialists were found and all the predators took prey from more than one trophic level.
2559240|Estimates were made of rodent longevity, population biomass and production in a dry sub-humid grassland area in Kenya. The results were based on a live-trapping study made over a 27-month period. During this time fourteen species of rodents and four species of insectivores were recorded from the area of the trapping grid. The most numerous species were Praomys natalensis, Mus triton, Mus minutoides and Lemniscomys striatus. Breeding took place in both wet seasons, coinciding with peaks in rodent populations. Densities ranged from 6.6 ha<sup>-1</sup> to 52.4 ha<sup>-1</sup>, and estimates of net annual production varied from 5485 g ha<sup>-1</sup> year<sup>-1</sup> to 7221 g ha<sup>-1</sup> year<sup>-1</sup>. Rodent populations appear to turn over every six to nine months. The results are discussed in relation to studies in other tropical grassland areas of Africa.
25790842|Concurrent nutrient and radiation limitation in forests may engender trade-offs between P-use and radiation-use efficiency in tree species. To quantify these trade-offs, structural and physiological traits were examined among five rain-forest species subjected to four levels of fertilization and two levels of radiation in a glasshouse experiment. Schist specialists, Cryptocarya lividula and Ceratopetalum virchowii, occur only on P-poor schist soils, whereas soil generalists, Cryptocarya mackinnoniana, Franciscodendron laurifolium and Myristica insipida, occur on both P-poor schist and P-rich basalt soils. Wild seedlings less than 20 cm tall and 1 y old were collected from field sites, treated with fungicide, sorted into treatments (48 plants per species), and grown for 11 mo. We hypothesized that soil specialists would possess mainly non-plastic traits conferring high P-use efficiency, whereas soil generalists would possess markedly plastic traits conferring high radiation capture and use, enabling them to outcompete specialists on P-rich soils. Only generalist C. mackinnoniana and specialist C. virchowii supported these hypotheses. Cryptocarya mackinnoniana had more plastic root mass fraction, leaf area ratio, P uptake, and higher C assimilation than C. virchowii, which resulted in greater relative growth rates in high P treatments, but lower P-use efficiency in low P treatments. In contrast, specialist C. lividula demonstrated similar trait plasticity as C. mackinnoniana, suggesting that plasticity in these traits may be poor indicators of fitness on P-poor soils.
2559527|Data on litterfall, litter layers accumulated on top of the mineral soil and layer mineralization collected for three years in a tropical rain forest at Pernambuco, Brazil, were implemented on a simulation model. Litterfall was collected biweekly using 11 collectors 1 x 1 m. Every three months, 20 litter mat samples, 0 5 x 0 5 m, were collected, divided into the L, F and H layers and the CO<sub>2</sub> evolution from each litter layer was determined in the laboratory Litterfall, in the three years, averaged 7 8, 8 3 and 8.2 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>, most of it leaves Litter mat masses varied widely from place to place (15-90 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup>) and the overall averages were 5 6, 7.6 and 26.1 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> for the L, F and H layers, with CO<sub>2</sub> evolution averages of 2.27, 0.507 and 0 123 mgC g litter C<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> According to the model, the L layer had a high turnover rate, losing 4.7 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> through mineralization and 3.4 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> transferred to the F layer Values for the F and H layers were 1 4 and 1 2 mineralized and 2 0 and 0.8 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> transferred. Thus, it would take 2 1, 6 7 and 39 years for newly fallen leaves to be mostly fragments, to be transformed to humus and to be incorporated to the soil organic matter, respectively. Variations of litterfall throughout the three years would have little effect on the system which was not very sensitive to litterfall changes, except for the top layer
23012365|Plant functional types across environmental gradients can be considered as a powerful proxy that reveals vegetationenvironment relationships. The objectives of this study were to investigate the response in the relative abundance of plant functional types along altitudinal gradients and to examine the relationship of plant functional types to environmental variables. The study was conducted in the Gughe-Amaro Mountains, in the south-west Ethiopian highlands. We established 74 plots with an area of 400 m 2 (20  20 m) each along altitudinal ranges between 1000 and 3000 m asl. Data on site environmental conditions and on the abundance of plant functional types were analysed using the constrained linear ordination technique (RDA) in order to identify the relationships between plant functional types and environmental variables. Altitude, soil organic carbon, soil sand fraction and surface stone cover were significantly related to the relative abundance of plant functional types across the gradient. Tussocks and thorns/spines were abundant in lower altitudinal ranges in response to herbivory and drought while rhizomes and rosettes were abundant at higher altitudes in response to the cold. Generally our results show that topographic attributes (altitude and slope) as well as soil organic carbon play an important role in differentiating the relative abundance of plant functional types in the investigated gradient. Thus, considering specific plant functional types would provide a better understanding of the ecological patterns of vegetation and their response to environmental gradients in tropical regions of Africa prone to drought.
4499080|Sapling mortality exceeds recruitment for many species of trees in the dry forest of 16-y-old islets in Lago Guri, Venezuela. Failure of sapling recruitment is potentially attributable to the aberrant animal communities of these islands. Predators of vertebrates are absent and densities of pollinators and seed dispersers are substantially reduced in comparison to the nearby mainland. In contrast, predators of invertebrates, rodents and generalist herbivores (leaf-cutter ants, howler monkeys, common iguanas) are present at greatly elevated densities. Given these distortions in the animal community, recruitment failure of saplings could potentially be attributable to several causes: reduced pollination or seed dispersal, excessive seed predation or seedling herbivory. Two of these hypotheses are tested herein. The seed predation hypothesis predicts greater seed removal in the presence of hyperabundant rodents, and the seedling herbivory hypothesis predicts reduced seedling survival in the presence of hyperabundant herbivores. Seed removal trials were conducted with 18 species of forest trees, using both exposed and lightly buried seeds. Seed removal was not generally higher on islands supporting hyperabundant rodents, contrary to the seed predation hypothesis. Seedlings exposed to herbivores for 4 mo suffered the highest mortality on small islands supporting hyperabundant rodents and leaf-cutter ants. Saplings survived equally well in cages open to arthropods + rodents as in cages open only to arthropods, suggesting that there was no additive effect of rodents on seedling mortality. Current evidence points to excessive seedling herbivory by arthropods, especially by leaf-cutter ants, as the principal cause of recruitment failure on predator-free Lago Guri islets.
2559470|In 14 forest plots (36 m<sup>2</sup>) all terrestrial plant species were recorded before slashing and burning of the vegetation. During subsequent cultivation with rainfed rice all resprouting plants were registered in permanent plots (72 m<sup>2</sup>). The fields studied (one per forest) covered all combinations of forest type and soil usually cultivated on local farms. Forest plots (total 409 species) and field plots (358 species) had 226 species in common. Most resprouting plants were woody. Though nine forests in the sample were secondary, 70% of resprouting plants belonged to primary forest species and with three exceptions, these species did not regenerate by seed. Experiments in one field inlcuded: different intensities of initial burning, weeding (none, once, twice) and length of the rice cultivation period (1, 2, 3 y). Resprouting plants were monitored in permanent plots (108 m<sup>2</sup>) during 3 y of cultivation and 2 y of fallow. More plants resprouted after a mild initial burning (5.8 plants m<sup>-2</sup>) than after a burn of normal intensity (1.4 plants m<sup>-2</sup>). Weeding and prolonged cultivation strongly reduced species diversity but plant densities were less affected because some climbers and trees were apparently stimulated and expanded. Fields abandoned after one rice harvest had, within six months, a closed forest canopy of pioneer trees emerging from the pre-existing seed bank and from the growth of resprouting trees. Prolonged cultivation (3 y) destroyed the pre-existing seed bank but affected sprouting plants less, these being the only component in the vegetation able to shade out weeds and forbs such as Chromolaena odorata.
2559695|A study of small rodents was conducted in a small lake-shore forest (Lunyo) in southern Uganda between April 1970 and December 1972. Using capture-recapture methods, data on population changes and breeding of six murid species were obtained. At the beginning of the study, populations of Lophuromys flavopunctatus and Praomys jacksoni were higher during the mid-annual dry season (June-September), but later fluctuated with rainfall. Breeding coincided with rainfall in all species but in Praomys jacksoni and Oenomys hypoxanthus breeding occurred in both wet and dry months. The growth rate of laboratory reared Praomys jacksoni and Lemniscomys striatus was comparable to that in the forest within the 20-60 g weight ranges. The growth rate of Lophuromys flavopunctatus in the laboratory was lower than in the forest. Nonsignificant differences in growth rates were observed between individuals of different litters of the same species. Except in L. striatus, testicular descent in males occurred at an earlier age than vaginal opening in females. The average litter size ranged from a high of 4.5 for L. striatus to a low of 2.7 for O. hypoxanthus.
2560315|Patterns of fruit production were monitored over a 1-year period, from June 1990-May 1991, by counting the numbers of freshly fallen ripe and unripe fruits on five 5-km line transects located within 35 km of one another, in lowland tropical rainforest in the Lope Reserve, central Gabon. A total of 195 species of fruit were found, representing at least 45 taxonomic families. The majority of fruits came from trees. Fruits were assigned to one of six categories which reflected their dispersal syndrome: succulent, arillate, dehiscent, fleshy pods, wind-dispersed, others. About three-quarters of all species had fruits characteristic of those dispersed by animals. There was a marked seasonal pattern to fruit production, with both the diversity and number of ripe fruits available peaking in January, and lowest immediately before and during the major dry season. The only climatic variable that showed a significant statistical correlation with fruit production was insolation. Candidates for the role of keystone fruit species were identified from species which fruited during the major dry season, and patterns of fruit production compared with other areas.
2559242|Artibeus watsoni (Chiroptera: Phyllostomidae) was found in Costa Rica to alter the shape of 11 species of broad-leafed plants in the families Araceae, Cyclanthaceae, Marantaceae, Musaceae, and Palmae to form diurnal roost sites. The plant most commonly used for tent construction was Anthurium ravenii (Araceae). Bats create a tent on A. ravenii by severing the basal 2 to 5 lateral nerves at a distance of 5 to 10 mm from the midrib; the entire margin of the leaf then collapses downward to form a pyramid-shaped tent. The number of altered leaves per plant ranges from 1 to 4 with a mean of 2.1. A. watsoni appears to be selecting leaves of medium size and low within the plant. The size, shape, and location of leaves selected is consistent with the hypothesis that tent construction provides bats with roost sites that will be available to them for a long period of time and provides protection from both predators and the elements, thus conveying a selective advantage to the bats.
2559216|Abundance and distribution of frogs inhabiting the litter layer of an area of primary lowland rain forest in Central Amazonia were studied over a period of 15 months by sampling 498 plots each 5 m x 5 m. The litter frog fauna of the area consists of 23 species, but only 12 of these were encountered in the plots, and 84% of the frogs encountered belonged to only six species. Total abundance and diversity within the plot data are strongly seasonal and peak in the late wet season. Both are positively correlated with litter volume and moisture. Most of this variation is due to seasonality of reproduction, as indicated by patterns of occurrence of juveniles of the most abundant species. These results indicate that the plot sampling method does not sample the entire fauna adequately. Since this technique has been used to study other tropical forest litter herpetofaunas, however, comparison with other studies may be useful. Species diversity of litter frogs appears to be approximately the same in lowland primary forest sites studied, averaging around 20 `regular' species. Abundances, however, vary widely. Central American communities contain 14-15 frogs (100 m)<sup>-2</sup>, African 9-10, South American 4-6, and South-east Asian 1-2. These differences may be due to differential nutrient availability in forests of different ages and/or on different soils.
4091885| Tropical forest demography and dynamics were examined in three inventory plots across a precipitation gradient in central Panama. The harsh dry season of 1998 that accompanied the 1997-98 El Nio was spanned by censuses at all three sites. The wet and intermediate plots were similar in total species richness, the dry site somewhat lower in diversity; all three sites differed substantially from each other in species composition. Forest-wide growth of large trees was higher at the wet and intermediate sites than at the dry site, but sapling growth was highest at the dry site and lowest at the intermediate site. Forest-wide growth differences were reflected by individual species, for example, saplings of species at the dry site grew faster than saplings of the same species at the intermediate site. Forest-wide mortality was lowest at the dry site and highest at the wet, and this difference was also reflected by individual species. We suggest that low mortality and growth in the drier forest was due to the longer annual dry season and higher deciduousness, and that high sapling growth at the dry site was due to greater light penetration to the forest floor. Growth rates were elevated at all three sites during 1998, possibly due to reduced cloud-cover during the El Nio. Contrary to expectation, mortality during 1998 was not elevated at wet and intermediate sites during the El Nio drought, but was at the dry site. Finally, we found that some species performed poorly at one site and declined in abundance, while having stable or increasing populations at another site, demonstrating that the communities are not at equilibrium. 
2560199|The reproductive phenology of a population of 39 adult trees of Couratari multiflora was studied in 'terra firme' forests located 90 km N of Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil. Trees of this species, found in low densities, were inventoried in a 400-ha plot in which only one tree  20 cm DBH per 10 ha was encountered. This species flowers from January to June, with a peak in the mid-wet season (March), and fruits during the dry season (May-September). Median distances between synchronized flowering trees were 600 to 1000 m depending on the time of the flowering season. The number of synchronous flowering trees at each observation date in the 400-ha plot was 14 or 17.5 per 1 d, 13 (both) per 15 d, and three or 13 per 30 d, depending upon which of the two methods was used to evaluate synchrony. Fifty percent of the flowering trees overlapped in flowering with six to seven other flowering trees growing within a radius of 1000 m during most of the annual flowering period. Outcrossing rates were 100% and the relatively long distances between trees in flower at the same time, support the assumption that this species is pollinated by pollinators travelling distances as far as 1000 m.
2560301|The phytoplankton periodicity of a tropical upland reservoir in Nigeria (Liberty Dam, Jos Plateau) and a temperate-type lake (L. Naranbagh) from the Kashmir Himalaya were compared Variations in the phytoplankton communities in the water-bodies were both quantitative and qualitative. Liberty Dam conformed to the oligotrophic-desmid plankton type whilst in L. Naranbagh, phytoplankton resembled the eutrophic chlorococcales-diatom plankton type. Contrary to the general belief of muted (or lack of) seasonal changes in tropical regions, phytoplankton succession in the Jos reservoir was pronounced with dense persistence of some species for relatively short periods. The most striking fluctuations, typical of many temperate waters, were characteristic of L Naranbagh with a build-up of plankton during summer and autumn Variability in photosynthetic productivity was related to shifts in the climate-dependent population densities. The seasonal growth of the Jos phytoplankton reflected the alteration from the dry `Harmattan' (December-February) to wetter (May-September) periods. These are analogous to the winter (December-February) and summer (June-August) seasons of the Kashmir Himalayan Valley Phytoplankton associations and periodicities in each of the two warm-belt lakes were strongly driven by their respective local environments, including especially the marked seasonality of the climatic variables (rain, wind and solar radiation) Detailed comparisons of adequate long-term data from tropical and temperate waters are still required.
2560289|The effects of herbivory by the leaf-cutting ant Atta laevigata Fr. Smith on the reestablishment of forest trees in an abandoned farm near Manaus, central Amazonia, were investigated Experimental seedling transplants and observations on seedlings which emerged naturally in the study area showed that damage by leaf-cutting ants negatively affected tree seedling survival and growth However, excluding leaf-cutting ants from experimental plots for 20 mo did not significantly increase tree seedling densities The number of seedlings emerging varied considerably between plots and this obscured any effect the ants may have had on seedling survivorship. Taller seedlings, and seedlings attacked only once, suffered less mortality than smaller seedlings and seedlings attacked twice or more. In general, mortality was greater for those species preferred by the ants, indicating that selective herbivory by leaf-cutting ants affects tree species composition. The number of seedlings attacked by A laevigata remained approximately constant throughout the period of this study in spite of the fact that the number available for attack increased. Thus, the chance of any individual seedling being attacked declined with time, suggesting that the effect of Atta herbivory on tree establishment is stronger during the first few years of forest regeneration.
4091826|Estimates of insectivorous bat diversity in the Palaeotropics have largely been hampered by the lack of long-term studies employing appropriate capture techniques. Using a variety of trapping methods, 45 insectivorous bat species were captured in approximately
2560105|The mass of fine litterfall and nutrient circulation through litterfall were determined in four Metrosideros polymorphal Cibotium spp.-dominated rainforests that differed in substrate age, parent material texture and annual precipitation on Kilauea and Mauna Loa volcanoes on the island of Hawaii. Three of the sites had rates of litterfall of 5.2 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>; the fourth, which was on the most fertile soil, produced 7.0 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> of litterfall with higher concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus. Tree ferns of the genus Cibotium cycled relatively large amounts of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium through litterfall; their contribution to nutrient circulation was disproportionate to their mass in the forest, or in litterfall. The forest on the youngest substrate, which also had the lowest concentrations of nitrogen in litterfall, was fertilized with complete factorial combinations of nitrogen, phosphorus and a treatment consisting of all other plant nutrients. Additions of nitrogen increased the quantity and nitrogen concentration in litterfall during the second year following the initiation of fertilization, while no other treatment had a significant effect. Additions of nitrogen had no effect on litterfall mass or nutrient concentrations in the most nutrient-rich site.
2559950|Patterns of gene flow within 21 northern Australian populations of Syzygium nervosum a dominant, mass-flowering, monsoon rain forest canopy tree were investigated using 10 isozyme loci. S.nervosum was found to have relatively high genetic diversity within populations (He = 0.307, AP = 3.7, P = 65) but also to have significantly lower frequencies of heterozygotes than expected (Ho = 0.126) and high allelic fixation (F = 0.512). Heterozygosity and allelic fixation were not correlated with measures of genetic diversity within populations, nor were they correlated with rain forest patch size, plant size or population isolation. Within populations, trees, of the same genotype (at each loci tested) were significantly clumped at short distances (c. 20 m), whereas trees of unlike genotypes were negatively associated. S. nervosum trees however, were not clonal in origin and had unique multilocus genotypes. The results suggest that the high levels of homozygosity recorded are the result of restricted pollination, primarily among flowers within individual trees or among closely related neighbouring trees, rather than rectricted seed dispersal. High homozygosity, the large fruit crop produced by trees of this species and the lack of association between heterozygosity and plant size, indicate that, S. nervosum is self-compatible, its fecundity does not appear to be impaired by inbreeding depression.
2560272|Nodulation of Pterocarpus officinalis appears to be widely distributed in the swamp forest of Guadeloupe even under conditions of permanent waterlogging. The large majority of the nodules were found above the water table and as such were located on large aerial buttresses or on root hairs which develop mainly in emerged soil. Further, large trees modify their environment by accumulating litter between the buttresses to the point of ensuring sufficient topographic elevation to keep a volume of soil regularly emerged. Consequently the nodules were concentrated in a small circle (5 m in diameter) around the oldest trees. A few nodules (5%) survived under the water table, provided that healthy root hairs were present, and this kept the rate of nodulation constant over a vertical gradient (0.9 nodule g<sup>-1</sup> root DW). The C<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>-evolution rate of P. officinalis, 2.6-5.9 mol h<sup>-1</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, appeared to be quite low compared to that of the potted Gliricidia sepium cuttings (19.4 mol h<sup>-1</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>), but was considerably higher than that of the woody liana Dalbergia monetaria (1.0 mol h<sup>-1</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) from the same swamp forest site as P officinalis. It was concluded that P. officinalis is a N<sub>2</sub>-fixing tree species under the waterlogged conditions of tropical swamp forests, and was hypothesised that the symbiotic nitrogen fixation on P. officinalis buttresses and root hairs could be considered as an additional adaptation to flooded soil and a contribution to its success in the tropical swamp forests of the Caribbean region.
2560277|The effects of wet and dry seasons on soil termites within a humid tropical West African forest are examined. Samples were taken monthly, over a 14-mo period, and termite abundances and species richness were estimated. These estimates were compared with the total cumulative rainfall for 30-d, 7-d and 2-d periods before each sampling. For all these time periods abundances and species richness of termites were significantly negatively correlated with rainfall. However, the strongest correlations were generally found with the 2-d period, suggesting that short-term movement of termites up and down the soil profile may be the most important factor in the observed differences, rather than longer term changes in overall abundance or species composition. This conclusion was supported by a detrended correspondence analysis which showed no significant changes in species composition between dry and wet months.
3068656|The land crab, Gecarcinus quadratus (Gecarcinidae), affects plant diversity in a mainland, neotropical rain forest through selective seedling consumption. In Costa Rica's Corcovado National Park, G. quadratus lives in fossorial populations with up to six crabs m
2559460|Tropical rain forest is described as a mosaic of ecologically uniform patches. A method is proposed to recognize and inventory the patches and to draw mosaic maps, based on the size and architecture of canopy trees. Mosaic maps from three different forest localities in Indonesia are compared in terms of the relative area occupied by each kind of patch, and the surface range and number of constituent patches. The comparison shows that the mosaic patterns are specific to the sites and can be used for the characterization of patch dynamics in different forest types. Possible implications for forest management are discussed in the light of the mosaic maps.
3068680|A study was conducted on the effect of extended land-use on secondary forest biomass accumulation in the Amazon. Structural measurements were made in a series of secondary forest stands, from 4-30 y old, in Brazil and Bolivia. Half of the stands were forest regrowth following clearance and only 1 y of cultivation; the other half were regrowth following 4 y or more of continuous pasture in Brazil and three or more rotations of medium-fallow agriculture in Bolivia. Above-ground live biomass was estimated using published allometric equations. Total biomass ranged from 17 to 207 Mg ha
2560306|The trophic ecology of Konaino Creek, a small mountain headwater stream draining rainforest in the aseasonal tropics on Bougainville Island, Papua New Guinea, was examined and a food web was constructed. The major source of energy in Konaiano Creek was allochthonous detritus, most of which had been terrestrially degraded to fine particulate organic matter rather than entering the stream as leaf litter. This fine detritus was collected by the filter-feeders (mostly Simuliidae and also Hydropsychidae) which formed the dominant functional feeding group (64 4% of the fauna). Thus filterers processed most of the allochthonous detritus and made the energy available to other trophic levels, rather than shredders (1 7% of the fauna) which perform this role in temperate headwater streams Collector-gatherers made up 22 7% of the fauna, carnivores, mostly Odonata, Decapoda (crabs) and Hydrobiosidae, comprised 2.8% of the fauna and grazerscrapers made up 7.4%. The latter were inhibited by low instream production owing to heavy shading and the instability and abrasion of the substrate due to frequent spates. In comparison, the trophic ecology of the nearby, coastal, Bovo River (with a catchment mainly in rainforest but mostly cleared with introduced species at the study site) was quite different and it was dominated by collector-gatherers (74%) and grazer-scrapers (15%)
4092172|Ecological theory predicts that interspecific interactions can affect population and community dynamics. Two experiments were conducted on Mantidactylus bicalcaratus and M. punctatus, two sympatric frog species from Madagascar that live and breed in rain-forest plants (Pandanus spp.). to test for interspecific competition. The first experiment examined larval growth rates and survivorship with and without conspecifics. While survivorship did not differ among treatments, mean growth rates for M. bicalcaratus were significantly reduced in the presence of M. punctatus larvae. The second experiment manipulated the presence and density of adults in Pandanus plants. Emigration from and immigration to experimental plants tended to be higher and lower, respectively, for M. bicalcaratus in the presence of M. punctatus, but these differences were not significant. These results demonstrate asymmetric competition (at least as larvae) and indicate that M. punctatus is the superior competitor. Field data showed that M. bicalcaratus was found significantly more frequently in the absence of M. punctatus. Also, M. bicalcaratus populations were significantly more likely to go locally extinct in the presence of M. punctatus. These data suggest that asymmetric competitive interactions are important influences on the dynamics of these populations.
2559631|Natural levels and consequences of insect herbivory were studied for a Kandelia candel (Rhizophoraceae) dominated mangal at the Mai Po Marshes, Hong Kong. Grazing insects (mainly lepidopteran larvae) consumed, on average, 10.3% of the leaf area on K. candel, with >90% of the leaves suffering <30% loss. Natural median leaf longevity was significantly different between winter and summer-exposed leaves, being, respectively, 423.2 and 269.6 days. Observations showed that herbivore damage caused a reduction of leaf longevity, as severely damaged leaves were abscissed before intact, older leaves on the same branch. Experimental leaf area removal suggested that leaf life span reduction was significantly influenced by leaf age and degree of damage. However, the reduction was only significant (>40 days) when area loss was >40%. Leaves produced in summer were also more sensitive to damage than those produced in winter. As <5% of the leaves suffered >40% of area removal by insect grazing in nature, insect herbivory is considered an unimportant regulator of leaf litter dynamics for K. candel. At this intensity level, herbivory consumes 2.8-3.5% of the net above-ground primary production of the mangrove. There was also no significant difference in the final number of leaves and twigs produced by the branches with various degrees of leaf area removal. Other observed impacts of insects on the structure and function of the K. candel mangal are discussed.
4091899|Primates are primary seed dispersers for many tropical tree species. Different species of primates vary considerably in ranging and feeding behaviour, seed processing, and in seed defecation patterns. Here we compare the role of two arboreal primate species, howlers (Alouatta palliata), and white-faced monkeys (Cebus capucinus) as seed dispersers in a tropical dry forest in Costa Rica. We found that Cebus produce smaller defecations, spend shorter times feeding per tree, have longer seed dispersal distances, and produce a more scattered pattern of seed deposition in the forest than Alouatta. In addition, Cebus moved more frequently between trees, and consumed fruits of more species than Alouatta. We examined the consequences of the contrasting defecation patterns produced by Cebus and Alouatta on the early seed fate of Acacia collinsii. We found that quantity, but not the identity (Cebus vs. Alouatta) of faecal material affected post-dispersal activity. Seeds in scattered faeces, sufficiently apart from each other (the common defecation pattern of white-faced monkeys), had higher short-term survival than seeds in clumped patterns of faeces (the pattern associated with Alouatta).
2560028|The spatial distribution of two rain forest tree species, Carapa procera (Meliaceae) and Vouacapoua americana (Caesalpiniaceae) was analysed within and between plots of different sizes (6.25 and 25 ha) at Paracou, French Guiana. The L(d) function was used to characterize spatial patterns, and the L<sub>ij</sub>(d) intertype to study independancy between young and adult trees. Although both species are known to be dispersed by caviomorph rodents within short distances (c. 10-20 m and up to 50 m) of parent tree crowns, the analysis of tree positions led to different spatial patterns between species depending on soil drainage characteristics. Overall, while V. americana showed a strongly aggregated spatial distribution, C. procera had a weaker propensity to depart from complete spatial randomness (CSR). A complex distribution, sometimes clustered in areas with hydromorphic soils (swamps and around streams) and sometimes very near CSR outside these areas characterized the C. procera population. When C. procera tree aggregation occurred, there was a slight attraction between juveniles and adults. The aggregation of V. americana trees was evidenced at different levels depending on the scale of investigation. Within small plots (6.25 ha), a first level of aggregation with short distance radii of c. 10-25 m giving small clusters, and a second level which is composed of small clusters aggregated at c. 40-50 m distance radius, were observed. A third level of aggregation was suggested by analysing the tree population at the larger scale (25 ha) whose boundaries outside the plot were not delimited. Aggregation of V. americana trees at all levels was enhanced by a strong attraction between juveniles and adults. These results were discussed in light of seed and seedling ecology, especially with regard to seedling and sapling gap-dependence and soil drainage, which likely affected the recruitment of juvenile trees, and henceforth final tree spatial pattern.
25172957|In tropical forests, trees compete not only with other trees, but also with lianas, which may limit tree growth and regeneration. Liana effects may depend on the availability of above- and below-ground resources and differ between tree species. We conducted a shade house experiment to test the effect of light (4% and 35% full sun, using neutral-density screen) on the competitive interactions between seedlings of one liana (Byttneria grandifolia) and three tree species (two shade-tolerant trees. Litsea dilleniifolia and Pometia tomentosa, and one light-demanding tree. Bauhinia variegata) and to evaluate the contribution of both above- and below-ground competition. Trees were grown in four competition treatments with the liana: no competition, root competition, shoot competition and root and shoot competition. Light strongly affected leaf photosynthetic capacity (light-saturated photosynthetic rate,
2560055|The dispersal of African Acacia seeds in the presence and absence of large mammalian herbivores and ostriches was assessed in a savanna ecosystem in South Africa In the absence of large herbivores, A. tortilis and A. nilotica pods were mainly dispersed in the shade, directly beneath the tree crown and seeds remained in pods for over 18 months In the presence of large herbivores, A. tortilis, A nilotica and A. karroo seeds were freed from pods and were dispersed into open, non-shaded habitats. Impala dispersed most A. tortilis seeds (18,900 ha<sup>-1</sup>), giraffe most A nilotica seeds (1060 ha<sup>-1</sup>) and giraffe and kudu most A. karroo seeds (452 and 448 ha<sup>-1</sup>, respectively). Seedling survival in dung in open environments may exceed that of seedlings in soil shaded beneath the tree crown. It appears that seed dispersal by large herbivores may be advantageous to future seedling recruitment
4092064|Dioecious plant species differ in floral morphology and rewards between females and males. Pistillate flowers on female plants often lack pollen and can be less attractive to pollinators, which can have consequences for the visitation rates of the sexes. We studied the pollination ecology of the dioecious tree Commiphora harveyi in a coastal scarp forest in eastern South Africa. Floral display, visiting insect species, visitation rate and natural fruit set were recorded. Additionally, we pollinated flowers by hand to determine experimental fruit set. We found that male trees had more and larger flowers per inflorescence than female trees. Both sexes produced nectar in low amounts. During 203.5 h of observation we recorded 28 insect species visiting the flowers. No difference in mean visitation rate (0.20 visits per flower h
2559491|Dysoxylum gaudichaudianum is an important canopy tree on the Krakatau Islands, and its ecology is of significance to an understanding of successional dynamics. It is abundant on Panjang and Sertung, but only locally common on Rakata. A study was undertaken of three aspects of its seed ecology in July/August 1992. The chief dispersers of D. gaudichaudianum are suggested here to be birds, with two species of pigeon and a bulbul prominent as fruit feeders over a short observation period. Bird activity dislodges large numbers of fruits and seeds which fall to the ground where they form a resource available to other animals. It was observed that seeds of D. gaudichaudianum suffer varying levels of attrition on the forest floor, with 40% of the total sample lost over a 12-day period, compared with 23% which had germinated. When mature, opening fruits develop a fishy aroma, which is attractive to insects. They hasten the decay process and release the seeds. The soft, rotting tissues of fallen fruits support a small, short-lived successional insect community. After about five days on the forest floor only the seeds and the outer fruit coat remain. Despite the abundance of fruit of this species during the dry season and its obvious attraction to frugivorous birds, D. gaudichaudianum has still colonized only a small fraction of the near-coastal lowlands of Rakata.
2559293|Different C4 photosynthesis pathways may influence plant response to shade and/or moisture stress. In the savanna of south-eastern Botswana, seedlings of PCK C4 type grass species were frequently observed to emerge in shaded habitats. The species Digitaria eriantha subsp. pentzii, which shows the NADP-ME pathway, was also found to be associated with the tree canopy. Species emerging in habitats exposed to full sun often showed the NAD-ME C4 pathway. Seedlings of Aristida congesta, Eragrostis rigidior and Tragus berteronianus which normally emerge in full light, showed higher relative growth rates and/or unit leaf rates compared with seedlings of Panicum maximum and Urochloa panicoides which are associated with shaded habitats. Seedlings of the latter species, however, survived low light conditions. Relative growth rate of the seedlings appeared to be negatively related to caryopsis weight. Light response analysis of leaves of Digitaria eriantha subsp. pentzii, grown under low light intensities, showed similar trends in light saturation to those reported for the PCK type in Panicum maximum. Mesophyll rather than stomatal limitations appeared to induce light saturation at higher light intensities in leaves grown under shade conditions.
4092123|Cerberiopsis candelabra is a long-lived monocarpic rain-forest tree endemic to New Caledonia that shows mass flowering across a substantial proportion of a population, and across a substantial number of populations. We investigated the relationship between tree size and flowering (and subsequent dying) across 18 populations from the flowering event of 2003 in order to understand the role of possible size thresholds for flowering in the life history and regeneration ecology of this monocarpic species. There was a strong positive correlation between trunk diameter and the incidence of flowering when population data were combined. However, the relationship between size and flowering was complex in that flowering occurred across a wide range of tree sizes, with almost complete overlap in size between flowering (5-79 cm dbh) and non-flowering trees (5-64 cm dbh), and with large trees in both the flowering and non-flowering state in the same population. In about half the populations studied there was no significant difference in mean trunk diameter of flowering and non-flowering trees. Nonetheless, we suggest that tree size may play a fundamental role in the life history and regeneration ecology of this species. The seedlings appear to be relatively shade-intolerant and dependent on large canopy gaps for recruitment. A significant effect of mass flowering and subsequent death of multiple large trees is the potential to form large canopy gaps and enhance seedling survival, as the gap is temporally linked with seed germination. However, it is unclear why there is such a large size range of flowering trees, i.e. whether this is just a consequence of the proximate cue, or whether the optimal size for flowering does indeed vary among individuals.
2560219|Nothofagus species dominate small patches of rainforest on ultramafic soils in New Caledonia, forming an almost monospecific upper canopy on some sites. These stands are commonly bordered by rainforests of greater floristic and structural complexity, also on ultramafic soils. In two lowland stands, the population size structures of Nothofagus aequilateralis stems greater than 50 cm high had an approximately skewed bell-shaped distribution with a modal size class of 15-25 cm stem diameter, and with no evidence of old trees. This indicates that the establishment of Nothofagus has occurred over a limited time span, without sufficient recent regeneration to allow the future replacement of the existing canopy trees. The factors initiating the major period of regeneration are not certain, but large-scale disturbance is implicated and evidence of past wild-fire on both sites is consistent with this hypothesis. It is unlikely that significant regeneration of Nothofagus will occur as the stands mature and canopy gaps are created by the death of old trees, since saplings of other species already occur at high densities in the understorey and will probably pre-empt the resources made available by canopy gaps. Two other study sites were situated above 900 m asl. At Dzumac, in an apparently older stand dominated by N. codonandra, there is some evidence of recent regeneration, predominantly confined to a single large canopy gap. The population size structure of N. baumanniae on the fourth site, on the summit of Mt Mou, shows a closer approximation to a reverse-J curve. Seedlings, however, are relatively uncommon on this site, and the numerous saplings may be suppressed rather than young. Analyses of topsoil provided no consistent evidence to suggest that mineral content is controlling the distribution of Nothofagus across vegetation boundaries. The environmental factors promoting the formation of these monodominant canopies are uncertain, but appear to involve large-scale disturbance by windstorm or fire. The population size structures suggest that the canopies of the two lowland stands, at least, are likely to become more species-rich, with a progressive decline in the frequency of Nothofagus. Therefore, these lowland monodominant forests cannot be regarded as equilibrium communities, irrespective of whether more detailed studies reveal environmental differences across the community boundaries. The status of the two high altitude sites is less certain.
2560059|Archival rainfall data are used to investigate changes in drought frequency and severity in Sabah and other parts of northern Borneo since the late nineteenth century. Two measures of drought severity are used: drought duration (given by the number of consecutive months with less than 100 mm rain); and drought intensity (indexed by the cumulative rainfall deficit below 100 mm per month of a drought sequence). Within northern Borneo dry periods are very short (<3 months) and infrequent in Sarawak, south-western Sabah, Brunei and central and western Kalimantan; droughts occur seasonally, but are comparatively short in north-western Sabah; droughts are less frequent, but more severe in eastern Sabah and parts of eastern Kalimantan In coastal Sabah and Brunei, there has been a statistically significant increase in the frequency and severity of droughts since the late 1960s. At Sandakan, two drought-prone epochs in 1877-1915 and 1968-92 (each experiencing five droughts of at least 4 months duration) are identified, separated by a 52-year period that was nearly drought-free. At Sandakan also, the ecologically damaging 1982-3 drought was neither as long or severe as those of 1903 and 1915. Links with E1 Nino-Southern Oscillation events are found to be not as strong as previous studies have suggested Possible implications of the spatial and temporal patterns in drought magnitude-frequency for differences in tropical rain forest character within the region are discussed
25562585|Forests are being converted to grasslands and croplands across Africa and natural regeneration of forests is typically poor. In Serengeti National Park, Tanzania, the savanna tree species Acacia polyacantha established in riparian grasslands and forest trees subsequently established within these stands. We examined the conditions for establishment of: (1) A. polyacantha and (2) riparian (non-Acacia) forests. Fire was excluded from three grassland areas for 5 y allowing A. polyacantha to establish during 1999 when dry-season rainfall was high. The seedlings of forest tree species did not establish in grasslands, but were found in large A. polyacantha stands (&gt; 0.3 ha) with reduced grass cover (&lt; 10%), higher cover of herbs (&gt; 80%) and thorny shrubs (&gt; 90%). Seeding survival was high in large stands (0.87 y), but declined in artificial canopy gaps due to the ingrowth of grasses (0.21 y) and subsequent fires (0.07 y). Shrub removal also reduced seedling survival (0.46 y) due to browsing by antelope. We propose that: (1) A. polyacantha establishes in pulses perhaps as infrequently as twice per century, and (2) riparian forests in Serengeti have established via facilitation under larger stands where shade excludes grass, and therefore fires and thorny shrubs exclude browsers.
2559392|Both light quantity and quality affect the development and autoecology of plants under shade conditions, as in the understorey of tropical forests. However, little research has been directed towards the relative contributions of lowered photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) versus altered spectral distributions (as indicated by quantum ratios of 660 to 730 nm, or R:FR) of radiation underneath vegetation canopies. A method for constructing shade enclosures to study the contribution of these two variables is described. Three tropical leguminous vine species (Abrus precatorius L., Caesalpinia bondicela Fleming and Mucuna pruriens (L.) DC.) were grown in two shade enclosures with 3-4% of solar PPFD with either the R:FR of sunlight (1.10) or foliage shade (0.33), and compared to plants grown in sunlight. Most species treated with low R:FR differed from those treated with high R:FR in (1) percent allocation to dry leaf weight, (2) internode length, (3) dry stem weight/length, (4) specific leaf weight, (5) leaf size, and (6) chlorophyll a/b ratios. However, these plants did not differ in chlorophyll content per leaf dry weight or area. In most cases the effects of low R:FR and PPFD were additional to those of high R:FR and low PPFD. Growth patterns varied among the three species, but both low PPFD and diminished R:FR were important cues in their developmental responses to light environments. This shadehouse system should be useful in studying the effects of light on the developmental ecology of other tropical forest plants.
25172900|Studies of seed dispersal and fruit production often use fruit traps. Different trap designs may give dissimilar estimates; however, prior to this study there has been no tropical forest field comparison of trap designs. Likewise, there are no recommendations about the number of traps required to assess ecological parameters, such as fruit production, mass and number of seeds dispersed, and number of plant species producing fruits. We compared the effectiveness of five trap designs in terms of fruit/seed bouncing out of traps, wind effects, area effects and seed removal by predators. These studies took place in Colombia in two tropical rain forests and in laboratory conditions. We found that 300 traps (0.085 m each) were not enough to obtain stable estimates in two out of four parameters (number of species and dispersed seeds). All estimates were highly variable when using fewer than 100 traps. All trap designs evaluated (mesh on PVC frame, hanging mesh, basin and funnel traps) prevent seed removal by predators, in sharp contrast with removal from the ground. Mesh traps were less affected by bouncing effects than plastic traps, and this factor was a large source of bias among estimates from different traps. Since up to 68% of dry mass may bounce out, it is important to consider adequate trap designs and to be careful when comparing studies using different methodologies. Small traps received fewer seeds per area, however area affects were not evident when bouncing effects were controlled for. We recommend the use of mesh traps on PVC frames, although hanging mesh traps are a good option in tropical forests without strong winds. /// Los estudios de dispersin de semillas y produccin de frutos frecuentemente utilizan trampas. Diferentes diseos de trampa pueden aportar estimativos distintos, pero esto no ha sido evaluado en bosques tropicales y tampoco hay recommendaciones sobre el nmero de trampas requerido para cuantificar produccin de frutos, biomasa y nmero de semillas dispersadas, y nmero de especies de plantas representadas. Comparamos la efectividad de 5 diseos, en trminos de efectos de rebote, rea de recoleccin y remocin por viento y por animales. Estos estudios se hicieron en Colombia en dos bosques hmedos tropicales y en condiciones de laboratorio. Trescientas trampas de 0.085 m no fueron suficientes para conseguir estimativos estables en dos de los cuatro parmetros evaluados (nmero de especies y de semillas dispersadas). Encontramos que todos los estimativos son muy variables cuando se usan menos de 100 trampas. Todos los diseos de trampa (malla con estructura de PVC, malla colgante, platn y embudo) evitan de manera similar la remocin por parte de animales, en contraste con la alta remocin en el suelo. Las trampas de malla fueron menos afectadas por efectos de rebote que las trampas de plstico, y estas diferencias alteran substancialmente los estimativos de produccin. Ya que hasta un 68% de la masa seca puede rebotar, es importante considerar cuales son los mejores diseos de trampa y ser cuidadoso en el momento de comparar estudios que usan diferentes mtodos. Encontramos menos semillas por unidad de rea en trampas pequeas, pero el efecto de rea de recoleccin no fue significativo al tener en cuenta los efectos de rebote. Recomendamos el uso de trampas de malla con estructura de PVC para estudios en bosques tropicales, aunque las trampas de malla colgante son una buena opcin en lugares sin vientos fuertes.
2559270|A monospecific stand of the alien shrub Mimosa pigra (Mimosaceae) was examined weekly for 14 months from March 1984. A total of 44 phytophagous insect species were found on M. pigra. The five most abundant of these made up 74% of the total community. This insect community in general showed a distinct seasonal cycle of abundance with maximum numbers during the wet season. However, a few species had a completely different pattern. Two species, Mictis profana (Hemiptera: Coreidae) and Platymopsis humeralis (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae), were observed to cause substantial damage to M. pigra. When compared with the fauna of M. pigra from its native region, Central America, that of the Northern Territory is low in leaf and flower-feeding insects. It is suggested that these types of insects be sought as future biocontrol agents to complement those native insects causing damage and those biocontrol agents already released.
4092140| Tropical rain forests are well known as centres of insect diversity and much effort has focused on the role of larval host plant specificity in generating and maintaining this diversity, but fewer studies have examined the exploitation of different food resources by adults in this context. Tropical butterflies feed as adults on a wide range of resources and we examined the diversity and ecology of species feeding on rotting fruit and carrion in a tropical lowland rain forest in Sabah, Borneo. We found that species richness and diversity were significantly higher on carrion than on fruit, and that this pattern was repeated at genus and family level. There was little similarity in species assemblages on the two substrates and -diversity between carrion and fruit comprised 33% of the total diversity of butterflies feeding on decaying matter. -diversity between canopy gap and shade microhabitats comprised 21% of total species diversity on carrion but only 7% of the total on fruit, indicating greater functional diversity on carrion in terms of light preferences. Captures were strongly male-biased on carrion but not on fruit, and recapture rates were much lower on carrion than on fruit. Species from two subfamilies (Nymphalinae and Charaxinae) exploited both substrates and for Charaxinae, there was evidence from adult flight morphology that species on carrion were capable of faster more-powerful flight. These results support the notion of a distinctive carrion-feeding fauna comprising more mobile species, which may use carrion to meet additional nitrogen requirements resulting from greater musculature. However there was no relationship between flight morphology and substrate choice in the Nymphalinae, and carrion-feeding may not have a unitary explanation. 
2559669|In May and June of 1989 data on elephant (Loxodonta africana) dung density were collected in the main forested areas of the Central African Republic. A total of 147.0 km of line transects (N = 14 transects, x = 10.50 km, SD = 3.79) was completed. Dung was recorded in 37.4% of the 294 sectors of 0.5 km each. The overall dung density was estimated to be 266 piles km<sup>-2</sup> (x = 382, SD = 383.7). The highest dung density was found in the proposed Dzanga-Sangha Reserve in the extreme south-west with 1166 piles km<sup>-2</sup> (N = 12 sectors of 0.5 km). The south-eastern forests were found to have an intermediate dung density of 336 piles km<sup>-2</sup> (N = 215 sectors of 0.5 km, x = 419, SD = 308). In the eastern section of the south-western forests no dung was recorded along survey transects (N = 67 sectors of 0.5 km). These data indicate that elephant populations are still relatively high in the forests of south-western and south-eastern Central African Republic, while the population in the eastern section of the south-western forests has diminished to a very low level.
25172958|The development of metacommunity theory, which suggests that the diversity and composition of communities is influenced by interactions with other communities, has produced new tools for evaluating patterns of community change along environmental gradients. These techniques were used to examine how plant communities changed along elevation gradients in montane tropical forests. Two transects of 0.1-ha vegetation plots were established every 50 m in elevation in the mountains of eastern Puerto Rico. The transects ranged from 300 m to 1000 m asl and 400 m to 900 m. In each plot, all free-standing woody stems greater than 1 cm in diameter at 130 cm in height were marked, measured and identified. Additional data on three similar transects were taken from the literature. The upper or lower boundaries of species ranges were significantly clumped along all five transects. Coherence, a measure of the number of gaps in species distributions, was also significant across all transects, and three transects showed significant, albeit low, nestedness. Four sites had significant species turnover. These results suggest that metacommunity techniques can be useful in searching for patterns of community change present in montane tropical forests.
3068836|Patterns of dispersion and site fidelity were investigated in a tent-roosting population of the short-nosed fruit bat, Cynopterus sphinx (Megachiroptera), in southern India. A local population of C. sphinx occupied diurnal roosts in a variable subset of 45 stem tents constructed within the dense foliage of mast trees (Polyalthia longifolia). Individually marked tent-roosting bats were visually censused over the course of a 38-d interval spanning the postpartum oestrus period. On any given day, 33.3-85.7% (mean = 60.8%, SD = 14.2) of adult males roosted singly, with the remainder holding harems of 1-10 breeding females (mean = 3.01, SD = 0.79). Average harem sex ratio was 2.8-fold higher than the adult sex ratio of the total tent-roosting population within the study area, indicating the potential for a high variance in male mating success within a single breeding season. Bats of both sexes typically occupied one primary tent, interspersed with shorter periods of residency in alternate tents. Males exhibited a significantly higher degree of roost fidelity than females. Some females roosted sequentially with different males and with different combinations of females, whereas others remained continuously associated with a single male and/or particular female roostmates over the duration of the census period. There were no statistically significant relationships between physical characteristics of tents and rates of occupancy by males or females. Intermittent transfers by females between groups suggest that the defence of diurnal roosts by males represents a more profitable mating strategy than the direct defence of compositionally labile female groups.
2559893|A seed-removal experiment was conducted to assess the role of Proechimys semispinosus (Central American spiny rat) as potential predator and disperser of Astrocaryum standleyanum (black palm) seeds. One hundred fresh ripe A. standleyanum fruits were placed in semipermeable cages on each of 14 small islands in Panama, and seed disappearance rates were calculated for each island Spiny rat density and biomass were determined by live-trapping on each island for 5 consecutive days and 4 nights Censuses of fruiting trees were conducted on each island to control for effects of food availability on removal of palm fruits Disappearance rates were related positively to total spiny rat density, density of adult and subadult spiny rats, and spiny rat biomass, but the density of fruiting trees accounted for very little variation. Spiny rats evidently prey heavily on A standleyanum seeds, based on the high removal rates and on feeding observations of captive individuals Since spiny rats may scatterhoard A standleyanum seeds, they may also function as effective seed dispersers if seeds are removed to favourable germination sites unavailable to other seed predators Results indicate that spiny rats, because of their abundance and wide distribution, may be important but overlooked predators and dispersers of A standleyanum seeds and of other large-seeded tree species
2559463|Diurnal and nocturnal censuses were conducted on animal visitors at a single strangler Ficus aff. cotinifolia (H.B.K.) tree during the entire period of ripe fruit availability. Fruit fall to the ground was measured with fruit traps, and chemical analyses were conducted on the figs. Fourteen species of birds, four species of nonvolant mammals and two species of bats consumed the figs. Of the total number of ripe figs accounted for during the sampling period (N = 1.9 x 10<sup>5</sup>), 42% fell to the ground, 45% were removed by mammals and 13% by birds. Frugivores such as the howling monkey Alouatta palliata, the cacomistle Bassariscus sumichrasti, the keel-billed toucan Ramphastos sulphuratus and fruit-eating bats removed the largest amounts of figs from the tree and deposited seeds of 13 plant species other than figs below the tree crown.
2560323|The spatial distribution of canopy gaps was analysed on three sites (total 71 ha) in the tropical moist forest of Tai National Park, Ivory Coast. Pattern analysis revealed a clustered distribution of gaps for two of the three sites. Catena dependent gap formation processes might explain local differences in the occurrence and distribution of gaps. Gap densities, sizes and percentage forest area in gap phase are higher on the upper and middle slope than on the crest or lower slope. As a consequence, regeneration of gap dependent tree species might be directed to the catena positions with the highest disturbance regime. The spatial distribution of gap dependent species can be clumped, not only due to the regeneration within gaps, but also due to the clustered nature of gap distribution on its own.
4091981|In mid-elevation areas of Mesoamerica, Acacia pennatula commonly occurs in mixed woods with various species of oak. During a 1-y study in Nicaragua, we found the abundance of birds in acacia was far higher than the representation of this species in the mix of trees, whether this is estimated by number of individual trees, canopy cover or foliage cover. This higher abundance was probably related to the fact that acacias supported approximately three to four times the abundance of arthropods that were found in oaks and twice the biomass. Although oak foliage supported fewer arthropods, relatively more of them were large (> 1 cm). The greater preponderance of small arthropods in acacias versus oaks was probably related to the small leaflet size of acacias. However, it is likely that the higher abundance of arthropods in acacias, particularly herbivorous species, was related to the higher nutritional content of the acacia foliage (crude protein, minerals, non-structural carbohydrates) and lower content of digestion-inhibiting compounds (structural carbohydrates, total phenolics, condensed tannins). The major defensive mechanisms of acacia are mechanical (thorns) or qualitative-defence chemicals (cyanogenic glucosides) that are apparently more effective against vertebrate than invertebrate herbivores. These observations support the hypothesis that the anti-herbivore defences of acacia are primarily directed against large mammalian herbivores, rendering the foliage highly palatable to arthropods.
2559939|Reproductive phenology of 13 sympatric taxa of Chamaecrista in three sections was surveyed at Serra do Cipo, south-east Brazil. Mean abundance of flowers and fruits per plant and mean number of aborted, predated, and surviving seeds per fruit were estimated. Monthly average number of developed seeds per fruit multiplied by the monthly mean number of fruits per plant gave the monthly average number of seeds produced by a plant of each taxon. Five types of phenological behaviour were differentiated by cluster analyses according to the season during which each species produced most of its mature seeds. This behaviour was related to the taxonomic section to which the taxa belong, to plant architecture, to geographical range, to seed predation and to local climatic seasonality. Herbs were more affected by variation in rainfall than shrubs and trees. Two species did not show any clear seasonal behaviour. Widespread taxa produced most of their mature seeds in the rainy season or immediately after it, and all but one of the narrowly distributed species produced most of their mature seeds in the dry season or in the transition from dry to rainy season. Seed predation is probably not an important selective force affecting reproductive phenology of larger taxa, while the smaller taxa seemed too constrained by abiotic factors for biotic factors to influence their phenology significantly.
3068715|The influence of a rainfall gradient on the distribution and species richness of some groups of wood-inhabiting basidiomycetes was explored in Costa Rican tropical forests. The relationships between these fungi and wood size and decay stage were also studied. Basidiocarps of all poroid and some corticoid fungi were recorded in three plots of 30 logs in each of dry, moist, and wet forests. The logs were surveyed three times during one year, covering all seasons. The species richness gradient was inversely related to the rainfall gradient, with most species in the dry forest (51), least in the wet forest (37), and intermediate in the moist forest (44). A total of 102 species were identified. Only six species occurred at all three sites. Two of the four most common species were new to science. The composition of wood-inhabiting fungal species in the dry forest varied from both the moist and the wet forest, while species composition in the two latter forest types was difficult to distinguish. Both frequent and rare species utilized the different decay stages as expected from availability of substrate. Perennials and rare species tended to occur on large logs in the dry forest, while all species tended to occur on large logs in the moist forest, but not in the wet forest.
4092047|Termite foraging was monitored with cellulose baits in both the wet and dry season in the semi-arid Okavango Delta region of northern Botswana. Seven wood-feeding species were found. Fungus-growing termites dominated the assemblage in all plots, and four species (Macrotermes michaelseni, Odontotermes sp. A, Allodontermes sp. and Microtermes sp.) were found in most. Foraging by smaller-bodied Allodontermes sp. and Microtermes sp. was largely confined to the wet season. Foraging by M. michaelseni and Odontotermes sp. A was more constant, but showed a general peak in the early dry season (May and June), likely due to nutrient and energy demands associated with alate production. Despite extensive overlap in distributions of these species, co-occurrences on baits were significantly less frequent than expected by chance. In addition, incidence in a plot of Allodontermes sp. and Microtermes sp. was negatively correlated in the wet season, as was that of M. michaelseni and Odontotermes sp. A in the dry season. Differences in body size, life history, and nest structure produce temporal and spatial heterogeneity in the foraging and distribution patterns of termites, and therefore suggest that consideration of community composition can improve prediction of the influence of termite assemblages on decomposition.
2559452|Succession was monitored over ten years in a 10 x 10 m plot in forest with mor humus at 1550 m in the Blue Mountains of Jamaica, following the removal in January 1975 of all aerial plant parts and some of the root material. In April 1977, August-January 1980/1 and August 1984, all woody recruits in the plot were tagged and numbered, identified and measured (height), and mapped on a 1 m grid. The height of coppice was recorded. Ten of the eleven tree species present before felling produced coppice shoots. Two individuals almost attained canopy height by 1984. Twenty tree species and three shrub species were recruited from seed; six of the tree species were normally absent from the forest. Species composition changed very little with time. The rate of seedling recruitment was greatest immediately after clearing. The overall density of individuals changed little after 1977. Overall mortality of recruits was about 10% per annum. Mortality of the earliest recruits declined with time since establishment. Later recruits and individuals with poor growth had higher mortality than other plants. Mortality was not density-dependent. Growth rates of recruits were relatively slow. Only ten individuals exceeded 4 m by 1984. Recruitment rates, density, growth and species diversity were greatest in the parts of the plot where the mor humus had been removed or piled up during the initial clearance. Recruitment, growth and density were least, and mortality was greatest, at the edge. There was no relationship between any of these parameters and the presence of coppicing stumps. Tree species showed a clear spectrum from obligate gap-demanders to obligate shadebearers. The persistence of gap-demanding species in this forest (in which gaps are normally rare) may be due to infrequent hurricanes, and also to a natural ability to produce basal sprouts. The succession conforms to an initial floristic composition model; it is slow, and we suggest that at least 50 years will clapse before the plot begins to resemble the undisturbed forest.
2559750|The endangered Gouldian Finch Erythrura gouldiae is the only Australian finch to nest exclusively in tree hollows or, more rarely, in termite mounds. It is sympatric with the abundant Long-tailed Finch Poephila acuticauda which nests frequently in tree hollows. The aim of this study was to define the characteristics of nest sites and breeding areas of Gouldian and Long-tailed Finches to determine whether nest hollows were in short supply, and where finches fed relative to their nest sites. The Gouldian Finch chose hollows with smaller, more northerly entrances than Long-tailed, or randomly chosen hollows, nested deeper down the hollow and on steeper hill-slopes. Both species preferred single to multi-trunked trees of larger diameter than trees with randomly chosen hollows. Discriminant analysis classified 22-25% of the randomly chosen hollows and 28-38% of Long-tailed nesting hollows as Gouldian hollows. Gouldian Finches were more specific in their choice of nest sites than Long-tailed Finches. The vegetation at the two sites differed floristically, but within each site there was no floristic distinction between feeding or breeding sites or sites chosen at random. Gouldian Finches chose feeding habitat where trees were more spaced, on less rocky, barer ground than around breeding sites. On the basis of the criteria measured, there was no shortage of suitable hollows available to the Gouldian Finch for nesting. The overlap between feeding and breeding sites indicates the importance of managing breeding habitat for conservation.
3068783| In tropical forests, severe droughts caused by El Nio events may strongly influence the water relations of tree seedlings and thereby increase their mortality. Data on known-aged seedlings of three common shade-tolerant canopy tree species (Trichilia tuberculata, Tetragastris panamensis and Quararibea asterolepis) in a Panamanian moist forest are presented. Seedling survival during a severe El Nio dry season (1997-98) was compared with prior long-term survival data, and levels of drought stress were assessed by measuring plant water potentials and gas exchange characteristics. Contrary to prediction, dry-season seedling survival was not dramatically reduced in any species compared with that expected in 'normal' years. In Trichilia and Quararibea, pre-drawn water potentials averaged -2 MPa and midday water potentials about -3 MPa. Stomatal conductances were very low, averaging 26 mmol m
4091843|We investigated the links between slope variation and heterogeneity in tree growth and stand structure. The study was conducted in an undisturbed wet evergreen forest in India. We selected three plots situated on gentle slopes and three plots situated on steep slopes. Tree growth was considered as mean annual diameter increment. Stand structure was considered in relation to several characteristics: trunk diameter distributions, tree heights, and spatial distributions of stems and crowns. Except for the spatial structure, analyses were performed on samples including either all the species or only the dominant species (Vateria indica L.). Diameter growth varied according to slope intensity and to tree size: growth of large trees was clearly higher on steep slopes whereas growth of small trees proved lower or similar. Diameter distributions were different among the six plots, but the difference cannot be related to slope intensity. On the contrary, tree heights differed according to slope intensity: for a given diameter, trees were taller on gentle slopes than on steep slopes. Finally, stem spatial distributions showed strong regularity on gentle slopes whereas they were random on steep slopes. The observed changes between gentle and steep slopes suggest differences at tree level through a modification of its shape, but also differences in the major processes responsible for stand dynamics: competition, establishment and survival.
2560239|Plant establishment was studied in a swamp forest in the lowland Atlantic rainforest in southeastern Brazil. A topographic gradient allowed a clear distinction between a periodically flooded and a permanently flooded site in the study area. Both sites were mosaics of patches: the former showed soil patches of varying sizes subject to distinct flooding durations (from 0 to 300 d per year) and in the latter, the tank bromeliads which densely occupied the understorey, trap litter and provided `suspended soil' patches In the periodically flooded site, the occurrence of regenerants (< 1.0 m tall) of the actively regenerating tree populations of Calophyllum brasiliense, Symphonia globulifera and Tovomitopsis paniculata (all Clusiaceae), originating from seed or vegetative organs, was recorded for 1 m<sup>2</sup> quadrats placed in flooded (n = 82) and unflooded (n = 103) patches In the permanently flooded site, dominated by Tabebuia cassinoides (Bignoniaceae), the presence of germinated seedlings was counted for 400 rosettes of the terrestrial tank bromeliad Nidularium procerum. The results showed that unflooded patches, including tank bromeliads, favoured seedling establishment However, T. paniculata and T. cassinoides colonize patches where flooding lasts longer or is permanent mostly by reproducing vegetatively, while the seeds of C brasiliense, which showed no form of vegetative reproduction, and S. globulifera are successful in colonizing flooded patches Germination tests and field observations indicated that, for C brasiliense, pre- and post-dispersal seed dormancy, a two-phase seed dispersal (water and bats) and seedling tolerance to flooding accounted for this pattern.
2560006|The nutrient contents and accessions in litterfall over a period of 3 y are reported for undisturbed areas and at two sites disturbed by selective harvesting in tropical rain forest in North Queensland, Australia. Mean concentrations (mg g<sup>-1</sup> dry weight) of nutrients in litterfall ranged from 10 to 12 for nitrogen; 0.33 to 0.43 for phosphorus; 3.6 to 4.3 for potassium; 6.0 to 10.5 for calcium; and 1.7 to 2.6 for magnesium. These concentrations are in the middle to lower part of the spectrum of values recorded for tropical forests. Accessions of nutrients in litterfall (kg ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>) ranged from 59 to 64 N; 1.9 to 2.4 P; 20 to 24K; 34 to 63 Ca; and 9 to 16 Mg. These rates, particularly for N and P, are among the lowest recorded for tropical forests. There were no consistent between-site differences in total nutrient accessions in small litterfall. In terms of the contribution of litterfall to the accessions of nutrients to the forest floor, this suggests that the logged sites have recovered from the effects of selective harvesting within 25 y. Nutrient accessions at each site were distinctly seasonal, with maximum accessions occurring in the late dry season to late in the wet season. Leaf-fall accounted for the largest proportion of nutrient accessions over the study period, although at certain times accessions in both reproductive material and wood were significant. A cyclone which crossed the coast near the study sites resulted in large nutrient accessions over a short period but had little effect on the total annual accession. A comparison with previous studies of litterfall in Australian tropical rainforests indicates that nutrient return in litterfall is directly related to soil fertility.
2559729|A representative sample of waterways in Liberia was surveyed for crocodiles, and all three species of African crocodiles were observed. Contrary to previous reports, only Nile crocodiles inhabit the Monrovia mangrove swamps and brackish-water mouths of rivers; there are no slendersnouted or dwarf crocodiles in these habitats. There is partitioning of habitats among the three species in Liberia: Nile crocodiles in mangrove swamps and river mouths (brackish water); slendersnouted crocodiles in rivers through rain forest (freshwater); and dwarf crocodiles in small streams through rain forest (freshwater), some entering the adjacent river. Dwarf crocodiles utilize burrows in the stream banks. Nowhere are crocodiles abundant, and there is an apparent absence of adults. Although 40% of Liberia is forested, deforestation is occurring rapidly by foreign timber companies and slash-and-burn agriculture practised by the largely rural population. Hunting with firearms, although illegal, is widespread, both for subsistence and commercially, without concern for depletion. Mangrove ecosystems near human population centres are being destroyed. The combination of the above factors has apparently depleted the crocodile populations in Liberia.
2559534|Descriptions of the fine scale distribution of organisms have frequently been used to investigate various ecological phenomena Unfortunately, the most widely used spatial analysis techniques are based on single index statistics, which convey only minimal information about the biological processes underlying the studied distributions. Such statistics cannot detect changes in pattern over different scales, and cannot identify some types of distribution Additionally, both the use of such statistics on the distribution of individuals which have a non-negligible size, and the frequent failure to use an edge correction for points close to the boundaries of a sampled area, have led to the over-reporting of `spaced out' (`regular') distributions Using two spatial distributions recently analysed with a single index statistic (termite mounds, and earthmounds created by termites), I illustrate the benefits gained from using the spatial functions K(t), G(y) and F(x) to analyse both `point events' and events which have a non-negligible size These functions are considerably more informative about the nature of a spatial pattern and offer wide scope for the fitting of spatial models to biological distributions.
4499115|Neotropical species richness is often estimated using accumulation or rarefaction curves and extrapolations based on various methods, but the efficacy of these methods is rarely tested. We used both a time-limited trapping session and previous knowledge of the mammal fauna from a site in French Guiana to validate these different methods. Three currently used extrapolation models were tested on our data. In a 2.5-mo trapping period we caught 75 individuals representing 18 small non-volant mammal species in three different habitats. We found that for comparable trapping efforts, village edges presented a higher abundance and species richness than primary and secondary forests. Species richness extrapolations using current models demonstrated that the exponential dependence model fits the known diversity of the site better, although this model is usually applied to large geographic areas and to relatively poorly documented taxa. Both Clench equation and linear dependence models underestimate small-mammal species richness in our study. We finally emphasize the interest of sampling in such edges surrounded by either primary or secondary forest, to maximize the probability of trapping rare species.
2559372|Necrophagous Diptera were sampled in a seasonal tropical mixed forest in Hong Kong from February 1985 to May 1986 using carrion-baited traps. Six families of flies were caught but only Calliphoridae, Muscidae and Sarcophagidae were considered. They made up a total of 14,669 flies of 21 species in the sample. Total species abundance followed Fisher's logseries distribution. The commonest five species were calliphorids, constituting 79.44% of the total combined catch. Temperature was apparently the main factor affecting seasonality of necrophagous Diptera in Hong Kong. Fluctuations in total abundance, species richness and H' followed seasonal changes in weekly mean air temperatures.
2560095|The abundance of all tree and shrub species has been monitored for eight years in a 50 ha census plot in tropical moist forest in central Panama Here we examine population trends of the 219 most numerous species in the plot, assessing the impact of a long-term drying trend Population change was calculated as the mean rate of increase (or decrease) over eight years, considering either all stems 10 mm diameter at breast height (dbh) or just stems 100 mm dbh For stems 10 mm, 40% of the species had mean growth rates <1% per year (either increasing or decreasing) and 12% had changes 5% per year. For stems 100 mm, the figures were 38% and 8% Species that specialize on the slopes of the plot, a moist microhabitat relative to the plateau, suffered significantly more declines in abundance than species that did not prefer slopes (stems 10 mm dbh) This pattern was due entirely to species of small stature: 91% of treelets and shrubs that were slope-specialists declined in abundance, but just 19% of non-slope treelets and shrubs declined. Among larger trees, slope and non-slope species fared equally. For stems 100 mm dbh, the slope effect vanished because there were few shrubs and treelets with stems 100 mm dbh. Another edaphic guild of species, those occurring preferentially in a small swamp in the centre of the plot, were no more likely to decline in abundance than non-swamp species, regardless of growth form. Species that preferentially colonize canopy gaps in the plot were slightly more likely to decrease in abundance than non-colonizing species (only for stems 10 mm dbh, not 100 mm) Despite this overall trend, however, several colonizing species had the most rapidly increasing populations in the plot. The impact of a 25-year drying trend and an associated increase in the severity of the 4-month dry season is having an obvious impact on the BCI forest. At least 16 species of shrubs and treelets with affinities for moist microhabitats are headed for extinction in the plot. Presumably, these species invaded the forest during a wetter period prior to 1966. A severe drought of 1983 that caused unusually high tree mortality contributed to this trend, and may also have been responsible for sharp increases in abundance of a few gap-colonizers because it temporarily opened the forest canopy The BCI forest is remarkably sensitive to a subtle climatic shift, yet we do not know whether this is typical for tropical forests because no other large-scale censuses exist for comparison.
2560086|Some savanna areas in the Orinoco Llanos region in Venezuela are characterized by the abundance of small forest groves, resulting in a parkland landscape We hypothesized that forest groves are the result of colonization of the open savanna by forest species, facilitated by the activity of leaf-cutting ants. In this paper we present results from a field study conducted on an ecotonal belt between a deciduous gallery forest and an open savanna in the western Llanos of Venezuela In seven transects, trees, groves and leaf-cutting ant nests were counted, size parameters evaluated and distance from grove to forest measured Soil chemical analysis and microclimatic measurements were performed in the forest, grassland and groves. Floristic composition of the woodland component of the savanna (scattered trees) was very dissimilar from that of the forest, but the composition of the groves was essentially a mixture of both woodland and forest species Woodland trees were present in all groves, whereas forest trees were present only in larger groves. The size structures of populations of the two types of trees differed significantly according to the size of the grove; also, woodland tree population structure differed significantly between open savanna and groves. The frequency of groves with Atta laevigata nests increased with the size of the grove, and groves with forest trees were positively associated with the presence of nests A. laevigata nests improved the soil of groves, increasing N, Mg, Ca and organic carbon, but other soil properties were not modified. Temperatures at ground level in the dry season were ameliorated in the groves compared with the grassland, and this effect increased with the size of the grove. We concluded that a dynamic process of grove formation is facilitated by the aggregation of a few woodland trees, followed by the successful invasion of forest trees and a leaf-cutting ant nest. The results did not show any clear sequence of arrival of the ants or the forest trees, but it seems clear that these two would act synergistically, improving conditions for each other
23012409|Locating activity hotspots  areas of higher density, more intense use, or distinct social units  is a prerequisite for answering many questions in animal ecology. However, for many species, carrying out such research from direct observations in tropical habitat is time-consuming and unrealistic for non-habituated animals. This study aimed to locate chimpanzee home ranges from transect nest counts. For validation purposes, 233 line transects were sampled within the home ranges of four habituated social groups of chimpanzees in Ta National Park, Cte d'Ivoire. In total, 373 km of transects were surveyed over 188 days and 683 nests of chimpanzee were recorded. First, we characterized heterogeneity of nest distribution patterns, including variation in density and group size within the area. Second, we used scan statistics, a likelihood-based cluster technique to locate chimpanzee social groups and compared them with the known home range boundaries. Chimpanzee nest distribution was characterized by a positive density and group-size gradient away from the range periphery. Furthermore, nest distribution clusters corresponding to the four groups could be successfully identified, although additional clusters for, for example, low-density areas between social groups seem to be an unavoidable by-product. The approach taken can be extended to a wide spectrum of data stemming from direct observations, camera traps, acoustic or genetic sampling to derive information about structure and patchiness of wild animal populations.
4091886|The diets of larvae and juveniles (cut-off size: 20 mm) of Limnothrissa miodon (Boulenger) were studied at 2-h intervals during four 24-h cycles (two during the rainy and two during the dry season) in the Bukavu Basin, Lake Kivu. Larvae and juveniles are both diurnal feeders, and they both feed essentially on copepods, which are the most abundant prey in littoral areas, but they show a marked preference for larger organisms (cladocerans), when available. This indicates a rather intense resource sharing, and probable competition between life stages, which is partly solved through spatial behaviour and segregation. During the dry season, when food resources are scarcer, larvae and juveniles make slightly offset inshore migrations during the day, so that they feed at different places, on copepods of different sizes. Because diel migrations are size-structured, it is suggested that cannibalistic pressure (by adults over juveniles, and by juveniles over larvae) may also be a driving factor for these migrations. Plankton samples revealed that there were few cladocerans, while copepods were abundant and their size was similar to that prior to the introduction of L. miodon in Lake Kivu, thereby suggesting that some form of dynamic equilibrium has been reached in the food web.
4092111|This study investigated the vertical stratification of Old World fruit bats (Chiroptera: Pteropodidae) in relation to habitat structure and wing morphology, in a lowland Malaysian rain forest. In total, 352 fruit bats of eight species were captured within the subcanopy of the structurally complex old-growth forest during
2559711|A method of assessing rain forest structure by ranking relative abundance of 41 habitat variables was used to describe habitat differences among six trapping sites (324 subsites). Variables included aspects of all vegetation layers but concentrated on those considered to be important to small mammal distribution. Ordination and classification methods resulted in similar analyses of the data. Differences in habitat structure were primarily related to the moisture conditions of the trapping sites and secondarily to their successional age (regenerating versus primary forest). The most important habitat variables for differentiating between sites were LITTER, CLEARING, SOILS, PIG DAMAGE, FLOODING, FAN PALM, EMERGENTS, CANOPY SURFACE and SEEDLINGS. Habitat structure also varied within sites with some suggestion of small-scale patterning. Small mammal captures were more likely in drier sites and subsites, but there was no difference in trap success between regenerating sites and primary forest sites. Greater numbers of species were captured in sites containing a variety of habitats, a discrete layering of vegetation and an extensive understorey. Small mammal captures were positively associated with five habitat variables (EMERGENTS, LITTER, ROTTING LOGS, SEEDLINGS, ROUGH BARK) and negatively associated with five others (LAYERS, BERTAM, SEDGES, PIG DAMAGE, FLOODING). The destruction caused by pigs is thought to be a major factor since it reduces litter and food availability over wide areas. Leopoldamys sabanus was the most abundant small mammal captured (40/68 individuals) and trap success differences among sites (0.4-1.9%) reflect its preference for higher, well-drained habitats. The study demonstrates the usefulness of a simple method of ranking habitat features according to importance/abundance thus eliminating the all but impossible task of direct measurements in this complex system. This simple method of habitat description provides a basis for studying variables influencing faunal distribution patterns.
2559368|The 71 ha Bukit Timah Nature Reserve contains the largest surviving area of primary rain forest in Singapore. The recorded vascular plant flora of the forest consists of at least 854 species: 787 angiosperms in 109 families, 65 pteridophytes and three gymnosperms. 58.6% of the species are trees or shrubs, 18.7% climbers, 12.3% terrestrial herbs, 8.8% epiphytes and hemi-epiphytes, 1.0% saprophytes and 0.6% parasites. The four families with most species-Rubiaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Orchidaceae and Moraceae - account for a quarter of the angio-sperm flora but contribute few large trees. Community reproductive phenology is characterized by supra-annual bursts of general flowering and fruiting, contrasting with a low background level. After an exceptionally dry and sunny February, 1987, more than 150 species in 42 families flowered between late March and late May, followed by an equally well-defined fruiting peak 13 weeks later, between late June and late August.
4092130|Comparisons of sympatric reptile species were used to assess the variation in niche overlap for food between potential competitors at different trophic levels. Omnivorous tortoises and carnivorous vipers inhabiting the rain-forest region of West Africa were used as study models. Food niche overlap between species increased with habitat alteration in both the independent study systems: tortoises (Kinixys homeana and Kinixys erosa) and vipers (Bitis gabonica and Bitis nasicornis) showed lower values of Pianka's niche overlap index in the pristine habitat than in the altered habitat, and these differences in overlap values did not depend on chance after Monte Carlo simulations. There were higher inter-habitat food niche overlaps within-species than between-species. Permutation tests (assessed after 5000 iterations) revealed that, for both study systems, the P-values became significantly smaller with fewer resource states, thus showing the niche overlap between species really increases after habitat alteration. The observed increases in food niche overlap between species accomplished with rain-forest habitat degradation in turn may be predicted to have cumulative effects on reducing the level of forest biodiversity.
4092079|Increased shoot growth has recurrently been recorded following real or simulated shoot browsing, although responses may vary between different woody species. We investigated morphological responses to simulated dry-season browsing on Colophospermum mopane, Acacia tortilis, Grewia flava, Peltophorum africanum and Ziziphus mucronata, which differ in growth rate, occurrence of spines and use by mammalian herbivores. Treatment groups included a control, four clipping intensities and cutting at ground level. Responses were monitored during the following growth season on three annual shoots, located in the bottom, middle and top height interval, on each sapling. All five species showed compensatory growth responses, although no obvious relation was found between the strength of responses and growth rate or natural browsing pressure. The general pattern was an increased shoot length, shoot diameter, number of lateral shoots and shoot biomass with increased clipping intensity. These responses are probably an effect of the reduction of competing growing points and disrupted apical dominance. Growth responses were stronger in shoots with higher location on the sapling, which may reflect the pressure on saplings to attain a certain height to avoid browsing, reproduce and increase resistance to fire. We found no evidence of the number of spines being an induced defence in either of the two spinescent species studied.
4092046|Investigations of bats in naturally fragmented ecosystems may help refine assumptions about bat responses to fragmentation of their habitats by human activity. Bat species assemblages were studied for a 3.5-y period in a naturally fragmented landscape in the north-west Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico. Bats were systematically sampled using mist nets in a total of 16 forest islands of four categories (four sites each): large (> 20 ha), small (< 5 ha), far and near (sites located > 10 km or < 1 km away from the nearest forest island, respectively). We captured a total of 1134 bats representing 17 species. Bat diversity and species richness were similar among categories of forest island. Fruit-eating bats (78-93% of captures) were significantly more abundant in large and in small than in forest islands in the far or near categories. Differences in density of Manilkara zapota trees in the forest islands might underlie the observed variations in the abundance of frugivorous bats. Distances traversed by bats (0.65-38 km) between forest islands (typically 100-300 m away), facilitates the mobility of bats across the landscape. However, the moderately rich bat species assemblage detected, suggests that other species may not be able to persist in such naturally fragmented ecosystems.
4499136|Behavioural sex-role reversal occurs when males and females exchange their standard roles in territorial defence or parental care. One circumstance under which sex-role reversal may occur is when males are a limiting resource, so that females have to compete for access to mates. Here we report on male rarity and male and female behaviour of species within the damselfly genus Nesobasis, endemic to Fiji. Earlier reports suggested that, in some members of this genus, males were seldom observed and that females of these species were consequentially territorial, a phenomenon described as 'sex-role reversal'. Quantitative estimation of the ratio of adult males to females at 15 localities in 13 Nesobasis species (1489 individuals) indicated that males were extremely rare in some species, yet common in others. This interspecific variability in male rarity cannot be explained by elevation or habitat. Formal observations of three species with abundant males revealed that males of these species were highly territorial: they physically challenged intruders while remaining within a confined area. By contrast, in three species where males were consistently rare or absent, females were not territorial: instead, they moved widely and were primarily engaged in oviposition. While we do not know the underlying reason for the unusual rarity of males at oviposition sites in some species, it is clear that this rarity has not provided sufficient selection pressure to generate genuine sex-role reversal.
2559736|Psittacanthus robustus (Loranthaceae) is a Neotropical mistletoe which grows mainly on species of Vochysiaceae in Brazilian `cerrado' regions. Its parasitizing pattern involves: (a) the height and the aspect of the crown of the host-plants; (b) the presence of sticky substance in the fruits of the parasite; and (c) the feeding behaviour and habitat selection of the dispersal agent, the swallow-tanager Tersina viridis viridis. The feeding behaviour of this bird on fruits of P. robustus facilitates seed release and seedling establishment; its foraging habit and habitat selection account for high concentrations of the parasites on their preferred host-plants.
25790831|The ant assemblages in two common tree species in primary lowland forest of New Guinea were explored using direct canopy access and tuna bait traps. The 19 trees investigated were occupied by 21 ant species of which 18 were canopy inhabitants. On average only 3.6 ant species per tree and 3 species per bait were found. Height of bait position was positively related to ant species richness, with the upper parts of the canopy being occupied by the highest number of species. On the other hand, tree species and study site did not have any effect on ant species richness nor on structure of the ant assemblages. Ant species appeared to be distributed randomly and we did not detect any effect of distance on similarity of ant assemblage occurring on the trees. The dominant species (Crematogaster polita) had certain negative effects on the presence of some species at food sources co-occurring at the same tree, but it did co-occur with the other ants to some extent as well. The majority of species found in the canopy were generalist omnivores (depending mainly on trophobionts or plant exudates).
4091929|A prediction of the hypothesis that niche processes control plant species distributions across edaphic gradients is that pairwise comparisons of related species on contrasting soils should show consistent patterns of trait divergence. This hypothesis was tested in lowland Bornean rain forest by combining measurements of leaf traits, soil nutrients and the distribution of tree species in the Dipterocarpaceae across a nutrient gradient. Nine species were studied, comprising four related pairs in Shorea (phylogenetic independent contrasts; PICs) and one habitat generalist (Dipterocarpus sublamellatus). Lamina area, specific leaf area (SLA), leaf nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) were measured for ~10 saplings of each species; habitat associations were defined as a continuous function of soil nutrients and categorically in relation to substrate. Species distributions and traits varied significantly with soil nutrients. When all species were pooled, SLA and leaf P increased significantly with species' distribution across the nutrient gradient; leaf N showed the same trend. Trait shifts with habitat were stronger and more pervasive when habitat was defined categorically - in all four PICs, rich-soil specialists had larger leaves, higher SLA, leaf N and P, and lower N:P ratios. Trait shifts with habitat at least partly reflect intrinsic differences between species. Within Shorea, variation in lamina area and N:P ratio were more strongly related to phylogeny than habitat, whereas the reverse held for SLA and leaf P. Phylogeny also influenced the extent of trait divergence between related species on different soils, and patterns of trait correlation within lineages. Results support the hypothesis that niche processes influence the distribution of species and traits in lowland tropical tree communities, and highlight the value of phylogenetic information for increasing the power of comparative studies.
2560024|The flowering and fruiting phenology, floral biology, pollination ecology, and breeding system of the emergent tree Ceiba pentandra were studied in the Brazilian Central Amazon. Of the 21 trees studied, 17 flowered once or twice during the 6-y study period. The mass flowering and relatively high production of nectar per flower (mean of 310 l) resulted in a high nectar production (over 200 1 per tree per season). Flowers were visited by a wide range of nocturnal (bats, marsupials, night monkeys, hawk moths) and diurnal (bees, wasps, hummingbirds) animals, but only phyllostomid bats, especially Phyllostomus hastatus and Phyllostomus discolor, played a relevant role promoting cross-pollination. Pollinations which occurred in the early morning by diurnal floral visitors were ineffective since pollen tubes did not traverse the style and reach the ovary before stylar abscission. Despite the apparently normal growth of the self-pollen tubes, controlled pollinations carried out in one tree revealed no fruit set by selfing and 16.8% fruit set by crossing. Progeny analysis from this `self-incompatible' tree using isozyme markers showed that fruits resulting from mixed-pollination (i.e., 50% self- plus 50% cross-pollen on the stigma) set only 1.6% of selfed seeds. The percentage of outcrossed seeds in fruits resulting from open-pollination in two neighbouring planted trees, which flowered in isolation and concomitantly, was estimated at 91% and 71%. Two isolated trees did not set any fruits despite massive flowering, whereas two others set large quantities of seed, supporting data in the literature stating that variable degrees of self-fertility may occur in this species.
2560118|Vertebrate attack accounted for 98.4% of all seed loss during the two months following dispersal. This accounted for, across all habitat types, 94% of Bursera, 76% of Spondias, 37% of Swietenia and 25% of Erythrina seeds artificially dispersed. Bursera, Spondias and Swietenia seeds in early successional habitat suffered significantly greater predation than in either older abandoned (30 y) or mature forest plots. Erythrina showed generally low loss to predation in all plots. Seeds attacked were more often removed from, rather than buried or eaten at, the dispersal site. In young secondary habitats, however, seeds of Bursera and Spondias were more frequently eaten at the site. Seeds dispersed individually rather than in larger aggregations (5, 10) were more likely to survive in mature forest and late secondary habitat. This advantage was lost in Bursera and Swietenia when they were dispersed to younger successional habitats. At the early seedling stage, recruitment of Bursera and Swietenia was highest in the older secondary habitats. Seedlings of Erythrina showed the lowest overall losses to any of the mortality factors identified during the first two months of establishment. Seeds of forest tree species arriving in secondary habitat were more vulnerable to attack by non-flying vertebrates than in mature forest. Survival of seedlings of these species was most closely related to the moisture-conserving status of the habitat.
25172945|Seed dispersal is the first stage of colonization, and potentially affects recruitment. This process deserves more attention in tropical montane cloud forests (TMCF), since secondary succession is common owing to episodic disturbances. We studied annual seed rain in 10 nearby forest stands, 7 to 100 y following shifting agriculture, and one primary forest stand in southern Mexico to test the hypothesis that seed rain is limited at the scale of neighbouring fragments and that such limitation differs among species with different dispersal modes and successional origin. Annual seed rain was heterogeneous among forest fragments probably due to the prevalence of local seed dispersal, differences in stand age and the proportion of zoochory, and may help explain the patchy distribution of species observed in TMCF. Seed rain abundance and species diversity per unit trap area increased with the age of the stand. Biotically dispersed seeds increased towards older stands relative to abiotically dispersed seeds. Late-successional seeds were rarer in early successional stands than pioneer seeds in late-successional stands, suggesting that long-distance dispersal is generally more common for pioneer plants. Seed dispersal appears to constrain forest regeneration and to influence fragment species composition as a function of the distance from the source forests.
2559611|The sources of food and the width and overlap of the food niches of Bombus atratus and Bombus morio were determined by field observations and analysis of the pollen loads carried to the colonies by worker bees. The two species together utilized 50 flower species of which 26 were used by both. Solanum paniculatum (Solanaceae) and Psidium guajava (Myrtaceae) were the most frequently visited plants. The food niche width and niche evenness for both species were similar. The correlation between niche width and niche evenness was non-significant showing that evenness does not depend on niche width. In addition, there was no correlation between niche width and overlap, i.e. overlap varied independently of niche width. A high overlap of food sources utilized by the two species was observed in September, October and November. This may be explained in one of two ways: (a) if B. atratus and B. morio compete for resources, competition would be more intense during those three months; (b) the convergency of both species to the same plant species (Solanum paniculatum and Psidium guajava) would only result in more intensive competition if resources were limiting. However, at that period of the year resources are abundant, therefore although the values of overlap were high, competition need not have occurred.
3068702|Spatial vegetation utilization of elephants was investigated within mixed woodland savanna along the Chobe River in northern Botswana in the dry season of 1998. Using multiple linear regression, accumulated stem breakage by elephants was predicted by a terrain index, distance to water, stand density, number of trees > 4 m tall, tree height, density of Combretum apiculatum, C. elaeagnoides, C. mossambicense and the density of other (accumulated) tree species. Within mixed woodland at 2-7 km distance from the river fine-grained terrain ruggedness was the most important factor contributing to 55% of observed differences in use by elephants, while distance to water and the density of C. apiculatum contributed an additional 20% and 4%, respectively to the multiple linear regression model. Stem breakage was, on average, almost twice as high in rugged terrain compared with flat terrain at similar distance to water within the same vegetation type. Rugged terrain had 2-3-fold higher proportion of plots with very high Combretum shrub densities. These results suggest that the terrain index may be useful in management, predicting the areas most sensitive to vegetation change in a woodland system with increasing elephant densities.
4091912|The assemblages of root-feeding chrysomelid larvae from 21 locally common tree species were studied in a secondary tropical forest in New Guinea and compared with confamilial larvae and adults feeding on the foliage. Larval host plants were inferred from adults emerging from the soil containing the roots of known tree species. In total, 2495 chrysomelids from 100 species were reared from the roots. Almost 90% of adults in the forest canopy recruited from the species with root-feeding larvae, while species with leaf-feeding larvae represented 1% of individuals (the feeding guild for the remaining 9% was unknown). The root-feeding larvae were thus more important in tropical than temperate forests, possibly because of predation pressure by ants on tropical vegetation. The number of chrysomelids emerging annually from the soil in 1 ha of the forest was approximately 0.2 million. Root-feeding larvae were polyphagous as their modal host range included three or four from the six plant families studied. The lack of correlation between the phylogenetic distance of tree species and the similarity of their chrysomelid assemblages indicated that host choice was not constrained by plant phylogeny. The host range of larvae feeding on roots was as wide as that of the conspecific adults feeding on the foliage. The density and species composition of larval and adult assemblages on the studied trees were not correlated. These results suggest that even studies restricted to adult assemblages, which represent a majority of chrysomelid studies, can be informative, as the composition of adult assemblages is not necessarily constrained by larval host-plant selection.
4091841|Ecologists agree on the importance of hurricanes in community dynamics in tropical forests but little is known of the responses of herbaceous species to large disturbances. The passage of Hurricane Georges over the island of Puerto Rico provided a unique opportunity to study the post-hurricane recovery of Heliconia caribaea, a large understorey herb. Five weeks after Georges, the types of vegetative damage, mortality and recovery were recorded and their relationship with plant size was established. The relationship between recovery strategy and leaf or stem damage severity was also determined. The abundance of H. caribaea seedlings in sites with severe or little forest canopy damage was recorded to determine the effects of canopy cover on seedling establishment. Most individuals showed severe leaf and stem damage. This was not related to plant size. Mortality was low and caused by fallen trees. Recovery was not associated with severity of leaf damage but more individuals with no signs of regeneration appeared among plants that had severe stem damage. Seedling abundance was higher in areas with severe canopy damage relative to those with closed canopy suggesting that hurricanes may benefit H. caribaea by creating suitable habitats for seedling establishment. We argue that recovery strategies like those exhibited by H. caribaea may be common among understorey plants, particularly in areas regularly subjected to large-scale disturbances.
4092024|This study addresses patterns of nutrient dynamics on a precipitation gradient
4092180|Tree recruitment is determined in part by the survivorship and growth of seedlings. Two seedling cohorts of the three most abundant caesalpiniaceous species forming groves at Korup, Cameroon, were followed from 1995/1997 to 2002, to investigate why Microberlinia bisulcata, the most abundant species, currently has very few recruits compared with Tetraberlinia korupensis and T. bifoliolata. Numbers of seedlings dying, and the heights and leaf numbers of survivors, were recorded on 30 occasions. Survivorship after 2.5 y was 30% for M. bisulcata and 59% for the similar Tetraberlinia spp. together. After 7 y the corresponding values were 4 and 21%. Growth of all species was slow for the first 4 y; but survivors of T. korupensis became 63% taller, as the other species stagnated, by 7 y. The poor recruitment of M. bisulcata was the result of its very low seedling survival. Within species, the tallest seedlings of M. bisulcata and T. bifoliolata, but medium-height ones of T. korupensis, survived longest. This was likely due to higher root allocation in T. korupensis. Seedling dynamics of M. bisulcata and T. korupensis over 7 y accorded well with relative abundances of adult trees; T. bifoliolata is predicted to recruit later.
2559449|This study examined the ecological distribution and abundance of the small mammal fauna in the Kora National Reserve, Kenya. Over a period of eight weeks, 3300 trap-nights yielded 11 species and a total of 298 small mammals. All 11 species were trapped in the diverse nyika habitat, whereas in the riverine habitat five species were trapped and the rock outcrops had only two species. However, the catch per trap-night was the highest on the rock outcrops compared with the riverine and nyika habitats. The duration of prebaiting had a marked effect on both diversity and abundance. With one exception, males of all species were in breeding condition whereas females tended to be more erratic. The biology of small mammal species in Kora in the dry season is discussed.
4091968| Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi colonization and response were studied in seedlings of 80 native woody species belonging to different successional groups from the Tibagi River Basin, Paran State, south Brazil. This study includes data from 43 native woody species already published. The results with 80 species did not differ from the results of the 43 species. The experiment was carried out in a greenhouse in plastic bags filled with a mix of subsoil (85%) and sand (15%), inoculated or not with spores of native AM fungi obtained from rhizosphere soil of different native tree species in an area with natural vegetation dominated by woody pioneer species. The successional groups were represented by 16 pioneer, 20 early secondary, 29 late-secondary and 15 climax species. The AM response and colonization in the greenhouse were 5.9 and 4.2 times greater in the early successional species than in the late-successional species, respectively. Seedlings of 49 woody species were collected in the interior under the canopy of the tropical forest of the Mata dos Godoy State Park and in a cleared area dominated by woody pioneer species. The percentage of AM colonization in the field was 54.9, 40.4, 7.2 and 3.1 for the pioneer, early secondary, late-secondary and climax species, respectively. The response to AM inoculation was strongly and directly related to AM colonization in the greenhouse and field and inversely related to seed weight. The AM colonization in the greenhouse was strongly and directly related to AM colonization in field. The late-successional species showed lower AM colonization and response than early successional species. The accentuated mycotrophism of the early successional species may be involved in their establishment, growth, survival and early forest structuring on low-fertility soils. 
27751656|Dung beetles are a functionally important component of most terrestrial ecosystems, but communities change with habitat disturbance and deforestation. In this study, we tested if dung beetle ensembles on dung of introduced cattle and of the endemic anoa, a small buffalo, are affected differentially by habitat disturbance. Therefore, we exposed 10 pitfall traps, five baited with anoa and five baited with cattle dung, per site in six habitat types ranging from natural and selectively logged rain forest to three types of agroforestry system (characterized by different management intensity) and open areas (n = 4 replicate sites per habitat type) at the margin of Lore Lindu National Park. Central Sulawesi, Indonesia. We found 28 species, 43% of which were endemic to Sulawesi. Species richness, abundance and biomass declined from natural forest towards open area. Large-bodied species appeared to be more sensitive to habitat disturbance and the ratio of large to small-sized dung beetles declined with land-use intensity. Although selectively logged forest and cocoa agroforestry systems had lower species richness compared with natural forest, they appeared to maintain a high portion of species originally inhabiting forest sites. The similarity of dung beetle ensembles recorded at forest and agroforestry sites reflects the high similarity of some habitat variables (e.g. vegetation structure and microclimate) between both habitat types compared with open areas. Species richness and abundances as well as species composition, which was characterized by decreases in mean body size, changed with land-use intensity, indicating that dung type is less important than habitat type for determining ensemble structure of these Indonesian dung beetles.
4092095|The effect of tillage, clipping, precipitation and temperature on above-ground grass production was investigated in permanent plots at a Zambian savanna site for 5 y (1996-2001) by the harvest method. Mean species richness was
2559867|Sympatric lizards in a transitional forest of Roraima, Brazil, dividing Amazon rain forest from savanna, contained a lizard assemblage of 16 species representing six families. Lizards varied in size, activity (diurnal versus nocturnal), microhabitats used, exposure to various conditions of light availability, prey types, and prey sizes. Overlaps in microhabitat occurrence varied from 0 (no overlap) to 1.0 (total overlap) whereas overlaps in prey types varied from 0.005 to 0.607. Microhabitat overlaps were higher overall than dietary overlaps. Pseudocommunity analyses on microhabitat data indicate that the community is not randomly assembled and that two distinct guilds exist, a leaf-litter guild and an arboreal guild, each with four species. Similar analyses on diet data revealed no apparent guild structure at the first rank (nearest neighbour). Lizard diets did not differ from a random assortment based on prey type. At lower levels, the assemblage was structured with respect to food. Variation in prey use among lizard species was tied more closely to the effect of lizard body size on prey size (lizards ate different-sized prey items). Although exploitative competition among species may maintain structure within this assemblage it does not necessarily cause the observed differences. Several species are nearly identical ecologically to sister taxa in other environments and within different lizard assemblages suggesting that composition of the local assemblage limits the species that can enter the assemblage. Finally, lack of structure at the lowest (most similar) neighbour ranks may reflect the impact of a transitional habitat on stability of species interactions at the local level.
2559629|Litterfall was sampled during one year in two undisturbed Andean forests at altitudes of 2550 and 3370 m in the Colombian Cordillera Central. Total small litterfall at 2550 and 3370 m was 7.03 and 4.31 t ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> respectively, of which 4.61 and 2.82 were leaves, 1.06 and 0.76 woody parts, 0.66 and 0.27 reproductive parts, 0.22 and 0.23 epiphytes, 0.47 and 0.23 unclassified. Clear differences were also found in nutrient concentrations, both between different litter fractions from one site and between equivalent litter fractions from different sites. Weighted mean concentrations for total small litterfall were (mg g<sup>-1</sup>, at 2550 and 3370 m respectively): 11.7 and 7.3 for nitrogen; 0.86 and 0.44 for phosphorus; 8.4 and 3.1 for potassium. Comparison of nutrient concentrations in crown leaves and shed leaves indicated important reallocation of nitrogen (39% at both sites) and phosphorus (45% at 2550 m, 65% at 3370 m) before leaf shedding. The results for litterfall amounts, litter nutrient concentrations and reallocation of nutrients in the two forests are consistent with such data obtained in other montane forests in the wet tropics.
4091963|Fleshy diaspores (fruits, seeds) comprise a large portion of the litter on the floor of tropical forests, and interactions involving litter-foraging ants and diaspores are common in these areas. In this study, the interactions between ants and non-myrmecochorous diaspores (i.e. not adapted to dispersal by ants) were surveyed along a 1.4-km transect in a restinga forest (sandy soil) on the coast of south-eastern Brazil. During 2 y of monthly samplings, 562 interactions involving 48 ant species and 44 species of diaspore (0.02-11.10 g) were recorded. Ant-diaspore associations involved a considerable part of the ground-dwelling ant community. Large ponerine ants individually removed the diaspores up to 13 m, whereas small ants (myrmicines) normally recruited workers and consumed the diaspore on the spot. Ant-derived benefits to diaspores of non-myrmecochorous plants included secondary dispersal (small to medium-sized diaspores), and increased germination success after seed cleaning by ants. Large ponerine ants such as Odontomachus chelifer and Pachycondyla striata were the main seed vectors. Seedlings of three species were associated with nests of O. chelifer. The results indicate that ants play an important role in fruit/seed biology in the restinga forest.
2560139|In a garden experiment we monitored tillering and flowering for target plants of two grass species, surrounded by one to five neighbours and compared them with control plants growing alone. We analysed the results using a non-linear regression. The species differed markedly in their seasonal patterns of growth but these differences faded when growing with two or more neighbours. The presence of neighbours had a significant depressing effect on both tillering and flowering in both species. Effects and responses were strongly asymmetrical concerning species and mode of growth. Andropogon semiberbis is in disadvantage against Trachypogon plumosus concerning vegetative growth. However, T. plumosus is strongly affected in its reproductive growth by competition not only from A. semiberbis but also from conspecific neighbours. We conclude that the complexity of interactions between effects and responses as well as vegetative and reproductive growth could have a net result of competitive equivalence or compensating competitive abilities of these two species.
3068792| The influence of local precipitation and temperature on long-term growth dynamics in two species of seasonally dry tropical forest trees were investigated. Growth records were extracted from tree rings in Guanacaste province, Costa Rica. These chronologies provide a long-term (c. 85-y) record of tree growth for two species with contrasting phenologies. Annual growth, in both species, was dependent on annual and/or monthly variation in local precipitation but less so on temperature. For each species, however, patterns of growth reflected unique degrees of sensitivity to monthly rainfall and rainfall during previous years. It is hypothesized that such differences were due to the rooting depth of these species. A review of the literature also indicated similar diverse cambial growth responses by tropical trees to variation in annual and monthly climate. Lastly, it was shown that variation in longer term fluctuations in the Pacific and Atlantic oceans, as measured by the El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO) and North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), significantly influenced local precipitation in Guanacaste only during the wettest portion of the wet season. Such temporal sensitivity may have differentially influenced the longer-term growth of some tropical tree species but not others. Together, these results support the hypothesis that tropical tree species respond individualistically to variation in local and regional climate and that some tropical assemblages may in fact be structured by species-specific differences in soil water-use. 
2559908|Conversion to permanent agriculture is rapidly occurring over vast areas of the 1.8 million km<sup>2</sup> Brazilian Cerrado; a region that is naturally a mosaic of grasslands, savannas and evergreen tropical woodlands. Yet, few studies have quantified total biomass of plant communities in this ecosystem, particularly the belowground component; a C pool of potential global significance. Total biomass (aboveground and belowground), and the quantity of biomass consumed by fires were measured in four plant communities comprising a vegetation gradient from pure grassland (campo limpo) to a woodland with a closed canopy of tall shrubs and scattered trees (cerrado denso) near Brasilia, DF, Brazil. Total aboveground biomass (TAGB) increased along this gradient from 5.5 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in campo limpo to 29.4 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in cerrado denso. Vegetation structure varied among communities; trees were nonexistent in campo limpo, but were at a density of 1000 ha<sup>-1</sup> and a biomass of 12.9 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in cerrado denso. Fires consumed 92 and 84% of the TAGB in campo limpo (pure grassland) and campo sujo (savanna), respectively. In cerrado aberto and cerrado denso, trees and tall shrubs were little affected by fire. Combustion factors of the TAGB in these communities was 54 and 33%, respectively. The total biomass consumed by fire ranged from 5.0 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in campo limpo to 13.5 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in cerrado aberto. Compared to other widespread Brazilian ecosystems (tropical dry forest and evergreen forest), the Cerrado has a lower aboveground biomass. The TAGB of cerrado denso is <9% of that of Amazonian tropical evergreen forest. The total quantity of biomass consumed by fire, and hence emissions to the atmosphere is lower in intact Cerrado communities compared to fires in slashed tropical forest. Total belowground biomass (TBGB) increased from 16.3 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in campo limpo, to 30.1 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in campo sujo, to 46.5 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in cerrado aberto, and to 52.9 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in cerrado denso. This quantity of belowground biomass is similar to, or exceeds that reported for many tropical dry and moist forests. More than 80% of the TBGB occurred in the upper 30 cm of the soil, except for cerrado denso (71%) where a greater proportion of tree roots were present at deeper levels. Root:shoot ratios were very high in all sites ranging from 2.9 in cerrado denso to 7.7 in campo sujo. Total ecosystem plant biomass (the total aboveground biomass and TBGB combined) ranged from 21.9 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in campo limpo to 77.9 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> in cerrado denso. More than 71% of the live phytomass (aboveground biomass + root biomass) is belowground in the Brazilian Cerrado. At current rates of land cover change in the Brazilian Cerrado, these ecosystem pools are likely significant sources of increasing atmospheric C and other greenhouse gasses.
2559919|Field experiments and survival analysis were used to test whether the Janzen-Connell model operated for two common Amazonian tree species in Peru: the midstorey palm, Astrocaryum murumuru, and the canopy-emergent legume, Dipteryx micrantha Seed and seedling survival patterns of these species partially supported the model, depending on tree species, type of predator, spatial scale and the particular year At a small scale of a 2 5-ha plot, Astrocaryum seed predation by insects and mammals was density-dependent. At a larger scale of 100 ha, Dipteryx seed survival increased with distance from conspecific adults, but for Astrocaryum seeds there was no distance dependence. At the scale of 200-400 ha Dipteryx seed survival was negatively related to the number of individuals present in groups of conspecific adult trees. In 1992 a higher proportion of Astrocaryum seedlings survived far from, compared with close to, conspecific adult trees, whilst in 1993 more Dipteryx seedlings survived beneath conspecific adult trees than farther away.
23012394|Pollinator visits to flowers of self-incompatible tropical trees are critical for plant fecundity. However, few studies have examined how much of the variance in tropical tree fecundity is explained by individual attributes of trees (e.g. number of flowers), and how much is due to contextual variables such as distances to nearest flowering neighbours. Using multiple regressions we examined the relative contributions of these factors to the pollination and fecundity of Goetzea elegans, a mainly self-incompatible tree endemic to Puerto Rico. We studied the largest wild population of the species during the peak flowering and collected data on the frequency of pollinator visits (N = 25 trees), and the fecundity of the whole population (N = 105), including the visitation rate of two pollinators (the honey bee Apis mellifera and the bananaquit Coereba flaveola), the total number of flowers produced by each tree, and the total fruit set and seed viability per tree. We also recorded the distance to flowering conspecifics and heterospecifics, and the height for each tree. Flower number had a strong positive effect on pollinator visitation, but distance to nearest neighbours was equally or more important than flower number in influencing fecundity. Also, competition for limited pollinators between G. elegans and other species has a stronger effect than the facilitation that conspecifics may provide. Our results suggest that pollinator visits and aspects of fecundity of G. elegans depend both on the attributes of individual plants, and on those of the community of other nearby plants.
2560001|This study examined whether postdispersal fruit and seed removal by terrestrial mammals of common plant species was affected by the type of item, item density (low, medium, high), and habitat (gap, mid-succession, mature). Fruits of Brosimum alicastrum and Ficus yoponensis (Moraceae), Astrocaryum mexicanum (Palmae), and Nectandra ambigens (Lauraceae), and seeds of Omphalea oleifera (Euphorbiaceae) and Cymbopetalum baillonii (Annonaceae) were tested at the Los Tuxtlas rainforest in Mexico. Item removal from 108 experimental patches (N = 2340 fruits or seeds for each plant species tested) after 5 d was lower for F. yoponensis (6.6%) than for N. ambigens (68.8%), B. alicastrum (67.8%) C. baillonii (64.0%) and A. mexicanum (60.0%). No seeds of O. oleifera were removed. A higher fruit or seed removal was observed from high density than low density food patches in A. mexicanum, C. baillonii and N. ambigens, but not in B. alicastrum and F. yoponensis. A higher fruit or seed removal was observed from food patches in mature forest than in gaps in all plant species tested. Similar removal values between open (open to all terrestrial mammals) and caged (open to small rodents) fruit and seed patches, abundant rodent live-trapping, and a scarcity of large terrestrial mammals, indicated that forest-dwelling small rodents were the main postdispersal removal agents. Differences in plant species seedling recruitment resulting from small rodent food choices can partially determine long-term forest floristic composition at the Los Tuxtlas rainforest.
2559875|Dual stable isotope analyses (<sup>13</sup>C and <sup>15</sup>N) of fiddler crabs from a forest-fringed, land-locked lagoon in Puerto Rico indicated the differential assimilation of material from ingested sediments. Fiddler crabs preferentially selected for nitrogen-fixing benthic microalgae (cyanobacteria) over vascular plant detritus. These results question the assumption that mangrove detritus is always the principal source of energy to estuarine consumers. Previous research from this lagoon as well as from Amazonia suggests that the magnitude of land-water ecotonal coupling may be low for these particular tropical systems where benthic algal productivity is presumably high.
23012396|Many plant species in tropical dry forests partly base their ability to persist after disturbance on resprouting. Yet little is known if this ability can be affected by the intensity and seasonality of disturbance and whether the amount of resources (starch, N, P) stored in the taproot may constrain this response. We investigated resprouting after experimental clipping or burning, applied before or after the dry season and repeatedly in Acacia pennatula individuals in wooded rangelands of North-West Nicaragua. Each treatment was applied to 12 trees and replicated in six plots. One year after the onset of the experiment, survival and biomass recovery were significantly lower in burned than in clipped individuals (78%  4% and 75.3  8.0 g vs. 94%  2% and 79.1  6.8 g; mean  SE). Whatever the disturbance applied, trees disturbed after the dry season significantly showed the lowest survival, growth and concentration of N and P. These results suggest that resprouting in dry tropical species may be constrained by intense disturbances (e.g. burning) but especially if they occur towards the end of the dry season. This phenological constraint could be due to the reduced availability of N and P as this dry season progresses.
23012381|Bird species assemblages in isolated Neotropical highland mountains have been moulded by the drastic climatic changes that occurred in late Pleistocene. Palynological evidence indicates that after the Pleistocene the highlands of Costa Rica and western Panama became isolated as climate turned gradually more tropical and highland vegetation retreated to the upper elevations of high mountains, forming highland islands. We surveyed birds at 10 representative sites throughout the Costa Rican highlands in order to determine the species composition of highland endemic assemblages. The area of available highland habitat explains 77% of the variance in species richness of the 36 highland endemics across highland islands, and the composition of these species assemblages have a nested distribution, rather than being independent sets of species on each island. The observed nested pattern is more consistent with a differential extinction model of species assemblages, and less likely to be explained by differential migration. We conclude that the reduction of highland vegetation and the avifauna associated with it, and its subsequent confinement to the summit of high mountains, is a possible explanation for the current distribution of highland endemic species in Costa Rican highland islands.
4092109|Many studies have shown that plant or bird invasions can be facilitated by native species, but few have demonstrated the possibility of a positive interaction between introduced species. We analysed the relationships between four invasive alien fleshy-fruited plants, Clidemia hirta, Rubus alceifolius, Lantana camara, Schinus terebinthifolius, and an invasive alien bird, the red-whiskered bulbul Pycnonotus jocosus introduced to Reunion Island (Indian Ocean). We compared the distribution of food items in the bulbul diet according to seasons and to abundance classes of this bird. Pycnonotus jocosus is mostly frugivorous and frequently eats the main alien plants (more than 80% frequency of food items). Sites with alien species, such as Clidemia hirta, providing fruits throughout the year supported more birds than sites providing fruits, such as Schinus terebinthifolius, seasonally. The birds facilitated seed germination by removing the pulp of fruit: the final per cent germination (FG) of cleaned seeds was higher than those within the fruit for three of the four plant species and in some cases passage through birds significantly increased FG (Schinus terebinthifolius) or Coefficient of Velocity (CV) (Lantana camara).
4091979| Within the last decade the study of phenology has taken on new importance because of its contribution to climate-change research. However, phenology data sets spanning many years are rare in the tropics, making it difficult to evaluate possible responses of tropical communities to climate change. Here we use two data sets (1970-1983 and 1990-2002) to describe the fruiting patterns of the tropical tree community in Kibale National Park, Uganda. To address variation in spatial patterns, we describe fruiting over 2-3 y among four sites each separated by 12-15 km. Presently, the Kibale region is receiving c. 300 mm more rain than it did at the start of the century, droughts are less frequent, the onset of the rainy season is earlier, and the average maximum monthly temperature is 3.5 C hotter than it was 25 y ago. The 1990-2002 phenology data illustrated high temporal variability in the proportion of the populations fruiting. Interannual variation in community-wide fruit availability was also high; however, the proportion of trees that fruited has increased over the past 12+y. At the species level a variety of patterns were exhibited; however, a number of the most common species currently rarely fruit, and when they do, typically < 4% of the individuals take part in fruiting events. Combining the data set from 1990 to 2002 with that from 1970 to 1983 for specific species again reveals an increase in the proportion of trees fruiting between 1990 and 2002; however, the proportion of the populations fruiting decreased during the earlier period. When one examines particular species over this whole period a variety of patterns are evident. For example, Pouteria altissima exhibited a relatively regular pattern of fruiting during the 1970s; however, it rarely fruited in the 1990s. Contrasting phenological patterns at four sites revealed that at the community level the fruiting patterns of only one of the six pair-wise site combinations were correlated. Relationships between rainfall and fruiting were variable among sites. Contrasting changes in fruiting patterns over the 30 y with differences among the four sites varying in rainfall, suggests that the changes observed in fruiting may be due to climate change. Responses to this climate change are likely complex and will vary among species. However, for some species, current conditions appear unsuitable for fruiting. 
2560111|Spiders from 10 rainforest tree canopies in Borneo were sampled by knockdown insecticide fogging. Spider density ranged from 2.0 to 10.1 m<sup>-2</sup> on different trees, and species numbers ranged from 16 to 62; species diversity, as measured by William's , ranged from 26 to 92. Similarity of the spider assemblages on individual trees was low, whether measured by the number of shared species or the Morisita-Horn index of similarity. The contribution of five descriptor variables of tree taxonomy and structure to the similarity of the spider assemblages on different trees was assessed using stepwise multiple regression. No variable made a significant contribution to the variation in similarity indices for the spider assemblages and it was concluded that either other factors were important in determining similarity or that the measurement of these variables was too imprecise. In particular, there was no evidence that taxonomic similarity between tree species influenced the similarity of spider assemblages. Results were compared with similar data from tropical and sub-tropical rainforests in Sulawesi and Australia. Species densities in Borneo and Sulawesi were similar but lower than in Australia. Species richness and diversity were markedly higher in the Bornean rainforest than in Sulawesi or Australia.
2559499|The population size structure and adult sex ratio were recorded for four indigenous and one introduced species of terrestrial isopod from southern Africa. Interspecific variation was considerable with either discrete or continuous distributions indicative of the production of separate cohorts or continuous recruitment. Intraspecific variation was also considerable particularly in species such as Aphiloscia vilis which can be found in diverse habitats. Sex ratios were consistently female biased, a result consistent with observations made on temperate species. These observations, and a consideration of sexual dimorphism based on body mass, suggest that phenotypic plasticity may be an important tactic in the life histories of tropical woodlice and that in some populations the potential exists for strong sexual competition and complex mating systems.
40925438|Tree species are potential hosts for epiphytes; however in some forests epiphytes have a biased distribution among hosts. In a tropical dry forest of Mexico, previous research showed that there are trees with few epiphytes. It is possible that the bark of these hosts contain allelochemicals that influence epiphyte seed germination. The aims of this study were (1) to determine whether hosts with low epiphyte abundance (Ipomoea murucoides, I. pauciflora and Lysiloma acapulcense) would inhibit seed germination of Tillandsia recurvata through aqueous and organic bark extracts, (2) to determine whether germination of T. recurvata would differ among the hosts with low epiphyte abundance and a host with high epiphyte abundance (Bursera copallifera) and (3) to relate the chemical composition of organic bark extracts with inhibition of T. recurvata seed germination. Hexanic and dichloromethanic extracts were partially chemically characterized. Total phenolics and flavonoids concentrations of methanolic extracts were analysed. Aqueous and organic bark extracts from hosts with few epiphytes inhibited T. recurvata seed germination. Aqueous and dichloromethanic extracts of B. copallifera inhibited slightly the germination of T. recurvata. There was a positive correlation between concentration of flavonoids and inhibition of seed germination. Results suggest that a combination of compounds may be responsible for affecting the germination of T. recurvata. This study demonstrates the chemical effect of aqueous and organic bark extracts from hosts on germination of an epiphytic bromeliad.
25172909|The decomposition of litter of two tree species Graffenrieda emarginata (Melastomataceae), Purdiaea nutans (Cyrillaceae) and the mixture of both was investigated in a tropical montane rain forest in southern Ecuador at two different altitudes (1850 and 2280 m). The two litter types differed strongly in nitrogen concentration, suggesting that G. emarginata (1.21% N) decomposes faster than P. nutans (0.73% N). To study the effect of soil micro-arthropods on the decomposition process, litterbags with mesh-size of 48 m, excluding soil micro-arthropods, and 1 mm, allowing colonization by soil micro-arthropods, were used. Litter mass loss was measured after 2, 6 and 12 mo exposure in the field; further, microbial biomass and micro-arthropod colonization of the litter were investigated after 2 and 12mo. Generally, litter decomposed faster at 1850 m than at 2280 m (60% and 76% dry mass remaining after 12 mo, respectively); G. emarginata and mixed litter decomposed faster than P. nutans litter. After 12 mo mixed litter decomposed faster (65% of dry mass remaining) than both individual litter species (70% and 71% of dry mass of G. emarginata and P. nutans litter remaining, respectively) indicating that non-additive effects contributed to litter decomposition. Microbial biomass increased during the experiment and was higher at 1850 m than at 2280 m. The most abundant micro-arthropods in both litter types were oribatid mites followed by Collembola, Gamasina, Uropodina and Prostigmata + Astigmata. Micro-arthropods were generally more abundant at 1850 m suggesting higher biotic activity at lower altitudes. Soil micro-arthropods contributed little to decomposition processes indicating that litter decomposition is mainly due to micro-organisms.
4091873|The effects of N, P, NP and NPKS application on plant growth, above-ground primary production and N and P accumulation in the above-ground biomass of a flooded savanna were assessed over two growth cycles. Application of N or P did not improve plant growth and primary production, addition of NP had a noticeable effect, whereas NPKS fertilization led to a three-fold increase in plant production. The four most important grasses in the analysed ecosystem responded to nutrient application with increasing growth, indicating that they all are constrained by nutrient availability, but each species exhibited a different seasonal growth pattern suggesting a temporal division of nutrient resources. N accumulated in the harvested biomass during the growth season was 50% above that of control plants when NP was applied and showed a four-fold increase when NPKS was added. With NP addition, in 2 mo plants accumulated three times more P in the harvested biomass than the control plants. The maximum N accumulated during the growth season in the NPKS treatment represented half the fertilizer N, and probably all the N added
4092030|The natural seed shadow created by gibbons (Hylobates mulleri x agilis) in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia, was monitored over 11 mo to discern the role of gibbons and post-dispersal events in the spatial pattern of seed germination. Variability in the content and distribution of 183 scats was used to determine which, if any, scat characteristics influenced seed fate. Nine scat characters were evaluated: (1) seed number; (2) number of seed species per scat; (3) scat weight; (4) seed load; (5) rainfall; (6) scat density; (7) distance to nearest fruiting tree; (8) ripe fig abundance; (9) non-fig fruit abundance. More than 99% of monitored seeds were killed, removed, or had germinated during the monitoring period. Vertebrates killed or removed most seeds (86%) and the probability of them moving seeds was highly dependent on non-fig fruit abundance at the time of deposition; factors (2), (6) and (7) also influenced seed removal/predation by vertebrates, depending on whether seeds were deposited in peak or non-peak times of consumption. Insect predation (2% of seeds) occurred mainly in scats that were deposited in months of high ripe fig abundance, while the actual chance of a seed germinating (11% of seeds) was influenced by non-fig fruit abundance at time of deposition and number of species in the original scat. The gibbon-generated seed shadow was profoundly altered by post-dispersal events and variation in the characteristics of the shadow had little lasting impact on the probability of seeds germinating.
4092150|Relating patterns of species abundance to the processes that determine them at local and regional spatial scales is one of the central aims of ecological research. To examine the relationship between distribution and growth in tropical rain forest, seasonal and annual changes in tree diameter of two tree species with contrasting distribution patterns, Celtis mildbraedii and Strombosia glaucescens, were monitored across topographic gradients in moist semi-deciduous and moist evergreen forest in Ghana over 2 years, 1997-9. Concurrent measurements were made of soil water availability, and during 1997/8, of rainfall, nutrient availability and photosynthetically active radiation (PAR). The two sites received similar, low, total rainfall during 1997/8, but soil water availability in the dry season at the evergreen site exceeded that at the semi-deciduous forest site. Soil water availability was higher during 1998/9 at both sites. During 1997/8, PAR was similar at the two sites. The evergreen site had soils of lower pH, available P, Mg, Ca and K concentrations than the semi-deciduous forest site. Water availability and the sand content of the soil increased and concentrations of total N and C decreased, from summit to valley positions at both sites. Celtis mildbraedii had significantly faster growth rates than S. glaucescens, and growth of both species was greater at the semi-deciduous than the evergreen forest site during the wet year (1998/9) but not during the dry year (1997/8). Celtis mildbraedii in semi-deciduous forest grew less in valley than summit and slope positions. We conclude that in the absence of a severe dry season, growth is higher in semi-deciduous than evergreen forest, and is related to the higher soil fertility in more seasonal forest. The patterns are consistent with the hypothesis that concentrations of available P and/or cations in the soil limit growth in evergreen forest, while concentrations of N in valley soils limit growth of C. mildbraedii in semi-deciduous forest. There was no evidence that variation in PAR influenced growth rates in these forests. A reduction in growth rate on less fertile soils may be a factor determining the distribution limit of dry forest species, such as C. mildbraedii, in evergreen forest.
2559228|Effects of tree species heterogeneity on leaf fall were studied in a primary (4 ha) and in a selectively logged forest plot (2.5 ha) in the Ulu Segama Forest Reserve, Sabah, Malaysia, from April 1988 to December 1989. Leaf fall was collected at 30 sampling points in each plot, and identified to species. Dipterocarpaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Lauraceae, Fagaceae and Meliaceae are important tree families in both plots with regard to their contribution to total basal area, tree density and annual leaf fall. The total number of tree species was higher in the primary forest plot (267) than in the logged forest plot (218), although the number of climber species was higher in the logged forest (44) than in the primary forest plot (33). The overlap in species composition between the two forest plots was relatively small (49%) compared with that in family composition (88%). In the primary forest plot, the Dipterocarpaceae contributed 29% of the total basal area and 34% of the annual leaf fall. In the logged forest plot these contributions were much lower, 11% and 15%. The contribution to annual leaf fall made by climbers and pioneer trees was higher in the logged forest plot (34%) than in the primary forest plot (8%). In the primary forest plot, leaf fall was dominated by large emergent and main canopy trees, mainly dipterocarps, and occurred as regular large peaks. In the logged forest leaf fall was dominated by climbers and many, relatively small trees of pioneer species, such as Macaranga hypoleuca, and was more evenly distributed in time.
4092033|Major components of the flux density of global photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) were measured above and within canopies in a tropical deciduous forest on the Pacific coast of Mexico. At each of 69 locations grouped along a topographic sequence the PAR reflected from the top of the canopy, the vertical profile of transmittance, and the reflectance from the ground, were measured as many as four times in the year, including the extremes of the wet and dry seasons. With these observations an annual balance of the portion of PAR radiation reflected and absorbed by the canopy and ground was assembled and the detailed spatial and temporal dynamics of PAR within canopy layers were estimated. Canopy stature declined along the topographic sequence and the shape of the transmittance profiles reflected this. In locations of declining moisture availability the fraction of PAR absorbed by the ground increased and the fraction absorbed by non-foliar tissues decreased. Seasonal variation in canopy structure was the dominant influence on the partitioning of radiation - spatial variation was less important. Of a total annual PAR input of
2560207|The morphology and allometry of the winged diaspores of 25 species in the Asian Sterculiaceae were studied. The diaspores of pioneer trees are characterized by light mass and large wings. Although their parent tree heights are low in most cases, these light diaspores are easily blown upward and widely dispersed. The diaspores of Heritiera, a genus mainly found in primary forest, can be divided into groups with large and small wings by their values of the square-root of wing loading. The frequency distribution of mature tree heights for trees with the large-and small-winged diaspores are skewed into high and low statures, respectively. Therefore, the tree size at maturity may play a vital role in determining the morphology of the diaspores. Among the large-winged diaspores, shape is almost retained, despite size change. Consequently, larger diaspores have more mass per unit of wing area, suggesting that larger diaspores fall more quickly than smaller ones. Diaspore mass is approximately proportional to the nut volume. The enlargement of the nut clearly appears to be beneficial for seedling establishment and survival under a closed canopy. However, increasing nut volume reduces the potential for wind dispersal. The fact that large-winged diaspores were always lighter than their small-winged counterparts suggests that the heavier diaspores with small wings are not dispersed, preferentially by wind. Consequently, the present study supports the hypothesis made by Suzuki & Ashton (1996): that the evolution of small wings appears to have arisen mainly due to a reduction in tree height and an increase in nut size.
23012361|To clarify the potential influence of different browsers in the same guild on woody vegetation, dietary overlap and separation between elephant, giraffe, kudu, nyala and impala was assessed in Hluhluwe-iMfolozi Park, South Africa. Woody species browsed, browsing heights, plant-parts browsed and browsing versus grazing were recorded over 2 y by direct observation. We obtained 3068 browse records. Niche breadth (Levins' measure) and overlap (Schoener's index) in species browsed and browsing heights were calculated. Annual and seasonal differences in these measurements, plant-part use and browsing versus grazing were assessed. Elephant utilized the largest number (n = 78) of different woody plant species. Overlap in species browsed was lower between elephant and other browsers than amongst the latter. Seasonal rainfall influenced the range of woody plants utilized, niche breadth in terms of species browsed and browsing versus grazing. Marked resource depletion caused elephant, contrary to theoretical predictions, to narrow niche breadth in terms of species browsed. However, resource depletion rarely had a significant effect on interspecific overlap in species browsed or overlap in browsing heights, on actual browsing heights or plant-parts utilized. A small suite (n = 8) of woody species formed the core diet of all guild members, implying the potential for synergistic impacts by guild members on these species and for competition between populations of different guild members.
4499134|Resource partitioning has been hypothesized to play a role in the maintenance of tree diversity in tropical forests. We looked for evidence of light and soil moisture partitioning among seedlings of four native Malagasy tree species, the pioneer, gap-adapted species Harungana madagascariensis and the three shade-tolerant species Ocotea cymosa, Stephanostegia capuronii and Uapaca ferruginea. Four hundred and eighty seedlings were transplanted in experimental plots in the Tampolo coastal forest and grown for 2 y. Growth rates increased with increasing light availability for all species, and with increasing dry-season soil moisture for H. madagascariensis. With increasing light availability, survival increased for H. madagascariensis, S. capuronii and U. ferruginea but decreased for O. cymosa. While dry-season soil moisture did not influence the growth or survival of the shade-tolerant species, it interacted with understorey light in its effect on the performance of H. madagascariensis, which performed better in wet soils at high light than in dry soils in shade. Rank reversals in species performance suggested that three of the four tree species partition resource gradients as seedlings, mostly light and secondarily dry-season soil moisture. There was only partial agreement between the performance of transplanted seedlings and the distribution of natural seedlings of the same four species with respect to light and soil moisture, suggesting that the success of tropical tree regeneration can only be partly accounted for by seedling performance across resource gradients.
2559895|The effects of escape distance to parental trees and tree clusters on the removal of Brazil-nut seeds (Bertholletia excelsa, Lecythidaceae) by vertebrate seed predators were examined in an entirely undisturbed stand of Brazil-nut trees of eastern Amazonia Population density estimates, based on line-transect censuses, are also presented for Bertholletia trees and agoutis (Dasyprocta leporina), the most important scatterhoarder and seed predator of Brazil-nuts at this site. Seed removal experiments were conducted within and outside a natural Bertholletia tree cluster (castanhal) during both the wet and dry seasons While there were no within-cluster effects of escape distance from parent trees on seed removal rates, overall seed removal within the cluster was significantly greater than that well outside the cluster Moreover, removal rates in the wet season were consistently higher than those in the dry season both within and outside the tree cluster. Results suggest that the probability of early seed survival for Bertholletia, in relation to distance to seed sources, operates on different spatial scales, and that seed predators allocate greater foraging effort to scattered seeds during the fruitfall (wet) season, when buried seed stocks are being cached by agoutis
2559753|A life-form classification from Neotropical Gramineae is proposed for 113 native species from eastern lowland Bolivia. A factor analysis was performed on a correlation matrix of 51 vegetative attributes to identify `character suites,' which were then used as the basis for the classification. The principal types are arboreal, liana, shrub-like, forb-like, bunch grass with basal foliage, bunch grass with basal and caulescent foliage, caespitose annuals, elongate rhizomes, turf grass, stoloniferous, and decumbent (the last category is further divided into subgroups: -perennial, -indefinite, -floating aquatic, and -vine-like). A key component of the life-form classification is the morphology of leaf blades, with five major patterns recognized: elongate and inrolled, elongate and conduplicate, elongate and flat with an attenuate base, short and broad with an amplexicaule base, and short and broad with a pseudopetiole. The distribution and relative abundance of three major photosynthetic categories were compared with life-form and habitat preference. Photosynthetic type of individual species was identified based on leaf anatomy. C4-(XyMS-) species predominated in cerradao, cerrado, campo rupestre, valleyside campos, and seasonally inundated savanna, as well as on granite outcrops. C4-(XyMS+) species were relatively rare in all habitats, but were significantly more abundant in the xeric microenvironments of granite outcrops. C3 species predominated in semi-deciduous forest and increased in relative abundance in wetland habitats. Caespitose annuals and bunch grass species were predominantly C4 type, while arboreal and liana species were uniformly C3 type. Grasses classified as decumbent or shrub-like were predominantly C3 type, while rhizomatous, stoloniferous, and forblike grasses were a mixture of C3 and C4 type. The intent of the study was to group morphological characteristics objectively in order to derive a life-form classification specific for the Gramineae. Comparisons of the relative abundance of the various life-forms in a broad range of habitat types provide a descriptive assessment of the adaptive value of these characteristics.
4091858| This study describes a pollination system in a species of Araceae that involves three species of beetle. one of which is also a fruit predator. In a tropical cloud forest in Colombia, inflorescences of Xanthosoma daguense opened at dusk, releasing a sweet scent and raising their temperature 1-3 C. Soon after, two species of Scarabaeidae (Dynastinae; Cyclocephala gregaria and C. amblyopsis) and one species of Nitidulidae (Macrostola costulata) arrived with pollen. Cyclocephala beetles remained inside the inflorescence for 24 h. The next night, Cyclocephala beetles left the inflorescence after picking up the freshly shed pollen, almost always moving to the nearest inflorescence available. The probability of inflorescence abortion and number of fruits set after the visit of one individual was equivalent for both Cyclocephala species. However, C. gregaria was much more abundant than C. amblyopsis, so it was the most important pollinator. There was a positive relationship between the number of dynastine visits and the number of fruits produced. Besides carrying pollen to the inflorescences, nitidulid beetles had a negative effect on female reproductive success through fruit predation. Nitidulid larvae developed inside the infructescence and preyed on up to 64% of the fruits. However, 8% of inflorescences not visited by dynastines were probably pollinated by nitidulids. because hand-pollination experiments showed that self-pollination was unlikely. Inflorescences potentially pollinated by nitidulids comprised 25% of the fruit crop in the year of our study. This interaction with a fruit predator that is also a potential pollinator resembles brood-site pollination systems in which pollinators prey on part of the fruit set (e.g. Ficus, senita cacti, Yucca), making this system substantially more complex than previously described dynastine-pollinated systems in aroids. 
3068750| To examine the influence of seasonality on the abundance and composition of species in the community, we studied the seed rain and the seed bank in a seasonal, semi-deciduous forest in south-eastern Brazil. Soil samples (depth 3 cm, 0.25 m
3068706|The aim of this work was to analyse the phenological variation of a residual invasive semi-evergreen shrub in Sahelian fallows in Niger. This species, Guiera senegalensis (Combretaceae), has benefited from the elimination of other species thanks to its high resistance to the increasing cutting pressure for cultivation. We sought to identify traits of its life cycle that could contribute to its persistence and widespread dominance under such a disturbance regime. Leafing, flowering and fruiting were monitored on seven fallows differing in topographic location, age, shrub density and degradation state, during two rainy seasons and one dry season. Phenological spectra showed similar timing of the three phenophases of the seven populations. Differences were observed mainly in magnitude of the phases. However, there were both a high intra-fallow variability (64.6% of the whole variability) and a statistically significant inter-fallow variability, despite only 35.4% of the total variability being due to differences between fallows. A statistical classification of the fallows was proposed based on shrub phenological course over the two cycles monitored. This classification corresponds to a gradient of life-cycle achievement primarily linked to the topographic situation of the stations, and then to a combination of other factors. The flexibility of the phenology at the individual, population and metapopulation scales, inherent to its specific semi-evergreenness property, appeared as an essential phenological attribute contributing to successful widespread persistence of G. senegalensis in the study area.
2559994|A field experiment was conducted to test the effects of simulated folivory on leaf production, plant growth rate and mortality of small individuals of Metrodorea pubescens in an evergreen gallery forest in central Brazil. Although complete defoliation decreased annual growth rate, both in absolute and relative values, it also stimulated leaf production. Mortality was observed only in individuals in the smallest size class, but was not statistically related to percentage defoliation. Recovery of completely defoliated individuals was rapid and after one year over 70% of their initial number of leaves was present. It is probable that insect folivory is not a direct cause of mortality of juveniles of this species.
4092151|Baseline ecological studies of pristine mangroves are important for monitoring, management and conservation of mangrove ecosystems. Diversity, density, biomass and community structure of crab and molluscan macrofauna were studied in a near-pristine mangrove forest in Sematan, Sarawak. In each of the nine 100-m
25172979|Understanding how species assemblages are structured in relation to environmental variation is a central issue in community ecology. However, factors that create regional variation in relative species abundances have been little studied due to the rarity of large-scale datasets. Here, we investigated a large dataset (30 180 0.5-ha plots spread over 1 600 000 ha) gathered from forest planning inventories in the semi-deciduous forest of the south western Central African Republic. We used Correspondence Analysis and Non-Symmetric Correspondence Analysis on Instrumental Variables to analyse variation in the abundance of 73 common tree species in relation to soil type, rainfall and proximity to villages. Together, environmental variables explained 10.3% of multi-species floristic variation among plots, and the regional spatial structure almost disappeared when the effects of these variables were removed. A Trend Surface Analysis using a third order polynomial function of the geographical coordinates of the plots explained 14.5% of the floristic variation and more than 75% of this variation was explained by environmental variables. Sandy soil was the most influential factor affecting floristic composition. Residual spatial variation not explained by the environmental variables probably reflects the natural and anthropogenic history of the vegetation.
2560325|The populations of two dominant isopod species in a Pinus merkusii forest on the southern slope of mount Ungaran in central Java, Indonesia, were periodically sampled during one year using Tullgren extractions from soil cores. The aim of the research was to collect more information about the life-cycles of tropical isopods by analysing size-class distributions of two sympatric isopod species, belonging to the genus Burmoniscus. Biomass of the populations was estimated from length-weight conversions established for each species in the laboratory. The efficiency of the Tullgren extraction method was estimated by comparison to hand sorting; no difference was found between these methods. The abundance of the two species differed significantly with time. Burmoniscus Sp. A was more abundant during the wet season, whereas the population fluctuations of Burmoniscus Sp. B were more spread over the year. Reproduction of both species took place in the wet season. Burmoniscus Sp. A had one generation per year, while for Burmoniscus Sp. B the situation was unclear due to extensive overlap of size classes. Comparisons were made with isopod abundance in other tropical and temperate forests. The mean density of the two species found in this study was 258 m<sup>-2</sup> for Burmoniscus Sp. A and 272 m<sup>-2</sup> for Burmoniscus Sp. B, while biomass was 80.4 mg m<sup>-2</sup> and 37.6 mg m<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. The data suggest that densities of isopods in tropical pine forests may be considerably higher than in comparable temperate ecosystems.
4091978|Temporal variation in activity of dung and carrion beetles in tropical forest is considered as a mechanism of ecological segregation between potentially competing species. We describe the diel flight activity of Scarabaeidae collected with baited pitfall traps at Les Nouragues field station in French Guiana. A total of 2663 individuals of 63 species was recorded, from the subfamilies Coprinae, Scarabaeinae and Aphodinae. Temporal guilds of diurnal, nocturnal and crepuscular species were identified. Diurnal species were about twice as numerous and abundant as either nocturnal or crepuscular species. Two main activity patterns characterize the diurnal species while nocturnal and crepuscular species show overlapping activity. The association of activity rhythm with the other niche variables, food selection, functional group, body size and relative abundance, was analysed using multiple correspondence analysis. Small diurnal coprophagous species were opposed to large crepuscular necrophagous species. Species packing is suggested but further analysis showed that the variables were independent of one another. The temporal differentiation of species combined with separation along multiple niche dimensions and resource gradients may facilitate the coexistence of species assumed to be strongly affected by interspecific competition.
23012408|We performed a pot experiment in which 540 seedlings of nine non-pioneer light-demanding tree species were grown for 12 months in shade houses at three light levels, 46% daylight, 13% daylight and 2% daylight, to examine the mechanisms contributing to the coexistence of seedlings of non-pioneer light-demanding tree species in secondary successional tropical rain forest in Hainan, China. Growth and survival of tree seedlings were compared at different light levels, and the morphological and physiological correlates of high-light seedling growth and low-light survival across species were determined. For all species, mortality was very low in the 46% daylight and 13% daylight treatment but increased significantly in the 2% daylight treatment. Seedling survival in 2% daylight treatment was positively related to seed mass. Trade-off between high-light growth and low-light survival was more evident in the relationship with 2% daylight treatment as compared with 13% daylight treatment. Relative growth rate in the 2% daylight treatment was not significantly related to relative growth rate in the 13% daylight or 46% daylight treatment; although a slight negative correlation was apparent. Interspecific variation in RGRm was only closely correlated with net assimilation rate (NAR). The results provide some support for the niche-partitioning hypothesis.
4092167|This study describes forest succession following slash-and-burn agriculture in central Amazonia, based on four chronosequences (22 sites) of 2- to 25-y-old secondary regrowth and mature forest. Biomass accumulated in the form of a saturation curve: 25 y of regrowth restored half of the mature-forest biomass, 75% would be restored after an estimated 175 y. Biomass accumulation was accompanied by a rapid decrease in woody plant density and an increase of the positive skew of plant size distribution. Liana biomass share declined from 5.0% in young to 1.9% in old regrowth, and 1.3% in mature forest, whereas the share of palms was low (0.5%) in young regrowth and high in old regrowth (1.8%) and mature forest (2.2%). 25-y-old regrowth was similar with mature forest in respect to woody plant density and growth-form composition, but both the plant size distribution and the number of stems per plant differed strongly from mature forest. A moderate increase in land use had only minor effects on biomass accumulation, but profoundly changed structural characteristics of regrowth, pointing to a high vulnerability to degradation. Thus, the sustainability of slash-and-burn in central Amazonia may be lower than the rapid initial biomass accumulation would make it seem.
3068759|Secondary fallow vegetation in parts of the Papua New Guinea lowlands is dominated by the shrub Piper aduncum L. that originates from South America. Here we report on its seed bank, growth rate and biomass accumulation. P. aduncum accounted for 69 % (408 m
27751644|Litter decomposition is a fundamental process for nutrient cycling but we have a limited understanding of this process in disturbed tropical forests. We studied litter decomposition over a 10-mo period in a seasonally dry Amazon forest in Mato Grosso, Brazil. The study plots (50 ha each) included unburned forest (UF), once-burned (BF1) and forest burned annually for 3 y (BF3). We measured understorey density, litter depth, canopy openness, temperature and relative humidity in the plots. Decomposition experiments took place using 720 litterbags filled with approximately 10 g of natural abscised oven-dried leaves. To test the effects of fire on soil meso- and macrofauna, the litterbags had either a fine (2 mm) or coarse (with 1-cm holes in side) mesh size. Litterbags were collected and reweighed 2, 4, 6 and 8 mo after being placed on the forest floor. All forest structure variables were significantly different across plots: BF3 was hotter, less humid, had the highest degree of canopy openness, lowest understorey density and the shallowest litter depth. Litter decomposition (mass loss) was similar in the once-burned and unburned plots, but declined more slowly in BF3. In addition, decomposition was slower in fine-mesh litterbags than coarse-mesh litterbags in BF3, but there was no difference between mesh sizes in BF1 and UF. It is likely that changes in forest structure and microclimate explain the lower decomposition rates in BF3. These results show the importance of recurrent fires, but suggest that single understorey fires may not have long-term negative effects on some ecological processes in seasonally dry Amazonian forests.
2559532|Soil seed banks from four Mexican lower montane forests were studied. These forests are in the transition zone between neartic and Neotropical floristic regions. Soil seed bank characteristics were biased toward the dominant - temperate or tropical - phytogeographical affinity The northern site (El Cielo Biosphere Reserve, Tamaulipas) had the lowest seed density, 720 seeds m<sup>-2</sup>. The eastern (Rancho La Mesa, Veracruz), western (Sierra de Manantlan Biosphere Reserve, Jalisco) and southern (El Triunfo Biosphere Reserve, Chiapas) sites all had much higher seed densities (2291, 2901, and 2341 seeds m<sup>-2</sup>, respectively). Germinated tropical species seeds were more abundant than temperate species seeds at all four sites, and were higher for southern and intermediate sites when compared with the northern site On the basis of family, El Cielo appears to be different The tropical family Melastomataceae was absent from this northern site, whereas it represented >30% of total germinated seeds at the other three sites. Trees were the most abundant life form at the southern site but were particularly poorly represented in the eastern and northern sites. Herbs were very abundant in the eastern, western and northern sites but were poorly represented in the seed bank of the southern site. The four seed banks differ between themselves and resemble seed banks of neither temperate deciduous nor tropical forests. In some ways they are unique, at least with respect to floristic composition, seed density, and life form representation
3068703| Lianas of Yasun National Park and the Huaorani Ethnic Reserve, Ecuador were sampled using 0.2-ha subsamples from 12 1-ha plots. Using surveys and herbarium collections, the total species richness of lianas in the park and reserve is estimated to be close to 500 species. Terra firme habitats are significantly more species rich than floodplain habitats, but density of stems is not significantly different between habitats. The most abundant liana species is Machaerium cuspidatum Kuhlm. & Hoehne (Fabaceae) in both floodplain and terra firme habitats, representing more than 10% of all stems in census plots. Analysis of rarity indicates that none of the liana species encountered on the 12 plots is rare in terms of geographic range, and many species are not rare in terms of population size or habitat specificity. The rank order of abundance, combined with the coefficient of variability in species distribution among plots, is used to identify the 38 species (an oligarchy) that dominate forests in Yasun. 
3068808| In the Central Amazonian floodplains, several hundred tree species grow in areas that are periodically flooded by nutrient-rich white-water rivers (vrzea) and by nutrient poor black-water rivers (igap). Seed masses of 31 species from vrzea and 27 species from igap were compared taking into consideration their taxonomic relatedness. Overall average seed mass was higher (mean = 7.08 g) in nutrient-poor igap than in nutrient-rich vrzea (mean = 1.16 g). In igap, the species growing at high elevations on the flooding gradient had significantly higher seed masses than the species growing at low elevations. In vrzea, no difference was found between species growing at high and low elevations. Four large-seeded species from igap occurring at high elevations on the flooding gradient were responsible for most of the difference in average seed mass between forest types. These data suggest that at low positions in the flooding gradient in igap, selection pressure on seed size is probably the same as in vrzea. At sites with short periods of flooding in igap forests, on high levels in the flooding gradient, the need for rapid height growth may have selected for species with larger seeds which enable seedlings to be less dependent on soil nutrients. 
40665278|The concept of ecosystem engineering has catalysed novel approaches and models for non-trophic species interactions and ecosystem functions. Ecosystem engineers physically modify abiotic and biotic environments, thereby creating new habitats that can be colonized by a new suite of species. In the Peruvian Amazonas, we tested whether peccaries (Tayassuidae) function as ecosystem engineers by creating and maintaining wallows. Such wallows could be critical aquatic habitats and breeding sites for anuran species during dry seasons. We compared hydroperiods of 21 peccary wallows and 13 naturally formed ponds across three dry seasons and found that wallows had a consistently higher mean water surface area than ponds. We also examined the pH, dissolved oxygen and temperature, and found no significant differences in these parameters between water bodies. Wallows had a significantly higher density of tadpoles, metamorphs and adult anurans, as well as higher -diversity and species richness than ponds. This study not only provides the first systematic evidence of the ecosystem engineering processes of peccaries, but also reveals the positive consequences of such for anuran species.
3068618|An altitudinal survey of correspondences between fruiting phenologies of fleshy-fruited tree species and seasonal dynamics of frugivorous birds on Mt. Kinabalu in Borneo was carried out for 50 weeks across four vegetation types: a hill forest (800 m asl), a lower montane forest (1700 m), an upper montane forest (2000-3000 m) and a subalpine forest (3000-3500 m). In the hill forest, a large fruiting peak following the general flowering phenomenon was observed during October-November in 1996 and a fruitless period was observed during February-April in 1997. During the fruitless period, the number of resident frugivorous birds decreased. A bimodal fruiting pattern was observed in the lower montane forest. A large number of frugivorous temperate migrants were observed when the fruiting peak occurred. The number of resident frugivorous birds increased and several lowland bird species were observed, when the number of resident birds decreased in the hill forest. In the upper montane forest and the subalpine forest, more continuous and irregular fruiting patterns without outstanding peaks were observed and the number of resident frugivorous birds was more stable throughout the year. These suggested (1) there was a strong relationship between fruiting seasonality and seasonal dynamics of temperate migrants in the lower montane forest; (2) seasonal altitudinal movements of lowland bird species to montane vegetation might occur during the fruitless period in the lowland forest; and (3) the continuous fruiting pattern in the higher vegetation zones might be related to the scarcity of available frugivorous birds. The hypothesis that the influx of temperate migrants into the montane vegetation of Mt. Kinabalu is affected by density and habits of resident frugivorous birds in supported. Montane vegetation in Borneo plays an important role as temporal refugia for temperate and altitudinal migrants by supplying fruit resources.
2560018|Examination of phenological patterns of tropical trees at different temporal and spatial scales can elucidate biotic and abiotic factors that correlate with fruiting, flowering and/or leaf set patterns. In this study, 3793 trees from 104 species in Kibale National Park, Uganda were monitored. The trees were selected from two sites (Kanyawara and Ngogo) separated by 10 km. Trees were monitored monthly to document community-wide and population-level fruiting and flowering patterns for a maximum of 76 mo. Analysis of two sites over a number of years permitted examination of generalities of patterns found on smaller spatial and temporal scales. Spectral analysis indicated that community-level flowering and fruiting at Kanyawara exhibited regular annual peaks, although the flowering peaks were of shorter duration. At Ngogo, community-level flowering also displayed regular annual peaks, but fruiting had an irregular pattern with no distinct peaks. The abundance of fruiting trees at Kanyawara was negatively related to the minimum temperature in the previous season (3-7 mo prior). Since fruiting tended to peak when the first wet season of the year was ending and the dry season was beginning, this suggests that the minimum temperature in the previous dry season is important in determining how many individuals fruit. Flowering at Kanyawara peaked immediately after the maximum annual period of high irradiance. Within-species synchronization was evident in the flowering for all species examined at Ngogo and for 64% of those at Kanyawara. Fruiting was synchronous within species for 64% of the species at both sites. Despite this general community-level synchronization, the months of peak fruiting and flowering for some species varied markedly among years. Furthermore, for a number of species the timing of fruiting or flowering events differed between Kanyawara and Ngogo. For some species, trends that were suggested from one year of data were not supported when additional years were considered. Although these two sites are close together, share many of the same species, and experience similar climatic regimes, many phenological patterns were site-dependent.
4091848| Landscape-scale studies of community traits such as species richness and community composition are sorely needed to explore the impact of large-scale disturbance events such as ENSO (El Nio Southern Oscillation)-induced burning and habitat isolation on rain-forest communities. Here we assess butterflies in continuous forest, in unburned isolates surrounded by burned forest and in burned forest, in addition to areas sampled before the most recent (1997/98) large-scale burn event in Borneo. Overall levels of species richness were significantly higher pre-ENSO and in continuous forest than in unburned isolates and burned forest. There was, however, some variation among butterfly families in these patterns, with no significant differences among habitats (continuous forest, isolates and burned forest) for the Hesperiidae and significant differences for the other butterfly families. Patterns of community composition showed that similarity was greater between distant continuous forest and isolates than between either of these and burned forest. Since the unburned isolates were surrounded by the burned forest this indicates that the habitat (burned or unburned) overrides geographical differences. Dominant species that contributed substantially to differences among habitats were often completely absent from either burned or unburned forest. The combined patterns of species richness and community structure suggest that burning affects forest ecosystems by a replacement of dominant species while habitat isolation may affect areas by leading to the local extinction of rare species. 
2559215|All woody growth was enumerated in three transects, each 960 m x 20 m, in derived savanna in the Olokemeji Forest Reserve in south-west Nigeria. The data for species density, species basal area and stem girth classes were analysed by nested-block analysis of variance and covariance. The use of `total covariance', the sum of all covariances at a block size, contributes to understanding of the pattern present. Three scales of pattern were evident. Patchiness at 160-320 m is interpreted as a response to soil differences or to the pattern of previous farming, which may itself have been determined by soil differences. Patchiness at 20-40 m is attributable to varying intensity of burning. At the smallest scale, of 10 m, there is evidence of regularity of distribution resulting from interference between individuals, possibly due to competition for water.
3068734| The allometry of crown shape and trunk diameter with tree height were analysed for four tree species in a tropical lowland rain forest, southeast Brazil. The dimensional relationships of a subcanopy species (Garcinia gardneriana) were contrasted with those of two canopy (Chrysophyllum flexuosum and Swartzia simplex) and one emergent species (Sloanea guianensis). For all trees  1 cm dbh, we recorded dbh, total height, branching height, crown area, crown width and crown length. Observed allometric relationships indicated interspecific variation in trunk diameter and crown shape with height. All species conformed to the elastic similarity model, except the emergent one that showed thicker trunks and a scaling exponent conforming to the constant stress model. The general allometric function used to describe the overall relationship (all sizes combined) did not specify exceptional variation in crown shape between species of contrasting adult stature (emergent vs. subcanopy species). However, when allometric relationships through ontogeny were considered, different strategies of growth, maintenance and expansion of crown became evident. Crown shapes were much more variable in canopy and emergent species than in the subcanopy one, suggesting that larger-statured species might be more flexible in the relative allocation of energy to height, diameter, and crown growth than smaller-statured ones. Notwithstanding, it is suggested that it is not possible adequately to predict allometric relationships only by adult stature/canopy position. Allometric variation may be also related to size-dependent changes in demographic traits and/or different responses to light availability among tree species. 
2559634|In comparing the population structure of epiphytic and saxicolous Tillandsia species I found no significant differences between polycarpic species. Epiphytic T. ionochroma populations had a higher seedling:adult ratio than saxicolous T. ionochroma populations, but the difference was not statistically significant. Tillandsia ultriculata, a monocarpic epiphyte, had a significantly higher seedling:adult ratio than the polycarpic species. T. utriculata's higher ratio may result from its greater seed production and lack of vegetative propagation. Unlike the polycarpic species, all adult-size rosettes grow from seeds in T. utriculata. Tillandsia sphaerocephala, an obligate saxicole, occurred in larger clusters (i.e. more rosettes per genet) than T. ionochroma. The increased tendency for vegetative reproduction in T. sphaerocephala suggests that spatial patchiness is less of a constraint than with epiphytes.
4092021|Anthropogenic wildfires are becoming increasingly frequent in wet tropical forests. This trend follows that of other anthropogenic disturbances, which are now acute and widespread. Fires pose a potentially serious threat to tropical forests. However, little is known about the impact of unintended forest fires on below-ground resources in these ecosystems. This study investigated the influence of fires on the distribution and variability of soil resources on two sets of 50 x 50-m burned and unburned plots in a Nicaraguan rain forest. Samples were collected at 5-m intervals throughout each plot as well as subsamples at 50-cm intervals. Geostatistical techniques as well as univariate statistics were used to quantify the spatial autocorrelation and variability of selected nutrients (N, P and K), carbon and standing leaf litter. Most variability in this forest was spatially dependent at a scale of 30 m or less. However the average range of autocorrelations varied greatly between properties and sites. Burning altered soil heterogeneity by decreasing the range over which soil properties were autocorrelated. Overall the average patch size (range) for nitrogen was reduced by 7%, phosphorus by 52%, potassium by 60% and carbon by 43%. While phosphorus and leaf litter increased in the burned plots compared to unburned plots, potassium was not different. Nitrogen and carbon did not display a consistent pattern between burning regimes and this may be explained by variation in fire intensity. Leaf litter measurements did not correlate with measured soil nutrients within plots. Observed changes in the burned forest were likely a result of both the intensity of burning and change in vegetative cover between the time of the fires and soil sampling.
25172980|We investigated spatial distribution of lianas, and examined relationships between distribution and topography in a secondary forest on the northern part of the main island of Okinawa, south-west Japan. All lianas with a stem diameter exceeding 2 cm at a point 1.3 m from the root were inventoried, and stem diameter and root position were measured within a small watershed (16.0625 ha). Geographical information systems (GIS) were used to divide the watershed into 257 cells in total, each cell being 25 m  25 m. Three topographic parameters were measured in each cell: slope angle, slope aspect and relief. In total, 930 stems from 20 species of lianas were recorded. Distribution of all liana stems and 14 of 15 species analysed were biased toward concave sites. Abundance of total lianas was higher in concave sites than in convex sites. Our results suggest that distribution and abundance of lianas are strongly affected by topography, and that lianas tend to be distributed in sites with more water and nutrients, which are formed by relief in the Okinawa forest. Factors affecting stem density differed among species.
4092143|Competitive interactions among pioneer species may have a significant impact on the course of secondary succession in tropical rain forests. We predicted that the outcome of competitive interactions in early succession would vary with soil nutrient availability. To test this hypothesis we grew seven pioneer tree species alone and in dense competitive mixtures, with four nutrient treatments: no nutrient addition, and N, P, and N plus P addition. Performance of plants grown alone and in mixtures was strongly nutrient limited. However, contrary to expectation, the competitive hierarchy among the seven species was almost identical among the four nutrient treatments. The dominant species, Melastoma malabathricum, accounted for > 70% of total stand biomass in all nutrient treatments. Seedlings of this species had higher rates of gas exchange and initial growth, and lower root allocation than the other species. Profiles of light availability within the competitive stands indicated that light levels at ground level were well above levels at which pioneer species can successfully survive and grow, yet seedlings of species other than Melastoma remained stunted. Leaf N concentrations in all stands were 25-55% reduced by competitive interactions, and N addition increased relative competitive performance in only Melastoma suggesting that Melastoma was particularly effective at N acquisition, limiting nutrient uptake by the other species. Toward the end of the experiment individuals of Melastoma began to reproduce, suggesting that the competitive hierarchy would have changed in a longer-duration experiment.
3068643|Small mammals were trapped in four rain forest fragments (3, 8, 20 and 97 ha), in an agricultural landscape, and in comparable continuous tropical rain forest in north Queensland, Australia over 2 y. The most frequently captured species were four murid rodents. Melomys cervinipes were captured in similar numbers in both continuous and fragmented forest. This species achieves greatest abundance at forest edges and this study suggests that edges of fragments and edges of continuous forest will support similar densities. Abundance of Uromys caudimaculatus was positively correlated with size of fragment and peaked in continuous forest. This species had a home range larger than the smaller fragments and was thus disadvantaged but its ability to utilize the agricultural matrix between fragments mitigated the effect. Rattus leucopus and R. fuscipes were most abundant in fragments and continuous forest respectively but both species occurred in similar abundance in the 97-ha fragment. This suggests their population size is related to habitat rather than competitive exclusion as previously postulated. Ordination of the populations of the nine most commonly captured mammals, separated the fragment and continuous sites but placed the largest fragment closest to the continuous sites. The contrasting response of the two Rattus spp. was the primary influence on the ordination. Second in importance was Trichosurus vulpecula, a folivorous possum, which was absent from the continuous sites. The fragments may have had more nutrient-rich, pioneer tree foliage than continuous forest. Isoodon macrourus, Perameles nasuta, Antechinus godmani and Uromys hadrourus also showed positive or negative response to fragmentation. Species utilizing the matrix between forest fragments and species adapted to forest edge are advantaged by the fragmentation process whereas forest specialists tend to extinction in fragments, particularly where the home range of the animal is not many times smaller than the fragment.
2559346|Density and biomass of four ungulate species, elephant (Elephas maximus) and seven other mammal species were estimated in an area of about 50 km<sup>2</sup> in a dry tropical forest in Huai Kha Khaeng Wildlife Sanctuary, western Thailand. Density estimations employed line transects, using either direct sightings or indirect signs. Total biomass of these ungulates and elephant was 1450 kg km<sup>-2</sup> which was lower than that found in a well protected and managed area of similar forest, Nagarahole National Park, in India. This is due to the intensive poaching activity and the lack of wildlife management in this study site. Three species of ungulate, banteng (Bos javanicus), gaur (Bos gaurus) and sambar deer (Cervus unicolor), contributed over 70% of the estimated herbivore biomass. This situation is similar to that found in other parts of Asia. The high biomass of a subterranean mammal, Cannomys badius, has not been documented elsewhere in Asia; this species probably influences the forest dynamics and ecology of small carnivores in this area.
4091945|The analysis of beta diversity (inter-habitat diversity) of very species-rich and incompletely sampled tropical arthropod communities requires the choice of appropriate statistical tools. The performance of the three commonly employed ordination methods, correspondence analysis (CA), detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), and non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS), was compared on a large empirical data set of geometrid moths sampled along an altitudinal gradient in an Andean montane rain forest. Despite the high species richness and incompleteness of the ensembles, all methods depicted the same, readily interpretable patterns. Both CA and NMDS showed an arch-like structure, which hints at an underlying coenocline, whereas this arch was computationally eliminated in DCA. For this particular data set, CA and NMDS both provided convincing results while the detrending algorithm of DCA did not improve the interpretability of the data. Of the large number of similarity indices available to be used in combination with NMDS, the binary
2560293|The amounts and chemical composition of bulk precipitation were investigated over a continuous 21-mo period (January 1990 to September 1991) at four sites along an East-West transect perpendicular to the coast of Southwest Viti Levu, Fiji Measured rainfall totals in 1990 ranged from 1796 mm at the coastal Korokula station to 2113 mm at the inland Tulasewa station, which is somewhat higher than the long-term average of 1707 mm at a reference weather station located in the centre of the study area. The first 9 mo of 1991 were relatively dry (range 1027-1533 mm) with a total of 1157 mm at the reference site as compared to a long-term average of 1330 mm. Concentrations of all investigated constituents in bulk rainfall were low, except during the passage of cyclone Sina due to the deposition of large amounts of, especially, chloride, sodium and sulphate in sea spray. Concentrations of sodium and magnesium could be explained fully by maritime contributions to the rainfall composition at all sites. Maritime contributions to the concentrations of calcium, sulphate and potassium accounted for 10-40% of the total, whereas bicarbonate, ammonium, nitrate, silicon, aluminium, iron and manganese were derived exclusively from terrestrial sources. The annual atmospheric nutrient deposition rates were low by pantropical standards, particularly when the contribution of cyclone Sina was excluded. Annual totals (in kg ha<sup>-1</sup>) ranged from 2 4-8.8 for nitrogen, 0.4-1.1 for phosphorus, 2.3-4.9 for potassium, 1 4-1.9 for calcium and from 1 1-1.3 for magnesium. The inclusion of the contribution by the cyclone more than doubled the deposition of potassium, calcium and magnesium, although values still remained well within the range reported for humid tropical areas The estimated atmospheric deposition of nutrients over a typical rotation period (16 y) was sufficient to balance losses in harvested Pinus caribaea logs (stemwood plus bark) of potassium, calcium and magnesium, but not of nitrogen and, probably, phosphorus. Nutrient losses associated with the harvesting of stemwood alone were compensated entirely by the atmospheric inputs.
3068815|The structure, composition and reproductive phenology of a bat assemblage were investigated in the tropical region of Los Tuxtlas, Mexico. A 90-km
2560096|Ant species were sampled in three rainforest and 10 rehabilitated bauxite mine plots at Trombetas, in the tropical monsoonal region of Brazil. Rehabilitation ranged from 0 to 11 years in age and was mainly performed by planting mixed native forest tree species. One plot supported single-species blocks of Australian Eucalyptus and Acacia species. Two hundred and six ant species were recorded, of which 82 were exclusively found in the native vegetation, 54 were confined to the rehabilitation and 70 were found in both situations In contrast with other studies, ant species richness in the Eucalyptus/Acacia plantation was as great as in the areas rehabilitated with native vegetation The overall rate of return of ant species was considerably greater than in mines situated within subtropical regions of Brazil, Africa and Australia. However, if the greater richness of ants in the native vegetation at Trombetas was accounted for, the proportional return of the original ant fauna was not particularly rapid. The return of ant species slowed as the rehabilitated areas aged In comparison with forest, the rehabilitation was characterized by proportionately more generalist species and fewer specialists, especially from the soil and litter layers The full range of habitat requirements for the ant community has not been restored by the eleventh year of rehabilitation and further management may be required to enhance the degree of colonization It is suggested that the findings for ants may apply to other components of the biota as well
25172928|Habitat alteration can have far-reaching consequences for natural communities and can alter existing species interactions in profound ways. Working in a tropical dry forest ecosystem in the Guanacaste Province of Costa Rica, we measured seed removals and seed dispersal distances for Acacia collinsii and papaya seeds to determine if habitat disturbance affects ant community composition and the associated interactions between ants and seeds. Two hundred and forty experimental seed depots were observed in four sites that differed in land-use history and disturbance severity: secondary forest, forest edge, Acacia collinsii edge, and open-pasture. Both seed removals and average dispersal distances achieved by ants differed among habitats. Habitat disturbance did not negatively affect seed removals by ants in our study; seed removals were highest in the most disturbed habitat, the open pasture (38.3% of seeds removed within 2 h). Ant community composition and the relative abundance of key seed dispersers also differed among habitats. In all sites combined, ten species of ant were observed dispersing seeds, with two species, Pheidole fallax and Ectatomma ruidum, in combination being responsible for 92% of all observed seed removals. The abundance of P. fallax and E. ruidum differed among habitats, with E. ruidum being the most abundant ant species collected in the open-pasture habitat and P. fallax being the most abundant in the edge habitats. Pheidole fallax ants dispersed seeds significantly further (mean  SD = 2.11  1.35 m, maximum = 5.2 m) than did E. ruidum (mean  SD = 0.7  0.81 m, maximum = 3.85 m), a difference we attribute to recruitment behaviour and not body size. Habitat disturbance thus alters the ant community and the relative abundance of key seed-dispersing ant species, with cascading effects on seed removals and seed dispersal distances.
3068716|We studied the resource allocation process of a large-seeded species, Dryobalanops lanceolata, during germination and early stages of seedling growth in Sarawak, East Malaysia. The seeds contained high contents of starch (74.3% of the total 1.57 g mean dry weight of the cotyledon) and lipid (15.0%). All of these reserves were exhausted by the time the first two pairs of leaves had developed (about 40 d after planting), but relatively little had been reserved in leaf or root by that time. This suggests that the large amount of seed reserve of D. lanceolata is necessary just to form a certain size of stem and the necessary number of leaves to set the plant up for photosynthesis. After seed reserves were exhausted, shoot elongation and new leaf production stopped, and most photosynthate was allocated to the expansion of the root system and to storage in the root as starch. The storage reserves in the root are thought to be used for the next growing stage, not to act as insurance for sprouting in case of shoot damage.
25172894|We studied the effects of savanna fires on the structure of local ungulate communities in a West African woodland savanna. The distribution of 11 ungulate species over 9-15 burned sites (the number of which increased as burning activity continued during the dry season) and 7-13 unburned sites was compared with a variety of null models or randomized 'virtual communities'. Five different parameters of community structure were examined: body mass distribution, co-occurrence patterns, species richness, species density and guild dominance. Overall, ungulate species were not randomly distributed over burned and unburned sites. The regular spacing of body masses in the set of species recorded on burned and unburned sites indicated competition, since species similar in body mass are more likely to compete than species of different size. However, co-occurrence patterns on burned sites were random, indicating absence of competition at fine spatial scales due to differential habitat use within the burned landscape. Although the attractiveness of the regrowth on burned sites resulted in higher numbers of ungulates compared with unburned sites, species richness was not different. Grazers were the dominant guild on burned sites, but there were no differences in species richness or species density between grazers and browsers on unburned sites.
27751643|Understanding how wood decomposition varies spatially at the mesoscale (between 1-ha plots) may improve carbon flux estimates in Amazonian forests. An experiment was carried out to test the influence of soil, slope, above-ground tree live biomass (biomass), fine-litter mass and characteristics of neighbouring trees on the variation of wood decomposition between 1-ha plots in four species of tropical trees that vary in wood density (Manilkara huberi  0.86 g cm3, Couratari guianensis  0.54 g cm3, Hura crepitans  0.32 g cm3 and Parkia pendula  0.29 g cm3). A wood sample from each species (30  5  2.5 cm) was placed in each of 71 plots within 64 km2 of terra firme tropical moist forest in Reserva Florestal Adolpho Ducke. One year later, samples were collected and weighted. The effects of specificity of decomposers was measured by the association of decomposition with the wood density and with the taxonomic group of the nearest tree with dbh  30 cm. Wood decomposition was independent of soil (texture and nutrients), slope, biomass and fine-litter mass at the mesoscale, except for C. guianensis, which showed greater decomposition in locations with greater biomass. Decomposition was also independent of wood density and taxonomic group of nearby large trees. In general, none of the variables was useful as a predictor of wood decomposition at the scale larger than 1 ha. Thus, the use of models that include soil and topography to improve estimates of carbon flux are limited because wood decomposition does not follow similar mesoscale patterns to that of biomass and fine-litter decomposition. Also, the results indicate that wood decomposition is more likely to be associated with generalist decomposers than with specialists associated with neighbouring trees.
2560046|Traditional shade house experiments that expose plants to relatively uniform irradiance and light quality are inadequate to characterize the morphological, allocational and physiological plasticity that seedlings show to different gap environments. Here the design of a pot experiment is described that simulates the daily time course of irradiance and light quality in idealized gaps of six different sizes. Differences in response to gap size are illustrated using data from two pioneer species, Ochroma pyramidale, which recruits exclusively in large gaps and clearings, and Luehea seemannii, which colonizes small branchfall gaps as well as large gaps. Ochroma outperformed Luehea in relative growth rate in all except the smallest simulated gap size. Ochroma's superior performance in the larger gaps could be attributed to a larger proportional investment in leaf biomass (i.e. a higher leaf area ratio, LAR), and higher photosynthetic rates both on a leaf area and leaf mass basis. In the smallest simulated gaps LAR was not significantly different between the species, but Ochroma maintained a higher net assimilation rate. These results fail to support the suggestion that gap partitioning among pioneer species arises directly from morphological and biochemical specialization to particular gap light environments. Instead, it is suggested that partitioning may result from a trade-off between seedling growth and mortality determined by species allocational patterns and mediated by interactions with herbivores and pathogens.
2559194|Fruit production by Acacia albida (Leguminosae: Mimosoideae) trees in Mana Pools National Park, Zimbabwe, was monitored over eight years. Timing of ripe fruit-fall varied between years, as did fruit production: production of ripe fruits by the same tree varied from 5.4 kg in 1983 to 290.1 kg in 1988. Baboons reduced fruit production by feeding on unripe fruits and the mass eaten each year was negatively correlated with rainfall. Potential fruit production (i.e. production in the absence of baboons) was high when the late wet season was wet or cool and when fruit production in the previous year was low. Late wet season rainfall and temperature probably determined the degree of defoliation by caterpillars: in 1983 and 1987, when the late wet season was hot and dry, the trees were almost completely defoliated. During the late dry season, A. albida fruits were an important component of the diets of waterbuck, eland, elephant, buffalo and kudu; they were seldom eaten by hippopotamus and were ignored by zebra and warthog.
4092090|Reproductive traits of 123 species of rain-forest tree from ultramafic regions of New Caledonia were assessed, mainly from herbarium specimens. Most species had extremely small, simple, pale-coloured flowers that are probably mainly pollinated by small insects, but not including bees. The seeds of most species were considered to be bird dispersed. However, wind is also important for pollination and seed dispersal. The phenological trend was for an increase in the number of species flowering and fruiting around the end of the warm dry season/start of the hot wet season, followed by a decline at the end of the wet season, and lower proportions during the cooler season. Seed size was significantly correlated with fruit size. Other correlations, between flower size and fruit size, and between seed size and seed number, were significant using species as independent observations, but did not hold following phylogenetic correction. Compared with non-dioecious species, dioecious species had significantly larger seeds, and a greater proportion of species with biotic dispersal, abiotic pollination and solitary (female) flowers. The long-term persistence of at least the larger-seeded tree species in New Caledonia is precarious, since the endemic giant pigeon, Ducula goliath, is probably their principal effective disperser, and this species is in decline.
4499086|It is critical to understand the responses of tropical tree species to ongoing anthropogenic disturbances. Given the longevity of large trees and the scarcity of appropriately long-term demographic data, standing size distributions are a potential tool for predicting species' responses to disturbances and resultant changes in population structure. Here we test the utility of several different measures of size distribution for predicting subsequent population changes at the intraspecific level using demographic records from two subsampled 50-ha tree plots in Malaysia (Pasoh and Lambir). Most measures of size distribution failed to successfully predict population change better than random; however, the 'coefficient of skewness' (a measure of the relative proportion of small vs. large stems in a population) was able to correctly predict the direction of population change for approximately three-quarters of species at both sites. At Pasoh, the magnitude of this relationship decreased with adult stature and rate of turnover, but was unrelated to sapling growth rates at either site. Finally, using data for species common at both forests, we found that size distributions were generally uninformative of subsequent differences in population change between sites (only median dbh correctly predicted the direction of change for more species than random). Based on these results we conclude that some measures of intraspecific differences in size distribution are potentially informative of population trends within forests but have limited utility across broader spatial scales.
2559756|The volcanic island of Anak Krakatau emerged from the sea in 1930. The antlion Myrmeleon frontalis has only become established on Anak Krakatau within the last five years, despite having been present on the other Krakatau Islands for at least 50 years. The appearance of the antlions on Anak Krakatau seems to have coincided with the construction of a shelter hut in 1986 which provides a suitable under-floor habitat of dry dusty soil for the larvae to construct their pits. From the hut site they have extended into sub-optimal locations around the bases of clumps of wild sugarcane, Saccharum spontaneum, on the adjacent lower slopes of the outer cone ash fields. The soil around the Saccharum clumps is variable. Fine deposits are suitable for antlion larvae, more gravelly soils are not. The antlion larvae inhabiting the Saccharum clumps are disturbed by rain which destroys their pits. These two habitats, the hut and Saccharum sites, are the only places on the island that are occupied by the antlion larvae. They have quite different micro-climates so that the two populations are out of synchrony with each other.
3068758|All individuals of Cedrela lilloi (a valuable timber species of Meliaceae) > 4 cm DBH were sampled in three rectangular plots (c. 15 000 m
4091949|Extrafloral nectar is an indirect, generally ant-mediated, defence mechanism that is particularly common in tropical plants. This study focuses on interactions among different groups of arthropods visiting extrafloral nectaries of the South-East Asian myrmecophilic plant, Macaranga tanarius. The diurnal activity patterns of arthropods on nectaries were recorded on two occasions, each plant being used once in an untreated state and once after chemical induction of extrafloral nectar flow. Ants, widely regarded as the most important consumers of extrafloral nectar, made up only 60% of all nectary-visiting arthropods. Striking negative relations became obvious between ants and 'non-ants', among which two (morpho)species of fly (Grammicomya sp. and Mimegralla sp., both Micropezidae) were most important. On most leaves, either ants or 'non-ants', but not both groups, were present at one time. Behavioural observations revealed that many flies actively excluded other arthropods, including ants, from the nectaries or leaves. However, the flies had no detectable defensive effect against herbivores. The presence of these 'thieves' of extrafloral nectar therefore can cause ecological costs in terms of reduced presence of ants that consume extrafloral nectar and defend plants.
4091913|The extent, sequence, synchrony and correlates of diel displacements by animals can provide powerful insights into the ecological and social factors that shape an organism's day-to-day activities, but detailed data on spatial ecology are available for very few tropical taxa. Radiotelemetric monitoring of 25 slatey-grey snakes (Stegonotus cucullatus) on a floodplain in the Australian wet-dry tropics for periods of 40 to 355 d (mean = 195 d. 136 locations per snake) provided extensive information on habitat use, movement patterns and home range size of these large slender-bodied colubrids. All radio-tracked animals were nocturnal, sheltering by day in soil cracks and beneath tree roots and debris. Snakes did not appear to move between 61% of successive locations and timing of movements was not synchronized among snakes. Most displacements were small (< 50 m), with males moving further and more often than did females. However, nesting females made occasional long-distance movements, travelling 100-400 m to forested areas to oviposit but then returning to their usual home ranges. Snakes of both sexes moved further and more often during the wet-season than the dry-season. Snakes typically moved on a few successive nights then remained sedentary for the next few days, apparently reflecting cessation of activity as soon as a meal was obtained. Home ranges were small (2.9-7.4 ha) and most snakes remained in the same area throughout the year, providing a strong contrast in this respect to the large and seasonally dynamic home ranges of sympatric acrochordid and pythonid snakes.
40925441|Measurements were conducted within a fence-exclosure between February 2008 and July 2009 to investigate the influence of soil moisture on ecosystem CO fluxes in a Themeda triandra-dominated grassland of a humid Kenyan savanna. Rainout shelters were constructed to reduce ambient rainfall by 0%, 10% and 20% respectively to attain variable soil water content (SWC) during plant growth. SWC within the top 30 cm layer, above-ground biomass, soil and plant nitrogen (N) concentrations were assessed monthly alongside CO fluxes. Net ecosystem CO exchange (NEE) and ecosystem respiration (R eco ) were measured with closed chambers while carbon (C) partitioning during the wet and dry seasons were assessed through pulse C labelling. There were significant seasonal and between plot differences in SWC, above-ground biomass, canopy light utilization efficiency (), CO fluxes and C allocation pattern resulting from differences in SWC. The ecosystem was a net C sink during the wet and C neutral during the dry seasons. The study showed strong seasonal fluctuations in ecosystem CO fluxes and underscores the significant role of the savanna grasslands in regional balance due to its expansive nature. The savanna grassland is however vulnerable to low soil moisture, with significant reduction in CO uptake during drought.
4092139|Maximum height was assessed for tree species from seven temperate deciduous forests, one subtropical forest and one tropical forest and combined with published tree heights for three other tropical forests. The temperate deciduous forests showed a strong concentration of canopy species and a dearth of subcanopy species. In contrast, the four tropical forests showed more uniform distributions of maximum heights, while the subtropical forest had an intermediate distribution. The tropical and subtropical sites had greater densities of small trees than did the temperate sites and most of these small trees were members of small- to medium-sized species. Sapling recruitment per unit stem basal area increased with declining maximum height in Panama, which is consistent with the criterion for coexistence of species of differing stature derived from Kohyama's forest architecture hypothesis. Greater penetration of light into gaps and favourable conditions for growth over most of the year may allow more smaller-statured species to coexist with canopy trees in tropical vs. temperate forests.
4499090|The seasonality of both rainfall and solar irradiance might influence the evolution of flowering and fruiting in tropical forests. In seasonally dry forests, to the degree that soil moisture limits plant productivity, community-wide peaks in reproduction are expected during the rainy season, with seedfall and germination timed to allow seedlings to become well established while soil moisture is available. Where soil moisture is never seasonally limiting, seasonal changes in light availability caused by periods of cloudiness or seasonally low zenithal sun angles should favour reproduction during seasons when irradiance levels are high. To evaluate these predictions, we documented the timing of flower and fruit fall for 10 and 15 y at El Verde, Puerto Rico, and Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama. At El Verde, rainfall is abundant year-round and solar declination largely determines seasonal variation in irradiance. At BCI, rainfall is abundant throughout the 8-mo wet season while drought develops and average solar irradiance increases by 40-50% over the 4-mo dry season. Seasonal variation in the number of species flowering and fruiting at both sites was generally consistent with the hypothesis that seasonal variation in irradiance limits the evolution of reproductive phenologies. Community-level metrics provided no evidence for a similar role for moisture availability at BCI. Seasonal variation in irradiance also strongly influenced seed development times at both sites. Thus, community-wide phenologies reveal a strong signature of seasonal changes in irradiance, even in those forests that exhibit some degree of seasonality in rainfall.
2559716|A land use survey involving land typing and vegetation classification was conducted within the Luuq District Refugee Area (200,000 ha) in south-western Somalia. Average rainfall and annual temperature of the area are 310 mm and 30.5<sup></sup>C. The area is composed of limestone and basalt uplands, gypsiferous and alluvial interplains, and ancient and recent alluvial terraces of the Juba River. Land types were identified by aerial photo survey and ground observation and mapped on a 1:100,000 scale LandSat Satellite (colour) Image. Soil types were classified according to the method used by the US Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service. Vegetation was sampled according to the Braun-Blanquet approach in 52 releves located within previously mapped land types, and analysed using the traditional phytosociological methods and the DECORANA and TWINSPAN computer programs. The results of these methods are compatible with one another. Most community types identify distinct land types: basalt and limestone uplands, gypsum and alluvial interplains, and depressions and gentle rises of the Juba River terrace. Commiphora and Acacia species dominate the open thorny bushland. They are mostly medium-sized shrubs and trees, 1 to 4 m in height. There is little herbaceous ground cover except in depressions and drainageways. Total shrub and tree cover averages 34%. Due to the large influx of refugees, there has been excessive cutting for fuelwood and construction material and notable bushland converted to cropland. Degradation of the vegetation and soils is prominent and is most evident on the upper and lower terraces of the Juba River.
4499119|Gallery and floodplain forests in monsoonal northern Australia are mostly sclerophyllous and dominated by five closely related species of Melaleuca (Myrtaceae) amongst which niche differentiation is unclear. We present a floristic and environmental analysis of 'the flooded forest' using data from 340 plots distributed across
4091857|Early successional tree species typically attract numerous generalist frugivores, many of which serve as seed dispersers. This study evaluated whether several such dispersers facilitated the invasion of an exotic, early successional tree species, Maesopsis eminii (Rhamnaceae), in submontane forests of the East Usambara Mountains. Tanzania. The primary seed dispersers and their dispersal effectiveness were determined through focal watches at eight trees. Only 3 of 13 frugivores that consumed Maesopsis fruits functioned as seed dispersers (silvery-cheeked hornbill Ceratogymna brevis, Fischer's turaco Tauraco fischeri and blue monkey Cercopithecus mitis). On average, hornbills dispersed > 26 times more seeds than monkeys, and > 3 times as many seeds as turacos per visit and were thus considered the most important disperser. Seed germination was not affected by gut passage through hornbills. Germination in four microhabitats was experimentally evaluated to determine whether microhabitat influences germination success. Large gaps and forest edges had significantly higher germination rates compared with understorey locations; the germination rate in small gaps was not significantly different from that in the understorey. Expansive Maesopsis invasion in the East Usambaras was likely enhanced in both rapidity and scale by the presence of an extremely effective dispersal agent, the silvery-cheeked hornbill.
4499064|Spatial analysis can be used to relate the patterns of tree species to their regeneration syndromes - pioneer to late-successional - and is a first step in refining hypotheses about the species traits and biotic and abiotic factors that give rise to forest community dynamics. This study examines the spatial pattern of the most abundant trees in three 0.45-ha plots in species-poor lowland rain forests on oceanic islands in Tonga, Western Polynesia, that experience frequent natural disturbance and have a 3000-y history of shifting cultivation. We contrast secondary vs. remnant late-successional forest, with particular attention paid to the spatial dispersion and clustering of tree species, and the presence of spatial dependence in the density of seedlings and saplings. Shade-tolerant species were not strongly clustered at any scale. They did not appear to be dispersal limited, in late successional forest, and only some showed patterns consistent with density-dependent mortality (more clumped when small). Shade-tolerant species were more clumped in secondary forest, and may be dispersal-limited there because vertebrate dispersers prefer primary forest. Shade-intolerant species were clumped in gaps in late-successional forest, but some were also clumped in secondary forest, indicating that they too may be dispersal limited during secondary succession. We also compared the species composition of seedlings and saplings in the centre of plots with trees in the surrounding area and inferred that active dispersal (by vertebrate frugivores) contributed as much as 50% to site species richness.
2559813|Estimates were made of the populations of seven nests of Macrotermes jeanneli of different sizes in Kenya. Caste and instar composition were examined, and relationships of these to the dimensions of the mound were investigated. Survival of nests of different sizes was followed over four years.
2559391|Thirty-four species of mosquitoes (Diptera: Culicidae) were collected at a series of human-bait catches designed to study evening crepuscular biting activity using the Nielsen crep unit, at a site at Peradeniya, Sri Lanka. Crepuscular biting profiles of seven species (Armigeres subalbatus, Aedes albopictus, Culex pseudovishnui, Cx. gelidus, Cx. fuscocephala, Cx. tritaeniorhynchus and Mansonia uniformis) were obtained. Modal periods for the onset of biting were analysed in six species: Cx. pseudovishnui, Cx. fuscocephala, Cx. gelidus, Cx. tritaeniorhynchus, Cx. quinquefasciatus and Ma. uniformis. Successions in the biting peaks and in modal onset of biting were seen in these species. Analysis of biting in Ar. subalbatus and Cx. pseudovishnui under high (clear sky) and low (cloud-overcast sky) light intensities showed earlier biting in both species under the latter conditions. The value of the Nielsen crep unit in making latitudinal comparisons is illustrated in Ma. uniformis, for which parallel data are available from Africa.
4091962|Changes in morphological and anatomical leaf characteristics of woody plant species along an altitudinal gradient as well as between a late-successional and mature upper montane rain forest were examined. For leaf size, the Raunkiaer-Webb classification system was applied. The mature-forest transect comprised eight plots of 0.1 ha between 2300 and 3300 m asl, the successional-forest transect, four plots between 2400 and 2750 m asl. The latter comprised structurally heterogeneous vegetation patches. For each plot the proportions of leaf size classes and of the different categories of leaf shape, margin, and apex were calculated. Leaf size and the proportion of drip-tips decreased with increasing elevation. Serrate leaf margins were more prominent at higher elevations. Stomatal density, leaf thickness and related anatomical characteristics did not show significant trends. Differences between the mature and successional forest plots were generally slight. The advanced age of the successional forest probably led to a convergent development of leaf characteristics.
2560117|Three census methods for studying fruiting phenology and fruit production were compared: platform observation, fruit-trap collection and raked-ground survey. The estimation of fresh fruit mass varied greatly with the census method used. Moreover, the fruiting phenology recorded using the fruit-trap collection and raked-ground survey methods showed a delay of one to two months compared with the platform observation method. Any of the three methods can be used for the approximation of annual fruiting phenology, but that of fruit-trap collection is suited to measure the annual fruit production, and that of platform observation offers the best estimation of the quantity of fruit in tree crowns at a given time.
25172890|We examine the density-and distance-dependent seedling survival of Philenoptera sutherlandii, a common pod-bearing and dehiscent legume (Fabaceae) in Ongoye Forest, South Africa. Short-range ballistic dispersal causes seed to fall beneath the parent tree, where density-or distance-dependent mortality effects are expected to be concentrated. One hundred and eighty marked seedlings were monitored in a 0.5-ha plot containing 30 adults. Our survival data do not support the escape hypothesis. Predation levels declined with increasing seedling density (positive density-dependent survival), but seedling survival after 15 mo was not distance-dependent. Nevertheless, a unimodal (hump-shaped) recruitment curve, typically associated with decreasing seedling density and increasing seedling survival with distance, was observed. In the context of ballistic dispersal, this recruitment curve may indicate a hump-shaped dispersal kernel with predator satiation at high seedling densities near a parent tree. This recruitment curve likely arises because generalized insect seedling predators while attracted to the adult trees also tend to forage farther away. Short dispersal distances, in turn generate the high densities needed to satiate seed and seedling predators. Predator satiation results in long-term survival rates in P. sutherlandii similar to more widely dispersed and less common tree species.
3068647|Leaf defences, leaf nutritional quality and leaf expansion rates may vary with resource availabilities to plants. Such variation could affect rates of leaf loss to herbivores, particularly along the steep resource gradients in disturbed forests. Intraspecific and interspecific variation in leaf damage and leaf expansion rates were measured on dipterocarp seedlings planted into secondary forests 1, 5 and 15 y after logging, and in adjacent primary forest of Sabah, Malaysia. Herbivory rates or amounts of leaf damage were compared across habitats and species for expanding, recently expanded, and mature leaves of Shorea leprosula and Dryobalanops lanceolata (Dipterocarpaceae). In all four habitats, leaves of the faster growing S. leprosula sustained higher rates and amounts of leaf-area loss than did the tougher leaves of slower growing D. lanceolata. Expanding leaves accumulated more leaf-area loss per week than did mature leaves. In all habitats and in both species, more than 25% of expanding leaves disappeared entirely. Rates of leaf-area loss per week differed among habitats for expanding leaves but not for mature leaves. In a relatively open, 1-y-old logged forest, faster leaf expansion reduced the time leaves spent in the most vulnerable stage; however, in S. leprosula a greater rate of leaf area loss countered the shorter expansion time. Thus, leaves accumulated similar total damages across habitats, and herbivory did not produce differences among habitats in seedling growth or mortality. High levels of resources may increase both leaf palatability and leaf expansion rates, with counteracting effects on herbivory.
2560000|The effect of natural canopy gaps on the performance of naturally occurring tree seedling populations was studied in a tropical rain forest in French Guiana. This was done at two levels of scale. Firstly, on a 20 m x 250 m forest transect intersecting four canopy gaps, it was investigated how patterns of recruitment, growth and survival of seedlings of Cecropia obtusa, Dicorynia guianensis and Pourouma bicolor differed between canopy gaps and closed forest. Secondly, for one large natural canopy gap, performance of seedling cohorts established before (`pre-gap' cohorts) and after (`post-gap' cohorts) gap formation was studied in relation to environmental heterogeneity. The direct site factor (DSF) was used as an indicator of light availability in the gap zone. Cecropia specialised in large gaps, and also in specific sites within the large gap: seedling performance was increased by light, and by dead wood. Pourouma mainly germinated under closed forest conditions, where it can survive for a long period until a canopy gap is formed nearby. Pourouma seedlings adjusted well to the new gap environment but they did not specialise in specific places within the gap. Seedling location of Pourouma seedlings was mainly determined by accidental positioning before gap formation. Dicorynia was able to germinate both in gaps and under closed forest conditions. Although the number of gaps studied in this study was low, the results show that seedling establishment, early growth and survival of the three tree species were affected by canopy gaps and by the environmental heterogeneity within a large gap.
25562584|Deforestation rates in South-East Asia are among the highest of any tropical region, with expansion of oil palm being one important factor. Despite this, few studies have investigated the impact of oil palm expansion on the arthropod fauna. We report here the first study on the impact of forest conversion to oil palm on overall arthropod abundance, biomass and composition. We compared arthropod abundance and biomass, collected from epiphytic bird's nest ferns, the canopy, and leaf litter between primary forest, logged forest and oil palm plantation. Epiphytes, canopy and litter all contained a lower abundance (epiphytes: 67.2%, canopy: 2.3% and litter: 77.1% reduction) and biomass (epiphytes: 87.5%, canopy: 37.9% and litter: 72.4% reduction) of arthropods in oil palm compared with primary forest. However, not all orders of arthropods showed the same level of decline, with some groups having higher abundance and biomass in oil palm, resulting in an altered community composition in the epiphytes and canopy in oil palm compared with forest. Our results show that forest conversion to oil palm impacts detrimentally on invertebrates in all compartments of the forest ecosystem.
3068667|A large number of newly published and unpublished hectare plots in Amazonia and the Guiana Shield area allow an analysis of family composition and testing of hypotheses concerning alpha-diversity in the south American rain forest. Using data from 94 plots the family-level floristic patterns in wet tropical South America are described. To test diversity patterns, 268 plots are used in this large area. Contrary to a widely held belief, western Amazonian plots are not necessarily the most diverse. Several central Amazonian plots have equal or even higher tree diversity. Annual rainfall is not a good estimator for tree diversity in the Amazonia area and Guiana shield. Plots in the Guiana Shield area (and eastern Amazonia) usually have lower diversity than those in central or western Amazonia. It is argued that this is not because of low rainfall or low nutrient status of the soil but because of the small area of the relatively isolated rain forest area in eastern Amazonia and the Guiana Shield. The low diversity on nutrient-poor white sand soils in the Amazon basin is not necessarily due to their low nutrient status but is, at least partly, caused by their small extent and fragmented nature.
2559489|Leaf litter invertebrates were sampled at eight sites, approximately 250 m apart in elevation, along an altitudinal transect extending from primary lowland rainforest to cloud forest in western Panama. The study focused on several diverse and numerically important litter invertebrate taxa (e.g., ants, spiders, and beetles) that were effectively sampled using a combination of litter sifting and test tube pitfall traps. The mean altitudinal range of species was around 500 m (standard deviation 370 m) and approximately 50% of the species characteristic of a given elevation dropped out after a 500 m change in elevation in either direction. There was no evidence for distinct altitudinal zonation in leaf litter assemblages. Both species richness and number of individuals of most taxa showed a pronounced decline in the vicinity of the upward transition to cloud forests. The data also suggest a broad mid-elevation peak in sample species richness for the litter invertebrate fauna. The implications of the results for biodiversity conservation are discussed.
2559748|Tropical forest vegetation occurs within a narrow corridor along the semi-arid lower floodplain of the Tana River, Kenya. An inventory of the woody flora and ecological study of 12 forest areas in the Tana River National Primate Reserve (TRNPR) describe the composition and structure of this riverine forest ecosystem and identify patterns of regional and local diversity. Only 175 species in 49 families are recorded in the woody flora, but the geographic affinities of 98 species are from four major floristic regions in Africa: Zanzibar-Inhambane (31%), Somalia-Masai (16%), Guinea-Congolian (12%), and Zambezian (1%). Ten species are rare and/or disjunct. Forests have a disturbed physiognomy characterized by a low mean height (14.4 m), high species importance attributable to a few trees, low density (409 ha<sup>-1</sup>) and coverage (23.1 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup>) of trees > 10 cm dbh, and an abundance of palms and lianes. Changes along the river in sediment deposition and hydrology explain the high diversity of landforms and corresponding forest types in the TRNPR vicinity, but the absence of trees which are most important near Bura, Acacia elatior, and near Wema, Barringtonia racemosa, suggests that the regional diversity of the ecosystem is inadequately protected. Preservation of key resources, such as the endangered primates, should be coupled with protection of the forest heterogeneity that characterizes this dynamic landscape.
3068735|Seed removal was evaluated at the macro- and micro-habitat level in areas differing in successional stage in the Bolivian Amazon. The successional stages consisted of secondary forests of 2, 10 and 20 years old and primary forest. Seeds of nine tree species were artificially dispersed and the number of seeds removed was evaluated over 7 weeks. Several stand characteristics were measured at the sites where seeds were dispersed. Seed removal at the end of the experiment varied from 50 to 100% depending on the species, and from 74 to 90% depending on successional stage. In general, the removal rate decreased with an increase in age of successional stage. The seed removal rate was related to liana density and not to litter thickness. Different microhabitat characteristics explained the seed removal rate of four species but microhabitat characteristics did not explain the decrease in seed removal rate with an increase in forest age. The results support the idea that post-dispersal seed removal reduces the number of seeds available for germination, consequently playing an important role in the regeneration of abandoned agricultural areas.
2559914|Seed dispersal is a process critical to the maintenance of tropical forests, yet little is known about the interactions of most dispersers with their communities. In the Dja Reserve, Cameroon, seed dispersal by the hornbills Ceratogymna atrata, C. cylindricus and C. fistulator (Aves: Bucerotidae) was evaluated with respect to the taxonomic breadth of plants dispersed, location of seed deposition and effects on seed germination. Collectively, the three hornbill species consumed fruits from 59 tree and liana species, and likely provided dispersal for 56 of them. Hornbill-dispersed tree species composed 22% of the known tree flora of the site. Hornbill visit lengths, visit frequencies, and seed passage times indicated that few seeds were deposited beneath parent trees; in five hornbill/tree species pairings studied, 69-100% of the seeds ingested were deposited away from the parent trees. Germination trials showed that hornbill gut passage is gentle on seeds. Of 24 tree species tested, 23 germinated after passage by hornbills; of 17 planted with controls taken directly from trees, only four species showed evidence of inhibition of germination rate, while seven experienced unchanged germination rates and six experienced enhanced germination rates. Results suggested that Ceratogymna hornbills rank among the most important seed dispersers found in Afrotropical forests, and they deserve increased conservation attention. Ceratogymna hornbills are likely to become increasingly important in forest regeneration as populations of larger mammalian seed dispersers (such as forest elephants and primates) diminish.
2560274|Influence of habitat on physiological and structural characteristics was investigated for broad-leaved tropical monocotyledons in the genus Heliconia (Heliconiaceae). Seven species were selected from three different light regimes, enabling an analysis of the extent to which this genus has adapted its photosynthetic strategies and morphological characteristics to different daily photon flux densities (PFD). Predictably, light response curves showed a clear gradient with respect to light saturation and rates of maximum net assimilation (A<sub>max</sub>). Heliconia latispatha, an open site species, showed saturation at higher PFD (1400 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) and higher A<sub>max</sub> (14-16 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) than H mathiasiae, a forest edge species (PFD 1000 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>; A<sub>max</sub> 7.5-8.5 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) and H. irrasa of deep-shade forest understorey (PFD 250 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>; A<sub>max</sub> 3.5 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>). Leaf blade areas were largest in open sites, and leaf specific mass was also significantly higher, but leaf support efficiency was highest in understorey species. Species in open sites had thicker leaves with more chlorenchyma, whereas deep-shade species had very thin leaves and low stomatal densities. These rapidly growing herbaceous perennials appear to allocate much of their above-ground biomass to leaf tissues and have a relatively low investment in support tissues. This contrasts with understorey palms, in which leaf form and structural investment has been interpreted as a trade-off between economy and protection against tissue loss from falling branches. Presence of below-ground rhizomes in Heliconia may provide the key to this difference.
4091820|An analysis of corticolous bryophyte diversity on whole trees in primary rain forest and 4-15-y-old fallows at 500-650 m in the Alto Beni, Bolivia, showed a significantly decreased diversity of bryophyte families and moss species in the fallows. However, liverwort diversity was scarcely lower in the fallows, except in the very young (4 y old) ones. Fallows had a significantly higher percentage of smooth mat species (72%), which may reflect the warmer, drier microclimate in the fallows. About half of the bryophyte species of the rain forest had re-established in the 10-15-y-old fallows. The majority of these are ecological generalists and sun epiphytes; a small minority are shade epiphytes. Re-establishment of ecological specialists is slower than that of generalists. Species richness in the primary forest is highest in the canopy; in the fallows it is highest in the understorey due to striking shifts of species and specialized growth types (rough mats, fans, tails) towards lower heights on the trees in the fallows. These shifts correspond well with measured changes in air temperature and air humidity in the fallows as compared with the forest.
2559679|A comparison is made of the light acclimation potential of seedlings of three canopy species of the tropical rain forest of Los Tuxtlas, Mexico: Cordia megalantha, Lonchocarpus guatemalensis, and Omphalea oleifera. These species showed similar growth rates in a range of microhabitats. Gap dynamics were simulated by transferring plants between three environments: beneath a closed canopy, a small gap, and a large gap. Plants of all three species were able to adjust their morphology and growth rates in response to changes in light availability. Growth rates increased when plants were moved to a (larger) gap, and decreased when plants were moved to a more shaded environment. Shade-grown plants were able to acclimate faster to increasing light availability than sun-grown plants to decreasing light availability. Also, plants moved from shady to sunny conditions showed higher relative growth rates than sun control plants, whereas sun-grown plants when moved to the shade showed lower relative growth rates than shade control plants. Species differed in their response to gap dynamics. Omphalea could not acclimate morphologically to shading, but reacted faster than the other species in response to the occurrence of a large gap. Acclimation potential seemed to be related to plasticity in physiological rather than in morphological traits. Suppressed seedlings of all three species performed well in the shade, and were able to acclimate rapidly to gap-conditions.
2559986|Mistnets were set at ground level and 11-30 m above ground in lowland rainforest at Kuala Lompat in peninsular Malaysia, and Sepilok in Sabah, to compare the abundance of fruit bats in the subcanopy and at ground level. Capture rates in the subcanopy were up to 100 times greater than at ground level, averaging 3-7 bats per net-night. Species diversity was higher in the subcanopy than forest understorey. Two species that were frequently captured in the subcanopy, Megaerops wetmorei and Dyacopterus spadiceus, were previously thought to be rare. The abundance of Old World fruit bats in the subcanopy indicates that their roles in pollination and seed dispersal of Malaysian forest trees may be greater than previously recognized. Further research on foraging ranges, food selection and roosting habits is required to determine the overall importance of fruit bats in forest regeneration through seed dispersal, and the adequacy of existing reserves for their conservation.
25562630|We developed allometric relationships between tree size parameters (stem diameter at breast height (dbh), at ground surface (D) and tree height) and leaf, stem, small-root (diameter &lt;5 mm) and total root biomass in various tropical secondary-forest trees in Sarawak, Malaysia. In total, 136 individuals from 23 species were harvested to measure above-ground parts. Root systems of 77 individuals of 16 species were also excavated. The coefficients of correlation for the obtained allometric relationships between tree diameter and plant-part biomass showed high values, ranging from 0.83 to 0.99. In addition, there were few interspecific differences in relationships for all biomass parts, except for leaves. We also found relatively high coefficients of allometric relationships between tree height and plant-part biomass ranging from 0.83 to 0.94. Comparison of above- and below-ground biomass equations for various tropical rainforests implies that our allometric equations differ largely from the equations for tropical primary forests. Thus, choosing both above- and below-ground allometric equations for biomass estimation in tropical secondary forests of South-East Asia requires careful consideration of their suitability.
2560092|In a 1-ha plot all ground herb species were recorded Within the plot selected properties were investigated in three 20 m x 20 m subplots. The number of ground herb species and individuals in the subplots were lowest near to a local hilltop and they increased towards the lowest part of the plot. There was no significant difference in canopy openness, or in thickness of leaf litter layer, between the upper and lower subplots. In the upper subplot the soil layer was thin and the weathered bedrock was close to the surface. In the lower subplot the soil was much deeper The pH and concentrations of Mg were significantly lower and % loss-on-ignition, total P and total N concentrations were significantly higher in the upper subplot. Elevation and soil moisture were significantly correlated in the upper 10 cm of soil It is not possible to select any one abiotic property as being the critical determinant of the gradient of ground herbs. However, it is suspected that the availability of water in the topsoil, particularly after droughts, may be more important than the soil nutrients in limiting herb distribution
2559524|A high-diversity primate community consisting of 13 species was examined at an entirely undisturbed and remote terra firme forest near the headwaters of the Urucu River, Amazonas, Brazil Twelve of these species used a 900-ha study plot, located 4 km or more inland from the river, and comprised a total group density of 16 groups km<sup>-2</sup>, an overall density of 146 individuals km<sup>-2</sup>, a crude community biomass of 381 kg km<sup>-2</sup>, and a metabolic biomass of 278 kg<sup>0 75</sup> km<sup>-2</sup> These species were occasionally found together within small (1 km<sup>2</sup>) areas of forest, so long as they included the full complement of available forest types. More frequently, however, only half the species co-occurred in a single habitat type at any one time, reflecting a relatively consistent pattern of subcommunity spatial organization. Habitat generalist species making extensive, year-round use of the predominant habitat type (high forest), were common, whereas habitat specialists were uncommon to very rare, and confined to minor habitats. Those species coexisting throughout the year in high forest were found to segregate vertically from one another. These and other modal patterns of community structure were disrupted seasonally by long-distance, inland movements by two `igapo' forest species living in large groups - squirrel monkeys and white-face capuchins - to high forest areas, which apparently resulted from a food bottleneck in their habitat. Another species found in large groups - woolly monkeys - also exercised seasonally vagrant movements within the high forest matrix, which coincided with periods of greatest scarcity of mature fleshy fruits.
2559855|In January 1983, two 50 m x 50 m rain forest plots in the University of Ife campus in southwestern Nigeria were demarcated for a baseline study of species composition, litterfall and tree girth increments. By accident, a severe ground fire burnt one of the plots on 31 January, barely two weeks after litter traps had been set and species listing and first girth measurements completed. The effect of this fire was assessed in the burnt plot after 14 months, in April 1984. The fire affected small trees especially, and there were indications that some species were more sensitive than others. Manihot glaziovii, which was present in the plot and abundant in its vicinity before the fire showed a big increase in density after the fire because it was able to germinate in the openings created by the fire. These observations were related to succession, and it is concluded that the observation by some workers that the initial composition of a regrowth forest may be partly predicted from a knowledge of the seed bank in the soil may be applicable in the present case.
2560070|The Monteverde Cloud Forest Reserve protects a variety of primary montane forest communities on volcanic parent materials. We describe the structure and composition of the forest to provide background information for epiphyte and nutrient cycling studies and for comparison with other tropical montane forests In a 4-ha study plot in leeward cloud forest, density of stems (2062 individuals ha<sup>-1</sup> for stems >2 cm dbh, 555 individuals ha<sup>-1</sup> for stems >10 cm dbh) and stem basal area (73 8 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup> for stems >2 cm, 62 0 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup> for stems >10 cm dbh) were high relative to other montane forests. Stems in a subset of the plot (c. 1/3 of the area) were identified and assigned to 47 families, 83 genera and 114 species, which is rich compared with other montane forests. Large stems had a higher spatial variability of structural and floristic characteristics than small stems.
2560045|Throughout the tropics there are a few hundred ant species that nest exclusively inside myrmecophytes (i.e. ant-domatia bearing plants). For these ants, nesting space is an essential resource that must be shared among them, therefore opening the possibility for strong intraspecific and interspecific competition. Several ant-myrmecophyte systems from Central Amazonia were investigated to test the relevance and generality of the nesting space limitation hypothesis for plantants. Empirical patterns were drawn at four organizational levels: (a) individual level-ant species with small-bodied queens were the most frequent partners of myrmecophyte species offering small-sized domatia, while ants with large-bodied queens dominated host species with large-sized domatia, suggesting that host choice by inseminated queens and interspecific conflicts over host dominance seem to be influenced by space limitation; (b) colony level-in eight independent antmyrmecophyte systems, ant colony size was positively correlated to the number of domatia provided by the host, and the mean occupancy level of the domatia by ants was 92%, suggesting that space can be limiting to colony growth; (c) population level-ant colony number and distribution was determined by the local availability and distribution of its plant partners; and (d) community level-across ant-myrmecophyte systems, the commonness of ant species were largely determined by the commonness of their specialized host partners. Within ant-myrmecophyte systems, rarity of ants seems to be defined by interspecific conflicts over host dominance. The ecological and evolutionary consequences of those patterns are discussed.
25172941|We measured macronutrient concentrations in soils and leaves of trees, shrubs and herbs at 1900, 2400 and 3000 m in an Ecuadorian tropical montane forest. Foliar N, P, S and K concentrations in trees were highest at 1900 m (21.7, 2.2, 1.9 and 10.0 mg g). At 2400 and 3000 m, foliar concentrations of N, P, S and K were similar to nutrient concentrations in tropical trees with apparent nutrient deficiency, as presented in literature. Unlike foliar nutrient concentrations, the amounts of plant-available nutrients in mineral soil were not affected by altitude or increased significantly with increasing altitude. High C:N ratios (25:1 at 2400 m and 34:1 at 3000 m) and C:P ratios (605:1 at 2400 m and 620:1 at 3000 m) in the soil organic layer suggested slow mineralization of plant litter and thus, a low availability of N and P at high altitudes. Foliar N:P ratios were significantly higher at 2400 m (11.3:1) than at 3000 m (8.3:1), indicating that at high altitudes. N supply was more critical than P supply. In conclusion, the access of plants to several nutrients, most likely N, P, S and K, decreased markedly with increasing altitude in this tropical montane forest.
4499122| The regeneration processes and the spatial distribution of the shade-intolerant Weinmannia tinctoria seedlings in the south of Runion were investigated, with a special focus on the role of tree-ferns in seedling establishment. Mature individuals and seedling patches of Weinmannia tinctoria, and also tree-ferns, were mapped on two 1-ha rain-forest plots. Weinmannia tinctoria has hemi-epiphytic behaviour since seedlings were generally located on plant supports (99.6%). Regeneration was better on a support than on the ground, and germination tests showed that seeds were light-stimulated. Tall tree-ferns (Cyathea spp.) were suitable supports. Cyathea glauca and C. excelsa were more suitable supports than C. borbonica. Weinmannia tinctoria establishment complies with the facilitation model of succession and is dependent on tree-ferns. /// La rgnration et la distribution spatiale des semis de Weinmannia tinctoria, espce intolrante  l'ombre, ont t tudies dans le sud de La Runion. Nous nous sommes intresss au rle des fougres arborescentes sur l'mergence de plantules. Les adultes matures et les taches de semis (ensembles de plusieurs plantules) de Weinmannia tinctoria, de mme que les fougres arborescentes, ont t cartographis sur deux parcelles de 1 ha en fort humide. Weinmannia tinctoria a un comportement hmi-piphyte car les semis se situaient principalement sur des supports (99,6%). La rgnration se rvlait meilleure sur les supports qu'au sol, et les tests de germination ont montr que les semences germaient mieux  la lumire. Les grandes fougres arborescentes (Cyathea spp.) constituaient des supports privilgis. Cyathea glauca et Cyathea excelsa reprsentaient des supports plus favorables que Cyathea borbonica. W. tinctoria apparat donc comme une espce qui s'installe principalement en utilisant le modle de facilitation et qui dpend de la prsence de fougres arborescentes. 
4092063|Drip-tips are a common phenomenon in tropical rain forests, often believed to facilitate drainage of water from the leaf surface and, in that way, reduce epiphyll growth. Some authors suggest a function in reducing splash soil erosion, leaching of substances from the leaf, and light reflectance, while other studies did not find any such correlations. We used an experimental approach to test for the effect of drip-tips on the development of epiphyllous lichen communities. Artificial leaves with and without pronounced drip-tips were exposed in a tropical lowland rain forest at La Selva Biological Station (Costa Rica) for a period of 38 mo, and the physical behaviour of rainwater was tested. On leaves with drip-tips, the water ran off in small, frequent drops
2559656|Soil water potentials were measured weekly by psychrometers at 20 cm depth during the dry season in a tropical moist forest on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. There was a persistent gradient of decreasing soil moisture from gap centre to gap edge to adjacent understorey at both a large and a small gap. On both a north-south and an east-west transect, the soil was drier (water potentials were more negative) on an upland surface than on moderate slopes. This trend was reflected in the predawn, total water potentials of shallow-rooted Psychotria horizontalis and deep-rooted Trichilia tuberculata measured in the understorey during the last two months of the dry season. P. horizontalis from the wettest sites on the transects had higher osmotic potentials at full hydration and at zero turgor, indicating less drought resistance than for conspecifics from the driest sites.
25790843|As the dry season progresses in arid and semi-arid ecosystems, rain-fed surface water sources become depleted, forcing most animals to concentrate in the immediate vicinity of the few remaining permanent sources of drinking water. This study investigates the temporal dynamics of use of water-holes by nine African large-herbivore species in the dry season in the semi-arid savanna of Hwange National Park, Zimbabwe, and particularly how annual rainfall influences this temporal dynamics. Two contrasting years in terms of annual rainfall were compared: 2003 (a drought  362.6 mm) and 2004 (average rainfall  695.8 mm). In 2003, water-holes were used far more intensively and the level of aggregation of herbivores at water-holes was significantly higher. The temporal dynamics of water-hole use in the dry season differed between the two years: in 2003, the peak of water-hole use started much earlier and lasted 3 mo. Elephants and grazers showed the largest difference in use of water-holes between 2003 and 2004 supporting the suggestion that browsers are less water dependent. This study suggests that annual rainfall should be taken into account when predicting the peak of the dry season.
4091835|Determining the ubiquity of top-down control effects of predators on their prey and ecosystem processes is important for understanding community and ecosystem-level consequences that may result from predator loss. We conducted experiments at two spatial scales to investigate the effects of terrestrial frogs (Eleutherodactylus coqui) on aerial and litter invertebrates, plant growth and herbivory, and litter decomposition. At both scales, frogs reduced aerial invertebrates and leaf herbivory, but had no effect on litter invertebrates. At the smaller scale, frogs increased foliage production rates, measured as the number of new leaves and new leaf area produced, by 80% and decomposition rates by 20%. The influence of E. coqui on increasing primary productivity and decomposition rates at the smaller scale appeared to be a result of elimination and excretion rather than of controlling prey. While the results provide evidence for frogs controlling herbivorous prey at both scales, species effects on ecosystem processes were only detectable at the smaller scale. The results highlight the difficulties in conducting experiments at large spatial scales. The findings from this study imply that the loss of amphibians and other species of higher trophic levels may affect nutrient cycling rates in tropical forests.
2559913|Patterns of buttress formation in tropical trees vary greatly within and among species. In Kibale National Park, Uganda, some form of a buttress was found on 23% of the 78 species (1785 trees) sampled from a variety of distantly related families. Large differences in buttress formation were documented within a single family and even within the same genus. Previous studies have suggested that buttresses are mechanical adaptations to counter asymmetric loads experienced during brief critical phases in a tree's development and these persist after the need for a mechanical support has disappeared. As a tree grows from the understorey, up to the canopy, or emerges from the canopy, the potential number of occasions that a tree will experience directional stress increases. Many canopy level trees will probably have been in the vicinity of a treefall gap during their development, while emergent trees may experience gap exposure in addition to wind stresses associated with canopy emergence. Therefore, it is predicted that understorey trees should have fewer and less developed buttresses (after correcting for overall tree size) than canopy trees, which should have fewer and less developed buttresses than emergent trees. Detailed measurements of buttresses from 194 trees of eight species support this prediction. There was no evidence that trees thought to have experienced directional stress associated with selective logging almost 30 y ago had increased the number or size of existing buttresses. The pattern of buttressing in Kibale generally supports the idea that buttresses are mechanical adaptations to counter episodic asymmetric loads, and that but-tresses persist after the need for a mechanical support has disappeared.
2559761|The `campos de murundus' (earthmound fields) are typical landscapes of the cerrado (savanna) region of Central Brazil and are characterized by many rounded earthmounds called `murundus' which are scattered over a grassland surface. As these areas are normally liable to seasonal water-logging, the earthmounds are true habitat islands capable of bearing woody plants typical of the cerrado, which are normally very intolerant of root inundation. The vegetation of an area of murundus field at Cuiaba, in the State of Mato Grosso, Central Brazil, was surveyed for the purpose of evaluating the island-effect on the plant community growing on the mounds/islands. Two main aspects were considered: the influence of the size of the mound and the differences between the types of cerrado occurring on the mounds and on the areas surrounding the murundus field. Most plant species occurring on the mounds were also present in the flora of the surrounding cerrado. However, only a fraction of these species was able to colonize the mounds successfully. The number of species on the mounds was found to be significantly correlated with mound area. Species-area relationships were better described with the power model S = C(A<sup>z</sup>) than with the exponential model S = C + z (logA) (fitted with linear regression). The mound size also had a strong influence on the spatial distribution of the species on the surface of the mounds. The species were organized in an increasing number of concentric topographic belts corresponding to a gradient of soil depth above the flooding level.
2559547|Patterns of edge-related environmental changes and plant water relations were investigated in the isolated forest reserves of the INPA-WWF Minimum Critical Size of Ecosystems project near Manaus, Brazil early in the wet season. Air temperature was elevated and humidity reduced in the understorey within 40 m of the reserve margins, and air temperature and vapour pressure deficit (VPD) were higher in the interiors of 1 ha reserves than in 100 ha reserves. There was increased photosynthetically active radiation penetration to understorey level up to 40 m into a 100 ha reserve. Soil moisture was depleted in the outer 20 m of both small and large reserves, and surface soil water potentials fell below - 1.5 MPa at the margin of a 1 ha reserve. Studies of leaf relative water contents (RWCs) in understorey shrubs revealed no appreciable saturation deficits, though RWCs were sometimes lower at the reserve margins. Studies of leaf conductances revealed no evidence of restriction of water loss in these plants, and conductances of plants near the edges were significantly higher and higher for longer. The implications of these results for reserve design and for local and regional water budgets, as well as the possible role of water stress in increased tree mortality in isolated reserves are discussed.
2560300|Two dung beetle assemblages from rainforest and open forest in the wet tropics of north-eastern Australia are described The fauna was sampled using flight intercept traps, baited pitfall traps and light traps, with flight intercept traps being the most effective sampling technique. Dung beetle species were found to be highly habitat specific with a switch from rainforest to open forest assemblages occurring over tens of metres. The majority of the fauna was active at night. The most abundant species were attracted to a variety of food types but several species appeared to specialize on either dung or mushrooms.
2559955|Despite the importance of treefall gaps in tropical forest dynamics, few studies have followed gap-phase processes for more than 2 y. We monitored, for five years, the growth and survival of many seedlings of Tetragastris panamensis (Engler) O. Kuntze, Protium panamense (Rose) I. M. Johnston, and Desmopsis panamensis (Rob.) Saff. (three common tree species of the Panamanian tropical moist forest) in artificially created treefall gaps and under intact-canopy control plots. On these same plots, we also monitored light levels using hemispherical photographs taken over an 8-y period. Seedling height growth was faster in gaps than under intact canopies during the first 42 mo of regrowth, then declined to rates similar to those under intact canopies. Light levels in gaps similarly rose and fell, returning to pre-gap levels by month 48. Only Tetragastris panamensis showed higher survival in gaps, contrary to the general assumption that seedling survival is enhanced by gap creation. Our results document important transition points that mark the conclusion of the gap phase, suggesting an estimate of 4y for the duration of the gap phase in this tropical forest.
25172954|Seed dispersal and predation by spiny rats (Proechimys semispinosus) and red-tailed squirrels (Sciurus granatensis) were studied in five forest gaps and adjacent forest understorey on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, during June and July 2003 and January 2004. Live trapping on grids was used to estimate the abundances of rats in both habitats and was conducted during 10 nights at the beginning of each field season. We captured 70 individual spiny rats (53 in forest gaps and 17 in understorey). To address the removal and dispersal of seeds, semi-permeable wire-mesh exclosures were set at randomly selected stations within the trapping grids. These exclosures allowed the entry of spiny rats, squirrels, and other small rodents but excluded larger granivorous mammals. Seeds were marked with pieces of string that were dusted with fluorescent powder and tracked at night with an ultraviolet light. A total of 304 seeds was removed (159 in forest gaps and 145 in understorey). Spiny rats removed more seeds from gaps, and squirrels removed more seeds from understorey. Both species dispersed more seeds during the rainy season than during the dry season. Squirrels dispersed seeds farther than did spiny rats. Due to their foraging behaviour and association with gaps, spiny rats may disperse seeds from forest understorey into gaps.
2559251|The rates of water loss and humidity preference of carabids from dry tropical habitats have been studied and compared with corresponding data from temperate carabids and tropical tenebrionids. Within each group of beetles the rate of relative water loss decreases with increasing body size. Carabids from dry tropical areas have rates of water loss which are lower than those of temperate species, but considerably higher than the values for tenebrionids from dry tropical habitats. Small temperate carabids can stay in dry air for only a few hours, whereas large tropical tenebrionids may survive for weeks without becoming critically dehydrated. Given the choice between a dry and a humid atmosphere, well hydrated beetles of all groups will initially choose the dry atmosphere. Most temperate carabids will switch to humid atmosphere after a few hours and tropical carabids after 1-3 days, whereas tropical tenebrionids may remain in dry air for almost 3 weeks. The temperate carabids are very sensitive to dehydration and will shift to a humid atmosphere when dehydrated by only 2-5%. Tropical carabids and tenebrionids will shift first when they are dehydrated by 7-20% of their body weight in a hydrated state, implying that these beetles are considerably less sensitive to water loss than temperate carabids.
40925453|Logged forests form an increasingly large proportion of tropical landscapes but disproportionately few studies have studied the impact of forest disturbance, e. g. lightly vs. heavily logged, on tree and seedling communities simultaneously. We sampled all trees (on 1 ha) and all recently germinated seedlings (on 90 m) in three lightly and three heavily logged sites in each of the following three East African tropical forests: Budongo Forest and Mabira Forest in Uganda and Kakamega Forest in Kenya. We analysed species richness, diversity, abundance and community composition of late-and early-successional trees and seedlings. We recorded no difference in species richness or diversity of late-successional or early-successional trees between lightly and heavily logged sites. However, the abundance of late-successional species was lower in heavily than lightly logged sites. Moreover, there was no difference in species richness or diversity of trees among the three forests. Yet, abundances of late-successional trees were higher in Budongo Forest than in Mabira Forest and Kakamega Forest. Species richness, diversity and abundance of seedlings did not differ between lightly and heavily logged sites. Only the abundance of seedlings of late-successional species differed among the forests with more individuals in Budongo Forest than in Mabira Forest. This was corroborated by non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) showing clear differences in composition of tree and seedling communities among the three forests. Thus, both, the tree and seedling communities differed significantly among the three forests but not between lightly and heavily logged sites.
2560311|Changes in the composition and structure of mid-altitude, semi-deciduous tropical forest in Mpanga Research Forest Reserve, Uganda are described for a 25-year period between 1968 and 1993 Three surveys of a 0.64 ha (80 m x 80 m) permanent plot were carried out in 1968, 1982 and 1993, during which a total of 397 trees with a dbh9.5 cm were identified Fortynine species were identified in total, representing 19 families Eight individuals remain unidentified Dbh measurements were recorded for 359 non-buttressed trees, whilst the equivalent measurement for 38 buttressed trees was the diameter of the trunk immediately above the buttress Basal area, diversity and density of trees increased within the plot during the survey period by, respectively, 8% (from 39 2 to 42.2 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup>), 7% (from 44 to 47 species) and 11% (459 to 508 trees ha<sup>-1</sup>). The main compositional changes were increases in understorey trees and a decline in seral taxa. Growth rates (productivity) and turnover were lower during the period 1982 to 1993 than the period 1968 to 1982 Rates of growth and mortality were generally highest in seral species and lowest in main canopy taxa. Mortality rates were also highest amongst the smallest trees enumerated (dbh <30 cm) Changes in composition and structure over the survey period are believed to reflect forest recovery after low intensity pit-sawing was curtailed from 1951. Forest recovery also may have caused the reduced growth rates and turnover recorded for the most recent survey period, by restricting the opportunities for light-demanding, faster-growing and relatively productive seral taxa, and to have outweighed any effects of externally-driven processes, such as changes in atmospheric conditions.
3068806|Tapirs (Tapiridae) are the last representatives of the Pleistocene megafauna of South and Central America. How they affect the ecology of plants was examined by studying the diversity, abundance, and condition of seeds defecatedd by the lowland tapir (Tapirus terrestris) in Amazonian Brazil. Additionally, the spatio-temporal pattern of the seed-rain and seed-shadows generated by tapirs was recorded. Three hundred and fifty-six tapir faeces were examined. Eleven per cent were found in water (n = 41), while 88% were located on dry land (n = 315). Of those found on dry land, 84% were located at sites that flood seasonally, while 14% of the total were encountered at forest sites that do not flood. In 127 faeces checked in the laboratory over 12 906 seeds of at least 39 species were found. Seed viability ranged from 65% for Maximiliana maripa to 98% for Enterolobium schomburgkii. Of nine seed species planted in the laboratory, seven germinated within 4 wk, with one species achieving an 89% germination rate. For many species recruitment to the seedling stage was also high under natural conditions, with 13 plant species occurring as seedlings in older faeces. Tapir generated seed-rain occurred throughout the year, with seeds defecated in all months. Two temporal patterns in species seed rain occurred: (1) contiguous monthly occurrence with peaks in abundance, and (2) discontinuous occurrence (time clumped) with small (a few months) to large (many months to more than a year) temporal gaps. The highest diversity of seeds appeared in April, at the end of the dry season. As the last of the Pleistocene megafauna of the region, tapirs may have particular importance as dispersers of large seeds and generators of unique seed dispersion patterns.
2559921|The importance of figs as keystone resources depends partly on their year-round fruiting pattern. However, most non-equatorial fig species show seasonality in reproductive phenology. If fig and other species' fruiting peaks coincide, the importance of figs as key resources during lean fruiting periods may be reduced. Fig and other forest tree phenology was studied in a deciduous and an evergreen site in the Western Ghats, southern India, from January 1991 to May 1992. In the deciduous site, most non-fig flowering and leaf flushing occurred during the two dry seasons, while most fruiting occurred during the dry and early wet seasons. In the evergreen site, all non-fig tree phenological stages - flowering, fruiting and leaf flushing - were concentrated during the two dry seasons annually (dry and post-monsoon). Individual fig trees produced crops one to three times annually, at different times of the year for different trees. Fig community fruiting peaks in the evergreen site coincided with fruiting peaks of the other forest trees, but in the deciduous site occurred slightly offset from non-fig fruiting peaks. The role of figs as key resources is likely to differ among forests, and to depend on factors such as diversity of fruiting pattern among fig species, fig tree density and territoriality of frugivores.
25172910|The pattern of coarse-root distribution was analysed in the woody plant community along a 200-m edaphic gradient on a Kalahari sand woodland catena in Zimbabwe. The root systems of 45 trees and shrubs were excavated, mapped, and digitized to analyse rooting depth and architecture. Patterns of change in the above-ground community were also identified along this transect. Rooting depth increased, and the centre of mass of the root profile shifted towards the maximum rooting depth as a function of distance up the catena. The data also suggest that interspecific variation in rooting depth may increase up the catena. The below-ground pattern was accompanied by above-ground changes: species richness and basal area also increased up the catena. It is hypothesized that increasing soil depth allows greater coexistence of alternative water-use strategies, resulting in the observed increase in species richness up the catena.
27751622|Hornbills are important dispersers of a wide range of tree species. Many of these species bear fruits with large, lipid-rich seeds that could attract terrestrial rodents. Rodents have multiple effects on seed fates, many of which remain poorly understood in the Palaeotropics. The role of terrestrial rodents was investigated by tracking seed fate of five hornbill-dispersed tree species in a tropical forest in north-east India. Seeds were marked inside and outside of exclosures below 612 parent fruiting trees (undispersed seed rain) and six hornbill nest trees (a post-dispersal site). Rodent visitors and seed removal were monitored using camera traps. Our findings suggest that several rodent species, especially two species of porcupine were major on-site seed predators. Scatter-hoarding was rare (1.4%). Seeds at hornbill nest trees had lower survival compared with parent fruiting trees, indicating that clumped dispersal by hornbills may not necessarily improve seed survival. Seed survival in the presence and absence of rodents varied with tree species. Some species (e.g. Polyalthia simiarum) showed no difference, others (e.g. Dysoxylum binectariferum) experienced up to a 64% decrease in survival in the presence of rodents. The differing magnitude of seed predation by rodents can have significant consequences at the seed establishment stage.
2559513|Fish communities of a fourth order stream impounded by a weir were studied in Southern Nigeria. Fifty-eight species were recorded of which 90% occurred upstream while reservoir and downstream accounted for 48% and 43% respectively. The distribution of some fish families indicated the effects of habitat alterations caused by reservoir and downstream conditions. The fauna upstream was different from that of reservoir and downstream. Relative abundance of non-cichlids common to reservoir and downstream showed 42% similarity. The longitudinal distribution of three non-cichlid populations was different in reservoir and downstream. Non-cichlid species richness was almost similar in reservoir and downstream, but its general diversity and evenness were higher in reservoir than its downstream. Fish community changes in this stream are discussed.
25172937|The dynamics of tropical forest woody plants was studied at the Nouragues Field Station, central French Guiana. Stem density, basal area, above-ground biomass and above-ground net primary productivity, including the contribution of litterfall, were estimated from two large permanent census plots of 12 and 10 ha, established on contrasting soil types, and censused twice, first in 1992-1994, then again in 2000-2002. Mean stem density was 512 stems ha and basal area, 30 m ha. Stem mortality rate ranged between 1.51% and 2.06% y. In both plots, stem density decreased over the study period. Using a correlation between wood density and wood hardness directly measured by a Pilodyn wood tester, we found that the mean wood density was 0.63 g cm, 12% smaller than the mean of wood density estimated from the literature values for the species occurring in our plot. Above-ground biomass ranged from 356 to 398 Mg ha (oven-dry mass), and it increased over the census period. Leaf biomass was 6.47 Mg ha. Our total estimate of aboveground net primary productivity was 8.81 MgC ha y (in carbon units), not accounting for loss to herbivory, branchfalls, or biogenic volatile organic compounds, which may altogether account for an additional 1 MgC ha y. Coarse wood productivity (stem growth plus recruitment) contributed to 4.16 MgC ha y. Litterfall contributed to 4.65 MgC ha y with 3.16 MgC ha y due to leaves, 1.10 MgC ha y to twigs, and 0.39 MgC ha y to fruits and flowers. The increase in above-ground biomass for both trees and lianas is consistent with the hypothesis of a shift in the functioning of Amazonian rain forests driven by environmental changes, although alternative hypotheses such as a recovery from past disturbances cannot be ruled out at our site, as suggested by the observed decrease in stem density.
2560005|Dispersal of seeds away from the parent plant may facilitate escape from density-dependent seed mortality. However, many post-dispersal events can have a profound influence on the survival of dispersed seeds. By incorporating seeds in the dung that dung beetles process for consumption and oviposition, dung beetles could enhance seed survival if they remove seeds from areas of high predation risk and place them in locations that avoid subsequent predation and that are suitable for germination. The role of dung beetles in seed survival was investigated over 15 mo in Kibale National Park, Uganda. Depths of seeds buried by beetles, levels of predation on buried and unburied seeds, and germination success of seeds buried to different depths were examined. Results suggest that by burying seeds dung beetles increase the probability that seeds will escape predation and germinate. Of seeds placed in dungpiles, 69% remained at the surface, while 25% were buried from 1-3 cm in depth. Larger seeds were buried more shallowly than smaller seeds. Buried seeds were less likely to be removed by predators than seeds at the surface. Germination of seeds buried at 1- and 3-cm depths was significantly higher than seeds buried at 10 cm. For the species tested, many seeds were buried by dung beetles between 1 and 3 cm and at this depth there was a high probability of escaping predators and germinating. This demonstrates the potential ecological importance of dung beetles in facilitating seed survival and provides data to consider the role of dung beetles in the evolution of seed attributes.
2559274|The densities of the breeding populations and the sex of all flowering individuals were recorded for five dioecious canopy tree species of Central Amazonian Myristicaceae, in 11 study areas of the Minimum Critical size of Ecosystems Project totalling 22.5 ha. Adult population densities were extremely low, ranging from 0.38 to 1.61 ha<sup>-1</sup> for the five species studied. In a 10 ha study plot the mean distance to the nearest flowering conspecific ranged from 48 to 100 m, while the mean distance to the nearest opposite sex conspecific was 147 m. The two most abundant species, Iryanthera macrophylla and Virola calophylla, both showed male-biased sex ratios, of 23:9 and 20:6, respectively. The size class distribution of males, females and non-flowering individuals in V. calophylla suggests that earlier reproductive maturation of male plants may provide a partial explanation for this bias. In I. macrophylla, since 95% of the individuals were observed flowering, the observed ratio is representative of the population, and may be caused by sex shifts from male to female. The low reproductive densities, combined with the skewed sex ratios and overlapping generations of these species, create very small effective breeding populations, placing species such as these at great risk in the face of deforestation and habitat fragmentation.
2560147|We investigated the intraspecific variation in propagule mass within red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle) and its effect on carbon assimilation and seedling growth. Propagule sizes of red mangrove varied considerably at all three study sites along the south-eastern coast of Florida, with propagule fresh mass from 3.9 to 20.7 g for the scrub form and from 5.3 to 35.8 g for the tall form. Highly significant correlations were observed between propagule length and fresh weight at all three study sites and for two growth forms. The scrub form had significantly smaller propagules than the tall form. A greenhouse study showed that CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation rates were not correlated with propagule mass, but total leaf area per plant increased significantly with increasing initial propagule mass in all three family lines of both the scrub and tall forms. Consequently, total carbon fixation rate by each seedling increased significantly with increasing propagule fresh weight in all cases, and the biomass increment significantly increased with increasing mass. Relative growth rate, however, was not correlated with propagule mass. The differences in leaf areas and biomass accumulation among seedlings from different sizes of propagules seem to have resulted from the differences in maternal reserve of hypocotyls. The considerable intraspecific variation in propagule size observed for red mangrove may have a significant effect on seedling growth and competitive ability.
2559252|East African tenebrionid beetles of the species Zophosis congesta are active on sun-exposed surfaces in dry habitats during the hottest part of the day, when most other animals have retreated to protected areas. They remain on the surface at ambient temperatures up to 65<sup></sup>C which is 15<sup></sup>C above their highest tolerated body temperature. The beetles appear to regulate their body temperature behaviourally. They frequently rest and cool in the shade, and after each cooling period they remain on the sun-exposed surface until the heat influx from the environment has caused the body temperature to rise close to the lethal level. They have relatively low rates of transpiratory water loss, and appear unable to depress their body temperature by means of evaporative heat loss. The rate of metabolic production of water amounts to only about 20% of the rate of transpiratory water loss. Thus, the beetles depend strongly on water intake from dietary sources. The advantage of this type of activity pattern is probably avoidance of predators.
2560085|Measurements of reproductive allocation, fertility and iteroparity were made on females of four species of woodlice (Isopoda: Oniscidae) from southern Africa In three of the species between-population comparisons were made The average body mass of reproductive females was smaller than in temperate woodlice and because of a positive scaling between body mass and fertility: brood sizes were rarely larger than 30 young and usually between 5 and 20. Reproductive allocation ranged from 16 to 27% of female pre-birth live mass and differed significantly between species. Associations between reproductive allocation and body mass were all positive although only significant in two of the populations A small number of females produced more than one brood during the study and iteroparity appears the most likely reproductive tactic in these species In woodlice a restriction on body size results in lower fecundity as brood size is ultimately determined by the size of the marsupium. It is postulated that a tactic of repeated reproduction, with a relatively conservative allocation of resources to each reproductive event to enhance survival probabilities, would be favoured, particularly in an environment where juvenile mortality and the chance of complete brood failure is high.
4092065|Larvae of Plagiometriona aff. flavescens carry a structure on their back made of faeces and exuviae, called faecal shield, which may protect larvae against natural enemies. Previous investigations suggested that the nature of such protection was chemical. To test if chemicals found in the faecal shield of Plagiometriona aff. flavescens provided defence for larvae, experiments in the field and in the laboratory (using the ant Camponotus crassus, and chicks Gallus gallus as model predators) were undertaken. Both field and laboratory experiments showed that live larvae with faecal shields, as well as baits treated with faecal shield extracts, were rejected by predators, confirming the chemical nature of this kind of defence.
3068768|Thirty-six of the 70 species of bats known from Belize were recorded from the area around Lamanai, Orange Walk County: two in roosts and 34 in about 680 mist net hours that produced 560 captures. Day roosts used by 35 of the species were located using radio-tracking (Sturnira lilium, Platyrrhinus helleri, Centurio senex and Bauerus dubiaquercus) or general searching for roosts (Rhynchonycteris naso, Saccopteryx bilineata, Saccopteryx leptura, Diclidurus albus, Mimon bennettii, Micronycteris schmidtorum, Carollia brevicauda, Carollia perspicillata and Eptesicus furinalis). Data on the day roosts of 23 other species were determined from the literature. Most species reported from Lamanai (19) roosted in hollows, while others used foliage (6), tents (3), sheltered sites (2), crevices (2), open sites (1), and a few species used more than one type of day roost (hollows and crevices (1); hollows and foliage (1); hollows, foliage and tents (1)). The fauna consisted of 13 aerial foragers, 9 gleaners, 11 fruit/leaf eaters, one trawler, one flower-visitor and one blood-feeder. In day roost use and foraging behaviour, the Lamanai fauna did not differ significantly from that of Paracou, French Guiana, but both these locations differed from the bat fauna of Kruger National Park, South Africa, in foraging behaviour.
2560149|The age of most temperate tree species can be estimated accurately by counting the annual rings revealed by concentric changes in their wood anatomy. In the tropics and sub-tropics, this growth periodicity is seldom clearly and unambiguously defined. This research investigates whether a wood anatomical feature is present that delimits annual periods in one of the most widely distributed genera in the semi-arid and arid areas of Africa, Acacia. Most research on this topic has been based on sample trees from natural stands, often the largest and putatively oldest trees. In contrast, the trees sampled for this study were actively sought from material of known age, particularly those for which the history of management was known. Several African Acacia species were examined for growth rings. These were apparent in most species as narrow bands of marginal parenchyma filled with long crystal chains. The crystals were subsequently identified as calcium oxalate through the use of a scanning proton microprobe. The number of bands formed annually corresponded to the number of peaks in the annual rainfall distribution. Ring widths were highly correlated with total annual rainfall.
25790827|Rainfall seasonality can strongly influence biotic interactions by affecting host plant quality, and thus potentially regulating herbivore exposure to natural enemies. Plant defences are predicted to increase from dry to wet forests, rendering wet-forest caterpillars more vulnerable to parasitoids due to the slow-growth-high-mortality hypothesis. We collected and reared caterpillars from the understorey and trail edges of a wet forest and a seasonally dry forest to determine whether wet-forest caterpillars suffered a higher prevalence of parasitism and were less abundant than dry-forest caterpillars. In the two forests, caterpillar abundances (on average 8 h) and prevalence of parasitism (18%) were very similar regardless of feeding niche for both parasitism (27% versus 29% in shelter builders, and 16% versus 11% in external feeders) and caterpillar abundances (shelter builders: 1.42 versus 2.39, and external feeders: 8.27 versus 5.49 caterpillars h) in the dry and wet forests, respectively. A similar comparative analysis conducted in the canopy and understorey of the dry forest revealed a higher prevalence of parasitism in the canopy (43%) despite caterpillar densities similar to those in the understorey. Overall, shelter builders suffered higher parasitism than external feeders (32% versus 14.9%), and were attacked primarily by flies, whereas external feeders were more vulnerable to attack by parasitoid wasps.
2559289|This study focused on relationships between a tropical forest grasshopper and a major group of its host plants. Microtylopteryx hebardi (Acrididae:Ommatolampinae) at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, feeds on understorey palms as well as other understorey plants. We assessed leaf damage levels in populations of three geonomoid palm species (Geonoma cuneata, Geonoma congesta, Asterogyne martiana), investigated feeding response of M. hebardi to the three palms, and examined leaf characteristics presumed to be important to herbivores. In understorey and gapedge habitats, total leaf damage did not differ significantly between palm species. In the centre of small light gaps, where M. hebardi was most abundant, total leaf damage and total herbivory on G. cuneata was equal to that on the other species, but herbivory attributable to grasshoppers was significantly greater. Female M. hebardi showed strong preference for G. cuneata over the other palm species in laboratory feeding trials. Experiments to elucidate the proximate basis for this feeding preference showed that grasshoppers preferentially bit filter paper discs containing cuticular wax extract of G. cuneata. In consumption and digestibility experiments, grasshoppers consumed more fresh weight of G. cuneata and gained more weight per unit time spent feeding on this species. Leaves of G. cuneata had the highest percentage water content, highest fresh and dry mass per unit leaf area, and the lowest percentage crude lignin among the three palms studied. These factors may partially explain the preference of M. hebardi for G. cuneata, which was reflected in higher herbivory rates incurred by G. cuneata in sites where M. hebardi was locally abundant.
4091961|Current literature on the response of tropical tree seedlings to fertilization was analysed. Fertilization effects on biomass accumulation, relative growth rate and tissue nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) were examined for seedlings grown under relatively high light. Higher light conditions in gaps are expected as human disturbance expands in tropical landscapes. Two questions were asked: (1) Does nutrient addition enhance growth or result in nutrient accumulation in the tissues of tropical tree seedlings grown in pots under high light? (2) Are these responses conditional on their adaptations to light availability, seed mass or growth form? Most of the species (73% of light-demanding and 60% of shade-tolerant) demonstrated a positive growth response to fertilization. The magnitude of the response of light-demanding species was more than twice that of shade-tolerant species. A higher proportion of shade-tolerant species accumulated nutrients in their tissues (up to 95% for P), but over half the light-demanding species did so as well. For both types of species, a higher percentage accumulated P than N. Responses in growth and in P accumulation were negatively correlated with seed mass. Shrubs responded more than trees in biomass accumulation, but there was a trend toward greater response by trees in relative growth rate and N and P accumulation. The results suggest that variation in nutrient availability could affect the structure of tropical forests regenerating from large-scale disturbance. In fertile sites, competitive exclusion may occur within the light-demanding species, resulting in a decline in local tree diversity. Depending on the effects of human disturbance on nutrient availability, loss of tree diversity at a local scale may compound diversity loss due to habitat destruction at the landscape scale.
2560056|Fog interception and rainfall were measured at 14 stations across the Central Cordillera in western Panama Fog interception and rainfall were measured monthly during 1988-1989 with artificial fog catchers and rain gauges, respectively Fog interception was highest on ridges and increased with increasing altitude. Fog interception contributed between 2 4 and 60 6% of the total water input, depending on altitude and exposure to the prevailing winds. Absolute amounts of annual fog interception ranged from 142 to 2295 mm. Although low clouds were more frequent in montane forests, clouds close to the ground also occurred in the lowlands During the study period, there was a gradient of increasing total rainfall from the Caribbean (3355 mm) to the Pacific side (5759 mm) of the Central Cordillera Nevertheless, rainfall was more seasonal on the leeward side of the mountain range. Seasonal variation in fog intereption was different from rainfall patterns and no correlation was found between monthly (or annual) rainfall and fog interception The results of this study showed the importance of montane forests for the preservation of water sources, particularly along ridges of the Fortuna drainage basin that provides more than 50% of the electricity of the Republic of Panama
2559571|Mean annual quantities of solar radiation absorbed during various stages of regeneration of a tropical rain forest in the upper Rio Negro valley of Colombia and Venezuela were estimated for the consecutive intervals between clear-cut and 1, 3, 10, 20, 35, 60, 80 and 200 years of growth. Forest phytomass and litter fall data from each of these stages were used to calculate the mean annual net dry matter production per unit of absorbed photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), the PAR conversion efficiency. The quantities of PAR absorbed by the forest stands were calculated from the leaf area index values with an extinction coefficient for PAR of 0.74, a PAR albedo of 0.04, and an annual mean incoming PAR of 2.86 GJ m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>. Efficiency decreased with increase in successional stage. During the first 10 years of regrowth, the efficiency of conversion of PAR into above-ground phytomass averaged 0.23 g MJ<sup>-1</sup>, decreasing to 0.07 g MJ<sup>-1</sup> over the following 50 years. Inclusion of annual root production in the calculations resulted in a small increase in PAR conversion efficiency; however, efficiency was more than doubled for some periods when the annual leaf and twig litterfall were included. Efficiency values for above-ground production were much lower than PAR conversion efficiency values estimated for above-ground production of temperate forests.
25172977|There is a perception that sustained frequent fires cause nitrogen limitation over the long term (50-100 y) by volatilizing the nitrogen in soil, plant biomass and litter. Here we test this perception in a South African savanna located in the Kruger National Park. At our study site we compare the effects of 50 y of fire exclusion, season (August and February) and frequency (triennial and annual August and triennial February) of burn on nitrogen cycling and availability. We do this using three different methods to determine nitrogen mineralization: in situ incubations, laboratory incubations and ion-exchange resin bags. On each treatment we established two parallel transects 100 m apart with 10 sampling points per treatment along these transects. Daily mineralization rates for in situ incubations were determined monthly from August 2004 to June 2005 at each of the sampling points. Ion-exchange resin bags were buried (5 cm) at the same points and left in the field from August 2004 to August 2005. In February 2005 five randomly located soil samples from each of the four treatments were collected for laboratory incubations using a 7-cm-diameter soil auger. Regardless of method used our results show that there are no significant differences in daily nitrogen mineralization rates after 50 y of different burning treatments from annual burning to fire exclusion. In fact, both in situ and laboratory incubations show that nitrogen availability is higher on the annual burn than the fire exclusion (0.16 g g soil d vs. 0.11 g g soil d and 0.46 g g soil d vs. 0.30 g g soil d respectively). Perceived negative effects of fire on ecosystem functioning has curbed the use of fire as a management tool with fire often actively suppressed in savanna. The results of our study show that fire can be used more vigorously in mesic African savanna to manipulate tree:grass ratios without negatively affecting the nitrogen cycle.
4092002|We consider whether species richness in canopy gaps in coastal scarp forest (South Africa) is constrained by competition for a limited number of available niches or is a chance effect of recruitment and dispersal limitation on species derived from the surrounding species pool. In so doing we confirm findings from relatively species-poor New Zealand Nothofagus forest. We investigate the contrasting roles of determinism and chance, and the putative assembly of woody plants in gaps, using a technique in which the species richness of small, replicate local assemblages (0.25-m
2559568|Leaf litter production by lianes (= lianas) and trees was compared in an evergreen rain forest in subtropical Australia. Several successional stages were represented at the main site. Lianes contributed 2.2% of total basal area (69.6 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup>) of this site, but 24% of leaf litterfall (5.9-6.5 t ha<sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> over two years. Minor year-to-year variation in litterfall was attributed to incidence of severe storms, and drought. Lianes were responsible for about 17% of leaf litterfall in spring, 21% in the summerpeak, and 40% in autumn, more lianes than trees being deciduous. Leaf litter production by 23 individual species of liane, in relation to their basal area within the main site, was, on average, 15 times as great as that by 34 tree species, but declined more steeply between the species-groups of early and later succession. Tendrillar lianes, unlike twiners and scramblers, were confined to the `early' successional group, and their foliage was spread across canopy surfaces, maximizing light interception. It was concluded that this contributed to greater production of leaf litter, per unit basal area, by tendrillar than by other climbers, and to the successional decline in leaf litterfall from lianes.
23012364|We conducted a study on small-mammal composition, abundance and diversity across altitudinal and vegetational gradients in the Urucum Mountains (from 150 to 1000 m asl) in western Brazil, a complex biogeographic region. Small mammals were collected in 31 sampling units distributed along altitudinal and vegetational gradients (forest and grassland), totalling 18 112 trap-nights for pitfall and 3500 trap-nights for live-trap. Community variation among sampling units was assessed by randomization tests, setting altitude, vegetation, locality and time as factors, and using presence/absence data. Correlation and logistic regression analyses were run for species and diversity along gradients of altitude and vegetation, according to abundance and presence/absence data. Nineteen species (seven marsupial and 12 rodent) and 355 individuals were recorded. The species composition of small mammals differed according to altitude, vegetation type, locality and time. Species diversity varied significantly according to altitude. Species were influenced solely by altitude or vegetation, or by both vegetation and altitude concomitantly. The smallmammal community was divided in two groups according to biogeographic affinities. The grassland group is capable of invading forest habitats. The results are discussed in light of current hypotheses that attempt to explain community variation along altitudinal gradients around the world.
2559965|In the Sahel during recent decades, anthropogenic disturbance and periods of drought have caused changes in woody species frequency The internal water status of six coexisting species was analysed to estimate the importance of water constraints in this process. Predawn and midday xylem pressure potential and stomatal conductance were monitored monthly for two years The relations between xylem pressure potential and transpiration made it possible to determine the hydraulic conductivity of the soil-plant system. Two types of results were obtained. First, there was considerable diversity in water status of the different species. Minimum predawn xylem pressure potentials (dry season) ranged from -1.5 MPa to -5 MPa depending on species, with interseasonal variation from 0 08 MPa to 2 MPa Response to rainfall was very rapid (a few days) or very slow (several months). The three functioning types defined using these results were compared with the phytogeographical status of the species Second, more specific phenomena were observed. (a) Some species (Balanites aegyptiaca and Boscia senegalensis) showed an imbalance between the predawn xylem pressure potential and the soil water status during the rainy season; (b) a sharp increase in xylem pressure potential was observed in deciduous species in the middle of the dry season; probably related to bud break; and (c) the water status was always favourable for Combretum glutinosum. The few remaining individuals seem to benefit from very favourable subsoil water supply conditions.
4092155|Effects of litter cover on insect herbivory, leaf-fungal damage, and seedling performance (survival, growth in height and leaf number), were assessed on established Nectandra ambigens seedlings in three sites of a Mexican tropical rain forest. Naturally occurring seedlings were measured for height, leaf number and standing levels of leaf damage by herbivores and pathogens. Thereafter, seedlings were exposed for 1 y to three litter treatments: (1) litter addition, (2) control and (3) continuous litter removal. There was a significant effect of site on the proportion of surviving seedlings and on the relative growth rates in terms of leaf number. Overall, seedlings with higher initial leaf number showed higher survival and produced more leaves after 12 mo than seedlings with lower initial leaf number. Litter addition resulted in seedlings with lower relative growth rates in height and higher levels of damage by herbivores and pathogens. On average, leaf area damaged by pathogens was < 6% and herbivory was < 27%. Seedlings with higher levels of herbivory showed higher levels of pathogen attack. Herbivory and pathogen attack had no effect on seedling performance. This study reveals the importance of litter-cover on the interactions between seedlings, herbivores and pathogens, as well as on the performance of tropical seedlings.
23012377|Leaf fluctuating asymmetry (FA) is considered an important indicator of environmentally induced stress in plants, but the relationship between herbivory and FA levels is not clear. In this study we compared leaf size and shape, leaf area consumed by herbivorous insects, and FA levels between individuals of Heliocarpus pallidus (Tiliaceae) from two adjacent and contrasting habitat types (deciduous and riparian) in the ChamelaCuixmala tropical dryforest biosphere reserve. Ten individuals of H. pallidus were collected in each habitat type. Leaf shape was assessed using geometric morphometric techniques. Results indicated statistically significant differences in leaf shape between individuals from the two habitat types. In individuals from the riparian habitat leaf area (mean = 42.3  1.2 cm 2 ), herbivory levels (mean = 25.5%  1.8%) and FA levels (mean = 0.38  0.04 cm) were significantly higher than in individuals from the deciduous habitat (17.2  3.5 cm 2 ; 9.6%  1.0% and 0.18  0.04 cm, respectively). Within habitats, significant correlations were found between total leaf area and percentage leaf area removed by insects (R 2 = 0.92 in riparian habitats, R 2 = 0.9 in deciduous habitats), and between percentage leaf area removed and FA (R 2 = 0.70 in riparian habitats, R 2 = 0.79 in deciduous habitats). As has been suggested for other plant species, it is possible that the more favourable conditions in the riparian habitat enhance leaf growth, resulting in higher FA. Also, individuals in this habitat might be characterized by lower chemical defence and/or higher nutritional quality, which would explain the higher herbivory levels.
4092062|The composition, structure and reproductive phenology of a shrew community were investigated for 1 y at two neighbouring sites in an undisturbed African forest of south-western Gabon. We captured 717 shrews, belonging to four genera and 10 species. The data were analysed to answer three main questions: (1) to what extent does the shrew abundance vary seasonally? (2) is there a shift in species dominance over time? and (3) does the intensity of breeding activity vary seasonally? The number of species captured varied seasonally and tended to be least during the period of minimal trap success. Trap success for the four most abundant species (Sylvisorex johnstoni, Crocidura batesi, Paracrocidura schoutedeni and Sylvisorex ollula) varied seasonally with a minimum around the long dry season. Sylvisorex johnstoni remained the dominant species throughout the year. Seasonal variation in trap success of shrews might be related, at least partly, to their reproductive characteristics. Litter size, based on embryo counts, ranged from 1-4 among the species. Breeding occurred throughout the year. but its intensity was lower during the long dry season corresponding with the period of higher ecological constraints for shrews.
2559606|Flowers of Aphelandra sinclairiana have features of flowers pollinated by hermit humming-birds (long corollas) and of those pollinated by territorial humming-birds (dilute nectar, clustered distribution). Flowers in large clumps at the peak of the blooming season were pollinated by two territorial humming-birds, but at the end of the season or in isolated plants the main avian pollinator was the non-territorial hermit Phaethornis superciliosus. Visits by avian nectar thieves were more frequent at high flower densities. The reproductive output of inflorescences was similar at different levels of flower aggregation. Aphelandra flowers in large clumps could exchange pollen with extraterritorial plants because territorial humming-birds did not completely exclude pollinating hermits. The commonest nectar thief at high flower aggregations was the passerine Vermivora peregrina, the second most common nectar thief was the hermit Phaethornis longuemareus.
3068780| Distribution patterns of vascular plants with diameter at breast height (dbh)  2.5 cm were studied on the basis of compositional data from 30 small plots located in a rain-forest area in Colombian Amazonia. The research questions were: How are distribution patterns of species in relation to local abundance in plots? Do understorey species (defined as species with individuals that never attained dbh  10 cm anywhere) show better correlations with soils and environment than canopy species (defined as species with individuals that attained dbh  10 cm)? Are patterns found in the entire range of landscape units comparable to those found in well-drained uplands alone? Species that occurred in more than one plot showed higher local abundances. This pattern was consistent among environmental generalists and specialists. Locally rare species (with only one individual in a plot) occurred mostly in well-drained uplands. Considering all landscape units, Mantel tests showed substantial correlations between environmental data (soil chemical data, drainage and flooding) and species composition. Canopy species were only slightly less correlated with environmental data than understorey species. Elimination of the spatial component in the data did not reduce these correlations. In well-drained uplands, understorey species were better correlated with soils than canopy species. Here, however, the spatial configuration of the plots became more important in explaining species patterns. 
3068666|Species composition and turnover that have occurred in a series of permanent sample plots established during the 1930s and 1940s in Budongo, a semi-deciduous Ugandan forest, are reported. The plots were established as part of a sequence first used to describe forest succession, five of which have been maintained and which were last measured in 1992-1993. One plot (plot 7) provides 53 y of data from old-growth pristine forest. Plot 15 was established in wooded grassland at the forest edge and is now closed high forest. Evaluation of the remaining three plots is complicated by silvicultural interventions carried out in the 1950s. Forty species have been added since the first evaluations and a total of 188 tree species (over 80% of Budongo's forest tree flora, and including two exotics) has now been recorded from within the plots. The pattern of shade-tolerance in the original plot series conforms to patterns expected for succession with an increasing proportion of shade-tolerant species with development, and large stems appearing to 'lag behind' smaller stems in this respect. The time series data are less consistent, and while plot 7 increased in the proportion of shade-tolerant stems through time, the proportion of shade-tolerant species actually declines. Stem-turnover (the mean of mortality and recruitment) slowed with implied successional stage. Most species have a higher recruitment than mortality rate and stem numbers have thus increased in all plots. This is most pronounced in the putatively 'early successional' plot. Stem size structure has changed within the plots, with an increased proportion of smaller stems. Species show different rates of turnover and these vary from plot to plot and period to period. In plot 7, the overall mortality rate decreased with initial stem size. Estimates imply that some tree species may easily live longer than 500 y after reaching 10 cm DBH, and that 1000 y is possible. The importance of large trees in determining forest dynamics is illustrated by the finding that death of only seven stems in plot 7 contributed over 60% of net basal area losses recorded over the 53-y observation period. Many of the observed patterns were not predicted and could only have been found by long-term studies.
2559654|We describe forests from three areas of Jamaica, all on White Limestone but with markedly different rainfall regimes. The areas are Hog House Hill in the north-east with lower montane rain forest at c. 450 m altitude with a rainfall of c. 4000 mm yr<sup>-1</sup>; Broom Hall in the centre of the island with evergreen seasonal forest at c. 670 m altitude and with a rainfall of c. 1600 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> and a marked dry season; and Round Hill near the south coast with dry semievergreen forest at c. 300 m altitude with an irregularly distributed rainfall of c. 1000 mm yr<sup>-1</sup>. Species lists were made from c. 180 ha at Hog House Hill, c. 5 ha at Broom Hall and c. 50 ha at Round Hill, and detailed inventories made of five sample sites of c. 1000 m<sup>2</sup>, two at Hog House Hill, one at Broom Hall and two at Round Hill. At Hog House Hill we listed 280 vascular plant species, including 118 species of trees and larger shrubs; at Broom Hall 247 and 135; at Round Hill 129 and 81. Species-area and species-individuals curves confirm that Broom Hall was richer in tree species than Hog House Hill. The wetter forests contain high proportions of species endemic to Jamaica: 40% of the total flora at Hog House Hill and 36% at Broom Hall. Canopy height decreased from c. 26-28 m at Hog House Hill to c. 13-24 m at Broom Hall to c. 8-15 m at Round Hill. Predominant leaf size decreased from mesophyll at Hog House Hill to notophyll at Broom Hall to microphyll at Round Hill. Compared with forests on other Caribbean islands, the Jamaican forests appear to be as species-rich as any, but lower in stature than natural forest in Trinidad and Dominica. Continental Neotropical forests are both more species-rich and taller.
4499088|Ten leopard cats (Prionailurus bengalensis borneoensis) were captured and radio tracked in an agricultural landscape in Sabah, Malaysia. Seventy-two leopard cat scats were analysed for diet while information on prey distribution and abundance was obtained from a concurrent study on small mammals. Mammals, namely murids, were the major prey with Whitehead's rat (Maxomys whiteheadi) being the principal prey species. Leopard cats significantly preferred the relatively open oil palm habitat over both selectively logged dipterocarp forest and secondary forest fragments. Although relative murid abundance was highest in selectively logged dipterocarp forest, oil palm harboured a higher relative abundance of Maxomys whiteheadi. Visibility and ease of movement for leopard cats was also better in oil palm, thereby possibly increasing their hunting success. We suggest that the significantly higher use of oil palm by leopard cats is related to their preference for areas with high prey 'catchability' rather than high prey density. Although secondary-forest fragments were least selected, they were important to leopard cats for resting and possibly breeding, highlighting the importance of forest fragments for the conservation of Bornean leopard cats in agricultural landscapes.
4499118|Drip tips are thought to resist the growth of epiphyllous fungi, lichens, bryophytes and algae on leaf surfaces by promoting the drainage of water following rain. This hypothesis was tested by altering the tip of one leaf in each of 50 pairs of opposite leaves on plants of each of two woody species in the understorey of Barro Colorado Island, Panama. After 11 mo in situ, there were no statistical differences between the mean epiphyll cover on leaves with and leaves without drip tips. Epiphyll cover was, however, strongly correlated between the opposite leaves at a node, even though one had a drip tip and the other had the tip removed. This correlation could be due to small-scale heterogeneity of insolation, temperature and humidity in the crowns of plants. A relationship between epiphyll cover and growth of the branch containing the leaves provides qualitative support for this interpretation. It seems clear that drip tips do not have a large, consistent, easily detectable effect on epiphyll cover. However, because of the tiny cost of drip tips, reductions in epiphyll growth that are small and transitory and occur in only a portion of a plant's leaves may provide sufficient advantage to explain the evolution of drip tips. No experiment to date has been capable of detecting such effects.
40665276|As a proven food resource generalist, Meyer's parrot (Poicephalus meyeri) was expected to track the availability of all significant food resources in its diet over time. Here we recorded all feeding activity during 366 standardized road transects for correlation with an index of relative food resource abundance over 18 mo. As expected, Meyer's parrot made food resource decisions according to relative abundance at landscape level. Feeding activity on food resources available throughout the year (e.g. ripe Kigelia africana fruit) or not visible from the air (e.g. unripe Diospyros lycoides fruit), however, did not correlate significantly with fluctuations in their relative resource abundance. In addition, over 70% of all feeding bouts were in the high canopy and over 70% of all food items consumed formed bi-coloured displays. The influence of estimated protein and energy acquisition rates from different food resources was insignificant. Therefore, important selection criteria for utilization by Meyer's parrot include relative abundance and visibility from the air (i.e. food resources with the highest probability of encounter when dispersing from a central roost). Sensitivity to fluctuations in resource abundance at landscape level demonstrates the relative importance of maximizing net gain per unit foraging time by minimizing foraging flight distance.
25562614|We studied the impact of dung deposition by the red howler monkey (Alouatta seniculus), and subsequent burial by dung beetles and other biotic and abiotic processes, on the distribution of small seeds in the soil seed bank (Nouragues Reserve, French Guiana). Seeds were collected from 54 soil samples taken under three sleeping sites and adjoining control sites, at three positions according to a fixed grid and at three different depths (0-2, 2-4 and 4-6 cm). Despite large differences between the three sites, defecation areas (latrines) were found to contain more seeds and higher seed diversity than control areas. Seed density decreased with depth in the top 6 cm in two sites but not in the third. Shannon diversity decreased with depth in both defecation and control areas. Differences in the distribution of seeds of different species were found according to size and growth habits (pioneer vs non-pioneer species). The viability of seeds, ascertained from toughness and integrity of the seed coat, varied according to depth, site and defecation. Seed viability was on average higher in defecation areas compared with control areas.
4499082|Understanding tropical succession requires insight into propagule availability, which constrains possible woody plant recruitment, yet seed rain composition in multiple post-agricultural sites has seldom been examined. We monitored seed rain for 60 wk in five abandoned pastures in southern Costa Rica, collecting a total of 1 140 688 seeds of 165 morphospecies. Most seeds (80.1%) arrived during the wet season. Species richness was highest in the wet season and greater in forest than in pasture. Seed rain density was greatest at the forest/pasture edge and decreased drastically just a few metres into pastures. In and near the forest, animal-dispersed seeds were more abundant than seeds dispersed by other means, while wind-dispersed taxa increased in relative importance at greater distances from the forest. Total seed input to pastures did not reflect size of adjacent forest fragments, although seed rain density varied more than threefold among sites. Among-site variation in density of regenerating woody seedlings was roughly proportional to among-site variation in seed rain. Morphospecies composition differed significantly among sites. Also, seed rain and woody plant colonists were rather dissimilar in composition, suggesting that while propagule availability is necessary for early woody plant establishment, it is a poor predictor of successional trajectory.
3068747| Infestation rates by palm bruchid beetles (Bruchidae: Pachymerini) on Attalea palm seeds are so high that most endocarps remaining near parent trees contain larvae rather than endosperm a few months after the peak fruiting season. Vertebrates feeding on palm endocarp contents may therefore be feeding on animal rather than plant matter, and the timing of use of endocarps may be influenced by the presence of larvae rather than by background fruit availability. On Marac Island Ecological Reserve, Roraima State, Brazil, white-lipped peccaries (Tayassu pecari), agoutis (Dasyprocta leporina) and squirrels (Sciurus igniventris) all fed on bruchid beetle larvae from Attalea maripa palm endocarps. Squirrels fed on both larvae and endosperm year-round in all habitat types; agoutis fed on both larvae and seeds only at times and at sites where alternate foods were not available; and white-lipped peccaries fed almost exclusively on bruchid larvae in high-palm-density habitats. Differences in timing and location of endocarp use by these species may provide an index of mammal community dynamics in neotropical forests. 
3068820|Understanding the pattern in which adult drosophilids of different species are distributed across and within different vegetation types is necessary for accurate interpretation of their local ecology and diversity. Such studies have been conducted mainly in temperature regions, and there is no basis for extrapolating their conclusions to tropical areas. This study describes the vertical distribution (0-20 m) of drosophilids attracted to banana baits in five different vegetation types in subtropical eastern Australia including open woodland, and rain-forest types. The distribution of most of the 15 common species could be characterized three-dimensionally by vegetation type and height above forest floor. Only one species, Scaptodrosophila lativittata, was common in all vegetation types and it was a canopy species in rain forests and a ground-level species in open woodland. Vertical distribution of some species clearly matched that of their larval hosts, but it did not in others. For example, the fungivore Leucophenga scutellata was mostly trapped well above the forest floor, yet it breeds at ground level, suggesting behavioural mode can influence vertical distributions. We conclude that the vertical dimension, although still poorly understood in relation to drosophilid habitats, needs to be taken into account when conducting and interpreting studies aimed at understanding drosophilid populations and communities in the subtropics.
2559935|Fruit biomass and frugivore abundance were quantified over 3 y in a rain forest of the south Western Ghats, India. Fruit biomass was estimated by sampling fruit fall in the primary forest, and frugivore abundance by a 2.5-km transect. A total of 645 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> of fruit was produced annually in the forest. Only 49% of this is edible to the frugivores and the remaining 51% is in the form of non-edible husks. Mammalian frugivores outnumbered avian frugivores and the majority of the mammals were seed predators. The total fruit biomass produced at Kakachi is lower than in the lowland forest and mountain forests in the neotropics but higher than in the wet sclerophyll forest of Australia. Lower diversity of trees and edaphic factors at Kakachi could be some of the reasons for these differences. On the other hand, paucity of fleshy fruits, low density of trees producing fleshy fruits and irregular fruiting of these species, account for the low number of obligate avian frugivores at Kakachi.
3068719| Geometroid moth abundance, species richness, weather and plant phenology were monitored monthly for 3 y in the lowland dipterocarp forest at Pasoh Forest Reserve, Negeri Sembilan in Malaysia. The intensity of tree flowering in the previous month (with mass events triggered in response to El Nio Southern Oscillations) was an important environmental factor positively correlated with the numbers of species and individuals of geometroid moths that emerge in any month. Abundance for geometroid moths was greater in months with high flowering and flushing in the previous month but low flowering in the month before that. Important weather parameters that influenced moth abundance were monthly rainfall, relative humidity and minimum temperature in previous months. High rainfall 3 mo previously led to an increase in moth abundance (perhaps by stimulating an increase in fresh plant material), whereas high rainfall and relative humidity thereafter served to decrease abundance, possibly by encouraging the spread and activity of pathogens: all these factors impacted on early life-stage survivorship. Similar trends were observed for individual geometroid families and subfamilies. The diversity measurement for the geometroid moths,  from the log-series, was correlated more with weather parameters than with tree phenology. 
2559942|The effects of tropical forest fragmentation on frugivorous and nectarivorous bats were studied on recent islands created by the flooding of a dam in French Guiana. Study sites include forest islands isolated by water, and control plots in nearby continuous forest. Studies began 1 y before the onset of forest fragmentation and encompassed the first 3 y after flooding. Forest fragmentation greatly modified the diversity and abundance of bats. Changes occurred more rapidly in the smallest fragments than in the largest one, and trends were remarkably similar among all the studied islands. Bat captures in islands were characterised by the scarcity of understorey frugivores. Differences in home range size and foraging strategies may explain why understorey fruit bat species are more sensitive to fragmentation than canopy ones. Changes in the frugivorous bat community may have indirect consequences on both the demographic and the genetic structures of plant populations inside forest fragments.
2559984|The relationships between soil properties, topography and tree species distribution were analysed in a tropical riverine forest at the margins of the Rio Grande, in Bom Sucesso, state of Minas Gerais, south-eastern Brazil. The forest was sampled by three 0.18 ha plots, with each plot made up of eight contiguous 15 m x 15 m quadrats, four of which were placed at the river margin and the remaining four in the forest interior. A canonical correspondence analysis indicated that the species' density distribution was significantly correlated with some soil chemical characteristics and topographical features. The soils of the three sample plots showed statistically significant differences for the levels of Ca, Mg, K and pH, with the fertility (expressed by the cation exchange capacity) increasing from Plot I to Plot III. These variations were mainly explained by the first canonical axis while the second was strongly correlated with topographical variables, separating the quadrats into two groups: those of the higher and steeper sites from those of the lower sites. The only soil property that was significantly different in lower and upper sites was the concentration of phosphorus. No significant difference in tree species distribution was found between river margin and interior quadrats, certainly because this forest sector lies on the outer side of a curve of the river where erosion is currently building high and steep river banks and forcing the forest to retreat. A tentative ecological classification of the 30 most abundant species according to their habitat preference in terms of soil fertility and topographical sites, and to their growth strategy in the forest dynamics, is presented. It is suggested that these factors play an important role in promoting the coexistence of tree species in this type of forest.
2560262|Root biomass, root lengths, and mycorrhizal associations were compared in a series of primary and Acacia-dominated secondary rainforest stands on nutrient-poor, red podzolic soils developed from low grade Palaeozoic metasediments Five soil cores to 200 mm depth were collected at random locations from each of 20 sites Ten of these sites were in 20-25 m high closed secondary forest (30-40 y old) dominated by Acacia aulacocarpa and ten sites were located in primary, selectively-logged, rainforest (28-32 m tall). Arbuscular mycorrhizas were the only form of association found in the primary forest sites. Ectomycorrhizas dominated the secondary forest sites although arbuscular mycorrhizas were also present The primary forest sites had significantly higher root biomass (34.4  17.8 t ha<sup>-1</sup>) and root length (33,400  3,200 km ha<sup>-1</sup>) than the secondary forests (11.6  4.6 t ha<sup>-1</sup> and 25,200  4,800 km ha<sup>-1</sup> respectively), and this was interpreted as a reflection of the greater allocation of biomass to roots necessary to support the greater above ground biomass. The specific root length in the secondary forest (340  119 cm g<sup>-1</sup>) was twice that of the primary forest (154  65 cm g<sup>-1</sup>) indicating that the trees in the secondary forests achieved a degree of soil exploration which was comparable to that in the primary forest with less than half the biomass allocation to roots. The dominance of ectomycorrhizas in the secondary forest was associated with the prevalence of Acacia aulacocarpa, and the results cannot be extended to other secondary forests in the region The implications that the dominant ectomycorrhizal associations have for the patterns of successional development and the patterns of species colonization in these Acacia-dominated secondary forests are discussed
3068774|Maintenance of high plant diversity in tropical rain forests has been hypothesized to be related to intense seed predation, and studies have shown that the impact of seed-eaters varies according to seed size, forest type and level of disturbance. The hypothesis that seed survival and seedling recruitment depending on seed size, are related to forest type and the intensity of harvesting and stand refinement was therefore tested at Paracou, French Guiana, for three animal-dispersed tree species. Two forest areas, corresponding to two forest types, were selected based on the occurrence of a dominant species, Eperua falcata (Caesalpiniaceae). Two factors were tested: forest type (E. falcata-rich and E. falcata-poor) and level of harvesting (unlogged, low intensity of logging, low intensity of logging and thinning liberation by tree-poison girdling) within each forest type. Overall, there was no effect of species nor of logging treatment within forest type after 6 wk. There was only a significant effect of forest type on seed survival in the large-seeded Carapa procera, a rodent-dispersed species in the Meliaceae. In the two medium-sized seed species, Pradosia cochlearia and Manilkara bidentata, two frugivore-dispersed Sapotaceae, the effect of treatment was overall significant but was also highly variable between plots within treatments. After 1 y, C. procera showed little seedling recruitment due to low seed removal and dispersal, and high seed-seedling predation under all conditions. Neither forest type, nor treatment nested within forest type, affected seedling recruitment in P. cochlearia whereas M. bidentata seedlings were favoured in unlogged conditions at the E. falcata-poor forest type. These results suggest that species characteristics (such as seed size and palatability), or local tree diversity and resources for granivores select for contrasting patterns in tree recruitment between forest type in the rodent-dispersed tree species, and these interact with level of tree harvesting and stand refinement in the other frugivore-dispersed tree species.
3068790| Lianas (woody vines) contribute substantially to the diversity of woody plants in Yasun National Park, Eastern Ecuador. In total 606 individuals, belonging to 138 species, were found in two 20-m x 100-m plots. The liana diversity was higher than in any comparable study, but the density was relatively low. Sapindaceae and Leguminosae were the most species-rich families, whereas Leguminosae and Celastraceae were the most abundant families. The number of liana individuals as well as the number of liana species was partially explained by forest structure, but 92% of the variation in number of liana species depended on the number of liana individuals. Areas with high density of small trees had high liana density, and areas with a high number of tree saplings had a relatively high diversity of climbing lianas. The probability of trees being colonized by lianas increased with tree diameter. The presence of one liana on a tree increased its risk of being colonized by additional lianas. 
4499149|The mountain gorilla (Gorilla beringei beringei) lives in two geographically separated populations, Bwindi Impenetrable National Park, Uganda and in three national parks spanning the Virunga mountain region in Rwanda, Democratic Republic of Congo, and Uganda. The altitude, climate and plant composition of these habitats differ. Our goal was to compare the diets of gorillas living in each of these habitats. The nutrients in staple foods and in the diets of individuals in a group of gorillas in Bwindi (N = 12 individuals) and a group in the Virungas (N = 7 individuals) were compared to determine if differences in dietary composition affected concentrations of nutrients in their diets. At both sites gorilla diets consisted primarily of herbaceous leaves, but the diet of Bwindi gorillas contained more tree leaves, fruit, pith and dry wood, and fewer stems. Despite differences in habitat and dietary composition, the nutrient concentrations in both gorilla diets were remarkably similar. On a dry matter basis, the diets and staple foods of Bwindi and Virunga gorillas contained similar concentrations of crude protein (CP), fibre (NDF) and non-structural carbohydrates (TNC). Bwindi gorillas ate diets containing 18% CP, 43% NDF and 19% TNC on a dry-matter basis, while the diets of the Virunga gorillas contained 17% CP, 41% NDF and 18% TNC. Our results demonstrate that gorillas consume diets that differ by plant species and part, but contain similar concentrations of nutrients. This suggests that classifying animals by broad dietary strategy (e.g. frugivory and folivory) does not provide a reliable indicator of the nutritional quality of their diet, and that our previous assumptions about these categories should be re-evaluated.
2559490|Growth in diameter and the relationship between age and size are analysed for 22 tree species in Amazonian Ecuador using growth simulation by a stochastic technique that projects the diameter-age relationships of a species. Maximum diameter growth rates varied from 1.2 mm y<sup>-1</sup> (Grias neuberthii) to 20.0 mm y<sup>-1</sup> (Cecropia sciadophylla). Minimum growth rates ranged from almost zero in Neea divaricata to 2.4 mm y<sup>-1</sup> in Mollia lepidota. Median growth rates ranged between c. 0.5 mm y<sup>-1</sup> (Grias neuberthii, Neea divaricata) and 11.6 mm y<sup>-1</sup> (Cecropia sciadophylla). The maximum simulated life-span spent between a DBH of 10 cm and the largest DBH of a species varied from 54 y (Cecropia sciadophylla) to 529 y (Neea divaricata). Fast growing species and species that potentially can grow old showed a convex survivorship curve, whereas slower growing species and species that do not grow very old showed sigmoid, linear and convex survivorship curves. The species were grouped according to their DBH-height relationship and according to their maximum age, maximum growth rate, and maximum DBH. The groups probably reflect different light requirements. A negative correlation was found between maximum age and mortality rate. Growth rates vary within species, thus the largest tree is not necessarily the oldest.
4091870|Local species richness and between-site similarity in species composition of parasitoid wasps (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae; Pimplinae and Rhyssinae) were correlated with those of four plant groups (pteridophytes, Melastomataceae, Burseraceae and Arecaceae) in a western Amazonian lowland rain forest mosaic. The mosaic structure of the forest was related to variation in soils within the non-inundated terrain. Significant matrix correlation between patterns in parasitoid wasp species composition and plant species composition was found. Most of the overall correlation was due to idiobiont parasitoids of weakly concealed hosts, which attack host larvae and pupae in exposed situations, with two of the four ecologically defined parasitoid groups showing no correlation at all. A positive correlation between the number of plant species and the number of Pimplinae and Rhyssinae species at a site was found when the latter was corrected for collecting effort. Consequently, the degree of floristic difference between sites may be indicative of the difference in species composition of ichneumonids, and the species richness of plants may serve as a predictor of the species richness of parasitoid wasps. Although these results were obtained in a mosaic including structurally and floristically clearly different types of rain forest, the correlation coefficients were relatively low, and the present results lend only weak support to the idea of using plant distributions as indicators of animal distributions.
2559531|Air and soil temperatures were measured during dry season heading fires in three different physiognomic forms of native vegetation common in Central Brazil: cerrado sensu stricto (dense scrub of shrubs and trees), campo cerrado (open scrub), and campo sujo (open grassland with scattered shrubs) The vegetation was protected from fire for 15 y in some areas, had been burned once every two years, and once each year in other areas. The temperatures were measured with type-k thermocouples and recorded at intervals of 22.5 secs Air temperature measurements were taken at 1, 60 and 160 cm Maximum air temperatures ranged from 85<sup></sup>C to 840<sup></sup>C, and the duration above 60<sup></sup>C varied from 20 to 270 seconds. In the soil, negligible temperature increases were recorded below 5 cm depth, whereas at 2 cm maximum soil temperatures varied from 29 to 38<sup></sup>C. Possible influences of fuel load and moisture on the recorded data and on the behaviour of fire in the cerrado ecosystems are discussed.
2560324|Seasonally flooded forests represent a transition between terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. The Mapire river, a tributary of the Orinoco river, floods its surrounding forests during the wet season (May-December). The soils are very acid and the total nitrogen concentration (0.1%) is only half that found in nearby soils flooded by Orinoco waters. Ammonium-nitrogen predominates in the soil during the flooded period while nitrate-nitrogen concentrations are higher in the dry period. Wide fluctuations in the inorganic nitrogen fractions did not considerably affect the annual course of soil nitrogen. The predominance of mineralization versus nitrification (56 and 5 g N<sub>inorg</sub> g<sup>-1</sup> soil month<sup>-1</sup> respectively) and possibly the synchronization of nitrogen availability with plant demand could be considered as nitrogen conserving mechanisms. In synchrony with the hydrologic cycle, the seasonally flooded forest studied shows a nitrogencycle where inputs and accumulation are maximized when the system is under minimum stress (dry season). During flooding, the system enters a period of dormancy making minimal use of nutrient and energy to avoid or tolerate anaerobiosis.
25172974|The relative effectiveness of arboreal or terrestrial birds at dispersing seeds of Ormosia macrocalyx and O. bopiensis (Fabaceae: Papilionoideae) were studied in south-eastern Peru. Seeds of both species were either scarified, to represent seed condition after dispersal by terrestrial birds, or left intact, to represent seed condition after dispersal by arboreal birds. Seeds were distributed along forest transects, and germination, seedling development and mortality were monitored to determine the success of the two groups at producing seedlings. Scarified seeds germinated with the early rains of the dry-to-wet-season transition, when erratic rainfall was interspersed with long dry spells. Intact seeds germinated 30 d later when the rain was more plentiful and regular. Intact seeds of O. macrocalyx gave rise to significantly more seedlings (41.1% vs. 25.5%) than did scarified seeds, in part, because significantly more seedlings from scarified seeds (n = 20) than from intact seeds (n = 3) died from desiccation when their radicles failed to enter the dry ground present during the dry-to-wet-season transition. Also, seedlings from scarified seeds were neither larger nor more robust than those from intact seeds despite their longer growing period. Results are consistent with the hypothesis that dispersal effectiveness of arboreal birds, at least for O. macrocalyx, is greater than that of terrestrial birds. Screen-house experiments in which seedlings developed under different watering regimes supported this result. Numbers of seedlings developing from intact and scarified seeds of O. bopiensis did not differ significantly.
2559856|Community patterns along a successional sequence of abandoned fields within a tropical rain forest environment are described in terms of floristic composition and structure. Temporal patterns were summarized and main axes of variation extracted by multivariate methods. External factors - length of cropping period, regrowth age, and proportion of the perimeter occupied by forest communities or remnants (here called forested perimeter) - were related to floristic and structural data on 40 sites. Multivariate direct gradient analysis showed overall floristic development to be positively related to regrowth age and forested perimeter, and negatively related to length of cropping period. Structural development was shown by multiple regression to be positively related to regrowth age and negatively to length of cropping period; but forested perimeter had no significant relation to site structure. The type of crop grown showed no significant relation with floristic or structural development of the regrowth. These results indicate that the conditions of the vegetation around a site have a great effect on community recovery, particularly in its species composition, whilst structure seems to be affected more directly by parameters which imply time.
2559462|Phenological observations were made in a Sumatran rain forest during three years (1980-1982). Phenological changes followed a consistent seasonal pattern. The abundance of young leaves and the fall of leaf litter peaked between December and February (first dry season); flowers were most abundant between January and April (first dry and first wet season), and ripe fruits in July-August (the second dry season). The fruit of strangling fig trees showed peaks in April and October, both wet season months. Within the study area there was variation in both the phase and the amplitude of the phenological cycles. One year, 1981, displayed mast flowering and fruiting. The observations indicate that the conditions for production were better during the mast year, a finding that facilitates our understanding of the evolution of mast fruiting.
25172944|There are two trade-offs at the levels of leaves and crowns, i.e. assimilation capacity per leaf mass is greater for shorter-lived leaves, and unbranched species grow faster in height by allocating carbon more to trunk than to leaves and branches compared with highly branched species. The hypotheses were tested that the degree of branching
2560081|The distribution of the giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis peralta Thomas 1898) has greatly diminished in West Africa, and now the last remaining population, reduced to less than 100 individuals, is found in Niger These giraffes of West Africa are seriously threatened by extensive deforestation and clearing of their habitat They live peacefully with humans and cattle and participate in an essential way in the dynamics of vegetation. Their disappearance would represent another step towards the impoverishment of the inheritance of Africa, a process already too far advanced To save them, a fundamental rethinking of the connection between the environment and development on the one hand, and on the responsibilities of rural communities for the management of their natural resources on the other, has to be undertaken
4091894|We investigated the foraging ecology of 13 species of woodpecker in logged and unlogged lowland rain forest at two forest reserves in West Malaysia (Pasoh Forest Reserve and Sungai Lalang Forest Reserve). The parameters perch diameter and microhabitat/substrate type explained more variation in the data than other parameters, and effectively divided the guild into two groups: (1) 'conventional' - species that excavated frequently, used relatively large perches, and foraged on snags and patches of dead wood. and (2) 'novel' - species that used smaller perches and microhabitats that are available in tropical forests on a year-round basis (e.g. external, arboreal ant/termite nests and bamboo). These novel resources may explain, in part, the maintenance of high woodpecker diversity in tropical rain forests.
3068771|The carabid beetle assemblage found feeding on fig fruit falls at night was studied in a terra firme rain forest near Manaus (Amazonia) from July 1991 to August 1996. A total of 8926 carabid beetles were collected on 64 fruit falls from 10 fig species. The most abundant genus was Notiobia with eight species, N. pseudolimbipennis being the most abundant. The Notiobia species comprised 92% of all specimens collected and all feed on small fig seeds. Their species abundance patterns varied considerably between individual fruit falls and during the course of a single fruit fall. However, the species abundance patterns for all Notiobia at all observed fruit falls for each of the two commonest fig species (Ficus subapiculata, F. guianensis), as well as for fruit falls of the remaining fig species, were very similar. Through feeding and breeding experiments and observations of reproductive success by dissection of females, only two of the eight Notiobia species were found to be specialized fig seed feeders, being able to reproduce only on fig fruit falls. The remaining six species of this genus use fig fruit falls as alternate hosts or 'stepping stones' between fruit falls of their host trees, which are widely separated both in time and space.
4499099| Failure of reproduction is hypothesized as being a main reason for the formation of upper tree lines but there is, as yet, little supportive evidence of such. This study investigates the effects of experimental sowing, canopy cover and litter depth on seedling emergence and survival of Polylepis incana and Polylepis pauta at the upper distribution limit of the species in the Pramo de Papallacta, central Ecuador. We established 18 study plots located in the interior, at the edge and at the exterior of closed forests at the upper tree line and analysed seedling dynamics for 1 y following experimental sowing with four different litter treatments. For both species, seedling numbers were significantly higher in the forest interior than outside, and higher in the treatments with the litter layer removed. In P. pauta, sowing significantly increased seedling number, which was more pronounced within and at the edge of the forest than outside. In contrast, there was no impact of sowing on seedling emergence in P. incana. First-year seedling survival and mean growth rate per month were low in both species. Log-linear models did not reveal significant interactions between survival and canopy cover or litter removal. Our data show that seedling recruitment is limited at the upper tree line - presumably due to extreme climatic conditions - which indicates the importance of constraints in sexual regeneration for tree-line formation in central Ecuador. 
4091982| Frugivorous dacine fruit flies were studied in a lowland tropical rain forest in Papua New Guinea to determine their host specificity, abundance, and the number of species attacking various plant species. Plant species hosted 0-3 fruit fly species at median (1-3 quartile) densities of 1 (0-17) fruit flies per 100 fruits. Fruit flies were mostly specialized to a single plant family (83% species) and within each family to a single genus (88% species), while most of the species (66%) were able to feed on > 1 congeneric plant species. Only 30 from the 53 studied plant species were colonized by fruit flies. The plant-fruit fly food web, including these 30 plant species and the total of 29 fruit fly species feeding on them, was divided into 14 compartments, each including 1-8 plant species hosting mutually disjunct assemblages of fruit flies. This structure minimizes indirect interactions among plant species via shared herbivores. The local species pool was estimated at 152  32 ( SE) fruit fly species. Forty per cent of all taxonomically described species known from Papua New Guinea were reared or trapped in our study area. Such a high proportion indicates low beta-diversity of fruit flies. Steiner traps were highly efficient in sampling the lure-responsive fruit fly species as they re-collected 84% of all species trapped in the same area 5 y before. Fruit fly monitoring by these traps is a cheap, simple and efficient method for the study of spatial and temporal changes in rain-forest communities. 
2559610|The canopy dynamics and light climates within a 20 by 60 m quadrat were studied in a disturbed moist deciduous forest near Bombay, India. A map was drawn of individual trees within the quadrat, the taxa were identified, and their phenology was followed from November 1984 to July 1985. The quadrat contained 14 species, the most common being Tectona grandis, Terminalia tomentosa, Butea monosperma, Mitragyne parviflora and Albizia procera. Some individuals were in leaf at all times, more so at the moister east end of the quadrat. In November at the end of the rainy season, light measurements documented percentages of total daily photosynthetic photon fluence (PPF) at 10.0% of full sunlight; 44% of this flux was due to sunflecks whose duration was approximately 17% of the daytime hours. Values for six sites were similar to mid-day measurements along a 40 m transect, and consistent with the 94% canopy cover of the sites, photographed with a fish-eye lens. The March dry season measurements revealed a more intense radiation environment (54% of solar PPF), and 59% of the photosynthetic photon flux density at mid-day along the transect. Canopy openings were increased to a mean of 59.4%. Light in the understorey in November was spectrally altered, with typical R:FR ratios of 0.30, compared to March values identical to those of sunlight, at 1.10.
3068746|Current research efforts to understand the relative invasibility of different plant communities have mostly ignored tropical forests. Only a few studies have treated invasive species in tropical forests, and recent worldwide analyses have not provided clear predictions concerning the relative invasibility of tropical forests. In this review, the extent to which exotic species have invaded tropical forests is summarized and four leading hypotheses to explain the apparently low frequency of invading plants in tropical forests are evaluated. In general, it is found that invasibility positively correlates with human disturbance, and that undisturbed tropical forests harbour few exotic species. To date, there is no evidence to attribute the low invasibility of undisturbed tropical forests to either their high species diversity or their high diversity of functional types. Instead, the low occurrence of exotic species in most tropical forests is most likely due to the fact that the great majority of exotic species that are transported to tropical countries lack specific life history traits, most importantly shade tolerance, necessary for successful invasion of undisturbed tropical forests. Unfortunately, this situation could change in the future with the expected increase in the plantation forestry of high-grade timber combined with common forestry practices that favour the cultivation of exotic species.
4091827|We conducted a survey of the epiphyte flora growing on the stilt palm Socratea exorrhiza in a primary lowland rain forest in Panama by means of a canopy crane. For each palm in a 0.9-ha plot, we determined diameter at breast height, tree height, per cent bryophyte cover and the number, identity and attachment site of all vascular epiphytes. The 118 palm trees hosted a total of 701 epiphytes and hemi-epiphytes, belonging to 66 species. Trees were estimated to be c. 20 y old before colonization with vascular epiphytes began. Epiphyte species were highly clumped and segregated along the vertical axis of the trunk. Sequential colonization led to an increased number of species and individuals as the tree grows. Epiphytes were associated with bryophyte patches much more than expected by chance, but no species seemed to depend upon them for establishment. The influence of tree size, age and bryophyte cover on the composition of the epiphyte community are discussed.
3068749| In Ethiopia, plantation forestry for soil conservation and wood supply is mainly based on exotic tree species harvested at 12-25-y rotation age. To evaluate if these forests truly represent ecological rehabilitation of degraded areas through the build-up of soil organic matter before harvest, relative abundances of C
4092106|Interactions among fleshy fruits and frugivore assemblages are presented from a 1-y study in the littoral forest of Sainte Luce, south-eastern Madagascar. This community-level approach allowed us to determine food selection by all consumer species and to evaluate the role different frugivores play in seed dispersal and predation. For this, interactions between 136 consumed fruit species and 13 frugivorous species were studied. Fruit and seed size were the most important physical factors determining food selection of all consumer species. Nutritionally birds favoured and mammals avoided lipid-rich fruits. For Cheirogaleus spp., that go into torpor, there was a trend to select sugar-rich fruit pulp. However, for numerous fruit traits the consumer species had no clear feeding preferences and they seemed to be quite flexible, eating whatever was available. This might be related to unpredictable fruit availability and low fruit productivity in the littoral forest, which may also partially explain the low number of frugivores present. Nevertheless frugivores have different impacts on seed dispersal. Eulemur fulvus collaris is particularly important for the dispersal of large-seeded species, while frugivorous birds and flying foxes ensure plant regeneration between and outside forest fragments. In terms of conservation, heterogeneous seed transport is particularly important for this severely degraded littoral forest.
2560027|This study described the diet of the orange-rumped agouti Dasyprocta leporina in French Guiana. Five food types were identified in stomach contents: seeds, pulp, fibre, leaves and animal matter. D. leporina ate mainly fruit parts, pulp and seeds, although the ingestion of animals, leaves and fibre was not negligible. Food intake differed from one season to another. D. leporina was a pulp-eater (64.8% pulp in March) when fleshy fruit was plentiful and available on the ground (February-May). The level of pulp ingestion was globally in accordance with fruit production. When food resources were low (June-September), D. leporina consumed seeds and cotyledons (73.0% seeds in August) as well as animal (16.4% in July) and to a lesser level, plant parts. By focusing on other food categories, and particularly seeds, it gets nutritious food thus avoiding starvation between June-September. Large proportions of seeds appeared in stomach contents and correlations between seed quantities and ground production were negative and significant; D. leporina seemed to react to environmental factors such as rainfall and fruit production.
40665279|The directional orientation of pre-and post-reproductive migration was studied in the Brazilian red-bellied toad Melanophryniscus cambaraensis, a species that forms explosive-breeding aggregations at irregular intervals throughout the entire year. Migrating toads were captured by enclosing the breeding site in dual drift fences with inward-and outward-facing funnel traps. Data were collected over 5 mo and totalled 333 captures. The observed directional orientation was significantly different from expected under a uniform distribution for both pre-and postreproductive migration, regardless of gender. Males and females did not differ significantly from each other in the orientation of entry or exit, and the directional orientation of pre-reproductive migration was not significantly different from post-reproductive migration. It is suggested that the observed directional bias may be due to a dirt road next to the breeding site that could restrict juvenile dispersal to the adjacent forest.
4091821|Effects of seed passage through digestive tracts of principal animal dispersers (bats and birds) on seed germination were investigated for two columnar cactus species, Stenocereus griseus and Subpilocereus repandus. In general, seeds ingested showed more rapid germination times and higher overall germination rates than untreated seeds. The bat Glossophaga longirostris, and the birds Mimus gilvus and Tachyphonus rufus seem to be the most efficient cacti dispersers in terms of quality of treatment. The increment of germination speed and particularly the decrease of imbibition time, could favour the probability of germination in dry areas such as arid and semi-arid environments.
2559495|In a mature lowland `terra firme' forest near Araracuara in Colombia, a study was conducted to determine the above-ground biomass by means of regression analysis. Dry weight, DBH (i.e. stem diameter at 1.3 m above ground level, or just above buttresses if these surpassed 1.3 m in height), total height and specific wood density were measured on 54 harvested trees, chosen in a 'selected random' manner. Nine different regression models were evaluated for statistical correctness, accuracy of the estimates and for practical use. The logarithmically transformed models with DBH<sup>2</sup>, and DBH<sup>2</sup> x height as independent variables appeared to be the only models meeting the above criteria, the latter being the most accurate. The exclusion of big trees (DBH >45 cm) from the regression did not result in significant changes of the regression coefficients.
2559344|The effects of forest habitat, canopy light condition, vertebrate herbivory and species mean seed size on growth of tree seedlings were evaluated for six widely different species of North Queensland tropical rain forests. Two forest localities differing in size and rainfall intensity were used for the trial. In each forest, seedlings were transplanted three weeks after germination into small to medium-sized canopy gaps and into the forest interiors, with half protected by cages and the other half unprotected. Growth measurements were made over a period of 16 months. All growth parameters examined differed significantly between the six species. At the end of the study period, for most species, forest site and protection from vertebrates did not affect seedling biomass. For all species, growth was higher in gaps than in forest interior, but most biomass allocation patterns did not differ between the two habitats. This was attributed to the small difference in photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) levels between the two habitats (interior, 0.48-2.53% PAR; gap, 3.58-7.09% PAR). Between species, seedling growth in the forest interior and sensitivity to increasing light were significantly correlated with initial mean seed size. The growth ability of the six species in and out of canopy gaps is discussed in terms of regeneration status of forest tree species.
4092084|Thirteen termite mounds and 13 similar-sized control plots were surveyed in central Zimbabwe in order to study large mammalian browsing and vegetation characteristics. The mounds supported almost twice as many tree species as the control plots and the woody vegetation was denser on mounds compared with the woodland plots. Species of woody plants were recorded along with the percentage of branches browsed (cumulative browsing score) by black rhino, Diceros bicornis, elephant, Loxodonta africana and other browsers combined. In addition we measured how the cumulative browsing score on three woody plant species, Acacia nilotica, Colophospermum mopane and Dichrostachys cinerea, which were common both on and off mounds, was related to the distance from mound centre. Both black rhino and elephant cumulative browsing scores were significantly higher on the mound plants compared with the woodland plots. Cumulative browsing score was negatively related to distance from the mound centre for Dichrostachys cinerea, Colophospermum mopane and Acacia nilotica. We propose that termite mound construction in miombo woodland contributes to sustaining populations of megaherbivores and perhaps some woody species in these areas.
3068785|Damage caused by elephants was monitored in two woodland stands of Zakouma National Park (Chad) between February and March 1998. The Acacia seyal savanna was more severely damaged (29.8% of trees damaged of which 13.2% severely) than the Combretaceae savanna (26.5% of trees damaged of which only 4.2% severely). Nearly all severely damaged trees showed resprouts (respectively 86.8% and 88.5% in Combretaceae and A. seyal savannas). Both low damage rate and low mortality rate indicate that no serious 'elephant problem' occurred in Zakouma National Park. Elephants selected trees to damage according to species and height. Such selection also occurred for severe damage in A. seyal savanna, but only height affected severity of damage in Combretaceae savanna. In both savannas, the plots close to a water point were the most frequently damaged. In Combretaceae savanna, the distribution of damaged trees was clumped. On the other hand, spatial auto-correlation was not significant for the severity or the frequency of damage in A. seyal savanna. Neither tree density nor diversity of woody species affected the spatial patterns of damage or severe damage.
2559970|Hurricane Gilbert caused disturbance to Jamaican montane rainforests in 1988. This study provides a detailed characterization of landscape-level changes in light below the canopy of these forests after the hurricane. Hemispherical photographs were taken below the forest canopy at four sites at permanent points 1 m above the ground between 7 and 33 mo after the hurricane For each photograph photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) was computed. PAR declined exponentially in all sites during the period of measurement During the first 24 mo after the hurricane, PAR beneath the canopy was significantly greater in sites that had been defoliated during the hurricane than in sites where few trees had been defoliated By 28 mo after the hurricane there was no significant difference in PAR beneath the canopy among the four sites. By 33 mo after the hurricane canopy recovery was nearly complete and PAR was only slightly higher than measurements made before the hurricane Our results were compared with studies of changes in light environment resulting from treefall gaps and under deciduous canopies PAR during the first 18 mo after the hurricane was similar to that recorded in small canopy gaps in other forests. Widespread defoliation caused by hurricanes can thus increase PAR beneath the canopy over large areas and consequently opportunities may arise for widespread recruitment of tree species in response to increased light levels.
2559675|Carollia perspicillata and Sturnira lilium are two species of abundant and widely distributed phyllostomid bats. Both are frugivorous and frequently found coexisting in the same areas. A study on feeding habits and morphology of C. perspicillata and S. lilium was conducted at Serra do Japi, Sao Paulo, south-eastern Brazil, investigating the mechanisms associated with their coexistence. The two species are fairly similar in morphology and feeding habits. Analysis of faeces produced by captured bats revealed that there is a significant difference in diet between the two species. C. perspicillata tends to specialize in fruits of the genus Piper and S. lilium specializes in Solanum fruits. The fruiting periods of the four species of Piper eaten by bats at the study site are successive, with little overlap and high productivity. The species of Solanum have long and overlapping fruiting periods, with very low productivity. Piper and Solanum provide food resources almost all year, allowing the food specialization that may be an important mechanism of resource partitioning between C. perspicillata and S. lilium.
2560261|The relationship between sepal and nut size of fruits was studied in fruit of 394 species of Dipterocarpaceae in Malesia and Sri Lanka. The fruits of many dipterocarps have long twisted sepals which have a role as blades for dispersal by gyration But long sepals decrease resource allocation to other parts, and increase the chance of fruit being trapped in the canopy. The frequency distribution of the ratio of sepal length to nut length was bimodal. The gyration-dispersed group with longer sepals comprised 74% of Dipterocarpaceae studied The group with short sepal mainly comprised understorey trees, but there were a few emergents In both groups, sepal areas were expressed as a power function of nut volumes'. Because fruit weight per sepal area increases with fruit size, larger fruits fall more quickly than smaller fruits, and sepals of the former can not serve so effectively as propeller blades. This is consistent with the fact that a few emergent trees with large nuts have short sepals and are not dispersed by gyration. Therefore, the re-evolution of short fruit sepals appears to have been mainly due to two reasons: reduction of tree height and enlargement of nut size
2559348|Dung beetles attracted to howler monkey (Alouatta palliata) and coati (Nasua narica) dung were studied for an annual cycle in the tropical rain forest of Los Tuxtlas, Mexico. Pitfall traps set for 24 h month<sup>-1</sup> captured 1567 dung beetles of 21 species. The species Canthidium martinezi, Deltochilum pseudoparile and Canthon femoralis accounted for 62% of all individuals captured. While species overlap was high (> 80%) between diurnal and nocturnal samples and between howler monkey and coati dung baits, coati dung attracted species such as C. martinezi, D. pseudoparile and Onthophagus rhinolophus while species such as C. femoralis and Copris laeviceps were numerically dominant at howler monkey dung. Thirteen non-ball rolling dung beetle species and eight ball-rolling species accounted for 43% and for 57% of all beetles captured respectively. Dung beetles were present and active in all months of the year, but occurred in higher numbers between the months of March and October, when temperatures were higher. Relative abundance of howler monkey and coati dung in the rain forest of Los Tuxtlas was estimated at 11.2 g (fresh weight) ha<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> and at 13.0 g ha<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> respectively, a seemingly low amount for the large number of scarabs attracted to the dung.
4499128|Capture-mark-recapture methods were used to study the influence of density-dependent and density-independent factors on population dynamics of the spiny pocket mouse Heteromys desmarestianus in a lowland forest in Belize. Fourteen trapping sessions were conducted in six 0.5-ha grids at irregular intervals from July 2000 to March 2005. Responses by H. desmarestianus to four disturbance events depended on the type and magnitude of the events. Although fluctuations in density were strongly related to fruit availability, the disturbances tended to magnify direct and delayed density-dependent effects on reproduction and juvenile survival. A catastrophic flood in July 2000 eliminated the entire population, but by September 2001 population density had increased from 34.4 individuals ha
25172905|An on-going controversy in community ecology involves the debate about the many factors that affect the assembly and composition of a given species assemblage. Theory suggests that community composition is influenced by environmental gradients or biotic processes. This study examines patterns of community composition in two tropical tree frog assemblages of primary and exploited lowland rain-forest sites in the Guiana Shield area of central Guyana, South America and the Upper Guinean rain-forest block of south-western Cte d'Ivoire, West Africa. We tested community composition and species abundance data of two adult tree frog communities collected on 21 standardized transects during a period of 5 y for evidence of spatial correlation in community composition. We applied simple and partial Mantel tests to separate the effects of environmental variables, spatial distance and spatial autocorrelation on community composition. Whenever environmental effects were accounted for, we found significant positive spatial correlation of community composition. All assemblages appeared to be spatially structured, i.e. sites in close proximity had similar species assemblages. However, spatially structured environmental variation (autocorrelation) did not account for the spatial structure of species incidence. Environmental factors did not prove to be significant predictors of species incidence in any of the assemblages analysed, even if we controlled for spatial effects. Observed correlation patterns of species composition were consistent within respective realms and disturbance regimes. Moreover, general correlation patterns were consistent between geographic regions. These results are in contrast to previously published results from a study on leaf-litter anurans and indicate that group-specific differences must not be neglected when analysing patterns of species composition in anurans as they may drastically alter the outcome of the analysis.
2559447|The orchids Dendrobium infundibulum and Cymbidium insigne are pollinated by the bumblebee Bombus eximius, which also pollinates the ericaceous shrub Rhododendron lyi. A study of the three plants and the bumblebee in maquis-like mountainous vegetation in northern Thailand suggests that they form a floral mimicry system with two mimics (the orchids) to one model (R. lyi). The flowers of the two orchid species offer no food reward to pollinators. Flowers of the three species show definite morphological and visual resemblance, and the species overlap to a great extent in flowering phenology and habitat. Mimic flowers were much less numerous than model flowers, which occurred abundantly in the area. The rate of pollinaria removal was very low in both orchid species, resulting in a relatively small percentage of fruit set, especially in D. infundibulum. Infrequency of pollinator visits was, however, somewhat counterbalanced by long-lasting flowers. The pollinaria of the two orchid species are differently positioned on the bee, hence interference between the different reproductive systems is minimized. This is the first report which indicates floral mimicry from tropical Asia.
4499097|To survive, leaning trees on steep slopes with loose substrate can either resprout or turn upward to regain the normal vertical orientation of the growing tip. Data from 19 tree species were collected from 20 transects in coastal dune forest. Resprouting was negatively correlated with turning up and species abundance, and positively correlated with leaning and a dead primary stem. In contrast, turning up was associated with low probabilities of leaning and higher species abundance but not with a dead primary stem. Slightly inclined trees turned upwards more than severely inclined ones, which mostly resprouted. Leaning trees without exposed roots turned upwards, while severe erosion caused leaning and resprouting. Consistent with the latter, leaning trees in stable dune slacks frequently turned upwards, whereas leaning trees on narrow dune crests and steep landward slopes seldom did so. Small trees were more likely to turn upwards than big trees. Because of potentially greater costs to the individual of sprouting, stem reorientation precedes the resprouting response across the disturbance gradient. Consequently, species prone to stem reorientation and less likely to resprout, are dominant during late-succession. This study emphasizes the advantage under low levels of disturbance of turning up as an alternative strategy to resprouting for leaning trees.
4092003|Nutrient fluxes in stemflow and throughfall were compared among three successional stages of an upper montane rain forest and related to structural characteristics of the stands (stem density, leaf area, epiphyte abundance). An old-growth forest stand, an early successional (10-y-old) forest stand and a mid-successional (40-y-old) forest stand were studied in the Cordillera Talamanca, Costa Rica. All three sites were dominated by Quercus copeyensis with a variable admixture of other tree species. There was no difference in the average stand leaf area index between the old-growth forest and the early successional forest. A significantly higher leaf area was found in the mid-successional forest. There were large differences in litterfall from non-vascular epiphytes (mosses, liverworts and lichens) which reflected differences in epiphyte abundance, with highest values in the old-growth forest. Total nutrient transfer via stemflow and throughfall from the canopy to the soil showed only minor differences among the stands. The stands differed widely in the ratio of nutrient transport via stemflow to the total nutrient flux by water below the canopy. The K flux with stemflow accounted for 5% of the total in the old-growth forest but it accounted for 17% (early successional forest) and 26% (mid-successional forest) in the secondary forests. It is concluded that differences in canopy structure and epiphyte abundance in old-growth and secondary forests resulted in large differences in the partitioning of nutrient transport into stemflow and throughfall components although total nutrient transfers via water reaching the soil were similar.
27751671|Natural licks are activity hotspots for frugivorous bats in the Peruvian Amazon. Large numbers of frugivorous bats congregate at licks to drink water. Because most Amazonian soils are relatively poor in nutrients, plants may contain low concentrations of some nutrients; consequently, frugivorous bats may face nutrient limitations. Accordingly, a potential explanation for lick visitation by bats is to obtain key limited resources. We assessed this hypothesis by comparing concentrations of cations (Ca, K, Mg, Na) in water at three licks and associated non-lick sites across years and seasons at Los Amigos Conservation Concession in south-eastern Peru. We also examined bat activity patterns between lick and non-lick sites. Regardless of the season, at licks &gt 10 bats per net h1 were captured compared with forest and gap sites where &lt1 bat per net h1 was captured. At licks bats belonged primarily to the subfamily Stenodermatinae and over 70% were reproductive females. Although calcium, magnesium and potassium concentrations varied across water sources, sodium concentrations were consistently higher in lick water (&gt50 ppm) compared with creeks and oxbow lakes (&lt2 ppm) across seasons. Therefore, since sodium is one of the most limiting nutrients for vertebrates in the tropics, licks may function as sources of sodium (or other elements) for bats. In any case, licks are reliable potential sources of sodium in the south-eastern Peruvian Amazon, an otherwise mineral-poor landscape.
25562589|The breeding system of Laguncularia racemosa is variable among populations; some populations are androdioecious while other populations lack male plants. To determine whether androdioecy is widespread in L. racemosa, 65 populations were surveyed in Florida and the Bahamas. Fruits are water-dispersed, so the observed distribution of breeding systems was compared to local and regional water currents in order to determine whether dispersal could be important to the maintenance of male plants in androdioecious populations. Twenty-two of the 36 populations surveyed in Florida were androdioecious, with male frequencies that ranged from 1-68%. On the Florida east coast, all populations north of latitude 2630' N lacked males while all populations south of this latitude were androdioecious, which suggests that northern populations may lack males due to dispersal limitation. The pattern of distribution on the Florida west coast suggests that males may be maintained in some populations via dispersal. Nine islands in north-central Bahamas were surveyed, and androdioecious populations were found only on San Salvador Island, where male frequencies ranged from 5-28%. Dispersal, fragmentation, and selection hypotheses are suggested to explain the observed pattern of distribution; these hypotheses will be tested in future studies.
4092107|Occasional strong droughts are an important feature of the climatic environment of tropical rain forest in much of Borneo. This paper compares the response of a lowland dipterocarp forest at Danum, Sabah, in a period of low (LDI) and a period of high (HDI) drought intensity (1986-96,9.98 y; 1996-99,2.62 y). Mean annual drought intensity was two-fold higher in the HDI than LDI period (1997 v. 976 mm), and each period had one moderately strong main drought (viz. 1992, 1998). Mortality of 'all' trees
2559321|In 1933/34 eight coppice plots were established in Brachystegia-Julbernardia (miombo) woodland at Ndola in the Copperbelt area of Zambia by the Forestry Department. These plots have been maintained under fire protection, annual early or late dry season burning since 1934/35. Before establishment stems over 20.3 cm girth at breast height were enumerated. Three of the eight plots (one fire protected and two annually early burnt) were enumerated in 1982, 48-49 years after establishment. In addition, a coppice plot at Chitwi, 16 km southwest of the Ndola plots, cleared in 1972 and left to regenerate naturally was enumerated in May 1982 and August 1986 to assess woody plant growth. The density of stems over 20.0 cm girth in the 13-year-old coppice at Chitwi was 2.5 times that in an adjacent shelterbelt woodland. The stem density in the fire protected plot at Ndola in 1982 was 86% of the pre-felling density while in one of the early burnt plots it was 95% of the pre-felling density. The protected plot had the lowest species diversity after 49 years, largely because of the loss of 11 understorey species that were present before felling. There were no significant differences in stem mean girth at breast height (gbh) of canopy species in the Ndola plots under fire protection and early burning regimes. Mean annual gbh increments of abundant species were estimated at 1.17-2.21 cm yr<sup>-1</sup> and 0.59-1.42 cm yr<sup>-1</sup> during 0-9 and 0-49 year age-periods, respectively. Estimated mean annual basal area increments for stems over 30 cm gbh were 0.35 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup> for the 13-year-old coppice and 0.24-0.27 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup> for the 49-year-old coppice. These results indicate a decrease in both gbh and basal area increment with increasing age of miombo coppice
2559868|The foraging behaviour of capybaras (Hydrochaeris hydrochaeris) was assessed in relation to habitat and season in a flooded savanna of Venezuela from February (dry season) 1993 to June (rainy season) 1994. Direct observations were carried out to record group movements and foraging activities of individual capybaras when feeding on specific plant species. The time devoted to feeding upon some species was recorded in relation to total foraging time (feeding + searching). Capybaras spent similar times feeding on reeds (Eleocharis interstincta; Cyperaceae) and Paratheria prostrata (Poaceae) patches during the dry season though plant quality was different. During the rainy season, reeds were almost ignored by the animals which fed mainly on Hymenachne amplexicaulis, a grass with a significantly higher content of energy and protein. Capybaras fed for longer time during the dry season but more selectively during the rainy season. Capybaras were the dominant grazers in this flooded savanna as inferred from the comparative effects they produced in the height, biomass and quality of the pasture in relation to those effects produced by other vertebrate herbivores, namely, cattle, feral horses and asses.
4091977| Anthropogenic disturbance in Amazonian forests has increased dramatically since the early 1980s and forest disturbance is expected to continue in the early twenty-first century. Logging and conversion to pasture for cattle are two of the largest causes of forest disturbance and destruction. This study examined the distribution and diversity of dung beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) in intact forest and under three disturbance regimes (selective logging, clear-cutting and pasture) in a forest tract in southern Par state, Brazil. Dung beetles were collected using faeces-baited pitfall traps, then identified, measured and weighed. Principal Components Analyses and the Srensen's Index indicated that the intact and selectively logged areas were similar in terms of species composition but that the pasture areas and clear-cut areas had substantially different groups of species. Beetle size and diversity (as measured by species richness, Shannon index and Simpson's index) were lower in clear-cuts and pasture than in intact forest. The selectively logged forest was no less diverse than intact forest, and beetles were the same size or larger than those in intact forest. Total beetle biomass, however, was highest in the pasture due to the abundance of small-bodied beetles in this habitat. While the fact that selective logging has a relatively minor impact on the dung beetle community is heartening, the projected increase in the amount of highly disturbed landscape in Amazonia is expected to have a severe impact on dung beetle biodiversity in the region. 
3068704|Amomum villosum Lour. (Zingiberaceae) is an obligate shade plant. Its leaves naturally roll up upon exposure to bright sun. This paper characterizes the effects of its leaf rolling and light on photoinhibition of photosynthesis and thermal dissipation activity under field conditions with sufficient soil moisture. Between the plants from bright and shaded parts of a canopy gap, both maximum photosynthetic rate ( mean  6.5  mol m
2559333|Diameter growth rates and age-size relationships are reported for 45 abundant tree species and one liana in tropical wet forest at La Selva, Costa Rica. Thirteen-year increments in each species were analysed using growth simulation, a stochastic technique which projects growth trajectories. Median growth rates ranged from 0.35 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> (Anaxagorea crassipetala) to 13.41 mm yr<sup>-1</sup>) (Stryphnodendron excelsum). Maximum ranges ranged from 0.95 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> (Quararibea bracteolosa) to 14.62 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> (Hernandia didymanthera). Minimum rates ranged from zero growth (Capparis pittieri, Colubrina spinosa, Doliocarpus spp.) to 7.45 mm yr<sup>-1</sup> (Stryphnodendron excelsum). Projected lifespan (from 100 mm dbh to the maximum dbh for the species) varied from 52 years (Anaxagorea crassipetala, Guatteria inuncta) to 442 years (Carapa guianensis). The mean longevity among the 45 tree species studied is 190 years. Four main patterns of growth behaviour are recognized, based upon longevity and growth rates: (1) understorey species have slow maximum growth rates and short lifespans; (2) shade-tolerant subcanopy trees live around twice as long as understorey trees and grow at approximately the same maximum rates; (3) canopy and subcanopy trees that are shade-tolerant but respond opportunistically to increased light levels have long lifespans and fast maximum growth rates; (4) shade-intolerant canopy and subcanopy species are short-lived and have fast maximum growth rates. Understorey species intergrade with shade-tolerant subcanopy species in terms of growth behaviour; shade-tolerant subcanopy species with opportunistic, shade-tolerant species; and opportunistic, shade-tolerant with shade-intolerant species. Intraspecific variation in growth rates is lower in short-lived trees (understorey species with uniformly slow growth and shade-intolerant species with uniformly rapid growth) than in the two long-lived groups. These patterns are discussed in the context of tree ecophysiology and forest light environments.
25172930|The objective of this study was to determine the effects of gall induction on leaf phenolic compounds and their indirect effects on the subsequent attack of folivorous insects in Achatocarpus gracilis, Cordia alliodora, Guapira macrocarpa, Guettarda elliptica and Ruprechtia fusca that occur in both hillside and riparian sites at Chamela-Cuixmala tropical dry forest in western Mexico. There are differences in soil water content between riparian and hillside sites where trees in the first are mainly evergreen and deciduous in the second. A few tree species occur in both sites and their intraspecific phenological response is also different between sites. In this case, trees of a given species that occur in riparian sites will be evergreen whereas trees on hillsides of the same species will be deciduous. Four plant species had significantly greater total phenol concentrations in galled than ungalled leaves in both deciduous hillside and riparian sites. In three plant species associated with galls, host total phenol concentrations were significantly greater in short than in tall plants. The frequency and amount of folivore damage were greater in leaves without galls than leaves with galls in these four plant species. These results indicate that galling insect species may directly affect leaf phenolic concentrations and indirectly may affect the incidence and consumption of folivorous insects in tropical plant species. This may have important consequences on the preference of leaves by folivorous insects that might be excluded by galling insect species in this dry tropical system.
2559878|The contribution of sprouts to the long-term survival of Chlorocardium rodiei, following logging was investigated. Differently aged sprout populations on cut stumps were surveyed to determine the numbers of sprouts produced, probability of survival and growth rates. Fifty-five to 70% of the stumps produced sprouts. The proportion of stumps that sprouted was lower for the hollow stumps than for the intact ones and the number of sprouts produced per stump was reduced. No significant correlation was found between stump diameter and the number of sprouts. Some sprouts survived for at least 15 y (usually one per stump), and these had a significantly larger average diameter relative to the sprouts at younger sites. The number of sprouts and the diameter of the largest sprout showed a significant positive correlation, suggesting that the maintenance of the inherited stump root system is shared among the sprouts so that the costs per sprout are reduced. We conclude that sprouting on cut stumps may have the potential to contribute to the maintenance of C. rodiei in the canopy at logged sites.
4092128|The small size of many African protected areas makes adjacent rangelands potentially important in the local survival of wild animals. In order to assess the importance of pastoral areas to wild ungulates, we studied density and habitat choice of wild ungulates and cattle in Lake Mburo National Park, Uganda, the adjacent exclusively pastoral Nshara Dairy Ranch and on private land consisting of a mixture of ranching and subsistence farms. Transects, in the three land-use zones, were walked during the wet season and the data were analysed by DISTANCE sampling technique. We found significantly higher total density of wild ungulates on the dairy ranch compared with the National Park and private land. There was no significant difference in total wild animal density between the National Park and private land. Impala (Aepyceros melampus), zebra (Equus quagga), bushbuck (Tragelaphus scriptus) and waterbuck (Kobus ellipsiprymnus) had significantly higher densities on the dairy ranch compared to the National Park. Only eland (Taurotragus oryx) density was higher in the National Park compared to private land. Wild ungulates and cattle showed a high degree of habitat overlap, generally preferring open grassland. Our study shows that high densities of wild ungulates are not necessarily associated with protected areas. Pastoral areas may be important for populations of wild herbivores during the growing season despite a pronounced presence of livestock.
2560224|Reproduction by Bolomys lasiurus is strongly seasonal in the Amazonian savanna of Alter do Chao, Para, Brazil. No pregnant or lactating females were recorded during the early dry season (July-September). Relative growth rates showed a similar though less consistent pattern. These patterns do not appear to be due to a direct effect of rainfall as high reproduction and growth were recorded during the late dry season (October-November), even though rainfall and the availability of fruits of shrubs were low during that period. It is likely that reinitiation of reproduction during the dry season is due to an increase in the availability of invertebrates and/or wind-dispersed seeds. Fire at the end of the dry season appears to affect the diet of the rats, causing an increase in the ingestion of invertebrates during the following wet season. However, our data do not indicate that fire affects individual reproductive output or growth.
2560319|The role of chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) as seed dispersers in the Kibale Forest Reserve of western Uganda was assessed by analysing 1849 dung samples from two chimpanzee communities and by conducting germination trials on dispersed and non-dispersed seeds. Of the chimpanzee dung samples, 98.5% contained seeds, and fig seeds were the most common. The number of large seeds (>2 mm) per dung sample was often high, even for species with a relatively large seed. For example, Mimusops bagshawei has a 15-mm diameter seed and had an average of 26.5 seeds per sample. In addition, many seed species were found in the dung repeatedly over several months. Germination trials demonstrated that the species of seed commonly collected from dung were viable. Comparisons of both the rate and success of germination of chimpanzee-dispersed seeds with seeds collected directly from the parent trees, showed that gut passage increased the speed and probability of germination. The number of large seeds dispersed by the chimpanzee population was estimated at 369 large seeds km<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>. We suggest that in Kibale, chimpanzees may play a more significant role in primary seed dispersal than implied by their low numbers and biomass.
25172953|Although plant species that attract multiple species of pollinators predominate in tropical plant communities, pollination specialists appear to be at a greater advantage in tropical ecosystems in which pollinators are numerous and many plants flower synchronously. The present study determined the breeding system and legitimate pollinators of Oroxylum indicum Vent. in Songkhla and Patthalung Provinces, Thailand. Oroxylum indicum exhibits steady-state flowering, with one or two flowers per inflorescence opening each night. Flowers open in the evening and drop off shortly after midnight, while its bilabiate stigma is highly sensitive, and quickly close upon being touched. Oroxylum indicum is self-incompatible. Hand-cross pollination and open pollination yielded the highest pollination success (47.7% and 31.2% respectively, n = 7 trees). About 900 pollen grains are needed for initiating fruit set. It is confirmed that a fruit bat, Eonycteris spelaea, is the legitimate pollinator. Bats are responsible for all pollen load and the pollen load from only one visit is generally sufficient to initiate fruit set. Although Eonycteris spelaea is effective, it is an inefficient pollinator. Compared with plant species pollinated by multiple animal species, the likelihood of pollination failure resulting from the decline in populations of Eonycteris spelaea will be much more intense in Oroxylum indicum.
2559877|Factors contributing to the resistance of gallery forests in savannas to the entry of fire were investigated using field observations and manipulation experiments. Mass of savanna fuels did not decrease close to forest boundaries, and in some instances increased, while savanna fuels adjacent to forests were moister than in the savanna beyond for only 1 d after rainfall. A fuel drying experiment conducted in both forest and savanna microclimates indicated that both fuel type and microclimate contributed to the resistance of forests to fire entry, although the former played a larger role. While savanna fuels in a savanna microclimate became ignitable in c. 1 d after rain, forest fuels in a forest microclimate required 4 wk to achieve ignitability. A further experiment juxtaposing forest fuels to burning savanna indicated that fire entry into forests was faciliated by deep root mats and the presence of a superficial litter layer, both of which become attenuated at the forest/savanna contact. It is concluded that fuels in these forests can reach an ignitable state late in the dry season, but that frequent fire entry is probably precluded by the tendency of savanna fires to occur earlier in the dry season and by discontinuities in fuels at the savanna/forest contact.
3068616|Multiple species of primate disperse seeds and differentially contribute to the seed rain in tropical forests. The goal of this study was to examine seed dispersal by a primate community of five monkey and two ape species in the Dja Reserve, Cameroon. The density of primates in the reserve was calculated to be 77 individuals km
2560041|Primary tropical forests comprise a mosaic of mature, gap and building phase patches, resulting in great spatial variation in the distribution of foliage. Light may consequently penetrate into the forest interior over a wide range of angles. It thus seems possible that understorey tree species might be adapted for distinct understorey light conditions. At the Cocha Cashu Biological Station in Madre de Dios, Peru, there are two understorey treelets distinguished by contrasting crown architectures. One, Neea chlorantha (Nyctaginaceae), possesses a much-branched superstructure and displays a smoothly contoured shell of drooping elliptical leaves. The other, Rinorea viridifolia (Violaceae), displays planar arrays of horizontally-oriented obovate leaves held on whorls of stiffly radiating horizontal branches. With the aid of hemispherical photography and the program CANOPY, the light environment at large within a 2.25-ha permanent tree plot, and above and below the crowns of Neea and Rinorea treelets, was investigated. Available light (measured as uncorrected indirect site factor (ISFU) in CANOPY) at control points showed a log-linear increase with height from 2.1 to 14.2 m. The relative amount of lateral illumination also increased with height. Photographs were taken just above and below the crowns of 50 Neea and 50 Rinorea treelets. Neea crowns were more effective at intercepting light from overhead sources, whereas Rinorea crowns were more effective at intercepting light from lateral sources. Adult Neea and Rinorea treelets occurred at locations in the forest where they were exposed to differing angular distributions of incident light, suggesting that the two species were engaged in a form of resource partitioning, a conclusion that is in conflict with the non-equilibrium model of tropical forest tree species diversity. It is suggested that tropical tree species diversity is, at least in part, a product of adaptive specialization to a spatially heterogeneous light environment.
4092014|We evaluated the effects of topography on the distribution of understorey herbs, shrubs and small trees of the pantropical genus Psychotria (Rubiaceae) in a 10,000-ha rain-forest reserve in central Amazonia. As plots were long and thin, and followed altitudinal isoclines, we were able to avoid the trade off between plot size and precision of measurement of topographical variables. The minimum distance between plots (1 km) was sufficient to avoid spatial autocorrelation in topographical variables. However, indices of plot similarity based on species composition were spatially autocorrelated to distances of at least 4 km. Although Multivariate Analysis of Covariance (MANCOVA) indicated significant effects of altitude, slope, and watershed on species composition within plots, topographical variables were generally poor surrogates for species distributions. Differences between eastern and western watersheds within the reserve were not due to distance effects, and most species occurred in both watersheds, indicating that differences in species assemblages between watersheds are determined by ecological factors. Habitat specialization and local density were not clearly associated with rarity. At scales of 1-10 km, both distance and habitat affect the distribution of understorey shrubs of the genus Psychotria, but much of the variation in species abundances remains unexplained.
4092098|The species present, and the frequencies and intensities of termite attack on 600 paper baits exposed at the soil surface were compared over three seasonal exposures and between two savanna sites of contrasting vegetation structure in northern Australia. Eleven species were recorded, with Microcerotermes nervosus and Schedorhinotermes actuosus comprising 43% and 27% of collections respectively. The most commonly sampled species nest underground or build epigeal mounds and are known to feed on sound and decaying wood. Changes in species dominance occurred between seasons and the two forest types. In both vegetation types, the number of species active and the frequency of attack increased with the duration of bait exposure and decreased in the order: transitional > wet > dry. Bait consumption was greater in the site with higher canopy cover, and did not differ significantly between seasons. No direct relationships were noted between rainfall recorded at the sites and species richness, frequency and intensity of attack on baits. We recommend exposure of paper baits for at least 2 mo during the transitional period as the optimal protocol for sampling at the time of greatest activity and diversity of those species within the guild of wood-feeding species regularly attracted to paper baits.
2560270|Vegetative growth, reproductive effort, seedling establishment, and mortality of the bark epiphyte, Dimerandra emarginata (Orchidaceae), were studied over a 3-y period in the moist lowland tropical forest on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. The study included more than 350 individuals growing on 12 branches of five different host tree species. Mortality was highest among small individuals. Most deaths occurred during the dry season and were probably related to drought. Mortality among older individuals, on the other hand, was always related to the instability of the substrate, i.e. flaking bark, breaking branches or falling trees. Vegetative growth was slow. The average increase in size (=height of the most recent, fully developed shoot) was 2.7 cm over 3 y (not considering `stemless' seedlings). This increase was negatively correlated with initial plant size. Growth was highly seasonal, with little variation between years. The reproductive effort increased strongly with plant size. Larger individuals produced fruits more frequently, in larger numbers and of larger size. After reproduction, plants showed reduced vegetative growth in the following year (in 1994). There was no negative effect on future reproduction. Compared to seed production, annual recruitment was very low and showed large year-to-year variation. Fewer than 50% of the seedlings survived the first dry season after germination. After 3 y, their average size was 0.5 cm. The results suggest that slow-growing epiphytes such as D. emarginata can attain considerable age and that their longevity-after an initial vulnerable juvenile stage - is almost exclusively limited by substrate durability.
4092127| Stand structure dynamics during early secondary forest succession were related to mortality, growth and recruitment rates, and the dependence of these demographic processes on fallow age and initial stand structure attributes was evaluated. In 11 secondary tropical rain-forest sites (1.5-19 y) in Chiapas, Mexico, one plot of 10 x 50 m was established. Diameter and height were measured for all trees  1 cm dbh, and their survival, growth and recruitment was monitored over a 2-y period. Changes in stand structure were especially fast in the first 5 y of succession, and decreased rapidly afterwards, which resulted from similar stand-level changes in relative mortality, growth and recruitment rates. Demographic processes were negatively related with initial stand basal area, but independent of initial tree density. Basal area was a better explanatory variable of the among-stand variability in these rates than fallow age. Results suggest that asymmetric competition and resulting patterns of tree-thinning are major driving forces determining secondary forest successional pathways. Fallow age per se is a compound variable reflecting community organization at a certain point along the successional axis, while community structure drives succession. Sudden mass mortality among dominant species in some stands showed that early secondary forest succession is not always a gradual and unidirectional process. 
2559966|A total of 200 variable-area plots covering 20 3 ha containing 4000 trees with a basal area of 921 4 m<sup>2</sup> were assessed over a combined elevational range of 410-2180 m in the moist forests of three Tanzanian Eastern Arc mountains: West Usambara, Nguru and Udzungwa. Plot data were ordinated on the basis of species presence/absence, frequency and basal area Axis 1 of ordinations based on species presence/absence are correlated with elevation Axis 1 of the frequency-weighted ordination was correlated with elevation in the Nguru and Udzungwa mountains, but plots from the West Usambara showed a rainfall-related discontinuity Axis 1 of the West Usambara basal area-weighted ordination showed evidence of long-term dynamics of Ocotea usambarensis and in the Udzungwa mountains was determined by presence of Parinari excelsa Plot diversity was not correlated with elevation or latitude, but was lower in disturbed, low rainfall or more seasonal forest. Stem density was positively correlated with elevation and was greater on ridge tops than valley sides and valley bottoms
2559969|Changes in structure of a Costa Rican upper montane Quercus forest were studied in twelve 0.1 ha plots along a chronosequence including 8- to 20-year-old Early Secondary Forest (ESF), 25- to 32-year-old Late Secondary Forest (LSF) and mature Primary Forest (PF). In 1 2 ha 2854 stems 3.0 cm dbh belonging to 42 tree species were recorded Tree species richness per 0.1 ha ranged from 15 to 30. Diversity indices did not change significantly during succession Stem density did not differ significantly among successional phases, while basal area was significantly higher in PF than in ESF and LSF Maximum canopy height and basal area increased linearly during the first three decades of recovery. Height and dbh showed a significant, logarithmic regression for all forest phases. A period of 84 y was estimated as the theoretically minimum time needed for structural recovery The maximum canopy height and basal area recovered two to five times slower in upper montane than in lower montane or lowland Neotropical forests.
2559605|The movement and habitat utilization patterns were studied in an Asian elephant population during 1981-83 within a 1130 km<sup>2</sup> area in southern India (11<sup></sup> 30' N to 12<sup></sup> 0' N and 76<sup></sup> 50' E to 77<sup></sup> 15' E). The study area encompasses a diversity of vegetation types from dry thorn forest (250-400 m) through deciduous forest (400-1400 m) to stunted evergreen shola forest and grassland (1400-1800 m). Home range sizes of some identified elephants were between 105 and 320 km<sup>2</sup>. Based on the dry season distribution, five different elephant clans, each consisting of between 50 and 200 individuals and having overlapping home ranges, could be defined within the study area. Seasonal habitat preferences were related to the availability of water and the palatability of food plants. During the dry months (January-April) elephants congregated at high densities of up to five individuals km<sup>-2</sup> in river valleys where browse plants had a much higher protein content than the coarse tall grasses on hill slopes. With the onset of rains of the first wet season (May-August) they dispersed over a wider area at lower densities, largely into the tall grass forests, to feed on the fresh grasses, which then had a high protein value. During the second wet season (September-December), when the tall grasses became fibrous, they moved into lower elevation short grass open forests. The normal movement pattern could be upset during years of adverse environmental conditions. However, the movement pattern of elephants in this region has not basically changed for over a century, as inferred from descriptions recorded during the nineteenth century.
2559553|Litterfall was recorded for one year in Acacia albida woodland in Mana Pools National Park, Zimbabwe. Leaves fell throughout the year, but leaf-fall rate peaked in the wet season. Litterfall was 1.5 t ha<sup>-1</sup> year<sup>-1</sup>, comprising 50% leaves, 20% fruits, 17% 'fine' material (mainly frass), 4% flowers and 9% wood and bark. Net above ground production by A. albida trees was 1.7 t ha<sup>-1</sup> year<sup>-1</sup>, including leaf production of 1.0 t ha<sup>-1</sup> year<sup>-1</sup>, twig production of 0.3 t ha<sup>-1</sup> year<sup>-1</sup> and fruit production of 0.3 t ha<sup>-1</sup> year<sup>-1</sup>. Insects consumed about 26% of leaf production. Net above ground herbaceous production was estimated from rainfall data using regression equations: it was 6.8 t ha<sup>-1</sup> year<sup>-1</sup> for annual grasses and 2.8 t ha<sup>-1</sup> year<sup>-1</sup> for forbs. Net above ground primary production in A. albida woodland was 11.3 t ha<sup>-1</sup> year<sup>-1</sup>. The seasonal variations in the nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, magnesium and calcium concentrations of different A. albida litter components were recorded. The estimated falls of N, P, K, Ca and Mg were 31.1, 2.1, 9.8, 15.0 and 3.4 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> year<sup>-1</sup> respectively.
2559830|Volcan Barva, Costa Rica, has on its northern slope an unbroken sequence of rain forest on volcanic parent materials from near sea level at La Selva Field Station up to its summit at 2906 m. It provides a good area to study forest changes with altitude and their causes. In the present paper we describe the forests as a background for soil and litterfall studies from 1 ha plots at each of the following altitudes: 100 m, 500 m, 1000 m, 1500 m, 2000 m and 2600 m. The canopy heights (with height of the highest emergent in parentheses) ranged from 35-40 m (45 m) at 100 m to 20-23 m (32 m) at 2600 m; basal area was least (22.7 m<sup>2</sup>) at 100 m and highest (51.2 m<sup>2</sup>) at 2600 m; the tree (10 cm dbh) density ranged from 391 ha<sup>-1</sup> at 500 m to 617 ha<sup>-1</sup> at 2600 m. Most trees were identified and on samples of them we recorded presence of buttresses, lianes, skiophytic climbers, vascular epiphytes and bryophytes; and drew profile diagrams. In the classification of Whitmore (1984) the two lower plots are evergreen lowland rain forests; the other four are lower montane rain forest. Species richness was highest in the plot at 500 m, with at least 135 species of tree, and least at 2600 m, with at least 35 species. The Volcan Barva forest altitudinal sequence is briefly compared with those elsewhere.
27751654|This study tested whether the reduction in the number of large-bodied seed dispersers is correlated with shifts in the taxonomic and functional (e.g. dispersal mode and seed size) traits of the seeding communities within small fragments of semi-deciduous forest, southern Mexico. In five fragments (2.3640 ha) and one continuous forest site we sampled tree and seedling species in 40 (20  20 m) and 120 (3  3 m) plots respectively, and recorded the incidence (presence/absence) of the disperser fauna (three common large-birds and &gt 500-g mammals). Tree and seedling species were categorized according to dispersal mode, seed size and whether they originated from local (i.e. from dropped) or immigrant (i.e. from actively dispersed) seeds. Fragment size negatively correlated with number of species of medium to large vertebrate seed-dispersers and number of seedlings of large-seeded species, but had no influence on functional traits of the adult-tree community. Between 41% and 61% of all seedlings were considered as immigrants and the proportion of immigrant seedlings of large-seeded tree species was negatively correlated with forest size. The results suggest that biased defaunation in small forest fragments may seriously reduce recruitment of large-seeded tree species (&gt 1.4 cm length) dispersed by vertebrates, negatively affecting successional trajectories of small forest fragments.
2560210|The morphology of Genipa americana seeds and post-seminal development was studied, and its germination response investigated in relation to storage in water, substrate water volume, osmotic potential and temperature and light regimes. The seeds are flattened and seedlings are phaneroepigeal with leafy cotyledons. Seeds stored in water kept viable for up to 6 mo, but germination and seedling emergence were reduced after 4 mo. Germination was not affected under water-logged conditions, but seedling emergence was reduced at the water volume corresponding to a water column two times deeper than the seeds' mean thickness (70 ml). When seeds were osmotically stressed, a reduction in the rate and germination percentage occurred at -0.2 MPa and germination was drastically inhibited at-0.6 MPa. Seeds germinated in a wide range of temperatures (15-40 <sup></sup>C), with optimum at continuous temperatures of 25 and 30 <sup></sup>C. Light was not required for germination, and no dormancy mechanisms were observed. The seed and seedling morphology and the germinative responses of the species may permit its regeneration in periodically flooded lowland forests and riparian habitats and are probably key factors in explaining the species' wide distribution.
2560208|Breeding systems and dispersal mechanisms of plants ( 2.5 cm dbh) were examined in fragments of tropical dry forest in Central America to identify life-history characteristics associated with rarity. In particular, the rich-ness and abundance of dioecious and mammal-dispersed trees and shrubs were examined to identify potential associations with precipitation, anthropogenic disturbance, and area. Plots totalling 1000 m<sup>2</sup> per site were established in seven nature reserves in Costa Rica (two sites) and Nicaragua (five sites). Overall, tropical dry forests of Central America have a similar proportion of dioecious species to other lowland neotropical forests and a similar proportion of wind-dispersed plants to other tropical dry forests around the world. However, the number of dioecious and mammal-dispersed species declined with decreasing forest cover within each reserve. Although dioecious species were rare in smaller forest fragments, some of these species will not be threatened with regional extinction because they are early successional plants, they have large geographic ranges, and they are not restricted to the tropical dry forest life zone. Mammal-dispersed plants were rare in small fragments, but it is not clear whether this was due to the loss of dispersal vectors or other life-history characteristics.
4092113|The soil seed bank in a 5-y-old Sahelian fallow was studied through seed extraction and compared with germinations recorded either in controlled conditions, ex situ in a glasshouse, or in the field. The influence of phosphorus fertilizer and mulch application during the preceding crop period, and that of seasonal grazing regimes applied the last 2 y of fallowing, were assessed on the composition of the seed stock. Ctenium elegans, Fimbristylis hispidula, Merremia pinnata and Phyllanthus pentandrus accounted together for 75% of extracted seeds, 72% of ex situ, and 62% of in situ seedlings. Mulch treatment was correlated with the first axis of the canonical correspondence analyses performed on the seedling datasets. Mulch and phosphorus fertilizer treatments held similar responses, as they both favoured the seed bank of erect dicotyledons such as P. pentandrus and Cassia mimosoides. On the whole, the effects of grazing remained modest compared with the residual effects of past crop management practices. However, seedling densities increased as a result of dry-season grazing, while the soil seed bank decreased with wet-season grazing. Grazing also reduced the spatial heterogeneity of the seed bank rather than the overall number of species.
4091852| We studied activity patterns and habitat use by insectivorous bats in Como National Park, Ivory Coast. Bat foraging activity was quantified along five transects representing three different habitat types using acoustic monitoring and captures with mist nets and harp traps. Aerial insect abundance was assessed using a light trap; in addition shrub and tree arthropods were sampled. Bat activity was significantly and positively related to insect availability and ambient temperature, whereas increased visibility of the moon had a negative influence on flight activity. Together, these factors best explained both total bat activity and activity of bats hunting in open space and edge habitats. The interaction between temperature and light intensity was the best predictor of activity by species foraging in obstacle-rich forest habitats, however, the regression model had a low predictive value. Overall, a large proportion (c. 50%) of the variation in bat activity appeared to be a consequence of transect- and/or habitat-specific influences. We found a significant non-linear relationship between the activity of QCF (quasi-constant frequency) and FM-QCF (frequency modulated - quasi-constant frequency) bats and the phase of the moon, with lowest levels of activity occurring near full moon. We interpret this lunar-phobic behaviour as a reflection of a higher predation risk during moonlit periods. For FM (steep frequency modulated) and CF (constant frequency) bats, no significant correlation was found, although there was a trend suggesting that these bats at least were not negatively affected by bright moonlight. Foraging activity of bats was positively correlated with the abundance of atympanate moths; however, no such correlation was found for tympanate moths. 
4499147| Secondary forests account for 40% of all tropical forests yet little is known regarding their suitability as habitat for diurnal large mammals and game birds. This is especially so for second-growth that develops on large areas of degraded land. We address this by investigating assemblages of large-bodied birds and mammals in extensive patches of secondary forest in the Jar region of the north-eastern Brazilian Amazon, comparing species richness and abundance against that of adjacent undisturbed primary forests. We conducted 184 km of line-transect censuses over a period of 3 mo, and found that although primary and secondary forests held a similar abundance of large vertebrates, the species composition was very different. Secondary forests supported a high abundance of ungulate browsers (0.85 vs 0.44 indiv. per 10km) and smaller-bodied primates (15.6 vs 4.6 indiv. per 10 km) compared with primary forests. However, large prehensile-tailed primates were absent (black spider monkey Ateles paniscus) or at very low abundance (Guyanan red howler monkey Alouatta macconelli) in secondary forest. The abundance of large frugivorous/granivorous birds was also low in secondary forests compared with primary forests (22.6 vs 3 7.1 individuals per 10 km, respectively). Faunal assemblages appear to reflect food resource availability. Concurrent vegetation surveys indicated that secondary forests had high levels of terrestrial and understorey browse. Fruit production was largely restricted to pioneer trees such as Bellucia and Inga spp. Although these regenerating forests were an important habitat for large mammals and birds, they were limited in terms of faunal richness, particularly dispersers of large-seeded plants. 
4092184|Discrete humus layers are common on podzols under temperate coniferous and tropical heath forests, and patchy layers also occur under some temperate broadleaved forests on non-podzolic soils. We used multiple data sets to test the reported association of humus with oligotrophic but non-podzolic soils under non-heath dipterocarp forest at Lambir, Sarawak. We examined the distribution, morphology and nutrient dynamics of necromass on soils derived from sandstone and shale. Concentrations of the main mineral nutrients were lower in fresh litter on the very oligotrophic sandstone soils than on shale. The rates of litterfall were similar, so that annual litterfall fluxes of all nutrients were lower on sandstone. The lower nutrient concentrations and fluxes in the litter on sandstone resulted in slower decomposition, longer residence times and larger standing crops of forest-floor necromass, with lower concentrations of nutrients. The necromass on sandstone sequestered significantly more N, K and Mg but less Ca and Mn than on shale, with no significant difference for P. The variations in necromass nutrient dynamics were associated with morphological differences. There were mats of densely rooted humus under the litter on sandstone, whereas litter lay directly over the mineral topsoil on shale. Spatial associations with soil nutrients were weak for necromass thickness, but clear for humus. The proportions of nutrients in the litterfall and necromass reflected the stoichiometric profiles of the soils. We attribute the differences in necromass nutrient dynamics and their association with soil reserve nutrients to lower rates of nutrient replenishment from the weathering of sandstone than from shale. Necromass characteristics are robust field indicators of multivariate edaphic differences in these and other tropical forests on Acrisols/Ultisols derived from Tertiary clastic sediments.
4092048| Fire history was reconstructed from fire-scarred individuals of the endemic pine (Pinus occidentalis) along climatic gradients in the Cordillera Central, Dominican Republic. We analysed variation in fire frequency by climate, elevation and aspect (windward and leeward of the central massif). A high correspondence between known fires and fire-scar chronologies indicates that the primary rings of this species are annual. Evidence was found for 41 fire years since 1727 A.D.; 28 were landscape-scale fires, nine of which were exceptionally large and linked to El Nio-triggered droughts. Mean fire return interval (FRI; the mean of individual samples) and mean fire interval (MFI; the composite mean of a group of samples) were used to estimate the upper and lower range in fire frequency. Mean FRI of the entire study area was 31.5 y ( 24.9 y SD) and MFI for landscape-scale fires was 5.6 y ( 4.1 y SD). The fire regime varied significantly with elevation and aspect. Mean FRI was 42.1 y ( 27.6 y SD) and MFI was 9.8 y ( 16.7 y SD) on moister windward zones, and mean FRI was 16.7 y ( 7.8 y SD) and MFI 4.2 y ( 1.9 y SD) in drier leeward zones. On windward slopes, high-elevation mean FRI (26.4 y) was significantly shorter than at middle (44.5 y) and low elevations (58.4 y). On leeward slopes, mean FRI did not vary significantly with elevation. The strong windward elevational patterning of the fire regime is driven by the trade wind inversion which traps moist air below 2000-2300 m. Such elevational patterns may be characteristic of montane fire regimes throughout the tropical trade wind belt. 
3068721|The dispersal system of Palicourea rigida (Rubiaceae), a common woody species of neotropical savannas, was studied in a seasonal Venezuelan savanna. Production and consumption of fruits, dispersal agents, feeding behaviour, transport and effects on seed viability, were investigated by field observations, cage experiments and viability tests. To compare different dispersers, quantitative and qualitative dispersal parameters were calculated. About 59% of the fruit crop was dispersed successfully by birds. Although 10 different bird species consumed the fruits of Palicourea rigida, three bird species dispersed 79% of the fruits (Tyrannus melancholicus, Molothrus bonariensis and Elaenia chiriquensis). T. melancholicus (Tyrannidae) was the most important dispersal agent, with more than 39% of dispersed seeds. In contrast to the predictions of the specialization vs. generalization paradigm, this system achieves high effectiveness by means of predominantly unspecialized traits in both the plant and the dispersers.
4091889|On the island of Java, Indonesia, two congeneric hawk-eagles occur, i.e. the endemic Javan hawk-eagle Spizaetus bartelsi and the wide-ranging changeable hawk-eagle S. cirrhatus. Comparisons with similar species-pairs in South-East Asia suggest that these species may be competitors both in habitat and diet. The limited area and less-diverse resources of islands should make competition between similar species more acute and should lead to marked niche segregation, with a larger niche breath for the endemic species. Spizaetus bartelsi was recorded significantly more frequently in forest habitats from sea level to 2500 m asl and S. cirrhatus more in open habitats up to 1600 m asl. Contrary to the prediction, the endemic hawk-eagle occurred in a smaller range of habitats (four out of seven) compared with S. cirrhatus that was found in all seven habitat types. Although significant, habitat segregation was not as well marked as in some similar co-occurring Spizaetus species. The relative overlap between the two species may in part result from human influences with the dense continuous rain forest being replaced by more open forest types.
2560241|Inability to age tropical trees has imposed major limitations on the basic and applied science of tropical forests. Here advantage was taken of even-aged stands present in successional chronosequences found on Amazonian whitewater river meanders to simplify the assumptions needed to estimate tree ages from growth measurements Growth increments of eight common early successional species were measured in 21 0.5-ha plots evenly distributed over chronosequences from the earliest post-pioneer stage to mature Ficus-Cedrela stands representing approximately the mid-point of primary succession Increment measurements, based on 4 or 5 y of growth, were arrayed in scatter diagrams against the midpoints of the growth intervals A loess regression of the points, weighted for the higher mortality of slow-growing individuals, was then conducted to generate a `best estimate lifetime growth trajectory' (BELGT) of a `typical' individual surviving to maturity. The BELGT curves were integrated to generate a set of derived curves describing the time required by a `typical' surviving individual to attain any given size up to the maximum for the species Predictions of the ages of particular stands were derived from these latter curves and found to agree within 3 to 20% of ages independently estimated from the rate of point bar accretion.
27751625|Spatial and seasonal variation in soil respiration rates were investigated in a tropical dry forest in Thailand. The spatial variation was examined at 50 points within a 2-ha plot in the forest floor during the dry and wet seasons. The seasonal and diurnal variations in soil respiration were measured at 16 and 5 points, respectively. The mean soil respiration rate during the wet season was 1041  542 mg CO2 m2 h1 (mean  SD), which is about twice that during the dry season. Soil respiration rate was negatively correlated with soil water content during the wet season. A polynomial equation using seasonal data describes soil respiration and water content: soil respiration rate increased with soil water content, but started to drop when soil water content exceeded 21%. The diurnal variation in soil respiration rate during the wet season was positively correlated with soil temperature, whereas during the wet season it was not correlated with soil temperature. The diurnal variation in soil respiration rate during the dry season showed a midday depression. The estimation of soil carbon flux with polynomial equations should incorporate different functions for the wet and dry seasons in tropical dry forests.
3068748|Madagascar has one of the world's highest rates of human population increase, which is coupled with an increase of resource exploitation, particularly food and firewood. Forests are cleared and converted to rice fields or plantations (mainly Eucalyptus or pine). How does deforestation affect the amphibian diversity of the original biotope, the rain forest? To answer this question, the amphibian fauna of intact rain forests was compared with that of secondary forests, Eucalyptus plantations and rice fields. The main consequence of rain forest disturbance was loss of amphibian species. Compared with an intact forest, species richness in secondary forests, Eucalyptus plantations and rice fields were 54%, 46% and 12%, respectively. Species number and individual density increased with increasing structural complexity of the habitat and the presence of water bodies. The reproductive strategy of the species could be decisive for the presence or absence of single species in different habitats. With increasing degradation the percentage of species spawning in water increased. Correspondingly, Hyperoliidae and Raninae were characteristic of degraded habitats, whereas Microhylidae and Mantellinae were representative of natural habitats.
2559587|Foraging parameters of two ant species, Pseudomyrmex triplarinus and Crematogaster sp., on P. triplarinus-occupied shrubs of Triplaris surinamensis were evaluated in a semideciduous forest of Mato Grosso, western Brazil. Live workers of the termite Microcerotermes strunckii, used as baits for ants, were placed on leaves in the lower, medium and upper thirds of the crown of thirty experimental Triplaris (nine baits/plant). Besides attacking more than twice as many baits as Crematogaster (131 against 59), Pseudomyrmex also attacked them significantly faster. Pseudomyrmex patrolled the plant uniformly, while Crematogaster patrolled more intensively the lower portion of the crown of Triplaris. Baits retrieved by Pseudomyrmex were taken to their nests in the stem galleries of Triplaris; those retrieved by Crematogaster were carried to nearby nests in the forest understory. Greater aggressiveness and alertness to foreign objects (i.e. baits), better eyesight, larger size, and an individual foraging technique appear to be responsible for the greater foraging success of Pseudomyrmex when compared with Crematogaster.
2559209|Bird species were surveyed in a variety of habitat types in a lightly populated area of western Brazilian Amazonia. Habitats surveyed were unlogged forest, selectively logged forest, `capoeira' (scrub regenerating on cleared land), cropfields, and an isolated 35 ha forest `island'. All habitats were within a few kilometres of each other. Many bird species were found to occur in all or most habitats, although the similarlity of the species assemblages dropped with increasing levels of disturbance of the natural vegetation. Certain understorey insectivores common in unlogged forest were rarely observed in other habitats; disturbed areas contained higher numbers of flycatching insectivores or birds feeding on both insects and fruit, some of which were open-country rather than forest species. The avifauna of the forest `island' was more similar to that of regenerating scrub than to that of tall forest, and the persistence of forest species was attributed to their ability to move to and from nearby continuous forest areas.
2560080|Scientific and commercial collecting have documented high levels of abundance among several species of marine snakes. Estimates of first-year mortality in populations of marine snakes range from 40 to 90%. The primary cause of this mortality is unknown Storms, currents, sun exposure, dehydration and fire are abiotic factors that may control populations of marine and amphibious snakes. Disease, malnutrition and predation are biotic factors known to affect populations In the literature there are isolated reports of predation by marine mammals, birds of prey, fish and invertebrates. Sharks in Australian waters are known to be predators on sea snakes. Our studies show that in the estuaries, intertidal mangrove creeks and mud flats of southeast Asia decapod crustaceans are important snake predators Microhabitat overlap, exoskeleton armour and a respiratory advantage in an underwater standoff argue for their potential as potent predators. Field observations, a survey of crab stomach contents and encounters between snakes and crabs under laboratory conditions support this hypothesis
25172931|An important challenge of invasion biology is to understand how interactions between species traits and ecosystem properties enable alien species to become invasive at particular locations. We investigated how gap dynamics in a tropical rain forest on the island of Runion affected the invasiveness of alien plants. In the 12 000-m study area, alien plants occupied 24.9% of the area of gaps, which represented 5.62% of the forest area, but only 0.8% of the understorey area. The most abundant invasive species was Rubus alceifolius, which formed dense, monospecific stands in the largest gaps (&gt; 25 m). Although plants could persist in the shade, a germination experiment revealed that canopy openings were essential for seedling establishment. A cyclone that struck the study area in 2002 caused a temporary thinning of the canopy, increasing light levels to above the threshold needed for germination of R. alceifolius and also stimulating the growth of established plants. We conclude that the ability of this and other alien species to colonize intact lowland tropical rain forest is strongly influenced by the prevailing gap dynamics. Because gaps are also essential for the regeneration of many native trees in our study area, there is a real danger of the forest being progressively degraded by alien plants. There are no simple solutions to controlling species such as Rubus alceifolius, but efforts should be focused mainly upon the larger gaps where the species are most invasive.
2560007|Performance of seedlings of seven rain forest, canopy dominant Shorea species was studied in a transplant experiment in forest sites at three different elevations (low, mid and high) within the humid zone of southwest Sri Lanka. Five species generally inhabit low- to mid-elevations, one at mid- and lower montane elevations, and one exclusively at lower montane elevations. Temperature, rainfall and cloudiness varied with elevation. For each site seedlings were grown in pots under partial shade conditions using similar soils and evermoist conditions. All growth measures showed differences among elevation sites, among species and in the interaction between species and elevation sites. Performances of species collectively showed (i) decline in height and leaf number with increase in elevation, (ii) higher dry mass at low- and mid-elevation sites compared to that at high-elevation and (iii) a higher mass of single leaves at the mid-elevation site than at the high-elevation site. Rank order of species changed across elevations for both height and dry mass. Dry mass declined with elevation in four of the seven species studied. S. gardneri, the only exclusively lower montane species, increased dry mass with elevation. Height declined with elevation for six of the species with only S. gardneri showing no change. Changes with elevation in the rank order of species for total leaf number and mass of single leaves were small. However, total leaf number and masses of single leaves differed among species and among elevations. S. megistophylla and S. disticha had a few leaves with high individual masses, while S. gardneri, S. affinis and S. trapezifolia had many leaves with less mass per individual leaf. One group of species showed relatively little change in leaf number per seedling and large changes in mass of single leaves. The other group varied more in leaf number but mass of individual leaves remained constant. Growth allocation to leaf production versus individual leaf size appears related to the successional division of Shorea section Doona. Also all species grew better at the low-elevation site irrespective of their natural ranges except S. gardneri, whose natural range is restricted to high elevations, and exhibits markedly lower growth responsiveness than the other wider ranging species.
4091895|We investigated the microhabitat preferences and relative abundances of 13 species of woodpecker in Sungai Lalang Forest Reserve, West Malaysia. The availability of suitable microhabitat corresponded strongly with woodpecker abundance, and snags were the most highly preferred foraging substrate across species and study sites. Large amounts of necromass, including snags, were present in 5-y-old logged and unlogged forest, but dead wood was in low abundance in 10-y-old logged forest. The absence or scarcity of large, snag-foraging woodpeckers from older logged stands suggests that this resource may remain in low abundance for a considerable time.
4091936|We used stable isotope analysis (
2559811|Small mammal live-trapping was carried out in a dry tropical forest mosaic in Huai Kha Khaeng Wildlife Sanctuary, central Thailand. Trapping was done in two forest types in three seasons. Maxomys surifer was the dominant species in both plots. The three most abundant species in each plot accounted for > 90% of all captures. Community structure, density, relative abundance, biomass, age structure of populations, and habitat usage of some small mammal species varied by forest type and season. The dry evergreen/mixed deciduous forest type supported a greater abundance and biomass of small mammals than the mixed deciduous/dry dipterocarp forest type in all seasons, although species richness was the same. The greatest density, biomass, and home-range size for Maxomys surifer occurred in the rainy season in both forest types. Seasonal changes in ratios of adults and subadults of several species suggested a breeding peak at the end of the dry season or beginning of the rainy season. The mixed deciduous/dry dipterocarp forest showed a drastic drop in numbers, density, and biomass of small mammals six weeks after a fire burned through it.
3068805| The impact of the unusually severe drought associated with the 1997-1998 El Nio on tropical forest dynamics in Sarawak, Malaysia was examined. Mortality during the non-drought period (1993-1997) in a core plot (1.38 ha) was 0.89 % y
2559954|Canopy arthropods were sampled by insecticide fogging to study their community structure in two New Caledonian primary rain forests. The represent-ativeness of these samples was analysed by two different methods: the diversity-area relationship and the relationship between the distribution of the taxa and the sample size, using Pielou's method. The results showed that the higher the degree of aggregation, the higher must be the minimum sample size to ensure a stable distribution. In the same way, the higher the diversity index, the higher must be the sample size to ensure a representative sample of the community. In this study, 40 sample units of 1 m<sup>2</sup> were used, although, samples of 9 to 25 m<sup>2</sup> seem to be sufficient according to the distribution of the taxa sampled. Five to 30 m<sup>2</sup> should be sufficient to ensure representative samples of the whole community for estimating diversity.
27751651|In this study I document the growth rate and age of trees in an old-growth montane Hawaiian wet forest and use these results to evaluate the cyclic succession model for forest dynamics. I used two methods to estimate the age of trees  the crown-class model and radiocarbon dating. Over 6000 trees belonging to eight species were tagged and measured over 7 y on Hawaii Island. Growth rates for the dominant tree (Metrosideros polymorpha) were relatively low (mean = 1.3 mm y1) and varied with tree size and crown class. 14C-based age estimates for 27 M. polymorpha trees loosely corroborated estimates based on the crown-class method. The oldest tree dated by 14C had a median age of 647 y BP, placing it among the oldest documented angiosperm trees in the northern hemisphere. 14C dating revealed that the upper canopy may be comprised of three distinct age groups of M. polymorpha trees of similar size, with the median age of each group separated by 200250 y. The high density of large, very old trees in multiple groups is unusual for a tropical forest and indicates that forest development may occur through gap-phase regeneration at a fine scale and stand-level mortality at a coarser scale.
4499085|The Smithsonian Venezuela Project (SVP) conducted extensive surveys of mammals and ectoparasites in the 1960s. The 25 238 individuals and 130 species of bat collected by SVP hosted 36 663 streblid bat flies, representing 116 species of these ectoparasitic dipterans. Roosts of bat species differ in durability and protection, and bat flies separate from the host to pupate in the roost. We predicted higher levels of parasitism and more parasitic associates for bats roosting in more permanent structures (e.g. caves, tunnels) that would facilitate their association with hosts. We also predicted wing development of flies should correlate inversely with roost duration, restricting flightless forms to bats in permanent roosts. Ranking roosting structures by durability and protection, we sought correlations among bat species in prevalence, mean intensity and number of associated fly species. All three measures of parasitism were positively and significantly related to roosting habits: bats roosting in more permanent, enclosed structures were more likely to be infested, to carry heavier parasite loads, and to harbour more species of ectoparasitic flies. However, roosting habits were not correlated with the average wing development of bat flies. Although other factors affect parasitism rates in bats, the study provides a compelling example of both ecological and evolutionary responses of parasites to features of the host's environment.
2559912|Secondary succession in a 19-y old tropical rainforest of French Guiana was investigated through the distribution pattern of primary forest species. The experimental plot of 25 ha was logged to simulate conditions of a paper pulp cut. Enumeration of all plants of height 50 cm in 52 subplots 10 m x 10 m indicated the number of species and individuals in five species categories; short-lived pioneer species, pioneer species that persist in mature forest, primary forest species capable of germinating in shade, primary forest species that indicate a preference for clearings (small gaps) in mature forest and understorey primary forest species. Change in proportion of the most abundant species (1 cm dbh) over the last 15 y indicated a decrease in short-lived pioneer species and an increase in pioneers that can persist in the mature forest. Proportion of species categories per height class indicated that primary forest species were mainly found in the lower height class in this forest which is largely dominated by secondary forest tree species forming a canopy that rarely exceeds 20 m. Individuals of primary forest species were encountered on ARBOCEL as sprouts from large stumps, sprouts from juveniles or as untraumatised saplings or juveniles. The distribution pattern in a 4-ha area of 11 selected primary forest canopy tree species revealed an overall trend in recolonisation of this species category in the secondary forest. Considered individually, the clustered distribution of stems of Eperua grandiflora showed the importance of regeneration through sprouting or remaining individuals. The gradient distribution, oriented from the edge to the centre of the studied plot, and displayed by the stem densities of Virola michelii, suggested a recent progressive dispersal of seeds. A more dynamic recolonisation front was observed for the primary forest understorey species Cassipourea guianensis and was probably linked to both the initial logging conditions and the fact that this species fruits when relatively young.
2559550|A survey of small mammals was made in a tree plantation in Sabah, East Malaysia. Transects within pure plantings of Eucalyptus deglupta, Gmelina arborea, Albizia falcataria, and A. falcataria/Theobroma cacao were compared with a similar transect laid through seven-year-old logged forest near the plantation. A total of 16 small mammal species were trapped, with 11 found in the logged forest area, and 15 in the plantation. Values for the Shannon-Wiener Diversity Index (H') and for biomass were highest in logged forest, which also showed a low (< 45%) Percent Similarity when compared with any of the plantation areas. Highest diversity and biomass values within the plantation were found in Albizia falcataria plantings, while the lowest were found in A. falcataria underplanted with Theobroma cacao. All plantation areas were dominated by Maxomys whiteheadi, whereas A. falcataria plantings had the highest numbers of Tupaia glis and Tupaia tana. The study shows that although tropical plantations of exotic tree species can support a large number of species of scansorial small mammals, overall diversity and species biomass per hectare is much lower than that found in logged forest.
4091919|Studies of mixed-species bird flocks have found that 'nuclear' species, those important to flock coherence, are either intraspecifically gregarious or are 'sentinel' species highly sensitive to predators. Both types of species are present in flocks of a Sri Lankan rain forest: orange-billed babblers (Turdoides rufescens Blyth) are highly gregarious, whereas greater racket-tailed drongos (Dicrurus paradiseus Linnaeus) are less so, but more sensitive and reliable alarm-callers. We hypothesized that flock participants would be attracted to the playback of both species more than to the clearly non-nuclear yellow-fronted barbet (Megalaima flavifrons Cuvier). Further, we hypothesized that insectivores would prefer babbler vocalizations, as babblers could facilitate their foraging in several ways. We found that the response of insectivores was three times greater during babbler or drongo playback, and eight times greater during playback of these two species together, than during barbet playback or silence. Insectivores did not show, however, any difference in their response to babbler as compared to drongo playback; omnivores and frugivores responded relatively equally to all treatments. Our results show that birds with high propensity to flock, such as insectivores, use the vocalizations of nuclear species to locate flocks and that a sentinel species may be as attractive as a highly gregarious species.
4091900|Following the entire process of frugivore seed dispersal, from intake of seeds to seed deposition, is a difficult task. One alternative is to monitor areas of heavy seed rain deposited by animals. We quantified the number of seeds deposited by hornbills and followed the fates of these seedlings for 3 y to evaluate the effectiveness of hornbill seed dispersal at nest trees, on the basis of seedling survival. For 14 mo. fallen fruits and seeds were collected in traps established around four nest trees of each of two hornbill species (Aceros undulatus and Anthracoceros albirostris) and the seedlings were monitored in adjacent quadrats. Seedfall and seedlings of species represented in hornbill diets occurred at significantly higher densities in the traps/quadrats in front of nest cavities than in other traps/quadrats. Fewer seedling species and individuals germinated under nest trees than expected from the composition of the seedfall. Our results suggest that the quality of hornbill seed dispersal might be poor at nest trees due to the highly concentrated seedfall, which results in high seed and seedling mortality. Although seed deposition at nest trees is a useful guide to hornbill diet during the breeding season, it is clearly not of benefit to the plants involved. However, the pattern and consequences of hornbill seed dispersal at nest sites is likely very different from that during the non-breeding season.
27751623|Little is known about how land-use changes affect interspecific interactions such as fruitfrugivore mutualisms. Forest age could affect both fruit sugar concentrations via differences in light availability or disperser abundance, and fruit removal rates via differences in bird and plant community composition. We examined how these two factors are affected by forest age in a Costa Rican rain forest. We compared seven young-secondary forest species, seven old-growth forest species, and Miconia nervosa growing in both forests. We measured sugar concentrations in fruits and manipulated the location of paired fruiting branches, measuring subsequent fruit removal. Sugar concentration means were on average 2.1 percentage points higher in young-secondary forest species than in old-growth forest species, but did not differ among Miconia nervosa fruits from the two forests. Fruit removal rates were higher in young-secondary forest for 86% of young-secondary forest species, 71% of old-growth forest species, and on average for both young-secondary and old-growth forest Miconia nervosa individuals. Higher sugar concentrations in young-secondary forest plants could reflect stronger competition for dispersers, while experimental fruit removal results suggests the opposite patterns of competition; fruits are more likely to be removed by dispersers in young-secondary forest independent of fruit nutrient concentration.
2559512|Earthworm populations in grassland and plantations in the area of Bulolo, Papua New Guinea were compared with populations in nearby undisturbed rain forest. The grasslands had been maintained by burning for many years. The Pinus plantation had been developed on a burned grassland site and the Araucaria plantation on a site which had been cleared of secondary forest. The grasslands and the Pinus plantation supported moderate populations of exotic earthworms including Pontoscolex corethrurus, but no indigenous species. The Araucaria site supported a native species, Amynthas zebrus only, which was also found together with two other native species at very low density in rain forest. Exotic earthworm species widespread throughout the tropics, were present in disturbed soils and formed moderately high density populations in burned grasslands. There was no evidence that they displaced native Megascolecidae in rain forest.
2559832|We evaluated occurrence and abundance of lianas and woody hemiepiphytes on canopy and emergent tree species in primary tropical wet forest at the La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. Two pioneers, Cecropia obtusifolia and C. insignis, lacked both lianas and hemiepiphytes. The seven non-pioneer species differed significantly in their loads of lianas and hemiepiphytes. For all non-pioneer species, two measures of liana and hemiepiphyte loads (the percentage of the crown occupied and the combined basal area of descending hemiepiphyte and liana roots and stems) increased significantly with tree diameter. In all non-pioneer species, most trees 70 cm diameter (50-97%) were colonized. Lianas occupied more trees and had a smaller mean host diameter than did hemiepiphytes; however, basal area of descending roots or stems was equivalent for the two life forms in occupied trees. We used partial correlations controlling for tree diameter to evaluate the relationship between annual tree diameter growth and loads of hemiepiphytes and lianas for six non-pioneer species. Five of the six species showed a significant negative correlation between loads and diameter growth. Existing published data show that the high incidence of lianas and hemiepiphytes at La Selva is paralleled in most other Neotropical wet forests.
4092144|We examined effects of experimental manipulations of vegetation cover on recruitment, mortality and density of seedlings (20-100 cm tall) and saplings
2559517|An attempt was made to evaluate the consequences of applying a strict definition (Brokaw 1982a) to the delimitation of forest gaps in the field. The northernmost Neotropical rain forest, at Los Tuxtlas, Mexico, was searched for young (1-2 years old) single-event gaps that would meet the criteria of the definition. In 60 ha of rain forest, only 12 such gaps containing pioneer species could be found. Thirty-three pioneer species (shrubs and trees) were used as indicator species for gap conditions. Gap size, measured as projected canopy opening (sensu Brokaw 1982a), underestimated from 44 to 515% the size of the area colonized by pioneer species. On average the size of the colonized area was 3.4 times larger than the size of the projected canopy opening. The majority of the pioneer species showed a relative preference for gap borders, an area generally not included in the projected canopy opening. Pioneer plant abundance and density, and species richness and density, did not differ significantly between gap centres and gap borders. Floristical variation was not related to gap size or location in the gap. These findings can be explained if gap environment (to which pioneer plants respond) is seen as the result of many interacting factors, of which size of the canopy opening is only one. It is concluded that the definition for delimiting gaps in the field as proposed by Brokaw (1982a) cannot be regarded a generally applicable definition, and that its value as a comparative standard is doubtful.
23012397|We evaluated effects of corridors between forest fragments surrounded by pastures in tropical Mexico. We used experimental translocations and capturerecapture data to measure the proportion of birds returning and time to return after translocation between connected and unconnected patches (five replicates for each treatment). Depending on each species' degree of forest dependence (forest-restricted and forest-unrestricted species), we assigned birds to two groups to evaluate influence of species characteristics on effects of corridors on movement. Birds translocated between connected patches (n = 75) were seven times more likely to be recaptured in their original capture site when compared with birds translocated between unconnected patches (n = 109). Effects differed among the two species groups. In the presence of corridors, 46% of forest-unrestricted birds returned to the capture site while only 5% returned between unconnected patches. Forest-restricted birds showed similar results, but were only twice as likely to return to a connected capture site. Birds translocated between unconnected patches took longer to return than birds translocated between connected patches. The strong positive effect of corridors on movement, even for forest-unrestricted species, suggests that forested corridors facilitate bird movement and help maintain connectivity even in this highly fragmented landscape.
4091917| The diversity, abundance and frequency of vascular epiphytes on the lower trunk were compared between two host groups of a Mexican cloud forest: angiosperm trees (n = 72) and tree ferns (n = 28). The bark of the five most frequent host trees and the root mantle of the two tree ferns were analysed for their thickness, water content. water retention capacity and pH. A total of 55 epiphyte species and 910 individuals were found on the 27 host species. On hosts with a dbh range of 5-10 cm. epiphytes were significantly more diverse (4.3  0.9 species per host) and more abundant (12.5  2.2 individuals per host) on tree ferns than on angiosperm trees (1.9  0.2 species per host and 3.9  0.6 individuals per host). However, these differences were not significant for the dbh class of 10-20 cm, because epiphyte numbers increased on angiosperm trees with larger host size, but not in tree ferns. Most epiphyte species had no preference for any host group, but four species were significantly more frequent on tree ferns and two species on angiosperm trees. The higher epiphyte diversity and abundance on tree fern trunks of the smallest dbh class is attributed to their presumably greater age and to two stem characteristics, which differed significantly between host groups, the thicker root mantle and higher water retention capacity of tree ferns. These bark characteristics may favour germination and establishment of epiphytes. 
2560015|Vegetative regeneration is an important component of forest recovery after disturbance. This study focused on the role of resprouting, both as root suckers and above-ground sprouts in comparison to seed regeneration (plants 30-130 cm tall), under different disturbance regimes, pattern with successional age and importance in mature forest. Differently aged forest fallows, a fire-degraded stand (Paraguay), differently aged logged stands (Venezuela) and mature forest in both sites were selected. In Paraguay, the percentage of resprouts declined from 76% in the young forest fallows (2-5-y old) to 48 and 14%, respectively, in the older forest fallows (10 and 15-y old) and mature forest. In Venezuela, by contrast, the proportion of resprouts from the youngest logged stand (5-y old) to the oldest logged stand (19-y old) and mature forest slightly increased from 10 to 16% and 17%, respectively. Root suckers were more common than above-ground sprouts in any of the sampled stands. In forest fallows, 38% of all species possessed both modes of regeneration, while 20 and 18%, respectively, were either found with above-ground sprouts or root suckers. In the fire-degraded stand, most resprouting species were observed with root suckers (28%), whereas species represented with either above-ground sprouts or both modes of vegetative regeneration were less common (7 and 14%, respectively). In logged stands, species reproducing by both means of vegetative regeneration were more frequent (20%) than the other groups (14 and 8%, respectively). In the mature stands in Paraguay and Venezuela, 42 and 14% of the species, respectively, were found with either or both modes of vegetative regeneration. In both sites, significant differences in the ability to resprout between growth forms were found. Of 301 resprouting individuals in Paraguay, 114 were found to be uncut stems, of these 108 produced root suckers and six above-ground sprouts.
2559590|Stemonoporus Thw. (Dipterocarpaceae), a genus endemic to Sri Lanka, contains as many as 26 species, all but one confined to the perhumid forests of the island. Several species reach 1800 m, the highest altitude recorded for any dipterocarp species in Sri Lanka. We report the first quantitative data on Stemonoporus-dominated stands in the montane zone (1500-1700 m). Stemonoporus cordifolius and S. rigidus show clear single-species dominance of their respective stands. Stemonoporus gardneri is a co-dominant with Palaquium rubiginosum in its two stands. All Stemonoporus species appear to have a unique geographical and ecological range and no two Stemonoporus species co-exist in our stands.
2559733|Fifteen species of Lepidoptera occurred in large numbers in spring and early summer after the passage of Hurricane Hugo over the north-east of Puerto Rico. Spodoptera eridania (Noctuidae) was the most common of the larvae and fed on 56 plant species belonging to 31 families. All the Lepidoptera fed on early successional vegetation. Some of the plants represent new host plants for these species. The outbreaks appeared to be based on the flush of new foliage that developed in the Luquillo Mountains after the passage of the hurricane. The end of the S. eridania outbreak was concurrent with the consumption of its preferred host plants and to an apparent increment in parasitism by ichneumonids (Hymenoptera). Parasitism by tachinids (Diptera) may have contributed to the reduction in abundance of other Lepidoptera species that were temporarily very abundant. Natural enemies of S. eridania were recorded for the first time in Puerto Rico.
25562588|Transformation of tropical forests is likely to affect seed-dispersal patterns and influence the composition of epiphytic plant communities in human-altered habitats. We tested this hypothesis by carrying out a comparative study of seed influx, survival and growth of transplanted seedlings of epiphytic bromeliads among isolated trees in six pasture areas, six forest edges and six forest sites in a montane area in Costa Rica. In total, 72 traps trapped 1285 seeds over a 2-mo period in the dry season of 2003. For all four investigated bromeliad genera, Catopsis, Guzmania, Tillandsia and Werauhia, the number of trapped seeds in each habitat followed a pattern similar to the number of fruiting individuals in the vicinity of the traps. Traps in forest edges (30) were 1.9 times more likely to collect seeds than traps at forest interiors (30) and pasture trees (12), the latter showing similar probabilities of catching seeds. After 1 y, survival and growth of 3660 transplanted seedlings from three bromeliad species was significantly higher in forest interiors, providing no explanation for the lower abundance of fruiting adults in that habitat. These results suggest that the successful establishment of epiphytic bromeliads in forest interiors is mainly dispersal-limited. If corroborated, differences in abundance among species at each habitat are likely related to differences in growth rates and reproductive success. Further studies on the growth and mortality of seedlings up to the flowering stage, however, are needed.
2559339|In the absence of growth rings it is difficult to give a precise time scale for processes associated with the re-establishment of tropical rain forest. This paper explores other methods by which a time scale may be constructed. The proportions of primary and secondary species, an index of similarity, biomass measurements, girth dimensions and gap size are all considered from sites in East Kalimantan, Indonesia. Data from primary, secondary and experimentally cleared forest sites are compared to estimate the minimum time required for various phases involved in the re-establishment of tropical rain forest after disturbance. A simple model is proposed to accommodate the data and other estimates in the literature. The model predicts a minimum period for the stablization of secondary species numbers as 60-70 years and the replacement of primary species as 150 years at which point gap formation is initiated. After approximately 220-250 years biomass stabilizes while individual trees exist for over 500 years.
4499121|This study provides the first quantitative description of vertical stratification in calling heights of ensiferan species constituting most of the dry-season nocturnal acoustic community of an evergreen forest in Kudremukh National Park in south-west India. Calling heights of an average of 26 individuals of each of the 20 ensiferan species were measured and subjected to an analysis of variance to test for differences in mean calling height between species and a cluster analysis to check for the presence of discontinuous calling height layers. There were significant differences in mean calling heights between species. Calling heights of different gryllid and tettigoniid species ranged from the ground to the canopy. More gryllid than tettigoniid species occupied the ground and herb layer. Our study revealed vertical stratification of calling heights, with discrete layers corresponding to the canopy, understorey and the ground layer. These clusters emerged from the raw data of calling heights of individuals without a priori distinction of layers. We found no significant correlation between the calling heights of species and call features, including mean dominant frequency of narrow band calls, mean syllable rate and mean duty cycle.
4091822|We examined the distribution, germination, growth and photosynthetic characteristics of two co-existing morphotypes of the pioneer tree Trema micrantha at the Barro Colorado Nature Monument (BCNM), Panama. Morphotypes differed significantly in distribution and in seed characteristics. A 'large'-seeded morphotype (endocarp mass = 3.83 mg) was associated with treefall gaps in the forest interior, whereas a 'small'-seeded morphotype (endocarp mass = 1.38 mg) was found predominantly on landslides on the margins of Lake Gatun. Seeds of the small-seeded morphotype germinated faster than seeds of the large-seeded morphotype, with seedlings of the small-seeded morphotype showing both a higher Unit Leaf Rate (ULR) and a lower Specific Leaf Area (SLA). Differences in photosynthetic rates reflected differences in SLA; the small-seeded morphotype had a higher rate on a leaf area basis, while the large-seeded morphotype had a higher rate on a leaf mass basis. Although allocation patterns between morphotypes varied in a way consistent with known interspecific differences between 'sun' and 'shade' plants, relative growth rates (RGR) of the morphotypes were similar across different light conditions suggesting that factors other than light, such as water uptake efficiency, soil nutrient requirements, and perhaps seed dispersal characters may explain the habitat partitioning of morphotypes.
2560285|All mature individuals of Aglaia aff. flavida (Meliaceae) were mapped in a 260 ha study area at the Crater Mountain Biological Research Station in Papua New Guinea Sixty-four reproductively mature trees were found in an aggregated distribution with a mean inter-tree distance of 88 9 m. The sample consisted of 35 female and 29 male trees with a mean shortest distance between sexes of 232 m Seed production and seed removal of 22 female trees was monitored throughout the 1992 fruiting season Female trees within 200 m of male trees generally produced large seeds crops (> 100 seeds) whereas trees farther than 200 m from the nearest male had small seed crops (< 100 seeds) regardless of female size (DBH). Most seeds (63.2%, n = 3312) produced in a sub-sample of 22 trees came from the five most fecund trees, which also produced 74 1% of the seeds that were removed by vertebrate dispersers. Where a minority of a population of rare tropical trees produce the majority of progeny, sustainable harvest practices would be most effective where highly fecund individuals are identified and conserved.
3068696| Seedlings from 43 native woody species belonging to different successional groups from the Tibagi River Basin, Paran State, South Brazil were studied to obtain information on the importance of colonization by native arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. The experiment was carried out in a greenhouse for 15 to 45 wk, with soil-mix treatments and four successional groups. The mycorrhizal dependency was 90, 48, 12 and 14% of the pioneer, early secondary, late secondary and climax species, respectively. The content of P, Ca and K was 20, 17 and 23 times greater, respectively, in the leaves of the pioneer species than in the other successional groups. The colonization by AM fungi in field was studied in seedlings of 36 native woody species collected in the interior of the forest of the Mata dos Godoy State Park, and in open area at the beginning of arboreal succession. The mycorrhizal colonization in the field was 55.5, 26.9, 6.1 and 2.2% for the pioneer, early secondary, late secondary and climax species, respectively. To assess the mycorrhizal inoculum potential, rhizosphere soil was collected in the interior of the forest and a gap in the same forest and in a cleared area abandoned for natural regeneration. The inoculum potentials and the spore number in the area at the beginning of succession were 5.6 and 53.4 times greater than in the interior of the forest. The results show that the initial growth of the woody species which take part in the initial phases of succession may be more dependent on the AM fungi, in soils poor in minerals, while those that make up the final succession phases may be less dependent. The potential of the AM fungi inoculum decreases throughout the successional process and there is a relation between the inoculum potential found in the field and the occurrence for the different habitats of the species of adult plants belonging to different successional groups. 
3068818| Features of microhabitats used by tadpoles of 17 anuran species were recorded in 16 streams in the montane meadows of the Serra do Cip, southeastern Brazil. Month of occurrence of tadpoles, from November 1998 to February 2000 (16 months) was also recorded. The most important ecological features in differentiating tadpole species were position in the water column, time of occurrence and water depth. Tadpole species were then compared based on their microhabitat preferences, and it was tested whether phylogenetically closer species use microhabitats in a more similar way. In hylids, microhabitat use patterns were not influenced by proposed phylogenetic relationships, and many convergences in ecomorphological types may exist. On the other hand, leptodactylids may have undergone a conservative evolutionary history, as they formed a relatively homogeneous group concerning ecomorphological types and microhabitat preferences. 
4499112|We studied the interaction between the bromeliad Werauhia gladioliflora and its flower visitors in the Caribbean lowland forest of Costa Rica, in order to quantify the mutual benefits to both partners. Over 6 y, the bromeliads flowered mainly between October and December; with an individual inflorescence flowering for an average of 34d (n = 233 inflorescences). The bromeliad showed a flexible breeding system with autogamy occurring in addition to cross-pollination. Exclusive pollinators were small nectar-feeding bats (Phyllostomidae: Glossophaginae). The average volume of nectar produced per flower was 1.1 ml (n = 25 flowers). The main visitor was the bat Glossophaga commissarisi, which approached the flowers exclusively using hovering flight. Visitation by bats, measured by infrared light sensors, occurred throughout the night with an activity peak after midnight. Median hovering duration of the bats at the flowers was 320 ms (n = 1246 visits). Hourly mean of hovering duration was negatively correlated with hourly nectar secretion rate. The flower visitation behaviour of a bat over the night seems to be shaped by a combination of intrinsic physiological factors and by nectar availability. Size of both flowers and visitors make Werauhia gladioliflora a very accessible system for quantification of factors affecting evolution of bat-plant interactions.
2559742|In the Cerrado of Itirapina, Brazil, 34% of the shrubs of Didymopanax vinosum (Araliaceae) were colonized by the honeydew-producing homopteran Aconophora teligera (Membracidae) which was found exclusively on this species of plant. Correlations were made between membracid density and ant frequency, as well as between these parameters and plant damage. We found that: (1) ant frequency was higher on branches with membracids and both were more frequently found near apical meristems; (2) herbivore damage was lower on apical meristems where the membracids concentrate than on ones where they are absent; (3) the presence of membracids on the plant was correlated with a reduction in the occurrence of other potential herbivores, especially on the branches housing membracids; (4) plants with more tillers tended to have a larger number of membracids. The data suggest that the presence of A. teligera and associated ants probably reduce herbivory on apical meristems of D. vinosum.
2559483|The Neotropical tree, Pourouma aspera (Cecropiaceae), supports large lobed leaves on an erect stem which seldom branches below a height of 5 m. The prominent leaf scars are visible on trunks of mature trees and the distance between scars is highly correlated with the height growth rate when the leaves were produced. Relationships between height growth rate, internode length and light environment were determined from marked P. aspera saplings in a tropical wet lowland forest and used to infer the past growth histories of larger saplings and trees. Inferred growth rates were quite variable, both within and between individuals. Estimated passage times to grow from 0.7 to 2.2 m tall ranged from 0.6-23 y, with a mean of 4.4 y (N = 61). The study illustrates the importance of examining the distribution of growth rate over the length of the stem in addition to the more usual distribution of numbers of individuals per growth rate class. Species such as Pourouma, which respond strongly to light, complete much of their total juvenile growth during intervals of high light, even though most saplings are growing slowly in shade at any given time.
4499102|The long-term dynamics of epiphyte communities are little studied although such baseline data are urgently needed, in particular in the context of global change. Census data of a vascular epiphyte community from 0.4 ha of undisturbed lowland forest in Panama were used to infer future changes in community composition by deducing population growth from the current size class structure of populations. The study includes 11 387 individuals out of 45 species, ranging in abundance from 16 to 1568 individuals. There was a significant negative correlation between the size of a population and the steepness of the size distribution, indicating that more common species are likely to increase in abundance in the future, while rarer species apparently depend on immigration from other populations to allow local persistence.
2560053|Two mixed-species bird flocks were studied in a high-altitude humid secondary forest in the Andes of Ecuador. Birds were mist-netted and colour-ringed for individual identification. The flocks (A and B) were followed to record structure, dynamics, home range and activity pattern All observations of the two flocks studied included members from all vertical levels, which is different from flocks of Amazonia. In two nucleus species, some individuals alternated between the flocks, a feature not previously reported Various tanagers were loosely associated, joining and leaving flocks. Minimum home-range sizes of flocks A and B were 4.2 ha and 7 8 ha, respectively. Some individuals of two species used an area encompassing the home ranges of both flocks. Mean flock sizes in A and B were 21.7 and 44 7 individuals, whereas the mean numbers of species were 13.7 and 21.7, respectively. Number of species and individuals were high compared to even most lowland flocks Altogether, mixed-species flocks in different habitats and at various latitudinal and altitudinal sites appear to have some features in common, but others are highly distinct. Compared to the great stability of Amazonian flocks, some high-altitude flocks of secondary forest in the Andes appear to be more dynamic and unstable.
2559722|The present study reports on the exploitation of the nectar of Mabea fistulifera (Euphorbiaceae) by two platyrrhine primate species (Brachyteles arachnoides and Callithrix flaviceps) in the Atlantic Forest of south-east Brazil. Nectar-feeding by both primates was observed between late April and May, during which a peak in the floristic activity of M. fistulifera was recorded, in terms of both the number of trees flowering and the number of flowers available on each tree. Phenological records indicate, by contrast, that edible fruit was relatively scarce during this period, the early dry season at the study site. On the days when nectar was consumed, it accounted for 25% of records of plant feeding for B. arachnoides and 29% for C. flaviceps, although the former species was observed nectar feeding over a much longer period. The evidence indicates that M. fistulifera is a valuable, but not essential resource for both primates at a time of year when edible fruit is relatively difficult to obtain. M. fistulifera, in turn, can be seen as an opportunistic plant whose floral characteristics permit pollination by a wide range of volant and non-volant vertebrates, including primates.
2559432|Both vertebrate- and wind-dispersed seeds moved farther from rain forest into old field than from old field into forest. Vertebrate-dispersed seeds from the rain forest moved farther into the field than wind-dispersed seeds, but seeds of both types moved similar distances from field into forest. Habitat structure affected seed deposition patterns in the field, where shrubs provided perches for flying vertebrates. Vertebrate-dispersed seed deposition was significantly greater, and deposition of plumed, wind-dispersed seeds was significantly less, under shrubs than in the open. Deposition of vertebrate-dispersed seeds under fruiting shrubs was significantly less than under non-fruiting shrubs.
40925452|Disentangling local and historical factors that determine species diversity patterns at multiple spatial scales is fundamental to elucidating processes that govern ecological communities. Here we investigated how environmental correlates may influence diversity at local and regional scales. Primarily utilizing published species lists, amphibian and reptile alpha and beta diversity were assessed at 17 well-surveyed sites distributed among ecoregions throughout Costa Rica. The degree to which regional species diversity patterns were related to environmental variables and geographic distance was determined using Canonical Correspondence Analysis and Mantel tests. Amphibian alpha diversity was highest in lowland Pacific sites (mean = 43.3 species) and lowest at the high elevation site (9 species). Reptile alpha diversity values were high for both lowland Atlantic (mean = 69.5 species) and lowland Pacific (mean = 67 species) sites and lowest for the high elevation site (8 species). We found high species turnover between local sites and ecoregions, demonstrating the importance of beta diversity in the determination of regional diversity. For both amphibians and reptiles, beta diversity was highest between the high-elevation site and all others, and lowest among lowland sites within the same ecoregion. The effect of geographic distance on beta diversity was minor. Ecologically significant climatic variables related to rain, temperature, sunshine and insolation were found to be important determinants of local and regional diversity for both amphibians and reptiles in Costa Rica.
2559336|In the semi-deciduous forests of Santa Rosa National Park in the Pacific coastal lowlands of northwestern Costa Rica, the large and fast-growing tree Spondias mombin (Anacardiaceae) experiences greater than 95% post-dispersal seed predation by a bruchid beetle (Amblycerus spondiae) on its nuts that have been dispersed to any part of pristine or secondary successional forest. Nuts dispersed (by white-tailed deer) to abandoned pastures immediately adjacent to the forest suffer less than 20% post-dispersal seed predation but seedlings are killed by frequent grass fires. S. mombin displays significant recruitment of saplings and young trees only on forest edges free of fire for long intervals. The very high percent seed predation in the forest and the failure of many nuts to ever be dispersed away from the parent tree is attributed directly and indirectly to the absence of a herbivorous (frugivorous) megafauna that would have been part of the habitat of S. mombin through most of its evolutionary history. These large animals would have consumed large numbers of S. mombin fruits and thereby dispersed the nuts in such a manner as to have both led to more escape from bruchids and an overall reduction in the bruchid population density. By their defecation patterns, these mammals would also have defecated more nuts in sites of high quality for S. mombin sapling survival than is the case at present. In contemporary habitats, S. mombin is culturally deprived in that it can no longer interact with the habitats, animals and densities of animals whose selective pressures were a major force in the evolution of the tree's traits.
2559837|Field observations and laboratory experiments on unweathered and weathered dune sand beneath a tropical deciduous forest in Veracruz, Mexico were used to test the hypothesis that temporary nutrient adsorption by more weathered soil facilitates more effective nutrient recycling through the stimulation of a superficial fine root system. An analysis of soil solution composition in the field indicated that K, P and NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub>-N were being more effectively retained in weathered sand topsoil than in recent sand but, in a leaching experiment, only NO<sup>-</sup><sub>3</sub>-N was more effectively adsorbed by this soil. Fine roots in weathered sand were more concentrated superficially than in recent sand, and a bioassay with seedlings of Cedrela odorata showed more fine root proliferation in this medium than in recent sand. In combination, these data suggest that weathering of sand in this area promotes an increased nitrate adsorption capacity which may stimulate greater root proliferation in topsoils and lead to the entrainment of other nutrients in a more concentrated topsoil-vegetation cycle. If these results can be applied to the larger domain of tropical soils generally, they suggest that nitrate adsorption may play an important role in stimulating effective nutrient recycling by forests occupying weathered soils.
2559668|Atmospheric gains and hydrologic losses of calcium, magnesium, potassium, phosphorus and nitrogen for 25 tropical forest sites on a variety of geological substrates are reviewed. The data set comprised 19 lowland and six montane sites. Twenty studies were subjected to further analysis after initial quality control. These were subdivided into forests on (1) very infertile soils (N = 5), (2) (moderately) infertile soils (N = 5), (3) moderately fertile soils (N = 4) and (4) fertile soils (N = 4). Two studies pertaining to large river basins were treated separately. Although variation in nutrient fluxes was large, reflecting both natural and methodological factors, scatter plots of annual calcium, magnesium and potassium losses v. annual runoff for small catchment areas revealed four groups with characteristic nutrient export patterns that corresponded closely with soil fertility levels. Element losses from the two large basins were much higher than those recorded for small basins in the same areas and were interpreted in terms of depths of weathering front, river incision and root network. Phosphorus accumulated in virtually all cases, reflecting the low mobility of the element. Nitrogen budgets were generally very incomplete. There is a need for more and careful studies of tropical forest nutrient budgets, especially for nitrogen. Standardization of methodology is essential if comparability of results is to be improved.
2559566|The fruits of Cola lizae, an endemic tree with a limited geographical distribution, have been a major food source for lowland gorillas in the Lope Reserve during part of each year over a six-year period. Faecal analysis indicated that 11,000-18,000 Cola seeds km<sup>-2</sup> were deposited by gorillas during the 4-month season in 1989. Gorillas are the only important dispersers of this species: other primates consume the succulent mesocarp, but do not swallow the large seed; elephants do not eat Cola fruits. Observations of Cola seeds in gorilla faeces showed a very high germination rate and, despite initial high mortality, 18% of seedlings still survived six months after deposition. Survival of seedlings was significantly better in faeces left at nest-sites than in other areas of the forest: 40% of seedlings were viable at nest-sites six months after deposition. This suggests that the open areas of forest, preferred by gorillas as nest-sites, are advantageous to the propagation of this species.
3068717|In 1998 a survey was made of the termites of the Leuser Ecosystem (in Sumatra, Indonesia), which includes a substantial area (c. 1 million ha) of unbroken primary rain forest. Nine sites and an altitudinal gradient were sampled. Altitude had a significant effect on species richness, which declines with even a 100-m increase in altitude. Species composition too was significantly affected by altitude. Functionally, only termites in one feeding group (II, which forage outside of their nests) were significantly affected by altitude. A mid-altitude termite species assemblage was evident. Longitude also significantly affected species composition; Macrotermitinae were numerous on the western side of the Ecosystem and Termitinae and Nasutitermitinae more numerous to the east of it. This was probably due to differences in rainfall patterns across the Ecosystem.
4091869|Little is known about the change of species-rich tropical insect communities along habitat gradients. Diversity and species richness of geometrid moths were investigated at 15 anthropogenically disturbed sites in a montane area in the Andes of southern Ecuador representing a successional gradient. These plots were compared with six closed-forest understorey sites. We collected a total of 23,720 individuals representing 868 morphospecies. Local diversity increased with forest recovery and decreased with increasing distance to the natural forest. 18.6% of all species were found as unique singletons. The mean proportions of local singletons differed significantly between three succession classes. Forest understorey showed a higher proportion of singletons than early and late successional stages. Ordination of the moth samples showed a clear separation of geometrid ensembles at successional sites vs. the forest understorey sites. Patterns of species turnover were influenced by the degree of habitat openness, and to a lesser extent by elevation. However, faunal differences were not related to geographical distances between the sampling sites. In conclusion, geometrid moth ensembles of regenerating Andean montane forest remain diverse, but change significantly in composition relative to adjacent natural forest, whereas the diversity and composition of the geometrid fauna are far more strongly affected in non-forested habitats and abandoned pastures.
2559589|To assess the influence of microhabitat and season on predator growth and survival and prey community structure, first instars of native Toxorhynchites haemorrhoidalis, a predatory mosquito, were released into Heliconia bracts, bamboo internodes, and the axils of two species of Aechmea bromeliads during wet and dry seasons in a lowland rain forest in eastern Venezuela. Experimental and control microhabitats were compared by complete censusing of macroscopic invertebrates 10 and 20 days after releases. Survival of T. haemorrhoidalis differed significantly among habitats and was reduced by desiccation in dry-season bamboos and in Aechmea nudicaulis and by the presence of a predatory damselfly (Odonata: Zygoptera) in bromeliads. Developmental rate differed among habitats in the wet but not in the dry season; rapid wet-season maturation was associated with increased prey abundance in Heliconia. Larvae of T. haemorrhoidalis consumed particular taxa and size categories of dipterous prey. Predation significantly reduced the abundance and skewed size-class distributions of Culicidae, Ceratopogonidae, Psychodidae, and pooled samples of Thaumaleidae plus Chironomidae. In bamboos, instar distributions of other mosquitoes were skewed in the presence of T. haemorrhoidalis even though a significant reduction in mosquito abundance was not detected. A decrease in species richness of aquatic Diptera was associated with intense predation by Toxorhynchites in Heliconia and A. nudicaulis. Toxorhynchites theobaldi was recognized as the naturally occurring predator in local bamboos, and released larvae caused significant reductions in abundance or size-class frequency shifts among three families of Diptera. Niche segregation between these sympatric Toxorhynchites is maintained by oviposition preferences: the larger species, T. theobaldi, oviposits in bamboos and the smaller T. haemorrhoidalis occurs in plant bracts and axils.
25172907|Habitat degradation affects mixed-species bird flocks (flock hereafter) through two mechanisms - changes in the bird community from which flocks are drawn and changes in the propensities of species to flock. We determined the relative influence of these two mechanisms by examining variation in flocks across nine rain-forest fragments (range 11-2600 ha) in a plantation landscape in the Western Ghats, India. We found differences between fragments in average number of species (range 10.8-15.2) and individuals (range 19.0-37.6) per flock, number of species that participated in flocks (range 34-59), encounter rates (range 0.5-2.4 flocks h) and flock composition. Multiple regression and randomization tests revealed that different mechanisms contributed to this variation. Three flock variables (open-forest individuals per flock, total open-forest species that participated in flocks in a fragment, flock composition) mainly reflected changes in the bird communities of fragments. Habitat structure strongly influenced three flock variables (open-forest species per flock, total and rain-forest individuals per flock) and flock composition to a lesser extent. Finally, flock encounter rate was strongly related to fragment area, but not to abundance of flock participants indicating habitat degradation-induced changes in propensities of species to flock.
3068718| In a 30-ha permanent plot of tropical evergreen forest at Varagalaiar, Indian Western Ghats, all trees  30 cm girth at breast height (gbh) were examined for the presence of lianas  1 cm dbh. The plot contained 13 445 trees in 152 species and 11 200 lianas in 75 species. Twenty-eight per cent of trees supported lianas and the mean number of lianas per tree was 0.38  0.72. Association analysis between lianas and trees of 16 tree families and 20 abundant tree species indicated that tree susceptibility to lianas was better pronounced at species rather than at family level. Overall, at Varagalaiar site, the aggregation of lianas followed neither Poisson nor clumped distribution. Among the four dominant tree families Diptero-carpaceae and Clusiaceae fit to the negative binomial model better than Euphorbiaceae and Meliaceae. These four families differed in their susceptibility level with 34.6%, 36.7%, 24.1% and 27.7% of trees  30 cm gbh respectively supporting lianas. At the species level, the proportion of trees with lianas was positively correlated with the mean branch free bole height of trees  30-40 and  40 cm gbh classes, and the mean number of lianas per tree was also positively correlated with the mean branch bole height of trees  30 cm gbh. Of the 16 abundant families, Euphorbiaceae contributed 31% and dominated the lower canopy, but its susceptibility to lianas was lower when compared to most other families. 
2560226|The most diverse known communities of insectivorous bats in the Palaeotropics and Neotropics are similar in alpha diversity (number of species). However, they show distinct differences with respect to wing morphology and the echolocation behaviour of their component species. In the Palaeotropics, most bat families are clearly separated in wing morphospace. The morphological niche of Rhinolophidae is vacant in the Neotropics, but primitive echolocators using sound primarily for scanning the environment rather than for prey capture are much more frequent there than in the Palaeotropics. In our opinion, a large portion of this difference can be traced to the different evolutionary histories of the respective communities. Bat families of different geographical origin are involved and their foraging styles obviously evolved differently in the Old and New World.
2560275|An exhaustive floristic inventory was conducted in a 400-ha block of tropical semideciduous forest in the Chiquitania region of Santa Cruz, Bolivia. A total of 501 species were collected using both quantitative and traditional plant collecting methods. Trees represented the most diverse life form (124 spp), followed by herbs (101 spp), lianas (85), shrubs (66), herbaceous climbers epiphytes (15) and parasites (two). Floristic diversity was greatest for the forest floor community, when compared to either the understorey or canopy tree communities. Quantitative data were obtained for 336 species in 100 plots which contained a series of nested subplots to sample smaller-stature plants. Stem density for trees (dbh  5 cm) was 914 trees ha<sup>-1</sup>, with a total density for all life forms estimated to be 135,000 plants ha<sup>-1</sup>; the total basal area for the forest was estimated to be 27.6 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup>. Species richness when measured by standard methods was found to be one of the highest for a dry forest region reported for the Neotropics with a mean of 70.8 spp 0.1 ha<sup>-1</sup> (dbh  2.5 cm) and 50 spp ha<sup>-1</sup> (dbh  10 cm). Comparison of life forms and vertical strata showed that the flora on the forest floor was more diverse than all other vertical strata combined. Habitat heterogeneity was studied using ordination procedures based on floristic data and to identify the characteristic species of three plant communities: granite outcrops, valley forest and upland forest. The most abundant tree species in the study area were Acosmium cardenasii, Neea hermaphrodita, Aspidosperma tomentosa and Galipea trifoliata, while the species with the greatest basal area were Anadenanthera colubrina, Acosmium cardenasii, Caesalpinia floribunda, Aspidosperma tomentosa, Piptadenia viridiflora, Chorisia speciosa, Tabebuia impetiginosa, Centrolobium microchaete, and Machaerium scleroxylon. Most canopy and understorey tree species had a population structure characterized by numerous juveniles and relatively few large trees, while emergent species tended to have a size-class distribution with relatively few juvenile individuals. Lianas and canopy trees were predominantly anemochorous, while understorey trees and shrubs were predominantly zoochorous; herbaceous species were largely autochorous, with only fern species relying on wind dispersal (sporochory). A comparison of structural attributes with other dry forest areas in the Neotropics, demonstrates the heterogeneous nature of vegetation types that are commonly assigned to this ecosystem. The Chiquitano dry forest shares many floristic elements with the semideciduous forests of the Andean piedmont of northwestern Argentina, the Misiones region of eastern Paraguay and northeastern Argentina, as well as the Caatinga region of northeastern Brazil.
4092043|Seed dispersal by frugivores is thought to play an important role in the maintenance of tropical forest diversity. Spider monkeys (Ateles spp.) are amongst the most frugivorous primates known, and they incorporate a diverse array of fruit species in their diets. In a 1-y study in lowland Ecuador, 670 h of focal observations and data on 916 faecal depositions were collected, and these data are used to describe the seed dispersal patterns of one group of wild spider monkeys {Ateles belzebuth) in terms of both the quantity of seeds dispersed and the primary seed shadows generated. Spider monkeys fed on the fruits of at least 152 plant species and swallowed seeds from more than 98% of these. Collected faecal samples contained seeds from at least 133 different plant species, with an average of 1.9 species (range: 0-7) per defecation. Individual spider monkeys dispersed a minimum of ~195 000 seeds > 1 mm in diameter per year, ~35 000 of which were > 3 mm in diameter. Mean retention time for seeds was 4.5 h. Seed dispersal distances averaged 443 m, but some seeds were moved > 1250 m away from parental sources. These results suggest that declines in populations of spider monkeys might have a direct effect on forest dynamics, especially if other disperser species cannot compensate for their lost ecological services.
27751668|This study examined patterns in the species richness and abundance of small non-volant mammals along a tropical altitudinal gradient in north-eastern Australia. We investigated whether a mid-altitudinal peak in diversity was apparent, and if it occurred, whether it was determined by particular environmental conditions. We sampled a small-mammal assemblage at 17 sites distributed along an altitude-environmental gradient from savanna (350 m) to rain-forest vegetation (1000 m). Over four separate occasions (5100 trap-nights) we recorded 17 species of mammal with 416 captures. A positive non-linear relationship between altitude and mammal species richness and abundance was observed, peaking at the 800900 m range. Many species were distributed across a range of altitudes, while others were strongly associated with particular habitat conditions. There was a distinct reduction in abundance and species richness at low altitudes associated with the less complex vegetation, lower productivity and possible anthropogenic effects. Key findings were: that small-mammal richness peaked towards the summit of the gradient and not at one-half the maximum altitude predicted by the mid-domain effect; contrasting conditions and greatest vegetation juxtaposition had the greatest influence on the patterns recorded; and that local idiosyncratic influences such as habitat factors, land management and historical biogeography are significant.
4092029|Natural seed deposition patterns and their effects on post-dispersal seed fate are critical in tropical tree recruitment. Previous research showed that the key dispersal agent of the neotropical tree, Virola calophylla, is the spider monkey (Ateles paniscus). Spider monkeys generate a heterogeneous seed deposition pattern because they scatter-disperse seeds diurnally, whereas they clump-disperse seeds at their sleeping sites. The recruitment consequences of this pattern were investigated using manipulative experiments and observations. Scatter-hoarding by spiny rats (Proechimys spp.) caused little rearrangement of the initial seed deposition pattern because they moved seeds only short distances. Seed survival to the seedling stage depended negatively on conspecific seed density and positively on the distance from the nearest adult V. calophylla female. These effects were likely mediated by two important seed predators, spiny rats and beetles (Scolytidae). Furthermore, spider monkeys' seed deposition patterns influenced seed survival. Scatter-dispersed and experimentally dispersed seeds had the highest survival. Conversely, clump-dispersed seeds at sleeping sites, which are far from V. calophylla females, and non-dispersed seeds had equally low survival, suggesting that conspecific density- and distance-dependence acted independently and did not explain all variation in seed survival. Instead, other characteristics of the seed deposition pattern, such as the multi-specific assemblage of seeds at sleeping sites, also affected post-dispersal seed fates.
2560206|The emphasis of antagonistic fungus-consumer interactions to date has been on temperate taxa and predominantly zoocentric, neglecting the effects on the fungal component. These interactions are expected to be especially complex and diverse in the tropics, where both components display their greatest diversity. Variability in fungivory (apparent biomass consumed) of understorey basidiomycetes in a tropical cloud forest was investigated to test whether this could be explained (at the proximate level) by apparency-related characteristics of the aboveground structures (colour of pileus, stipe and hymenium; size and aggregation), as has been suggested for plant-herbivore relationships. Considerable interspecific variation in fungivory was detected (range 0-50%). Cluster analysis showed that neighbouring clusters had dissimilar levels of fungivory. Such clusters were similar in colour attributes of aboveground structures, but differed in aggregation size and apparent biomass. A quantitative analysis also showed that colour attributes were not strongly associated with the observed variation of consumption levels, whereas apparent biomass and aggregation size did correlate with the observed variation in fungivory. Furthermore, specific identity correlated with fungivory. It was concluded that coloration patterns may not be important for fungivory, whereas genet size and species identity (probably via characteristics unrelated to apparency, such as mycotoxins and nutritional value) seemed to be critical factors.
2559782|Miombo woodland in Zambia is divided into wetter and drier types by the 1100 mm mean rainfall isohyet. In the present study two wetter (Northern, Northwestern) and three drier (Central, Eastern, Western) miombo subtypes were recognized. A survey of the woody flora of 94 old-growth and 58 coppice stands in the five miombo subtypes revealed some significant differences in species diversity among them. The floristic differentiantion of miombo subtypes was best achieved by the use of the Shannon species diversity index (H') and species density (number of species 0.1 ha<sup>-1</sup> or 0.4 ha<sup>-1</sup>). H' in miombo decreased from 2.247 in Northwestern to 2.136 in Northern, 2.052 in Eastern, 1.918 in Central and 1.824 in Western subtypes. Although species density was not significantly different between wetter miombo subtypes, this decreased in a similar fashion from 18.78 0.1 ha<sup>-1</sup> in Northwestern to 18.30 in Northern, 16.65 in Eastern, 14.79 in Central and 12.29 in Western subtypes. The low species diversity in Western drier miombo was attributed to the combined effects of low soil fertility and rainfall. Although the mean number of species per 0.1 ha plot was higher in coppice samples, species richness (d) and index of diversity (H') were lower than in old-growth samples. These results indicate lower species diversity in regenerating miombo. The dynamic aspects of species structure should therefore be considered in the future conservation of biological diversity in miombo woodland.
2560051|Patterns of energy allocation in the cane toad, Bufo marinus, were explored by analysing the seasonal variations in fat bodies and gonads in two populations subjected to different rainfall regimes and water permanency. In both populations, fat deposition occurred shortly after the rainy season due to an increase in feeding activity. In contrast, the timing of reproduction varied between sites according to the availability of suitable water bodies. Nevertheless, females with mature oocytes were predominant during the dry season, even in populations that bred throughout the year in permanent ponds. This suggests that seasonal variations in the nutritional condition of adults may also result in a tendency towards cyclicity in the reproduction of B. marinus in tropical regions Analyses of allometric relationships of reproductive and storage tissues with body weights indicated that the fractions of weights in reproductive tissues did not vary either with the size of females or between populations On the contrary, not only did larger toads have proportionally larger fat bodies, but those from wet sites had greater fractions of weight allocated to fat bodies than those from dry sites. This suggests that reproductive output may be fixed in this species and, therefore, excess energy is allocated to fat bodies Given that the initiation of ovarian cycles depends on the restoration of proper nutritional levels, energy stored in fat bodies during breeding may allow females to resume a new ovarian cycle shortly after spawning and thus maximize the number of reproductive events
4499072|This study investigates whether increases in elephant populations may influence the structure of African savannas, and consequently may affect other herbivores through changes in habitats. Two contrasting periods in terms of elephant population densities were compared in Hwange National Park, Zimbabwe: the early 1980s and the late 1990s. Elephant population density and other ungulate population densities were estimated for a c.
3068751| Four structural types of cerrado vegetation were examined to test the following hypotheses: (1) there are predictable changes in woody plant density, species richness and life-history strategies from one structural type to another; and (2) plant species composition in the less-rich structural types represent particular and impoverished subsets of those found in the richer ones. The study was conducted at Fazenda Palmares (533S, 4237W) Piau State, Brazil. A 47% decrease in woody plant density between cerrado (forest) and the least-dense type of cerrado sensu stricto (scrub) was associated with a 40% decrease in species richness. The percentage of lower-layer species was reduced by 29% in the least dense type of cerrado sensu stricto compared to cerrado. The proportion of species that flower and fruit during the rainy season was also reduced by one third. Species were not distributed as impoverished subsets along the cerrado-cerrado sensu stricto gradient. It is argued that the reduction in woody plant density and richness is partly due to factors limiting the occurrence of species with particular life-history strategies. The species composition of structural types is affected by the 'mass effect' and also by surrounding biotas, which provide species that colonize particular types of cerrado vegetation. Both these processes reduce the likelihood that the species composition in the poorer structural types are simple subsets of those present in the richer types. 
3068770|Wood pieces of a heavy hardwood Neobalanocarpus heimii (King) P. S. Ashton and a light hardwood Shorea macroptera Dyer were used in decomposition experiments with termite-exclusion and control trays on the forest floor of the Pasoh Forest Reserve, West Malaysia to determine effects of wood quality on termite-mediated wood decay. Shorea macroptera had a significant loss of C in the presence of termites while Neobalanocarpus heimii showed no significant termite effect. Neobalanocarpus heimii and S. macroptera both accumulated N in the absence of termites, but S. macroptera lost it when termites were present. The C/N ratio decreased with and without termites as decay proceeded in both species. Neobalanocarpus heimii accumulated P, but S. macroptera lost it with and without termites. The C/P ratio decreased in N. heimii, but did not change in S. macroptera. Decomposition was considerably enhanced by termites in S. macroptera, but not in N. heimii, indicating that termite foraging activity was affected by the different wood qualities of the two trees. The qualities responsible for the differences and how different wood qualities affect nutrient cycling in the tropical rain forest ecosystem are discussed.
4499096|A variety of processes have been identified as playing a key role in maintenance of hyper-rich tropical forest, among which ecological sorting caused by niche partitioning challenges stochastic dispersal processes. However, demographic responses to spatio-temporal resource variation that could result in biased species distributions are still little studied. In this paper we investigate from two censuses, c. 15 y apart, of a 12-ha permanent forest sample in French Guiana, how tree recruitment and mortality rates vary among hydrological soil types known to affect species habitat preferences and among ecological guilds related to species light requirement. The results indicate that both recruitment and mortality vary significantly with respect to these factors. While the mean instantaneous mortality and recruitment rates are estimated to 0.98 and 0.81%, respectively, pioneer species, canopy trees and hydromorphic bottomland soils depart significantly from these values. In particular, the pioneers, regenerating either from the soil seed bank or from post-opening seed rain, show faster dynamics than other species. These two guilds harbour probabilities of mortality elevated by a factor of 1.9 and 3.2, respectively, and probabilities of recruitment elevated by a factor of 4.9 and 3.1, respectively. Conversely, canopy trees show slower dynamics, with probabilities of mortality and recruitment lowered by a mean factor of about 0.5 with respect to other species. We also observe that trees growing in hydromorphic bottomlands prove to have significantly higher mortality and recruitment probabilities, by a factor of about 2 with respect to those growing in terra firme.
25172913|We examined the seasonal and inter-annual variation of leaf-level photosynthetic characteristics of three C perennial species, Cyperus articulatus, Panicum repens and Imperata cylindrica, and their response to environmental variables, to determine comparative physiological responses of plants representing particular microhabitats within a seasonal tropical floodplain in the Okavango River Delta, Botswana. Five measurement campaigns were carried out over a period of 2 y which covered two early rainy seasons, two late rainy seasons and one dry season. For all three species, light-saturated net photosynthetic rates
2559494|Intuitively, termites would seem to be a very suitable group to illustrate effects of ecosystem fragmentation. Being detritivores, they do not control directly the rate at which their resources are available, nor do they restrict the ability of the resources to regenerate. Consequently, termites do not mask the ecosystem depletion caused by fragmentation. With this in mind, we compared the communities of termites in undisturbed Amazonian forest with those of two isolated fragments nearby, aiming to show that the differences observed may have resulted from habitat fragmentation. Dissimilarities between communities in the undisturbed forest suggest natural patchiness in their distribution, which could lead to misinterpretation of the effects of fragmentation. Continuous forest had higher species richness and fewer rare species than the fragments. Guild structure in the forest was biased towards soil-feeding termites, which are subterranean and soft bodied, and therefore more sensitive to variation in microclimate. In the fragments, litter-feeders and species intermediate between soil-feeding and wood-feeding types were numerically more important. Habitats in the forest were more equally used than in the fragments, suggesting habitat unsuitability increased with fragmentation. It is suggested that the community composition of the fragments is a result of the intrinsic patchiness of the original forest and deterministic and stochastic extinctions caused by fragmentation. The need for manipulative experiments to test such ideas is discussed.
2560249|Experiments were performed to investigate monthly variations in seed fate of Carapa procera (Meliaceae), a rodent-dispersed subcanopy tree species in French Guiana. A total of 600 thread-marked seeds were placed on the ground in mature forest under 20 adult trees during different months (March, April and May 1991) of the species' fruiting season In 1991 the seed crop reached 1536 seeds in the study area, with a majority of seeds being produced in March and May On average, seed removal rate steadily increased from March (23%) to May (96%). Of the seeds removed, the proportion cached almost doubled between March (28%)-April (25%) and May (48%), whereas the proportion eaten (gnawed) steadily declined between March (43%) and May (9%) Approximately 75-100% seed removal was therefore associated with intense scatterhoarding and low seed predation, especially in May Greater seed dispersal rates occurred during the late wet season when fruit diversity decreased but when overall fruit biomass peaked because of fruiting occurrence of large-seeded species The seasonal hoarding behaviour of rodents is discussed
2559213|The dispersal of seeds by howler monkeys (Alouatta palliata) and the activity of dung beetles in modulating the fate of the dispersed seed were studied at Los Tuxtlas, Mexico. Howlers consumed the fruits of 35 species of plants. The seeds of 28 of these were dispersed by the monkeys. The majority ( 90%) of the seeds dispersed by monkeys were destroyed by rodents. Rapid relocation and burial of dung by dung beetles resulted in accidental relocation and burial of large numbers of seeds shortly after deposition. Faecal clumps (20 mg) remained on the ground for an average of only 2.5 h (range 1-3 h). Ball rolling beetles transported balls up to 5.0 m from the site of deposition (range 1-5 m). Burrowing and ball-rolling dung beetles buried seeds at depths ranging from 2.5 to > 12.0 cm. The deeper a seed is buried, the less likely it is to be found and eaten by rodents. Eighty percent of the species used by Alouatta as sources of fruit at Los Tuxtlas benefited by the dispersal and post dispersal service provided by howlers and dung beetles respectively. Seasonality in dung beetles abundance in the forest may influence the number of seeds per species escaping post-dispersal predation during the year. Dung beetles play not only an important ecological role in the recycling of matter and energy in the ecosystem, but also in the process of rain forest regeneration.
2559829|Termites, particularly the mound building, fungus growing Macrotermitinae, reach densities of up to 400 termites m<sup>-2</sup> in soils of dry tropical Africa. The influence of Macrotermitinae in increasing certain soil nutrients in mounds compared to adjacent soils has been documented, but the links between litter harvesting by termites, soil fertility, and global C cycling have not been explored. This study reviews the evidence from soil science, ecology and atmospheric chemistry and generates hypotheses to explain the role of termites in dry tropical ecosystems. It is suggested that termite activity exhaustively partitions litterfall among adjacent competing colonies, where it is so thoroughly decomposed that little or no organic C is incorporated into the soils. Associated N, P, and cations build up in the mounds, but C apparently is emitted as CO<sub>2</sub> and CH<sub>4</sub> from the mounds. While not adequate to calculate nutrient fluxes through termites, the data available support the argument that termites contribute significantly to atmospheric fluxes of CO<sub>2</sub> and CH<sub>4</sub>. Moreover, they suggest a coupling of regional soil forming processes and the global C budget.
27751626|Seed dispersal into fragmented tropical landscapes limits the rate and character of ecological succession between forest remnants. In a novel experiment in recovery of dispersal between forest remnants, 120 1-m2 seed traps were placed in fenced plots in active pasture 90250 m from forest, and in nearby primary and secondary forests. Total seed rain from December 2006 to January 2008 included 69 135 seeds of 57 woody species. High richness of seed rain of early-successional trees occurred in all habitats, but seed rain of late-successional woody plants was much lower into pastures and secondary forest than into old-growth forest. Non-metric ordination analysis further demonstrated high movement of late-successional species within and between forest and secondary forest, but little movement of species of either forest type to pastures. Most species were dispersed by animals, but most seeds were dispersed by wind. A pattern of seed rain biased strongly towards wind-dispersed species creates a template for regeneration quite unlike that in nearby forest.
4091849|The reproductive biology of the dioecious understorey palm Chamaedorea radicalis was investigated in order to identify the primary pollen vector and quantify the relationship between female fecundity and local neighbourhood sexual composition. The study was conducted in a montane mesophyll forest within the El Cielo Biosphere Reserve. Tamaulipas, Mexico. The species is considered vulnerable in Mexico and there are concerns about the sustainability of leaf harvest. We determined that wind is the primary pollen vector, based both on floral and pollen morphological characters, and on a pollinator exclosure experiment. Successful wind pollination of this understorey palm was facilitated by the extended flowering period of males, which allows one male to be a source of pollen to receptive females for as long as a month. The number of flowers and fruits borne on a female were dependent on female size, however, no size parameter correlated well with fruit set. Fruit set was also not dependent on local sexual composition, male density or distance to the nearest male, suggesting that in this study area female reproductive success is not limited by the availability of pollen.
2560203|Changes in density, structure and species composition of the woody component of the two predominant savanna types in Tarangire National Park, northern Tanzania, during a period of 25 y were investigated. The park is known for its large, increasing elephant numbers and high frequency of fires. In 1996 a study on woody species density, composition and age structure, which was first performed in 1971, was repeated, using the same transects and method. Access to the original data of 1971 allowed for a full comparison of the changes and an investigation whether these could be related to changes in elephant numbers and fire frequency. The total tree density declined during the 25 y, but the decline was not evenly distributed over the different height classes. Although the density of trees taller than 5 m declined significantly, the greatest decline occurred in the density of trees shorter than 1 m. The density of trees in the intermediate height class of 1-5 m did not decline. Although damage to trees by elephants increased during the 25-y period, c. 25% showed no browse damage and, except for some severely damaged trees, elephant damage was not found to reduce tree vigour. Elephants affected the size distribution of the savanna woody component much more than the density, while the data suggest no significant effect of fire on changes in tree density. The large decline in density of small trees was attributed to a severe drought in 1993. Based on large numbers of elephants during the past decades and on relatively low elephant impact on the total tree density, the present study suggests that the current elephant number of 2300 can be sustained in the park without causing detrimental effects, provided that their current range is maintained.
4499143|Most trees in the eucalypt savannas of Australia have hollow cores, or pipes, caused by termite activity, yet little is known about their effect on tree growth or survival. Five hundred and forty-one trees with known growth and survival histories were cored to determine pipe diameters in wooded savanna of Kakadu National Park, north Australia. Generalized linear modelling and multi-model inference was used to analyse frequency and degree of piping relative to initial tree diameter at breast height (dbh), eco-taxonomic group or species of eucalypt. Growth (dbh increment) and survival (4 y) were analysed relative to initial tree size, pipe ratio (pipe diameter:dbh) and eco-taxonomic group. The frequency of piping was strongly dependent on dbh, increasing with size of tree, and was highest in eucalypts. Growth and survival of eucalypts increased with tree diameter and decreased with pipe ratio. For example, from modelled data, 10-cm-diameter trees without pipes grew
2560058|The fruit of six species of Diospyros (Ebenaceae) provide food for eight species of diurnal primates in the Lope Reserve, Gabon. Both succulent flesh and immature seeds are eaten but patterns of consumption vary among the primate species Interactions between D mannii, which has very large fruit (9 cm x 7 cm) and seeds (5 cm x 2 cm), and primates were observed in detail D. mannii fruit are unusual, being covered by a dense mat of irritant hairs that are largely retained, but become looser on ripening, when fruit are abscissed Primates do not eat immature seeds of this species but do predate on seeds of some other Diospyros species. Ripe flesh (and ripe seeds) of D. mannii are eaten by gorillas and chimpanzees but not by monkeys. Comparison of fruit characters and of feeding patterns of primates for the six Diospyros species suggests that large seeds are potentially vulnerable to high levels of predation but the presence of irritant hairs provides protection during fruit development. Abscission of ripe fruit (shown only by D. mannii) appears to afford additional protection from predation on ripe seeds by arboreal monkeys. These observations underline the complexity of plant-animal interactions in tropical forests and suggest that some fruit characters have evolved to reduce seed loss during maturation.
4091995| Dew deposition was calculated for leaves of the epiphytic bromeliads Tillandsia brachycaulos and T. elongata in a tropical dry deciduous forest in Yucatn, Mexico, over one year. Plant characteristics and water relations were also measured. Estimations were made by using energy balance analysis and the Penman-Monteith equation. Dew accumulation was also quantified using a cloth-plate method and by change in mass of whole plants. Tissue water content and total leaf area were similar in the two species, but maximum tank water content was three-fold greater for T. elongata than for T. brachycaulos, which had a lower degree of tissue desiccation tolerance than T. elongata. Succulence for T. brachycaulos changed little during most of the year, decreasing significantly only during one month in the dry season. Leaf water potential and osmotic pressure did not change significantly after a dew-deposition event. Theoretical dew per night on leaves was greatest during the early dry season (about 0.72 mm) compared with 0.34 mm in the rainy season and 0.008 mm in the late dry season. Dew amounts alone are not adequate to support growth but may maintain a favourable water balance for epiphytic bromeliads during the driest months of the year. 
2559924|As forest fragmentation and intentional burning of grasslands increase, the frequency of fires penetrating the dry and subhumid tropical forests of Bolivia is also likely to increase. To expand our understanding of the role of fire in tropical dry forest, the physical and thermal properties of barks of tree species were studied to determine their relative resistances to cambial damage by fire. For 16 tree species found in the dry forest of the Lomerio region of eastern Bolivia, bark thickness, moisture content, and specific gravity were measured Insulating capabilities of bark were measured by obtaining cambial and surface temperatures during experimental wick fires. Bark thickness on trees 5-100 cm dbh (diameter at 1.4 m) ranged from 2-51 mm and both thick- and thin-barked species were represented. For all species, bark thickness increased as stem diameter increased. Bark thickness explained more (63%) of the variation in peak cambial temperatures during fires than did bark moisture content (4%) or specific gravity (1%). A threshold bark thickness of 18 mm was associated with the ability to withstand lethal cambial temperatures during the experimental, low intensity fires. For 13 of the 16 species included in this study, trees 20 cm dbh have bark thickness below the threshold 18 mm and, therefore, are likely to experience cambial injury from low intensity fires. Our results suggest that the forest presently characteristic of the Lomerio region did not develop with frequent fires and that species composition is likely to be substantially affected by an increase in fire frequency.
40665280|Because anuran species are highly dependent on environmental variables, we hypothesized that anuran species richness and the number of reproductive modes from different Brazilian localities vary according to climatic and altitudinal variables. Published data were compiled from 36 Brazilian localities and climatic and altitudinal data were extracted from an available database. A partial redundancy analysis (pRDA) showed that 23.5% of the data set's variation was explained by climatic and altitudinal data, while the remaining 76.5% remained unexplained. This analysis suggests that other factors not analysed herein may also be important for predicting anuran species richness and the number of reproductive modes in Brazil. Altitude and total annual rainfall were positively correlated with anuran species richness and the number of reproductive modes, and total annual rainfall was strongly associated with these two biotic variables in the triplot of pRDA. The positive association of total annual rainfall and the negative association of the concentration of annual rainfall were already expected based on physiological and reproductive requirements of anurans. On the other hand, temperature was not associated with richness or the number of reproductive modes.
25172952|Although the floral traits of Parkia conform to the bat-pollination syndrome, many visitors other than bats have been observed at their flowers. Some chiropterophilous plants are also pollinated by other animals; the syndrome is therefore best regarded as a hypothesis for which field observations and pollination experiments are required. The present study aimed, for the first time, to determine the breeding system of the economically important canopy trees, Parkia speciosa and P. timoriana, and to identify their pollinators. Pollination experiments carried out in Trang and Songkhla Provinces, in 28 trees of P. speciosa and four P. timoriana indicated that they are self incompatible. Open pollination resulted in the highest fruit set (average 60-67% of inflorescences per tree) although this was not significantly different from hand-crossed pollination (48-60%). Insect pollination resulted in fruit set in only 12% of P. speciosa inflorescences. Fruit bats, mainly Eonycteris spelaea, visit flowering plants continuously from dusk till after midnight. Nocturnal and diurnal insects (moths and stingless bees respectively) visit capitula, mostly at the nectar zone. Nectarivorous bats are the most effective pollinator for P. speciosa and P. timoriana. The fact that populations of E. spelaea appear to be declining throughout their distribution is therefore a matter of increasing concern.
2560124|A comparative study was undertaken of Amazonian fish diversity and density (abundance and biomass) in nutrient poor (blackwater) and richer (whitewater - varzea) habitats in the vicinity of Tefe, Brazil. The whitewater sampling sites, in the floodplain of the Rios Solimoes and Japura, had high turbidity (Secchi disc 0.03-0.7 m), a conductivity of 64-110 S cm<sup>-1</sup> at 25<sup></sup>C and a pH of 6.6-6.9. The blackwater sites Lagos Amana, Iama and Tefe had a low turbidity (Secchi disc 2 0-2.2 m), a conductivity of 7-11 S cm<sup>-1</sup> at 25<sup></sup>C and a pH of 5 3-6.0 The fish communities of open water, floating meadow and forest margin were sampled. Both whitewater and blackwater sites held high diversity fish communities with many species in common. Whitewater habitats were more diverse yielding 108 species, compared with only 68 from blackwater. Fish density within floating meadow was estimated during high water April and May 1994, and low water October 1994 and March 1995. During the high water season fish biomasses in blackwater lakes (31.1 g m<sup>-2</sup>) were significantly greater than those of either whitewater lakes (13.4 g m<sup>-2</sup>) or whitewater river channels (3.45 g m<sup>-2</sup>). At low water, in October, whitewater channels were generally found to hold the highest fish biomass (204 g m<sup>-2</sup>) although in March a blackwater site yielded the highest fish biomass recorded (285 9 g m<sup>-2</sup>). The amount of floating meadow habitat within whitewaters is however much greater than that in blackwaters. It is suggested that blackwaters may offer a stable habitat resulting in a high standing crop In comparison, variation in conditions such as dissolved oxygen concentration in the whitewater may limit standing crop, but still allow periods of high productivity. Evidence was found for migration of fish from varzea lakes during periods of low oxygen availability. The high diversity and biomass of fish caught in both whitewater and blackwater lakes indicates that water acidity and conductivity are poor predictors of fish diversity and density in tropical floodplain lakes.
3068655|Stand structure, species richness and population structures of tree species were characterized in 12 stands representing 50 y of succession following slash-and-burn agriculture in a tropical dry forest in lowland Bolivia. Estimates of tree species richness, canopy cover and basal area reached or surpassed 75% of mature forest levels in the 5-, 8-, and 23-y-old stands respectively. Total stem density of the 50-y-old stand was almost twice that of the mature forest stand. This rapid recovery may be due to a high percentage of sprouting tree species, potentially high seed fall into abandoned fields, or the disturbance history of the mature stand. The even-aged size-class structures, dominance of long-lived pioneers, and presence of charcoal and pottery shards in soils of the mature forest stand suggest it formed after a severe disturbance, possibly fire of anthropogenic origin.
2559936|All dead trees  20 cm DBH were counted in the first 6 mo of 1994 in 10 ha of wet lowland rain forest, in the Hoja Blanca Hills, western Ecuador. The trees were classified by their mode of death. Thirty-four per cent of the trees were uprooted, 35% had snapped, 15% had died standing and 16% were unclassified. Regression analyses found that slope position and whether an individual was a dicotyledonous tree or a palm (Iriartea deltoidea) to be both strongly related to the mode of death. Slope, altitude and the presence of buttresses also influenced the mode of tree death. Tree diameter, however, was not found to have any effect. Dicotyledonous trees predominantly uprooted and snapped while Iriartea mostly died standing and snapped. Uprooted and snapped trees were significantly spatially clumped while trees which died standing were distributed at random. It was concluded that the predominance of uprooting and snapping in Hoja Blanca mostly resulted from the steep terrain and high precipitation (c. 5000 mm y<sup>-1</sup>) as well as El Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO) downpours. The implications of mode of death are discussed. The different modes created different types of gaps and could thereby potentially influence forest regeneration.
3068744|A plot of 1200 m
2560291|This paper presents data from a standardized series of line-transect censuses on the species and subspecies composition, population density, and crude biomass of western Amazonian primate communities occurring at eight flooded (= varzea) and 12 unflooded (= terra firme) forests These were located primarily along one of the largest white-water tributaries of the Amazon (= Solimoes), the Jurua river. On average, terra firme forests contained twice as many primate species, lower population densities, and less than half of the total community biomass than did adjacent varzea forests There was a clear habitat-dependent positive association among primate species, particularly within varzea forests, as well as marked shifts in guild structure between forest types Species turnover between these two forest types involved primarily understorey insectivores (e g. Saguinus sp.), which do not occur in seasonally inundated forest These were consistently replaced by squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sp.), which are extremely abundant in annually flooded varzea forests. Similarly, large-bodied folivores such as red howler monkeys (Alouatta seniculus) were uncommon or rare in terra firme forests, but very abundant in varzea forests, even though they are hunted less intensively in the former than in the latter. This can be largely explained by the nutrient-rich alluvial soils of young floodplains, compared to the heavily weathered terra firme soils occurring even within short distances of major white-water rivers. This study clearly shows a reversed diversity/density pattern resulting from the lower species richness, but high overall community biomass of seasonally flooded Amazonian forests, which can now be generalized for a wide range of terrestrial vertebrate taxa, including amphibians, birds, and several other orders of mammals.
2560042|The goal of this study was to assess territoriality and foraging home ranges for stingless bee species; and to develop methods for censusing stingless bee colonies. Colonies of two meliponine bee species, Trigona corvina Cockerell and Trigona amalthea Vachal, were censused using carrion and honey baits. Trigona corvina and Trigona amalthea are dispersed in a Costa Rican tropical wet forest (La Selva) so that foraging ranges of the colonies are non-overlapping. The nest density was c. 0.25 ha<sup>-1</sup> for T. amalthea and 1.0 ha<sup>-1</sup> for T. corvina. T. corvina visited carrion baits exclusively, while T. amalthea visited both carrion and honey baits. The identities of T. amalthea colonies were confirmed using a nestmate recognition assay. Partamona peckolti Friese, Plebeia frontalis Friese, and T. fulviventris Guerin also appeared at the baits. The reliability of baiting to determine colony abundance and distribution is assessed.
4091842|Biological invasions are a major environmental concern due to their negative impacts on biodiversity and economics. We determined the population sizes and habitat-abundance relationships of the three most successful invasive bird species in Singapore: the house crow Corvus splendens, white-vented myna Acridotheres javanicus and common myna A. tristis. Estimated population sizes of the three species between February 2000 and February 2001 were between 106 000-176 000, 122 000-155 000 and 20 000-29 000, respectively. Population size of the house crow grew dramatically (>30-fold) in the last 15-16 y while that of the white-vented and common myna declined. Habitat-abundance relationships suggest that house crows are highly dependent on anthropogenic food. Their abundance was also positively related to proximity to coast. The common myna associated closely with agricultural areas while the white-vented myna probably preferred urban greenery among residential buildings. Our study shows that the three invasive bird species associated with different aspects of human-modified environment.
4091896| The population dynamics of the liana Machaerium cuspidatum (Fabaceae) were studied in an Amazonian forest in Ecuador using a stage-classified matrix model. Growth, mortality and number of new seedlings were recorded over two 1.5-y periods in eight 20 x 250-m transects. The population growth rate () was 1.032, which was significantly higher than 1. The dynamics of the species were most influenced by survival of large plants, which is typical for slow-growing woody species.  varied little among years or transects in spite of the high seedling production in one period. The importance of canopy openness and crown height for population growth was studied using bootstraps on  for different subsets of the whole population. The results suggest that the population growth rate was lower in tall forest (height > 10 m) than in the population in general. The population growth rates in areas with shaded understorey and in low forest ( 20 m) were the same as for the whole population. A life table response experiment (LTRE) revealed that the lower  in tall forest resulted from lower growth and survival of large plants in tall forest. These results indicate that the species is shade-tolerant but that it is sensitive to variations in forest dynamics. The dominance of the species and the increasing population size suggest that the forest has had a low disturbance rate for a long time. 
25562632|Carbon dioxide emission through soil respiration is an important component of the carbon balance in forest ecosystems. However, little information is available on the rates of soil respiration in mangrove forests. We studied the rate of soil respiration in a secondary mangrove forest in eastern Thailand on an estuary of the Trat River during both the wet and dry seasons. A study site of 40  110 m was established and a series of vegetation zones identified: Sonneratia, Avicennia, Rhizophora and Xylocarpus, in order of increasing elevation inland. Soil respiration was measured during low tide, using an infrared gas analyser connected to a respiratory chamber, by excluding the respiration of above-ground roots from the chamber. At least 19 measurements were performed in each zone for each season. The rate of soil respiration significantly increased with increasing soil temperature. The soil temperature which was usually lower than that of sea water showed a trend that decreased with distance from the river in both wet and dry seasons. The relative land elevation causes different periods of inundation among the vegetation zones. The period was longest in the Sonneratia zone located on the river fringe, and became shorter moving inland. Thus, the elevation and relevant period of inundation are considered to be causal factors warming the soil. Consequently, the difference in soil temperature caused significantly different rates of soil respiration among the vegetation zones in the mangrove forest. Overall, the average rate of soil respiration ranged from 0.456 to 0.876 mol CO m s, supporting the view that mangrove forests have lower rates of soil respiration than do upland forests.
4092183|This paper addresses the effects of habitat fragmentation on the phyllostomid bats of the Atlantic rain forest in Brazil, by comparing community structure (species richness and capture frequency) and the frequency of three bat species sampled along 36 transects encompassing six habitat categories: interiors and edges of large (>1000 ha) and small fragments (<100 ha), and the surrounding matrix of second-growth forests and areas of shade cocoa plantation. Species composition, richness and total captures were not directly affected by forest size per se, although the frequency of one dominant forest species (Artibeus obscurus) was significantly lower in small fragments compared with larger ones. The high connectivity among forest patches in the study area and the ability of some species to use the surrounding matrix of secondary forests and shade cocoa plantations possibly precludes the insularization effect. Qualitative habitat changes induced by fragmentation, such as edge formation and forest regrowth affected bat community structure; both modified habitats comprised a limited subset of the species assemblage found in the interiors of mature forests. The results presented here provide evidence of impoverished bat assemblages in man-modified habitats linked with deforestation and overall disturbances related with forest fragmentation.
2559892|The position of Macrotermes michaelseni mounds were mapped in six areas of 1.5 to 31.0 ha in a range of habitats on the fringes of the Okavango delta. Abundance varied significantly between and within habitats with highest densities in relatively stable floodplain woodland. In all sites apparent overdispersion of active mounds was not statistically significant when edge effects were taken into account. When active and inactive mounds were combined some overdispersion was seen but due to the disturbance regime the probability of all mounds being active simultaneously was small. Intraspecific competition was, therefore, not considered likely Our results and reanalyses of dispersion patterns in published accounts for Macrotermes species suggest that although mound dispersion can appear to be regular this is probably a result of historical precedence and chance events rather than any current density-dependent process.
4499130|Patches of wooded vegetation in nutrient-poor grassland characteristically contain high soil moisture and nutrient availability compared with surrounding grassland. These 'islands of fertility' appear stable in size, suggesting that tree recruitment at the patch boundary is limited. We hypothesize that tree establishment in adjacent grassland is limited by (1) competition for resources, (2) fire or (3) herbivory. In a South African grassland, we measured moisture availability and conducted a bioassay experiment to analyse whether soil nutrient limits tree recruitment at the patch boundary. We thus measured nutrient concentrations of maize plants grown in patch, boundary and grassland soil. To investigate whether browsing or fire affected tree seedlings at the patch boundary, we burned plots including patches, and used fences to exclude browsers. Neither soil moisture nor nutrient availability at the boundary differed from inside the patches, suggesting that tree recruitment at the boundary is not resource limited. Both fire and browsing combined caused a significantly lower tree seedling growth at the patch boundary, suggesting that these two factors can impede tree recruitment. The balance between positive feedback mechanisms facilitating tree recruitment, and the negative impact of fire and browsing can explain the apparent stability of these islands of fertility.
4499105|The genetic diversity of Myrciaria floribunda, a common Atlantic Forest tree, was investigated in six populations located in two small fragments (10 and 18 ha), two medium-sized fragments (36 and 44 ha) and one large fragment (3003 ha). Two populations occur in the large fragment. It is expected that smaller fragments should have lower genetic diversity and higher inbreeding. Distances between fragments varied from 0.66 to 10 km. On average 32 young trees smaller than 20 cm basal girth were sampled in each population. Allozyme electrophoresis was carried out, and six loci were scored. The effective number of alleles was lower for populations of the two small fragments (1.46 and 1.51) and higher for populations of the large (1.62 and 1.71) and medium ones (1.69 and 1.84). Small fragments showed lower values of expected and observed heterozygosities than large and medium fragments. Most of the genetic variability occurs within populations, and there was a moderate genetic variation among them (
23012366|To improve our knowledge of the influence of land-use on solute behaviour and export rates in neotropical montane catchments we investigated total organic carbon (TOC), Ca, Mg, Na, K, NO 3 and SO 4 concentrations during April 2007May 2008 at different flow conditions and over time in six forested and pasture-dominated headwaters (0.776 km 2 ) in Ecuador. NO 3 and SO 4 concentrations decreased during the study period, with a continual decrease in NO 3 and an abrupt decrease in February 2008 for SO 4 . We attribute this to changing weather regimes connected to a weakening La Nia event. Stream Na concentration decreased in all catchments, and Mg and Ca concentration decreased in all but the forested catchments during storm flow. Under all land-uses TOC increased at high flows. The differences in solute behaviour during storm flow might be attributed to largely shallow subsurface and surface flow paths in pasture streams on the one hand, and a predominant origin of storm flow from the organic layer in the forested streams on the other hand. Nutrient export rates in the forested streams were comparable to the values found in literature for tropical streams. They amounted to 68 kg ha -1 y -1 for Ca, 78 kg ha -1 y -1 for K, 45 kg ha -1 y -1 for Mg, 1114 kg ha -1 y -1 for Na, 1922 kg ha -1 y -1 for NO 3 (i.e. 4.35.0 kg ha -1 y -1 NO 3 -N) and 17 kg ha -1 y -1 for SO 4 . Our data contradict the assumption that nutrient export increases with the loss of forest cover. For NO 3 we observed a positive correlation of export value and percentage forest cover.
2560075|Leaf and grass canopy photosynthetic rates were measured in a West African humid savanna during several stages of the early growing season The results obtained on the dominant grass species Hyparrhenia diplandra and data published previously show that C<sub>4</sub> savanna grasses exhibit a remarkably high leaf photosynthetic capacity despite their low nitrogen content. A variation of leaf photosynthetic capacity in relation to leaf rank on stems is observed which is interpreted by ageing and shading effects within the canopy Seasonal variations of the canopy CO<sub>2</sub> assimilation rate is explained in relation to variations of leaf area index and canopy nitrogen content. Despite low nitrogen content or low leaf area index, maximum canopy net photosynthesis was high (24 mol CO<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> for LAI = 1.5) The high photosynthetic nitrogen use efficiency exhibited by leaves of humid savanna grass species is a major attribute explaining high photosynthetic rates of the grass canopy in this environment. This result sustains the emerging opinion that tropical savannas could be highly productive despite the generally low nutrient status they experience
4091898|This study investigated the effects of light and soil fertility, on arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) colonization, and the growth responses (height and dry mass) of Syzygium seedlings. Seedlings of four Syzygium spp. were grown for 2 y in six different light treatments at the research station of the Sinharaja Forest, Sri Lanka. The light treatments exposed seedlings to: (1) 3%; (2) 16%: (3) 50%; (4) 100% of full sun (control); (5) short periods
2559471|We sampled riparian frogs along 18 streams at eight localities in Borneo. At four of these sites we sampled during more than one year. Altogether 49 species were included in our study and total sample size was 13,249. We measured overlap in species occurrences and arrays of abundances within and among localities. Variation over the time span of our study was minor within communities. Overlaps between streams at a locality were generally higher than overlaps of pairs of streams from different localities. Environmental variation, particularly in stream width and gradient, had a clear effect on both intra-and inter-locality overlaps. Although rainfall varied between localities and within localities over time, that variation did not seem to affect overlaps among or within communities. Environmental factors did not account for all differences in overlaps between communities. Instead, regional processes, perhaps the timing of barriers or speciation events, appear to have been responsible for geographic restrictions of several species, leading to variation in overlap values.
2560251|The root and trunk characteristics of species in a complex, lowland, evergreen, tropical rainforest at a seasonally inundated, coastal site on siliceous sands were examined. Roots in the soil were predominantly colonized by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi although ectomycorrhizas were found on four species which contributed almost 25% of total basal area Surface root mats were not a characteristic of the study site In contrast, the ability to produce apogeotropic (upwardly growing) aerial roots which grew on and within the bark on trunks and branches was a consistent feature of the dominant species of trees in this forest Eleven species representing eight families and constituting more than 85% of the basal area at the site produced these roots Most trunks with DBH greater than 20 cm supported apogeotropic aerial roots produced by a range of species including themselves. Apogeotropic roots were most frequently found on the basal 0 5 m of trunks; however, they did occur up to 5 m above the forest floor Apogeotropic aerial roots originated both from epicormic buds under the bark and from soil, and they were frequently colonized by arbuscular mycorrhizal and ectomycorrhizal fungi There was a strong association between the ability to support these upwardly growing roots and the occurrence of laminated papery and flaky bark We postulate that production of apogeotropic roots may provide a mechanism for nutrient uptake and root respiration during periods of inundation, for intercepting nutrients in stemflow and/or for extracting nutrients from bark.
23012374|The spread of many invasive plants is facilitated through seed dispersal by frugivorous animals. The effectiveness of various frugivores as dispersers of the seeds of Melia azedarach, a highly invasive alien tree species, was evaluated in South Africa in savanna and bushveld vegetation. During 264 h of observation, seven bird species and one bat species were recorded foraging on fruiting trees of M. azedarach. The most common visitors were the darkcapped bulbul (Pycnonotus barbatus) followed by Wahlberg's epauletted fruit bat (Epomophorus wahlbergi), but both species dropped nearly as many seeds as they dispersed. Knysna turaco (Tauraco corythaix) dispersed the highest number of fruits per minute, but occurred in low abundance in our study sites. Seed germination differed significantly between de-pulped fruits and untreated fruits after 2 mo, but was similar after 4 mo. Germination success did not differ between animal-handled and hand-depulped fruits. In contrast to the high germination success in the greenhouse, seedlings showed very low recruitment in the field. Thus, M. azedarach seems likely to benefit from frugivores (particularly dark-capped bulbul and Wahlberg's epauletted fruit bat) dispersing seeds to suitable microsites.
2559787|The germinable seed bank of the colonizing weed Eupatorium odoratum was studied at the University of Ghana's Agricultural Research Station, near Kade. Five sites representing different successional stages were selected: a closed-canopy forest; intermittent-canopy forest; secondary forest; agricultural land; and a burnt forest. Twenty-five soil samples (each 500 cm<sup>3</sup>; 10 x 10 x 5 cm) were taken at random in each site, to be used for germination experiments. The secondary forest site had significantly more seeds of Eupatorium odoratum (8428 seeds per m<sup>2</sup>) than any of the other four sites. In this site Eupatorium odoratum constituted 81% of the total seed bank and had significantly more rapid germination of seeds than any other species. The results indicate that the existence of a soil seed bank may depend on: (1) time allowed for seed accumulation; (2) habitat accessibility to dispersing seeds; (3) the type of disturbance that occurs in an area; (4) dispersal capabilities of colonizing species; and (5) the history of the species' distribution in the area.
2559510|Litterfall was measured monthly in ten 1 m<sup>2</sup> traps in each of two 0.25 ha plots in the rain forest of Southern Bakundu Forest Reserve, Cameroon for 18 months from 1 July 1982 to 31 December 1983. Particular emphasis was placed on measuring species contributions and in relating litterfall to climatic factors; the litterfall data were also used in estimating leaf production. Annual litterfall ranged between 12.9 and 14.1 t ha<sup>-1</sup> and was partitioned to leaves (61-66%), branches (23-38%), fruits and flowers (8-12%) and ephiphytes (0.8%). Emergents and top canopy species like Desbordesia glaucescens (evergreen) and Ceiba pentandra (deciduous) contributed more litter than the numerically dominant lower storey species like Cola lepidota and Diospyros spp. Litter fell throughout the year but was greatest during the dry season (November to March); litterfall was thus strongly negatively correlated with environmental moisture variables and could be predicted from its linear regression on time of year, through-fall and relative humidity. By correcting the leaf fall data for leaf weight losses due to grazing and re-translocation, leaf production rates of 10.2 to 11.2 t ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> were estimated for the forest.
2559429|Foraging and attendance of birds at army-ant swarm raids were studied in the tropical rain forest of Los Tuxtlas, Mexico. Sixty-eight raiding swarms were intercepted over a four-year period of which 57% were Eciton burchelli and 43% Labidus praedator. A total of 461 birds (37 species/12 families) were recorded at swarms of E. burchelli and 208 birds (34 species/10 families) were recorded at L. praedator swarms. The mean number of bird species detected per swarm was 7.2 at E. burchelli raids and 5.6 at L. praedator raids. Red-throated anttanagers (Habia fuscicauda) were most frequently seen at the swarms of both army-ant species. Other important species were the golden-crowned warbler (Basileuterus culicivorus), the white-breasted wood wren (Henicorhina leucosticta) and the Kentucky warbler (Oporornis formosus). Swarms of both army-ant species were active year-round. Birds weighing between 20 and 40 g dominated perches closest to the ground and the central zone of the swarms, richest in animal prey. Birds weighing less than 20 g occupied higher perches and tended to forage in more peripheral zones. At Los Tuxtlas raiding swarms of army ants are important in the foraging ecology of 44 bird species, including 12 North American migrants.
3068832| Swamp forest covers c. 2600 ha of coastal wetlands in Guadeloupe. An inventory of all vascular plants was conducted together with a characterization of the main abiotic descriptors within seventeen 10-m x 40-m plots, systematically sampled throughout the forest. Girth at breast height (GBH) was measured for all trees  10 cm GBH. Four forest types were discriminated according to pH, clay content and redox potential of the soils. Among the 107 species recorded, lianas and epiphytes were as much represented as tree species (28%). However, no epiphytes were encountered at the canopy level where Pterocarpus officinalis (Papilionaceae) was the evenly dominant tree. Local hummock-hollow topography was responsible for an aggregated distribution of P. officinalis. This species exhibits several adaptative traits which may explain its dominance over all of the lowland swamp forests subjected to permanent waterlogging in the hurricane-prone Caribbean islands. 
2559448|Seedlings of Pentaclethra macroloba (Willd.) Kuntze, a dominant, shade-tolerant species of tropical moist forest in Costa Rica, were raised under three light conditions to assess their acclimatization and growth responses to irradiance. The light environments used were full sun, partial shade (25% of full sun), and full shade (1% of full sun). To test the effect of a sudden change in light level such as would occur in the event of a treefall gap, the seedlings in the above conditions were switched between environments after two months and grown for an additional 1.5 months. Plants in full sun and partial shade had similar total weight; switching between the two environments had no effect on biomass. Plants switched from full sun and partial shade to full shade had negative growth as a result of negative CO<sub>2</sub> flux and leaf abscission. Plants transferred from full shade to full sun had lower growth rates than those switched from full shade to partial shade because of severe leaf damage in full sun. The previous environment significantly affected the response of most growth and size characteristics to the present environment. Maximum photosynthesis changed only 30% in response to light level during growth. However, large changes in other photosynthetic and structural characteristics were found. Leaves developed in full shade had lower respiration, leaf thickness, and stomatal density and higher apparent quantum yield, specific leaf area, and chlorophyll content than leaves from full sun. Osmotic potentials were similar between treatments. Despite only small changes in maximum photosynthesis, acclimatization to extreme shade or sun rendered leaves unsuitable for large changes in environment. Consequently, in the event of a large treefall gap, plants already present in the understory will require a substantial period of adjustment before they respond to the increase in light.
3068745| Although forest tree pattern-dynamics has long been a focus for ecological theory, many aspects of basic analysis remain problematic. This paper describes, examines and illustrates an 'extreme-value' approach to clump detection. Simulations demonstrate that the approach, though simple, is sensitive and well suited to identifying aggregation, even in small data sets. The test is complementary to the 
25562634|Earthworm assemblages are usually spatio-temporally structured in mosaics of patches with different species composition. We re-analysed results of past research carried out in Eastern Colombia to explore how interspecific competition accounts for this pattern. In three sown pastures and three native savannas, density data matrices were obtained from spatially explicit samplings at several successive dates, and spatio-temporal patterns of species assemblages were described through partial triadic analyses and geostatistics. This first analysis detected assemblage patchiness in the six plots at spatial scales ranging from 6 to 33 m. Species richness ranged from 5 to 6 species per plot. Null models were further used to analyse niche overlap and morphometric distribution patterns at two different scales, i.e. at the 'plot level' and the 'patch level'. Seasonal and vertical niche overlaps were higher than expected by chance at both scales, indicating high environmental constraints on assemblage membership. Within-patch overlaps were lower than plot-scale overlaps. Biometric niche overlap was random at the plot level and was weakly lower than that expected by chance in patches. Body weight was significantly overdispersed and constant whatever the scale, while body length and diameter showed a similar trend within patches. These results suggest that earthworms form distinct assemblages within patches, mainly driven by deterministic responses to competition: ecologically similar species avoid competition through spatial segregation, whereas a minimal level of ecological segregation is required to allow co-existence in a given patch.
25172940|We describe levels of parasitism of ectoparasitic bat flies (Hippoboscoidea: Streblidae) on male and female bats from an extensive Neotropical survey. The collection resulted from coordinated vertebrate-parasite surveys undertaken by the Smithsonian Venezuelan Project (SVP) from 1965-1968, which sexed 24 978 bats of 130 species. Streblid parasites were recovered from 6935 individuals of 87 bat species, but only 47 species were captured frequently enough ( 20 infested individuals) to permit reliable estimates of streblid parasitism on males and females. Well-sampled species included 39 phyllostomids, four mormoopids, two noctilionids, one natalid and one molossid. Prevalence of streblid parasitism (proportion of individuals infested) of male and female bats was generally not significantly different, and averaged 0.34 across infested species. In species-level analyses assessed against captures, significant sex differences in infestation levels were noted in six species; all had mean prevalence below 0.5 and females were parasitized disproportionately in each. Sex differences in total numbers of flies were noted in 21 species, and in 16 of these, females carried disproportionately heavy loads. Sex differences were also found for eight species of bat in the number of fly species infesting an individual; seven of eight showed heavier female parasitism. In analyses weighted by infestation levels, sex differences in total number of flies were found in only 12 species, with seven showing excessive parasitism of females, and no species showed sex differences in the number of fly species infesting them. These significant biases were not associated with sexual size dimorphism among the bat species. Generally higher levels of parasitism among female bats accords with theory, given their generally higher survivorship and enhanced probabilities of lateral and vertical transmission of host-specific parasites, but contrasts with patterns shown by many other parasitic arthropods. Future analyses should target social groupings of bats, not passively sampled foragers, to better address the mechanisms responsible for this pattern.
27751655|The ecological effects of logging in the tropics have been analysed largely in terms of its impacts on species diversity and abundance. However, information is very limited regarding the impact of logging on ecological processes such as species interactions. Here we hypothesize that timber extraction per se, that is, in the absence of hunting, affects the abundance of the frugivorous spider monkey, Ateles geoffroyi, and that this has indirect effects on the recruitment of a predominant tree species, Manilkara zapota, and the diversity of the understorey plant community. We compared logged and unlogged sites, using a paired design. In each management condition we conducted line transects and interviews to evaluate spider monkey abundance and game preferences, respectively. Impact on plant recruitment and understorey diversity were evaluated using 2  2-m plots (N = 320) established under 40 M. zapota tree crowns. No spider monkeys were recorded in logged sites whereas they were abundant (15  8 individuals per man-km) in unlogged sites. Interviews showed that spider monkeys are not hunted by local inhabitants. Logging was correlated with a reduction of the number of M. zapota fruits used by A. geoffroyi; an increase in the number of sites dominated by M. zapota; and a reduction in understorey plant diversity. Our results suggest that the absence of A. geoffroyi in logged sites can indirectly impact plant recruitment and diversity via the disruption of plantfrugivore interactions. Further work is needed to assess if these effects persist over the long term, to define if logging operations affect the overall diversity of tropical forests.
4091890|The sensitivity of pollen as an indicator of elevation in neotropical lowland and Andean forests was measured using modern pollen samples collected from moss-polsters along a transect between 340 m and 3530 m elevation and from surface sediments in lowland swamps (240 m) of Madre de Dios, Peru. A blind study, using samples collected from the same transect in the following year, provided a test of reproducibility. The results show (1) clear elevational distribution patterns and (2) the ability of calibration data to predict the altitude of the blind samples. Characteristic associations of pollen taxa are found under differing hydrologies and elevations. The floodplain pollen assemblages are characterized by abundant Mauritia, Sloanea, Ficus, Iriartea and Arecaceae pollen types. At higher elevations, these lowland types decrease or are absent. Alchornea, Urticaceae/Moraceae, Bignoniaceae and Cecropia are dominant components of the pollen rain of the low-elevation zone (< 1000 m). Acalypha, Alchornea, Cecropia, Rubiaceae and Urticaceae/Moraceae are important between 1000 m and 1600 m elevation. Pollen of Hedyosmum, Alnus, Poaceae and Combretaceae/Melastomataceae are abundant between 1600 m and 2000 m. Cecropia pollen dominates samples from low- to mid-elevation disturbed forests. Alnus pollen is most abundant, and Poaceae becomes rare, between 2000 and 2700 m. At high elevations above 2700 m, Asteraceae, Poaceae, Polylepis, Muehlenbeckia-type and Myrsine pollen are dominant. Statistical analysis of the data set using Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) shows a precise correlation between community composition and elevation. The DCA axis 1 values are strongly correlated with sample elevation, exhibiting a linear relationship
2559537|Rates of litterfall over a period of 3 y at one undistrubed site and two sites distrubed by selective harvesting are reported for a tropical rain forest area in North Queensland, Australia. Litterfall over a period of 18 months is also reported for a further undistrubed site in the same area. No significant differences were found in annual litterfall between the sites, with annual litterfall rates ranging from 5.0 to 6.0 t ha <sup>-1</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>. These rates are considerably lower than those reported for other rain forest areas in Australia, and are within the lower ranges recorded for other tropical rain forests. Litterfall was found to be strongly seasonal at all sites with the maximum falls occurring from the end of the dry season to the end of the wet season. The between year variability of the sites was quite low, with the ratio of maximum to minimum production ranging from 1.05 to 1.20. The average percentages of leaves, wood and reproductive material in litterfall were similar at each site. Leaves were the dominant component of litterfall with the average proportion of the total littefall ranging from 72% to 76% over the study period at each of the four sites. At certain times, however, the fall of wood and reproductive material was quite significant, comprising as much as 71% and 34% of litterfall respectively. A strong negative correlation was found between the fall of leaves and wood at all sites.
23012363|Two main types of hollow tree are frequently found in savannas: trees with external splits (externally damaged trees), and trees with no or little visible external damage, but with their entire core removed (internally damaged or `piped' trees). As this may affect trunk mechanical resistance and tree survivorship, we studied the incidence of these two types of cavity in relation to two possible causal agents, fire and termites, in a West African savanna. Overall, the proportion of damaged adult trees (height >2 m) reached 36%, and up to 84% for Crossopteryx febrifuga. In this species, almost all (93%) damaged individuals showed signs of digging by fungus-grower and wood-feeder termites. External damage was more frequent in the more fire-prone shrubby savanna, suggesting that while termites are responsible for the piping, fire is responsible for the later opening of the trunk. Trees growing in the more fire-prone savanna tended to reach significantly smaller sizes, both in height and basal diameter, than in the less intensely burnt woody savanna. There was also evidence that piped trees were taller than externally damaged trees. This strongly suggests that fire causes an increased mortality of adult trees through lateral opening of the trunks causing later breakage.
4092045|Spatial and seasonal patterns of seed removal by rodents, ants and birds were evaluated using seed-dish experiments in a Trachypogon savanna in Venezuela. Four-day experiments were conducted on three dates and at four different sites. Seeds from 10 native plant species representing a broad mass range were offered at densities equivalent to
27751659|The distribution of epiphytes differs between branches within tree crowns as well as within habitats. Where the original forests have been lost, shade coffee plantations can be important refuges for epiphytes, but are not suitable for all species. To understand what affects habitat quality, we transplanted 1440 seedlings each of two orchids, one, Lycaste aromatica, restricted to forests, the other, Jacquiniella teretifolia, common on trees in coffee plantations and in forests. Seedling mortality and growth were compared between three forests, three young and three old coffee plantations to test for differences between habitats and to analyse which habitat features affect growth and mortality. In J. teretifolia there was no clear pattern of habitat effect on mortality (c. 0.08 mo1), but the production of new shoots was higher in coffee plantations than in forests. In L. aromatica, growth rates as well as seedling mortality increased over time. During the last census growth rates in forests (1.8 mm mo1) were significantly higher than in old (0.9 mm mo1) and young (1.2 mm mo1) coffee plantations, and seedling mortality was about four times higher in old (0.10 mo1) and young (0.11 mo1) coffee plantations than in forests (0.025 mo1), which may explain the natural absence of L. aromatica from coffee plantations. Mortality in L. aromatica at individual sites was negatively correlated with bryophyte cover on branches (Pearson r = 0.75) and positively with lichen cover (r = 0.70) and canopy openness (r = 0.75). Branch cover with non-vascular epiphytes, whether directly responsible by improving the water supply to epiphytes or indicative of differences in microclimate, may be a useful indicator of suitable habitats for vascular epiphytes.
4092034|Plant productivity, distribution and diversity in tropical rain forests correlate with water availability. Water availability is determined by rainfall and also by the available water capacity of the soil. However, while rainfall is recognized as important, linkages between plant distribution and differences among soils in available water capacity have not been demonstrated. One reason for this may be that measurements of soil moisture, such as gravimetric water content, may be overly simplistic. To investigate this, we compared two sites in Panama, Allee and Rio Paja, which have similar rainfall but different plant communities. Soil water release curves were obtained from about - 0.1 MPa to - 9 MPa, permitting us to calculate available water capacity. The Rio Paja site had 17% greater available water capacity (between - 0.1 MPa to - 3 MPa), whereas the gravimetric water content at Rio Paja was lower by 16% in rainy season and by 41% at the end of the dry season. Hence soil gravimetric water content and soil available water capacity did not correspond. The results suggest that available water capacity may better predict plant distributions. Hence, whenever possible, available water capacity should be determined in addition to gravimetric water content.
4091871|The temporal impact of clearing trees on litter production, litter decomposition and on C, N and P release through decomposition of litter was examined in the pasture systems of a semi-arid zone of central Queensland. Paired sites for cleared pastures (developed from clearing woodlands) and uncleared (intact woodland) pastures were selected to represent three dominant tree communities of the region i.e. Eucalyptus populnea, E. melanophloia and Acacia harpophylla, with three different time-since-clearing (5, 11-13 and 33 y) treatments. Yearly litter production was greater at uncleared sites (
4092171|Upper Amazonian tree communities are famous for their very high alpha-diversity. This paper describes an anomalous forest just 6 km south of the equator in lowland Ecuador that is structurally mature, surrounded by hyperdiverse forest, but strikingly poor in species. To investigate the anomaly, a 1-ha tree inventory and soil analysis were carried out and compared with 15 similar surveys of upland forest in the same region. The anomalous forest contains only 102 tree species ha
3068752| The influence of herbivory on dipterocarp seedling growth and survival in Bornean primary lowland forest understorey during and after the 1997-8 El Nio-Southern Oscillation was investigated. During the drought, a coleopteran (Scolytidae) root borer attacked dipterocarp seedlings, primarily of the genus Parashorea. Infestation was spatially heterogeneous on a large (c. 100 m) scale. Attack rate decreased with plant vigour within infested areas. Experiments showed that root damage was fatal under drought conditions, but not after rain. Defoliation and apical meristem removal did not increase mortality. The spatio-temporal heterogeneity of herbivore outbreaks and difficulties involved in experimenting with root herbivores limit the power of such short-term investigations. However, the study shows that herbivores can cause differential mortality between species, and can therefore influence dipterocarp regeneration dynamics. The effect of herbivory depends on the plant organ attacked and interactions with other stresses such as drought. El Nio-related droughts are increasing in frequency in South-East Asian rain forests, which may lead to increased numbers of herbivore outbreaks and greater seedling mortality due to these factors. 
23012358|Tropical rain forests harbour the most diverse plant and animal assemblages known to science, but our understanding of assemblage structure and species interactions is limited. Bats, as the only flying mammals, have the potential to exploit resources from all strata in forest communities. Thus, fruit-eating phyllostomid bats often have been categorized into canopy-, subcanopy- and understorey-foraging species, based largely upon the height at which they were most frequently captured. Here we challenge this classification and use stable carbon isotopes to assess foraging height of bat species at an Amazonian rain-forest site in Ecuador and at a Caribbean lowland rain-forest site in Costa Rica for comparison with data from mist-net captures. The proportion of the heavy stable carbon isotope 13 C in relation to the lighter 12 C isotope increases in plants from ground level to the canopy (0.12 m 1 0.18 m 1 ), and these differences in stable carbon isotope signatures are reflected in the body tissue of phytophagous bats. We used the stable carbon isotope ratio ( 13 C) of wing tissue to estimate the foraging heights of 54 phyllostomid species in two Neotropical bat assemblages. Based on stable isotope data, phyllostomid species exploit food resources at all vertical strata of the forest. Capture height was not a reliable predictor of foraging height and suggests that bats most likely use lower strata to commute between foraging sites to avoid predators. Vertical stratification is likely to be a key factor promoting niche partitioning, thus promoting high local species richness in many tropical animal assemblages.
3068784|To study the impact of the annual long-term flooding (flood-pulse) on seasonal tree development in Amazonian floodplains, the phenology and growth in stem diameter of various tree species with different leaf-change patterns were observed over a period of 2 y. The trees of the functional ecotypes, evergreen, brevi-deciduous, deciduous and stem-succulent showed a periodic behaviour mainly triggered by the flood-pulse. Trees have high increment during the terrestrial phase. Flooding causes a shedding of some or all leaves leading to a cambial dormancy of about 2 mo and the formation of an annual ring. Studies carried out in tropical dry forests verify a strong relationship between the phenological development and the water status of the trees, strongly affected by seasonal drought. The comparison of the phenology and the diameter growth of the corresponding ecotypes in floodplain forest and a semi-deciduous forest in Venezuela shows a displacement of at least 2 mo in the periodicity, except for stem-succulent tree species. For stem-succulent trees it remains unclear which factors influence phenology and stem diameter growth.
2560114|We investigated the daily activity patterns of four species of small mammals in an area of cerrado habitat in central Brazil. We checked live traps at 3-hour intervals during the night. Bolomys lasiurus and Calomys tener (Rodentia, Muridae), two potential competitors, differed significantly in their daily activity patterns. Bolomys lasiurus had peaks during the twilight, whereas C. tener had a more constant activity through the night, with a peak between 2200 and 0100 h. Thalpomys cerradensis (Rodentia, Muridae) was more active immediately after sunset and in the last three hours before sunrise. Thylamys velutinus (Marsupialia, Marmosidae) was strictly nocturnal with greater activity early in the night. Other factors, such as predation pressure or diet, may be important in determining the activity patterns observed in this study.
3068795|The study presented here investigated the importance of environmental heterogeneity and clumping for the mesoscale distribution patterns of five palm species in old-growth Andean forest (Maquipucuna, Ecuador). Seedlings, juveniles and adults were recorded in 167 plots located throughout the 3-km x 3-km study area. Mountain (Cerro Sosa or Cerro Sta. Lucia), altitude, aspect, topographic-edaphic conditions and forest structure were also recorded. The following questions were investigated: (1) Are the distributions related to environmental heterogeneity? (2) Are the distribution patterns consistent with severe recruitment limitation? The distribution patterns of four species were related to environmental heterogeneity, especially to that created by the mountainous landscape itself, and at least four of the five species also exhibited strong clumping that was clearly linked to spatially restricted recruitment and could not be explained by the environmental parameters. Thus, both niche specialization and recruitment limitation probably play important roles in Andean palm community ecology. Consistent differences among the two mountains in forest structure and the frequency of certain palm stages most likely reflected extractivism.
2559700|Greylag (Anser anser) and Barheaded Geese (Anser indicus) wintering in the Keoladeo National Park, Bharatpur, India, have habitat and food preferences which are comparable to overwintering geese in other parts of the world. These geese preferred to eat the dominant grass species in the Park, Paspalum distichum, as determined by a comparison of the mean proportion of Paspalum of the total food eaten by Greylag and Barheaded Geese (0.932 & 0.971, respectively) with the mean availability of Paspalum in the wetland (0.795). However, based on a habitat study at the end of their overwintering season in February 1986, both species of geese used sites with the same amount of Paspalum distichum cover (c. 14%) as sites that they did not use (c. 14%). The means of habitat characteristics of sites geese used versus sites they did not use, respectively, are given here in order of their relative preference based on rankings of their standardized means. Greylags preferred sites which were grazed concurrently by other species of herbivores (frequency = 0.9 & 0.4), were farther from trees with Painted Stork nests (Mycteria leucocephala; 981 & 887 m) and from trees in general (49 & 26 m), or had deeper water 61 & 49 cm). However, Greylags did not prefer sites which were farther from open water (65 & 223 m), had been cut by hand (frequency = < 0.1 & 0.1), were farther from vegetation dominated by Vetiveria zizanioides (668 & 842 m), had been bulldozed (frequency = < 0.1 & 0.1), or had any amount of cover of the exotic aquatic weed, Eichhornia crassipes (0.0 & 0.3%). Barheaded Geese preferred sites which were remote from the Park boundary (1156 & 757 m), were farther from any road (423 & 235 m), had been grazed by geese in 1984 (0.3 & <0.1), had higher covers of droppings (0.4 & 0.1%), or had been burned in the previous summer (frequency = 0.2 & 0.1). They did not prefer sites which had deeper water (25 & 61 cm), had been grazed by geese in 1985 (frequency = 0.0 & 0.5), were farther from vegetation dominated by Vetiveria (511 & 733 m), had been bulldozed (frequency = 0.0 & 0.1), or were farther from open water (29 & 115 m). This information can be used to construct management plans for Greylag and Barheaded Geese overwintering in the Keoladeo National Park and other parts of northern India.
4092146|In this paper, the ecological relationships and the resource partitioning patterns in a two-species system of sympatric aquatic snakes (Grayia smythii and Afronatrix anoscopus) from a riverine forest area in southern Nigeria, West Africa, were tested. The monthly availability of their food resources in the field, and the monthly variation in the feeding relationships between these snakes and their preys, were also studied. Food items of 1245 snakes, i.e. 554 Grayia smythii, and 691 Afronatrix anoscopus, were examined. The mean body length of Grayia smythii was significantly larger than that of Afronatrix anoscopus in any interspecific comparison, i.e. males versus males, females versus females, and females versus males; however, in both species the females attained significantly larger body sizes than the males. 676 prey items were obtained from the stomachs of Afronatrix anoscopus, and 390 from those of Grayia smythii. Both species of snake exhibited an increased activity in the open during the wet months, and this increased activity was positively correlated to the higher abundance of prey during the wet season. In both species the diet consisted of a great variety of different amphibian and fish species. Direct interference competition was not observed. The month-by-month dietary patterns exhibited by the two snake species were similar. Mean prey size was significantly larger in the larger species, and the difference in prey size between the two snake species increased during the dry season, i.e. during the period of reduced prey availability. The monthly availability of the three main food types for these snakes varied, and were significantly more abundant during the wet season (April-September). A positive relationship between prey availability and prey use by snakes strongly suggests that the two snake species are predatory generalists, utilizing prey in relation to their abundance in the field.
2559241|The general flowering of lowland dipterocarp forests of South-east Asia is a unique phenomenon that occurs intermittently, sometimes many years apart, and may be widespread throughout the region or sporadic. During a general flowering a very large number of tree families, including the well-known Dipterocarpaceae, flower and fruit exceptionally heavily. The huge pulse of flowering is echoed by an apparent explosion in the number of pollinators, and this is further augmented by migration of pollinators from the forest fringes. The huge demand for pollinators seems to be solved among several dipterocarps through utilization of tiny, fast breeding, floral-feeding insects such as thrips and hoppers. Competition for pollinators is further reduced through development of sequential flowering among several groups of trees that share similar pollinators. The resulting massive general fruiting seems to contribute to a heightened level of faunal activity and numbers. This long-intervalled flowering and fruiting phenology which dominates these lowland dipterocarp forests may have partly contributed to the lowered animal biomass frequently alluded to when these forests are compared with neotropical forests.
25562597|The sampling of epiphytes is fraught with methodological difficulties. We present a protocol to sample and analyse vascular epiphyte richness and abundance in forests of different structure (SVERA). Epiphyte abundance is estimated as biomass by recording the number of plant components in a range of size cohorts. Epiphyte species biomass is estimated on 35 sample-trees, evenly distributed over six trunk diameter-size cohorts (10 trees with dbh &gt; 30 cm). Tree height, dbh and number of forks (diameter &gt; 5 cm) yield a dimensionless estimate of the size of the tree. Epiphyte dry weight and species richness between forests is compared with ANCOVA that controls for tree size.
2560043|The consumption of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) by Proechimys semispinosus (Central American spiny rat) was assessed via microscopic examination of faecal material for the presence of AMF spores. Mycophagy (indicated by the presence of spores) was compared among individual spiny rats residing on eight isolated islands in Gatun Lake, Panama during January and July 1996. Spores and sporocarps of Sclerocystis coremioides and spores from at least four species of Glomus were present in 77% of the 231 faecal samples examined. The proportion of faecal samples that contained AMF spores did not differ between spiny rat sex, age classes or months of sampling or with island area. However, there was a positive relationship between the proportion of samples containing spores and rodent density in January, and a marginally significant positive trend in July. Increased consumption of AMF on islands that supported high densities of spiny rats may have resulted from increased competition for primary food resources (fruits and seeds).
2559235|Most of the land surface of Melville Island, Australia's second largest island, is covered in Eucalyptus savanna. One exception is an area at Yapilika where a large tract of savanna is dominated by Acacia shrubs. An ordination analysis of 122 quadrats revealed that the boundary of Eucalyptus dominance did not correspond to a major change in floristic composition. Detailed transect studies at one site on the boundary showed that Eucalyptus trees were abruptly replaced by a band of Grevillea trees which gradually gave way to Acacia shrub dominance. There was a gradual change in the floristic composition of the savanna across the boundary. The distributional limit of Eucalyptus was found to be independent of any hydrological discontinuity. There was a slight decrease (<2.5 m) in altitude from Eucalyptus to Acacia savanna. The Acacia savanna soils were sandier and their surface soil had significantly lower concentrations of Ca and Mg and significantly greater concentration of Al compared with the Eucalyptus savanna soils. Eucalyptus seedlings planted in the three savanna communities were not found to be under drought stress (pre-dawn leaf xylem potentials of >-0.9 MPa) during the dry season. Over a 12 month period Eucalyptus tetrodonta and E. miniata seedling growth was not significantly different on the Acacia or Eucalyptus savanna, although this result may be due to the counteracting effects of greater soil fertility and tree competition in the Eucalyptus savanna and lower soil fertility in the treeless, and hence competition-free, Acacia savanna. This hypothesis is supported by the significantly greater growth of Eucalyptus seedlings on fertilized Acacia savanna soils. The limited production, dispersal and establishment of Eucalyptus seeds and the greater frequency of fires in the Acacia savanna probably explains the abrupt limit to Eucalyptus dominance along the edaphic gradient.
