3236489|The spatial pattern at alpine tree line may be part of a feedback process in which wind plays a central role. The basic aspects of such a feedback were embedded in a cellular automaton. Spatial metrics of the patterns generated by this simulation and those of observed patterns at a windy tree line site were ordinated using Principal Component Analysis. Only the simulations that included a directionally weighted feedback fell close to the observed sites in ordination space. MANOVA indicated that the directionally weighted feedback is most important in structuring the tree line pattern, but that random hotspots for establishment and the overall steepness of the environmental gradient from forest to tundra in space also have an effect. The importance of wind in determining feedback with the spatial pattern of a canopy indicates that nonlinear reactions to climatic change are likely.
3236894| Pattern of native vegetation, distribution of alien species and variation of environmental parameters were studied in mountain grasslands in a lithologically homogeneous Crdoba mountain range in Central Argentina. CCA showed that altitude was the most important factor determining the compositional variation of the vegetation, with soil nutrient status and stoniness as additional factors. Short-grass communities, associated with the driest habitats on plateaus, showed higher small-scale native species richness than wet-turf communities in valleys and tall-grass communities on slopes. Species richness was negatively correlated with soil parameters that indicate nutrient status and water availability. Also, there was a negative correlation between soil Ca- and Mg-content and richness. High native species richness coincided with high alien species richness. When smaller units - community types - were considered, it became evident that within short-grass vegetation, the three most species-rich community types contained significant numbers of alien species, while the other two did not. Even within one community type, the same quadrats that contained the highest number of native species, were also characterized by the highest numbers of alien species. Evidently, the same mechanism was responsible for high richness of both native and alien species. Alien species were distinguished by a greater proportion of annuals and prostrate stoloniferous plants, by lower palatability and by smaller proportion of zoochory. DCA ordination of quadrats on the basis of plant traits as attributes resulted in a clear distinction of three main vegetation types. Short-grass vegetation was distinguished by a predomination of late flowering species, tall-grass vegetation by the presence of high herbaceous plants and bushes, and wet-turf vegetation by the presence of plants with storage organs, the lack of hairy leaves, and by a high proportion of cryptophytes. Quadrats with and without alien species were distinguished as well, indicating that the occurrence of aliens may be dependent on plant traits in a particular patch of a community. 
3236737|In relation to the drought-prone and nutrient-poor habitat, vascular epiphytes are routinely referred to as inherently slow-growing plants, although actual evidence is rare. To test this notion we measured in situ growth of the understorey orchid Aspasia principissa and the tank bromeliad Vriesea sanguinolenta, and, for the latter species, also the growth under favourable conditions in the greenhouse. Using growth analysis we show: (1) that in an intraspecific comparison, small to intermediate individuals yield the highest relative growth rates (RGR) in situ: A. principissa: 1.6 10<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>; V. sanguinolenta: 3.3 10<sup>-3</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>; (2) that the bromeliad reaches maximum size after ca. 15 yr, while the orchid needs at least 20 yr; and (3) small V. sanguinolenta plants exhibit a highly plastic growth response to favourable conditions in the greenhouse, reaching an almost 10-fold increase in RGR. In spite of a substantial increase in growth under more favourable conditions, our results are consistent with the notion that epiphytes are inherently slow growing organisms.
3235768|Names are used for vegetation in different kinds of ways, such as to show the type of vegetation or its physiognomy. Vegetation types are defined by criteria which may be expressed in their name. If a vegetation type has several different physiognomies, the name may refer to that vegetation and to only one of its physiognomies. Some names used in more than one way can cause confusion, such as savanna, woodland, forest, and terms in other languages. Several examples are given for each kind of application of names.
3236854|Alternative community analyses, based on quantitative and presence/absence data, are comparable logically if the data type is the only factor responsible for differences among results. For presence/absence indices that consider mutual absences, no quantitative alternatives are known. To facilitate such comparisons, a new family of similarity coefficients is proposed for abundance data. Formally, this extension is achieved by generalizing the four cells of the usual 2 x 2 contingency table to the quantitative case. This implies an expanded meaning of absence: for a given species at a given site it is understood as the difference between the actual value and the maximum detected in the entire study. The correspondence between 10 presence/absence coefficients and their quantitative counterparts is evaluated by graphical comparisons based on artificial data. The behaviour of the new functions is also examined using field data representing post-fire regeneration processes in grasslands and a chronosequence pertaining to forest regeneration after clear-cut. The examples suggest that the new coefficients are most informative for data sets with low beta-diversity and temporal background changes.
3235684|Hydrometeorological observations over a 15-month period and the evaluation of calculated water balance components across a selected valley in the northeast trade-wind environment in Hawaii showed the following: 1. A large reduction in wind speed and evaporation occurred on the upper protected west-facing slope as compared with an exposed ridge immediately in front of it and within a short horizontal distance. 2. Can evaporation values measured across the valley closely reflect the wind exposure and the availability of energy at each station. In terms of Penman potential evapotranspiration, the ridge station was again found to be the most exposed and the upper leeward slope the most protected. 3. The upper protected west-facing slope was comparatively more favourable for vegetation development in terms of the annual soil moisture conditions (both measured and calculated) and protection against mechanical damage by wind and air-borne salt; all the other parts of the slopes were exposed and occasionally received severe salt spray damage in winter. Most probably, these factors have contributed to the difference in speed of vegetation recovery from the disturbance, thus producing a, temporary, vegetation asymmetry.
3236176|The species composition and morphological and functional traits of ecological systems are compared. The significance of the resulting relationship is interpreted considering the underlying spatial environmental variation. Using 60 morphological and functional traits, a gradient of ecological persistence was detected in Mediterranean grasslands along an altitudinal range of ca. 1200 m. This pattern coincides with the one expressed by its taxonomic composition and thus permits 'styles of adaptation' of ecological systems to be recognized. Species composition may represent one of the possible combinations which optimises its environmental fit. The relevance to ecological theory of this pattern of grassland organization is discussed in the context of a hypothetical model of evolution.
3236035|The introduction of vigorous exotic species has destroyed much of the native sand dune vegetation along the coasts of South Island, New Zealand. However, some dunes built by the native cyperad Desmoschoenus spiralis still remain in the southwest. The dunes at Cole Creek, on the West coast of South Island, were chosen as a relatively pristine study area. 15 transects were laid through semi-fixed dunes into dwarf forest. Environmental measurements were taken at regular intervals through the dunes: pH, soil moisture, organic matter, conductivity, nutrient status and elevation. Classification and ordination of these data demonstrated that two major environmental areas were present - open dune and dwarf forest - with an abrupt ecotone between them. Vegetation analyses revealed a loosely-banded pattern, parallel to the sea. Vegetation types with few but constant species such as Desmoschoenus spiralis and Calystegia soldanella, predominated in the open dune. Forest species were rarely found seaward of the dune/forest boundary, though there was evidence the Spatial Mass Effect was operating. Multiple regression and canonical correlation of the vegetation and environmental factors showed that the main factors affecting vegetation patterns were the environmental complex related to distance from the sea, elevation above mean tide, soil alkalinity and moisture.
40295842|Question: Disturbance effects on dry forest epiphytes are poorly known. How are epiphytic assemblages affected by different degrees of human disturbance, and what are the driving forces? Location: An inter-Andean dry forest landscape at 2300 m elevation in northern Ecuador. Methods: We sampled epiphytic bryophytes and vascular plants on 100 trees of Acacia macracantha in five habitats: closedcanopy mixed and pure acacia forest (old secondary), forest edge, young semi-closed secondary woodland, and isolated trees in grassland. Results: Total species richness in forest edge habitats and on isolated trees was significantly lower than in closed forest types. Species density of vascular epiphytes (species per tree) did not differ significantly between habitat types. Species density of bryophytes, in contrast, was significantly lower in edge habitat and on isolated trees than in closed forest. Forest edge showed greater impoverishment than semi-closed woodland and similar floristic affinity to isolated trees and to closed forest types. Assemblages were significantly nested; habitat types with major disturbance held only subsets of the closed forest assemblages, indicating a gradual reduction in niche availability. Distance to forest had no effect on species density of epiphytes on isolated trees, but species density was closely correlated with crown closure, a measure of canopy integrity. Main conclusions: Microclimatic changes but not dispersal constraints were key determinants of epiphyte assemblages following disturbance. Epiphytic cryptogams are sensitive indicators of microclimate and human disturbance in montane dry forests. The substantial impoverishment of edge habitat underlines the need for fragmentation studies on epiphytes elsewhere in the Tropics.
3236203|Vegetated sites below bird-nesting cliffs are uniquely nutrient-rich habitats in the otherwise nutrient-poor arctic environment. Plants from six distinct vegetation zones below such a cliff at 79 N, Svalbard, Norway, were collected for analysis under greenhouse conditions. Leaf nitrate reductase activity (NRA) was analysed in 42 species representing 25 % of the Svalbard vascular flora. The species mean NRA values ranged from 0.37 to 8.34 mols of nitrite ions formed per gram of plant fresh weight per hour. Species in the vegetated zone growing closest to recent guano deposits had the highest NRA values, (mean = 4.47) whereas plants growing farther below the cliff had significantly lower values (mean = 0.55). A similar pattern was detected in a duplicate set of plants induced with 15 mM KNO<sub>3</sub> vegetation zone means for NRA ranged from 5.08 to 0.98 mols of nitrite ions formed per gram of plant fresh weight per hour. Maximally induced species NRA values were highest in the first zones below the cliff and decreased downslope. This gradient paralleled the steep soil nitrate gradient, which decreased from 13.84 mg/l at the cliffbase to 1.03 mg/l downslope. Correspondingly, soil ammonium ions in the vegetation zones ranged between 1.96 mg/l at the cliff-base to 0.03 mg/l downslope. Correlations between NRA and soil nitrate provide a systematic basis for assigning scalar 'nitrogen figures' as indicators of habitat preference, here for the first time applied to arctic species.
4096779| Question: What are the drivers of bryophyte succession in paludifying boreal Picea mariana forests? Location: The Clay-Belt of Qubec and Ontario, Canada. Methods: The bryophyte community and habitat variables (forest floor thickness, water table, stand density, canopy openness micro-climate and presence of ericaceous species) were analysed in a chronosequence of 13 stands from 50 to more than 350 years since fire. Results: Across the chronosequence, feathermosses were replaced by shade and desiccation tolerant slower growing hummock Sphagna and then by faster growing hollow Sphagna. These changes were linked with both increasing light availability and the movement of the water table into the forest floor. Conclusions: As water table rise is dependent on forest floor thickness, which is in turn influenced by the presence of Sphagna, this successional sequence represents an example of facilitation. Furthermore, it emphasizes the importance of water table rise in determining stand level, and landscape level variables such as carbon balance. 
3235826|The distribution of 44 common vascular plant species on Tenerife, The Canary Islands, has been related to the variation in temperature and precipitation. Frequency values for these speceis were obtained using a stratified sampling system with 200 10 m x 10 m plots distributed all over the island. A model is proposed relating variation in vegetation to altitude according to two main climatic gradients occurring between the 3718 m summit and the coastline of Tenerife. The vascular plants have been classified into guilds according to their presumed tolerance to cold and drought; one remainder group includes species which are randomly distributed without any relation to climatic variation. Differences between the guild structure suggested here and common knowledge of plant species occurrence in the well-known vegetation belts of Tenerife are explained by assuming disturbance and local ground-water availability as additional decisive factors.
4499218| Objective: This empirical study was designed to explore the role of ecological features of species in the spatial patterning of a grassland community. Location: Banks of the river Rhne in France. Material and Methods: First, we explored the spatial pattern of 29 species recorded in the community using spatial autocorrelation analysis of species cover values. Second, we then explored the relationship between the patterns found and a set of life attributes that characterized the ecological features of species for resource foraging or dispersion. Finally, we explored the spatial relationship of groups of species that shared the same ecological features using cross-correlation analysis. Results: We found a significant relationship between the spatial pattern and life attributes of the species highlighting three groups of species: (1) species characterized as competitors, reproducing by runner clonal organs and forming large, dense patches; (2) species characterized as competitive-ruderals, dispersing exclusively by seed production and forming small periodic patches; and (3) species classified as CSR, characterized by rosette morphology and short rhizomes as clonal organs without any significant spatial autocorrelation. Spatial segregation was found between group 1 and group 2 up to 14 m; no significant cross-correlation between groups 1 and 3 between 0 and 3.5 m, and association between groups 2 and 3 up to 14 m. Conclusions: These results helped to understand how species attributes (relative to stature or dispersion abilities); external factors (such as disturbance) and biotic processes (competition) interplay in structuring the plant community under study in space. 
3235664|60 monospecific stands of Juniperus excelsa were sampled at four locations in Balouchistan. Density, basal area and height of individuals were recorded. Soils were analysed for selected physical and chemical characteristics and the degree of disturbance due to logging and burning was noted. The density of juniper trees (> 6 cm dbh) ranged from 56 to 332 stems / ha (average 174 stems / ha). Higher densities were recorded for relatively undisturbed stands and on west facing slopes. Density of seedlings and saplings (< 6 cm dbh) was strongly correlated with tree density and tree basal area. Among the edaphic variables CaCo<sub>3</sub> was correlated with juniper density and basal area. Diameter distributions within stands were mostly skewed and unimodal with gaps appearing in large size classes. The male to female ratio was close to 1. Cross-sections of 16 trees were used to determine age and growth rate. Number of rings in trees with 20 to 30 cm dbh ranged from 95 to 221 x = 160  38. Diameter and age were not related. Mean annual diameter increment ranged from 6 to 16 yr / cm (x = 10  3 yr / cm). It is concluded that size class gaps and low seedling / sapling densities are the consequence of anthropogenic disturbance.
3236499|To assess seed bank persistence of target species in endangered flood-meadows (alliances Cnidion and Molinion), we investigated established vegetation and soil seed bank of 46 plots for 3 yr and 2 yr, respectively. As traits of seed persistence we calculated various continuous indices that refer to the frequency and abundance of species in above-ground vegetation and at different soil depths. Furthermore, we tested the significance and soundness of easily observed traits such as maximum seed density per plot and seed attributes (mass, size and shape) as predictors of soil seed bank features. In linear regression, SAI, the seed accumulation index, showed the best agreement (R<sup>2</sup>=0.64) with the seed longevity index that was derived from the database by Thompson et al. (1997) for a set of 115 species. The second best predictor (R<sup>2</sup>=0.39) of the seed longevity index was maximum seed density per plot in the lower soil layer (5-10 cm). Depth distribution indices and seed attributes showed weaker but still significant relations. The dynamic character of flood-meadows was reflected by a large proportion of species with a strong tendency to accumulate seeds in the soil relative to their importance in above-ground vegetation. Most of these species have a ruderal strategy, exploiting gaps after flood disturbances, while the dominants of flood-meadows tended to have short-lived seed banks. Compared to other grassland types, a relatively large proportion of rare and endangered target species can be expected to form long-term persistent seed banks. However, only under marginal conditions that facilitate seed survival in the soil (e.g. fallow) are these persistent seed banks likely to contribute to restoration. We conclude that easily observed traits of persistence such as seed weight, size and shape do not meet the accuracy needed in scientific and practical applications. Thus, there is a crucial demand for further seed bank studies in poorly investigated habitats and of rare species.
3236511|Grazing by domestic livestock and changed fire regimes by humans have caused major changes in the productivity and composition of rangelands in Australia and other continents. Of particular concern are the commonly observed loss of perennial forage species and the increasing abundance of woody plants. Grazing and fire-induced changes are difficult to predict from current process knowledge and are often too costly or time-consuming to investigate experimentally. We describe the development and use of ARENA, a new simulation model. A plant functional approach is used in which the relative growth rate, competitive ability and life cycle of the plant types are mainly defined by the plant's morphology and allocation pattern, plus its water-use efficiency and nitrogen concentration. The soil and plant types can be parameterized to a large extent with information from the literature, facilitating application in a broad range of dryland environments. The model has been tested for two soils and pasture communities in the seasonally dry tropics of the Victoria River District, N Australia. Predictions of pasture production and perennial grass fraction under undisturbed conditions agreed with observations in field exclosures. Predictions of maximum tree density also coincided with observations along a rainfall gradient. Simulation experiments were conducted to explore the effect of different stocking levels and fire management regimes on pasture productivity and composition. Responses of pastures on red loam and grey clay soils were generally consistent with regional field experience, but the model did not reproduce the expected changes in the abundance of woody plants.
4499294| Question: To what extent do small-scale disturbances in the forest canopy, created by natural disturbance agents, affect stand development? Doubts exist as to whether small canopy openings have any real effect on the understory tree recruitment, especially in boreal forests. Location: Conifer and mixed stands in the Gaspesian region in eastern Qubec. The main natural disturbance agents are recurring outbreaks of Choristoneura fumiferana (eastern spruce budworm) and winds. Methods: Linear transects in 27 sites were used to describe the gap (< 0.1 ha) regime parameters, including gap fraction, gap size and change in disturbance severity through time. Three stand types were distinguished, based on a gradient of abundance of tree host species for the eastern spruce budworm. The impact of gaps was evaluated on the basis of changes in the number, the period of recruitment, and the composition of tree saplings present within gap areas. Changes were measured along the gap size gradient, and according to the pattern of recent budworm epidemics. Results: The gap fraction is highly variable (18%-64%) and is on average relatively high (42%). Gap sizes have a positively skewed distribution. In most cases the growth rate among gap filling saplings increased sufficiently to date disturbance events. The composition and the structure of understory trees were affected by gap formation. The number of shade-intolerant tree species did increase during or following periods of particularly severe canopy disturbances. However, the establishment or survival of shade intolerant species was not restricted to larger gaps or more intensely disturbed periods. Conclusions: In sub-boreal forests of Eastern Canada, small scale disturbances in the tree canopy influence stand regeneration dynamics, but not to the extent that parameters such as sapling composition and recruitment patterns depend on gap regime characteristics. 
3236415|Seed production, composition of the seed rain, germination, and seedling mortality, as well as vegetative growth characteristics of common pioneer plant species were studied on the foreland of the retreating Morteratsch glacier in the Swiss Alps. The frequency of diaspores trapped in different successional stages was related to their dispersal mode and was highly skewed towards a few species. Plenty of diaspores well adapted for dispersal by wind are a precondition for the most important pioneer species. Seeds from all pioneer species investigated had a good germination success, provided that the moisture content of the soil was high enough. However, requirement for seedling establishment differed among sites of increasing terrain age and among species. Only specialized pioneers such as Cerastium pedunculatum, Linaria alpina, Oxyria digyna and Saxifraga aizoides tolerate the cold and moist conditions near the glacier. However, these species are restricted to early successional stages. Seedlings of Epilobium fleischeri are affected not only by the cold and moist conditions near the glacier but also by moderately dry conditions on older sites. Availability of safe sites becomes crucial for most species with increasing age of sites and with drier conditions. Most species playing a dominant role during early succession and persisting during later successional stages have a distinctive ability to spread clonally and have a growth form with more or less widely spaced ramets: Achillea moschata, Cerastium pedunculatum, Epilobium fleischeri and Hieracium staticifolium. The growth strategy and demography of the clonal E. fleischeri is presented as an example. The life cycle of this species is characterized in succession by (1) the colonization of safe sites by small seeds adapted for wind dispersal, (2) horizontal spread by clonal growth, and (3) the persistence through phenotypic morphological plasticity in later successional stages. Seedling establishment and clonal growth are thus complementary mechanisms in plant succession on recently deglaciated terrain.
3236990|In order to investigate how scale (grain size) affects the relationships between species richness and environmental drivers (such as stress and disturbance), we collected 12 nested quadrats (from 0.25 m<sup>2</sup> to 1023 m<sup>2</sup>) from seven remnant oak savannas located in the floodplain of the Chippewa River in western Wisconsin, USA. Large and small-scale richness were not significantly correlated, suggesting that small-scale richness is not strongly controlled by sampling effects of the local species pool. Linear and curvilinear regressions between species richness and disturbance, canopy cover, biomass, and soil organic matter were dependent on sampling scale (grain size). Disturbance by fire was strongly related to richness at small scales, while tree canopy cover was strongly related to richness at larger scales. While there was some evidence suggesting the transition from disturbance to canopy effects occurs between 10 and 100 m<sup>2</sup>, the transition was not particularly abrupt. The results cast doubt on the general importance of local species pools in affecting small-scale richness as well as our ability to make generalizations that do not explicity include scale.
3236783|Significant correlation between the size of the species pool and richness per unit area is usually taken as a demonstration of the effect of the species pool on the species richness per unit area. This is not logically necessary. It has to be emphasized that such a correlation cannot be interpreted as a demonstration of the effect of species pool on the species richness per unit area. More generally, correlation cannot be used to demonstrate a one-directional effect of one variable upon another, since several types of (functional) relationships could produce correlations between such variables; the same caution has to be taken when analysing the species pool vs. richness per unit area correlation. In this paper, a simple Monte Carlo simulation model is used to demonstrate that (1) statistical processes acting only at the local scale (such as competitive exclusion) can generate exactly the same correlation that has been used to infer the effect of the species pool on richness per unit area; (2) this correlation would be deemed significant even if the mathematical dependency between species pool and richness per unit area is taken into account; and (3) the strength of this relation depends on beta diversity within the contiguous area used to determine the species pool.
3236461|Palaeoecologists have shown that trees migrated at rates of 100 - 1000 m/yr in response to post-glacial warming. In order to predict the impact of forecast anthropogenic climate changes upon forest ecosystems we need to simulate how trees may migrate in response to the changes predicted for the next 1 - 2 centuries. These predictions must take account of the impacts upon migration of human land-use and habitat fragmentation. We have developed a spatially-explicit mechanistic model (MIGRATE) able to simulate the migration of a single species across a realistically heterogeneous landscape. MIGRATE uses biological parameters that readily may be estimated from data in the literature or from field studies, and represents the landscape as a grid of cells, each with an associated carrying capacity. A one-dimensional version of MIGRATE has been compared both with Skellam's (1951) diffusion model and with the more recent analytical models of van den Bosch et al. (1990, 1992); despite its fundamentally different approach, MIGRATE provides comparable estimates of migration rates, given equivalent input parameters. An example is described that demonstrates the ability of the two-dimensional version of MIGRATE to simulate the likely pattern of spread of a species across a heterogeneous landscape. It is argued that MIGRATE, or models like it, will play a central role in a spatially-hierarchic modelling strategy that must be developed if we are to achieve the goal of simulating the likely response of trees, and other organisms, to both global climate change and the increasing pressures of human land-use.
3236134|Early establishment of Quercus emoryi seedlings in the grassland phase of a semi-arid temperate savanna was evaluated in southern Arizona, USA. Controlled-environment experiments indicated that Quercus seedlings are tolerant of frequent clipping, but unclipped seedlings produce more biomass than clipped seedlings. Seedlings were much less tolerant of clipping or defoliation in the field than in the growth chamber, and most seedlings died after being clipped or defoliated by herbivores. Invertebrate herbivory, which is rarely mentioned as an important factor limiting seedling establishment, was the leading cause of seedling mortality in the field study. Below-ground interference from herbs had a greater impact on seedling survival and growth than above-ground interference.
3235661|Pollen data from three mor humus profiles taken from within native woodland in the Killarney National Park are presented. The pollen records illustrate the woodland history over about 250 years. The dynamics of woodland on the mainland are compared with those of a small ungrazed lake island. Human disturbance of the woodland in the form of felling and burning is recorded at both locations. Following the disturbance, open vegetation predominated in which Arbutus unedo was widespread. This species declined as canopy woodland re-developed. The pollen records illustrate the dynamics of the developing woodland during which the role of Ilex aquifolium and Taxus baccata was strongly influenced by grazing. The past importance of Taxus baccata in western Irish woodland is considered.
4096705| Questions: How do species diversity, frequency and composition in tussocks differ from those in similar sized plots outside tussocks? Does the extent of the differences depend on community types or environmental conditions? Location: A sub-alpine grassland in the Swiss National Park. Methods: In each of the two communities (short grass and tall graminoid) differing in species composition, grazing intensity and soil nutrient availability, relevs were made in 40 pairs of small circular plots, with one plot located inside a randomly selected Carex sempervirens tussock and the other outside. Results: We found 92 vascular species, of which 46 had a frequency higher than 5%. Species richness (S), pooled cover, Shannon's diversity (H) and cumulative species number (CS) were higher outside than inside the C. sempervirens tussocks, but evenness (J) was lower. S, H and CS differed more in the tall graminoid community than in the short grass community. However, dissimilarity between the paired relevs inside and outside tussocks did not differ between the two communities. Of the 46 most frequent species, 12 were statistically more and only one less frequent outside than inside the tussocks. Vegetation inside and outside tussocks could be clearly distinguished in the ordination space. Conclusion: Vegetation inside C. sempervirens tussocks is different from that in the surrounding area and represents an impoverished but homogenized version of the surrounding vegetation. Although tussocks of C. sempervirens were systematically avoided by grazers, there is little evidence that tussocks facilitate the species growing inside them. 
3236691|Maps of plant individuals in (x, y) coordinates (i.e. point patterns) are currently analysed through statistical methods assuming a homogeneous distribution of points, and thus a constant density within the study area. Such an assumption is seldom met at the scale of a field plot whilst delineating less heterogeneous subplots is not always easy or pertinent. In this paper we advocate local tests carried out in quadrats partitioning the plot and having a size objectively determined via a trade-off between squared bias and variance. In each quadrat, the observed pattern of points is tested against complete spatial randomness (CSR) through a classical Monte-Carlo approach and one of the usual statistics. Local tests yield maps of p-values that are amenable to diversified subsequent analyses, such as computation of a variogram or comparison with covariates. Another possibility uses the frequency distribution of p-values to test the whole point pattern against the null hypothesis of an inhomogeneous Poisson process. The method was demonstrated by considering computer-generated inhomogeneous point patterns as well as maps of woody individuals in banded vegetation (tiger bush) in semi-arid West Africa. Local tests proved able to properly depict spatial relationships between neighbours in spite of heterogeneity/clustering at larger scales. The method is also relevant to investigate interaction between density and spatial pattern in the presence of resource gradients.
3235729|This study deals with the disturbance regime of an old-growth, mixed-evergreen forest with a canopy composed of Arbutus menziesii, Lithocarpus densiflora, Pseudotsuga menziesii, Quercus chrysolepis, Q. wislizenii, and Sequoia sempervirens. 80 canopy gaps were randomly selected from throughout a 230-ha watershed. Of the land area sampled, 11.1 to 16.6 % was within gaps. Gap area had a mode of < 50 m<sup>2</sup> and a range of 6 - 3437 m<sup>2</sup>. Gaps were formed by snags, snaps, tips, and slope failures. Although < 10 % of the gaps sampled were due to slope failures, these accounted for 43 % of the total land area within gaps. All snags resulted from the death of a Pseudotsuga or Arbutus individual, the widely branched trunks of Arbutus individuals accounted for most of the irregularly shaped gaps, and larger gaps resulted from the death of Pseudotsuga and Sequoia individuals, averaging 119 and 111 m<sup>2</sup> respectively, than from the death of Lithocarpus or Arbutus, averaging 54 and 52 m<sup>2</sup>. Gaps were more frequent over concave sections of slopes and large gaps were more frequent on north-facing slopes. The creation of a gap increased disturbance to the adjacent canopy, with half of the gaps formed through more than one disturbance. The relationship of disturbance regime to topography, the influence of canopy species biology on gap properties, and the repeated events involved in gap formation all indicate a fine scale variation in the pattern of gaps and their characteristics.
3236158|Standardization by norms of sample position vectors as well as by sample totals has been used frequently in vegetation ecology. Both standardizations are only special cases of the Generalized Standardization Procedure (GSP) described in this paper. The general procedure allows a wide choice of data transformations simply by varying values of a single standardization parameter. Principal Components Analysis (PCA) often involutes opposite ends of a coenospace, producing results that may be difficult to interpret. Experiments with simulated as well as field data sets revealed that involuted gradients can be unfolded if GSP is applied prior to PCA. Compared to Correspondence Analysis, GSP-PCA was superior in recovering the structure of analysed coenoclines.
23012428|Questions: Can the climatic adaptive capacity of natural ecosystems be estimated with using landscape indicators based on vegetation or land-cover data? Can species distribution model (SDM) outputs be enhanced using such indicators? What are the data requirements and optimal parameter values of potential indicators? Location: Indicator framework: unspecified. Case study: Kiskunsg, Hungary. Methods: (1) We define a general framework for handling adaptation in ecological climate change impact assessments based on IPCC definitions. (2) As a part of this general framework, we propose an indicator framework consisting of two specific indicators (landscape connectivity and landscape diversity index) to estimate adaptive capacity of ecosystems to climate change. (3) Using old-field regeneration as a proxy process, we test the proposed indicators, perform sensitivity analysis to optimize them and detect limits of their applicability. Results: Landscape metrics could provide significant information on regeneration success of old-fields. A combination of large-scale connectivity and local diversity had the highest explanatory power, with connectivity being clearly superior. The tested indicator framework can be applied on the basis of commonly available land-cover data sets. Ecological factors (like dispersal distances) are more important determinants of indicator performance than technical parameters or data resolution, provided minimum data quality is given. The dispersal distance of characteristic species of the Kiskunsg forest steppe region was 1 to 8 km during the last one to four decades. Conclusions: The results convincingly show that relatively simple and tractable metrics can effectively indicate the landscape-specific capacity of ecosystems to adjust to climatic changes. We argue that the use of adaptive capacity indicator frameworks consisting of simple but ecologically meaningful indicators should accompany every policy-oriented SDM study.
3236669|Important phenological activities in seasonally dry tropical forest species occur within the hot-dry period when soil water is limiting, while the subsequent wet period is utilized for carbon accumulation. Leaf emergence and leaf area expansion in most of these tree species precedes the rainy season when the weather is very dry and hot and the soil cannot support nutrient uptake by the plants. The nutrient requirement for leaf expansion during the dry summer period, however, is substantial in these species. We tested the hypothesis that the nutrients withdrawn from the senescing leaves support the emergence and expansion of leaves in dry tropical woody species to a significant extent. We examined the leaf traits (with parameters such as leaf life span, leaf nutrient content and retranslocation of nutrients during senescence) in eight selected tree species in northern India. The concentrations of N, P and K declined in the senescing foliage while those of Na and Ca increased. Time series observations on foliar nutrients indicated a substantial amount of nutrient resorption before senescence and a 'tight nutrient budgeting'. The resorbed N-mass could potentially support 50 to 100 % and 46 to 80 % of the leaf growth in terms of area and weight, respectively, across the eight species studied. Corresponding values for P were 29 to 100 % and 20 to 91 %, for K 29 to 100 % and 20 to 57 %, for Na 3 to 100 % and 1 to 54 %, and for Ca 0 to 32 % and 0 to 30 %. The species differed significantly with respect to their efficiency in nutrient resorption. Such interspecific differences in leaf nutrient economy enhance the conservative utilization of soil nutrients by the dry forest community. This reflects an adaptational strategy of the species growing on seasonally dry, nutrient-poor soils as they tend to depend more or less on efficient internal cycling and, thus, utilize the retranslocated nutrients for the production of new foliage biomass in summer when the availability of soil moisture and nutrients is severely limited.
40925496|Question: How do the diversity, size structure, and spatial pattern of woody species in a temperate (Mediterranean climate) forest compare to temperate and tropical forests? Location: Mixed evergreen coastal forest in the Santa Cruz Mountains, California, USA. Methods: We mapped, tagged, identified, and measured all woody stems ( 1 cm diameter) in a 6-ha forest plot, following Center for Tropical Forest Science protocols. We compared patterns to those found in 14 tropical and 12 temperate forest plots. Results: The forest is dominated by Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) and three species of Fagaceae (Quercus agrifolia, Q. parvula var. shrevei, and Lithocarpus densiflorus), and includes 31 woody species and 8180 individuals. Much of the diversity was in smalldiameter shrubs, treelets, and vines that have not been included in most other temperate forest plots because stems <5-cm diameter had been excluded from study. The density of woody stems (1363 stems ha) was lower than that in all but one tropical plot. The density of large trees (diameter  30 cm) and basal area were higher than in any tropical plot. Stem density and basal area were similar to most other temperate plots, but were less than in low-diversity conifer forests. Rare species were strongly aggregated, with the degree of aggregation decreasing with abundance so that the most common species were significantly more regular than random. Conclusions: The patterns raise questions about differences in structure and dynamics between tropical and temperate forests; these need to be confirmed with additional temperate zone mapped plots that include small-diameter individuals.
3236627|To investigate survivorship and regeneration in desert perennial plants, individual shrubs were mapped, measured and tagged on a nearly level 360 m<sup>2</sup> plot of diverse Mojave Desert vegetation in 1981, they were re-mapped and measured 15 years later, in 1996. A large majority of the shrubs persisted between censuses. Modest birth (establishment) and death rates indicate that plants are replaced approximately every century, while the median longevity of several species is much longer. A 15-yr intercensus interval, appropriate for most species (i.e. birth and death rates were measurable), is too short for several larger shrubs (including Larrea divaricata, Ephedra nevadensis, Yucca schidigera and the larger Opuntia spp.) in which virtually no births or deaths occurred and in which longevity must be extremely high. While individuals of most species grew over the 15-yr interval, others did not, and some individuals shrank in size. In a number of species, individual growth rates were significantly reduced according to the number of neighbouring plants rooted 0.5 - 2.0 m distant. Even Larrea tridentata, one of the largest species, showed significant effects of growth rate reduction where crowded by allospecific plants, despite the generally much smaller sizes of these neighbours.
4096725|Question: The aim of the present study is to determine whether seed/seedling predation will increase and Fagus survival will decline with the recovery of the Sasa cover. Methods: We examined Fagus crenata regeneration for seven years in an old-growth Fagus-Sasa forest near Lake Towada, northern Japan, by examining the effects of simultaneous death of Sasa, tree canopy gap formation, mast seeding of Fagus and seed and seedling predation by rodents on the survival of Fagus seeds and current year seedlings. We established four types of sites differing in forest canopy (closed or gap) and Sasa status (dead or alive) following the simultaneous flowering and death of Sasa kurilensis (dwarf bamboo) in 1995. Results: Fallen Fagus seed was abundant in 1997 and 2000 (mast years). In sites with alive Sasa, survival from the first growing season was low due to high seed and seedling predation. In sites with dead Sasa, seed survival under the canopy was high for both mast years, but in gaps it varied between years. Seedling survival was highest in canopy gaps with dead Sasa (gap-dead) in 1998, because of higher light levels and lower predation by rodents. However, seedling survival in these plots was low in 2001, apparently because rapid Sasa recovery favoured rodent predation. In both mast years, Sasa die-back had significant positive effects on seed and seedling survival under closed canopies because the seedlings there were more successful in escaping predation. Conclusion: The change in successful sites for the early stage of regeneration of Fagus appears to reflect the combined effects of canopy gap, seed/seedling predation and revegetation of Sasa.
3237097|Present discussions on competitive interactions and the occurrence of predictable patterns in species composition - including assembly rules - are likely to benefit from appropriate analyses of the spatial structure in plant communities. We suggest such an analysis when we specifically want to detect scale regions where fine-scale local processes may affect the spatial pattern of species composition. We combine indirect ordination in the form of Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) and geostatistics in the form of variography. The species abundance data in the sampled quadrats are summarized as positions on the axes in the ordination. Each axis is used as a regionalized variable in the variography to obtain the spatial dependence of the quadrats. The spatial pattern found will suggest the relevant scale region in which to perform on analysis of species associations. A significant spatial dependence (the 'range' in geostatistical jargon) will define the size of a sampling plot that will minimize both the problem of being too small and thus having the risk of oversampling of e.g. clonal individuals and of being too large which will risk including individuals that do not interact. We also suggest that plots are spaced at least a 'range' apart to insure spatial and statistical independence. Comparisons of species compositions in such plots will reveal any positive or negative associations between species on a scale where these should reflect species-species interactions. To illustrate the method it is applied to three different data sets from two different plant communities.
23012720|Aims: (1) Understanding how the relationship between species richness and its determinants depends on the interaction between scales at which the response and explanatory variables are measured. (2) Quantifying the relative contributions of local, intermediate and large-scale determinants of species richness in a fragmented agro-ecosystem. (3) Testing the hypothesis that the relative contribution of these determinants varies with the grain size at which species richness is measured. Location: A fragmented agro-ecosystem in the Southern Judea Lowland, Israel, within a desert-Mediterranean transition zone. Methods: Plant species richness was estimated using hierarchical nested sampling in 81 plots, positioned in 38 natural vegetation patches within an agricultural matrix (mainly wheat fields) among three land units along a sharp precipitation gradient. Explanatory variables included position along that gradient, patch area, patch isolation, habitat heterogeneity and overall plant density. We used general linear models and hierarchical partitioning of variance to test and quantify the effect of each explanatory variable on species richness at four grain sizes (0.0625, 1, 25 and 225 m2). Results: Species richness was mainly affected by position along a precipitation gradient and overall plant density, and to a lesser extent by habitat heterogeneity. It was also significantly affected by patch area and patch isolation, but only for small grain sizes. The contribution of each explanatory variable to explained variance in species richness varied with grain size, i.e. scale-dependent. The influence of geographic position and habitat heterogeneity on species richness increased with grain size, while the influence of plant density decreased with grain size. Main conclusions: Species richness is determined by the combined effect of several scale-dependent determinants. Ability to detect an effect and effect size of each determinant varies with the scale (grain size) at which it is measured. The combination of a multi-factorial approach and multi-scale sampling reveals that conclusions drawn from studies that ignore these dimensions are restricted and potentially misleading.
40295786|Question: What is the effect of shrubs on herbaceous species richness at three spatial scales: quadrat, site, and region? Location: Prepuna, subtropical semi-arid Andes. Methods: At eight sites, we recorded the presence of herbaceous species in spaces beneath shrubs/small trees and in open areas. At the quadrat scale, the average species number per quadrat was calculated and compared between the two microhabitats (shrubs/open). At the local (site) scale, all quadrats of each site were pooled according to microhabitat, and all sites were then combined for the regional analysis. Results and conclusions: We found greater herbaceous species richness below shrubs at all three spatial scales considered. Several species were found exclusively associated with the shrub undercanopy. This effect seems to depend more on greater inventory diversity at the different scales than on greater differentiation diversity in the herbaceous communities associated with shrubs. Facilitation seems to be responsible for the increase of species richness beneath shrubs, but further experimental study is needed to obtain insight into the underlying mechanisms.
3236149|Changes are described in aquatic vegetation in oligotrophic, groundwater-fed Rhine floodplain streams in Alsace (eastern France), resulting from disturbance. Disturbance factors include changes in nutrients, either permanent ones - effluent from a waste water treatment plant or trout hatcheries - or periodic ones: flooding. Regular inputs of high levels of phosphate and ammonia modified the macrophyte vegetation in these streams. The floristic composition, which was characteristic of oligotrophic waters upstream of the eutrophicated sector, changed to that of a eutrophic situation as originally found downstream. Periodic disturbance by floods which normally occur once a year, irregularly eutrophicates the small streams, causing the development of a mixture of eutrophic and oligotrophic species. Six macrophyte communities are distinguished, indicating different trophic levels. The aquatic vegetation is adapted to the variations of phosphate and ammonia levels. Hence, aquatic macrophytes can be used as bio-indicators of fluctuations in water nutrient levels in relation to the type of disturbance.
3237157|The foredune vegetation in the Gulf of Cadiz (SW Spain, S Portugal) was studied by means of morphological characters and functional traits of plants. The 55 vascular species recorded in the area were classified into three functional types: Type I consists mainly of winter annuals of moderate size with soft leaves, showing no presumed adaptations to the dune environment. Plants of Type II are mostly perennials with a below-ground spreading root network and leaves with presumed adaptations to coastal environmental stress. Type III includes plants mostly capable of being dispersed by sea-water and of withstanding sand burial. In relatively unstable soil, Type II and Type III plants were found to be more abundant, their relative proportion depending on the dominance of accretion/erosion processes. Increasing cover of Type I plants was associated with relatively more stable soils. The ratios in occurrences of the three types can be used as an indicator of foredune dynamics.
3236058|Age-states, population structure, and seedling regeneration of the grass Chionochloa pallens were investigated in eight alpine grassland stands representing the range of canopy cover (ca. 5 - 75 %) and basal area (112 - 3889 m<sup>2</sup>/ha<sup>-1</sup>) in the headwaters of the Avoca catchment, Canterbury, New Zealand. In open-canopy stands (< 50 % canopy cover, < 2000 m<sup>2</sup>/ha<sup>-1</sup> basal area) C. pallens individuals were clearly distinguishable. Relationships between basal diameter, number of tillers, height, and % crown death suggested four putative age-states: 'seedlings', 'juvenile tussocks', 'mature tussocks' and 'senescent tussocks'. Four types of population structure were identified depending on the proportions of seedlings and juvenile and mature tussocks. C. pallens seedlings were present in seven stands at densities ranging from 0.6 to 123.4/m<sup>2</sup>. They were most frequent on microsites protected from frost-heave by short herbaceous vegetation or litter, but with little competition from taller vegetation. Differences in seedling densities between stands partly reflected the proximity and abundance of seed sources and degree of protection from frost-heave. C. pallens population structures appear to be influenced by the frequency and magnitude of geomorphic disturbances and browsing by introduced animals.
4096657|Question: Is there a relationship between size and death in the long-lived, deep-rooted tree, Acacia erioloba, in a semi-arid savanna? What is the size-class distribution of A. erioloba mortality? Does the mortality distribution differ from total tree size distribution? Does A. erioloba mortality distribution match the mortality distributions recorded thus far in other environments? Location: Dronfield Ranch, near Kimberley, Kalahari, South Africa. Methods: A combination of aerial photographs and a satellite image covering 61 year was used to provide long-term spatial data on mortality. We used aerial photographs of the study area from 1940, 1964, 1984, 1993 and a satellite image from 2001 to follow three plots covering 510 ha. We were able to identify and individually follow ca. 3000 individual trees from 1940 till 2001. Results: The total number of trees increased over time. No relationship between total number of trees and mean tree size was detected. There were no trends over time in total number of deaths per plot or in size distributions of dead trees. Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests showed no differences in size class distributions for living trees through time. The size distribution of dead trees was significantly different from the size distribution of all trees present on the plots. Overall, the number of dead trees was low in small size classes, reached a peak value when canopy area was
3236175|We studied the interactions between woody perennial species and native and non-native annual species in a number of vegetation types within a nature reserve in the Western Australian wheatbelt. In particular, we examined the responses of annuals to perennial canopy removal, fire, soil disturbance and nutrient additions, and the effects of removal of annuals on perennial seedling regeneration. Experimental shrub removal significantly increased the abundance of annuals in a dense shrubland dominated by Allocasuarina campestris, but had no effect in a more open species-rich sandplain heath. Soil disturbance and nutrient addition in the heath area had no significant influence on annual abundance until three years after treatment. Fire had no clear effect on annual abundance in the heath within the reserve, but promoted a large increase in non-native species within an adjacent roadverge. A pattern of increased soil nutrient levels was accompanied by greatly increased nonnative annual abundance beneath individual trees of Santalum spicatum. Exploratory laboratory bioassay experiments indicated that several woody perennials produced leachates that were capable of reducing the germination or growth of the introduced grass Avenafatua, indicating that allelopathy may be an important component of the interaction between the annual and perennial components. Within a woodland community, fire temporarily reduced the abundance of annual species and increased the establishment of perennial seedlings. Field experiments showed that annuals significantly reduced the survival of seedlings of the shrub Allocasuarina campestris. Our results indicate that intact native vegetation canopies effectively prevent invasion by non-native annuals, and that regeneration by native perennials is likely to be inhibited by the presence of an abundant annual cover.
40295843|Questions: What are the relative contributions of environmental factors and geographic distance to palm community structure at the mesoscale, and how do they depend on the length of the environmental gradient covered? How do soil and topography affect variation of the canopy and understory palm community structure at the mesoscale? How does fine-scale variation within the broad edaphic/topographic classes affect palm community composition? Location: Reserva Ducke, terra-firme forest, Manaus, Brazil. Methods: Palms were sampled in 72 plots 250 m x 4 m, systematically distributed over an area of 100 km . Soil, topography and distance to watercourses were measured for all plots. The relationship between community structure axes, summarized by NMDS ordinations, and environmental predictors, was analysed with multivariate regressions. Matrix regressions were used to determine the proportions of variance explained by environmental and geographic predictors. Results: Floristic variation at the mesoscale was mostly related to environmental variation, and the proportion of variance explained depended on the amplitude of the environmental gradient. Soil was the main predictor of floristic change, but its effects differed between life forms, with the understory palm community structured within one of the edaphic/topographic classes, in association with distance to watercourses. Conclusions: Dispersal limitation does not explain palm composition at the mesoscale, and the amplitude of environmental gradients covered by the analysis can be as important as the scale of analysis, in determining the relative contributions of environmental and geographical components to community structure. Soil and topography can predict a large proportion of palm composition, but gradients differ in scale, with some environmental gradients being nested within others. Therefore, although all environmental gradients are nested within distance, they do not necessarily coincide.
3237251|A Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) based digital land cover map has been created for the state of Wyoming, USA, at moderate spatial (1-km<sup>2</sup> minimum mapping unit) and high typal (41 land cover types) resolution as part of the Wyoming Gap Analysis Program (WGAP). This map presents opportunities for regional characterization of land cover, especially vegetation, and for examination of ecological phenomena that manifest themselves over large areas. Using the digital land cover data, we describe Wyoming vegetation and examine positions of three prominent physiognomic transitions in Wyoming: the elevation of upper and lower treeline, and the position of the biogeographic boundary between shrub-and grass-dominated vegetation. By area, the three leading land cover types in Wyoming are Artemisia tridentata ssp. wyomingensis sagebrush (33.4 %), mixed grass prairie (17.5 %) and Pinus contorta forest (6.5 %). Average upper-treeline elevation in Wyoming is 2947 m, and decreases with increasing latitude at an average rate of about 0.5 m/km, less than the rate of about 0.9 m/km reported by Peet (1978) for a gradient from Mexico to Canada. Lower-treeline occurs at an average elevation of 2241 m, and decreases with increasing latitude and with southerly aspect. In Wyoming, shrub-dominated communities are more likely to occur than grass-dominated communities as summer precipitation decreases below 282 mm. All of these relationships are subtle, and it appears that for particular areas, local factors are more important than regional climatic trends in explaining the position of phytogeographic boundaries.
3236258|Prosopis glandulosa, an arborescent legume, may act as a nurse plant that facilitates the establishment of other woody species. We hypothesized that attenuation of radiant energy and increased soil nutrients beneath P. glandulosa canopies facilitate establishment of subordinate shrubs and shrub cluster development. We determined the spatial distribution pattern of shrubs under P. glandulosa at three locations in southern Texas. Density of Celtis pallida, Zanthoxylum fagara, and total woody plants were comparable among the four cardinal directions at each location, which countered the prediction that shrub density would be greater on the north side of P. glandulosa canopies if attenuation of solar energy was a factor in cluster development. Total woody plant density increased with increasing P. glandulosa basal diameter, canopy radius, and height only at one location. Total woody plant density decreased with increasing total N in the upper 15 cm of soil at two of the three locations. Late in shrub cluster development, extraction of N from the soil and incorporation of N into plant tissue in dense shrub clusters may operate to inhibit further increases in subordinate shrub density.
3235829|In herbaceous plant communities of Stora Alvaret (the Great Alvar), Oland, Sweden, we studied the dependence of species-area relationships on the canopy cover of the colonizing shrubs Juniperus communis and Potentilla fruticosa. A series of plots 0.25 - 256 m<sup>2</sup> in area were sampled in communities with varying canopy cover of Juniperus or Potentilla. Species number - log (area) regressions always fitted data better than log (species number) - log (area) regressions. The number of species declines more dramatically with increasing Potentilla cover than with increasing Juniperus cover. The total species number in large Juniperus plots follows a unimodal curve with a peak at about 75 % shrub cover. The alvar (limestone grassland) species number in plots of all sizes declines monotonically with Juniperus cover following the regression equation S = 31.09 + 10.75 log A - 0.0025 P<sup>2</sup>, where A is area and P is percentage Juniperus cover. There is a monotonic decline of species number with increasing shrub cover in Potentilla plots of all sizes. The species richness in plots with Potentilla was fitted by the regression equation S = 16.48 + 14.91 log A-0.131 P-0.00104 P<sup>2</sup> log A, where P is % Potentilla cover. A faster initial decline of species number with Potentilla colonization is apparently caused by its preferential establisment in species-rich, elevated microsites.
3236245|The term vicinism, usually ascribed to R. Nordhagen, was probably first coined in 1903 by Hugo de Vries as a genetical term - in the framework of his mutation theory - and only two years later as an ecological concept by F.E. Clements. Since both terms are clearly defined and concern different phenomena it is better to distinguish between genetical and ecological vicinism, while the latter concept can be further subdivided in rhizome and seed vicinism.
3235957|Patches (1 m diameter) were cleared in a heavily grazed and a lightly grazed savanna in South Africa; half of them were covered once with grass litter. The greatest colonisation over three years occurred on heavily grazed patches with litter, the least on open, lightly grazed patches. Annual rainfall affected colonisation rate. Basal cover was lower on patches than in the surrounding vegetation. Patch composition was weakly affected by treatment, and was partly related to the composition of adjacent vegetation, but the proportional representation of species on patches differed from the surrounding vegetation. The stoloniferous Digitaria eriantha and the obligate seed reproducers Aristida bipartita and Heteropogon contortus were major components of patch communities but were uncommon in the surrounding vegetation and in the seed bank. Setaria incrassata and Themeda triandra were the predominant components of the surrounding vegetation and of the seed bank, but Setaria established very poorly and Themeda established well only on heavily grazed patches with litter. The pattern of seedling establishment was the same as that of colonisation. Most seedlings emerged at the beginning of the wet season, with ca. 50% mortality soon thereafter. The colonising species can be partly predicted from the availability of propagules (vegetative or seed), emergence and establishment success, and subsequent growth.
3237103|After abandonment many limestone grasslands have been overgrown by trees and shrubs; as a result, species-rich communities with many regionally rare and endangered species are vanishing. Some studies suggest that, in cases where grassland is being restored, the species composition and rate of change is strongly dependent on the initial conditions, i.e. the earlier presence of grassland species and the opportunity for colonization of new sites by grassland species. These hypotheses were tested in a five-year restoration experiment after the clearing of a 35-yr-old secondary pine wood developed on abandoned grassland. Tree cutting induced rapid changes in the floristic composition and species cover. The number of grassland species from the class Festuco-Brometea increased significantly in the restored grassland, but their cover was much lower than in the old grassland. Canonical Correspondence Analysis showed significant differences in species composition between the grassland restored in former wood gaps and that developed in former closed wood. In wood gap sites the cover of species from the class Molinio-Arrhenatheretea and tufted perennials was much higher, whereas the cover of Festuco-Brometea species was lower. Significantly more shrubs, woodland species, ruderal and nitrophilous species as well as annual and biennial species occurred in the former closed wood site. It was found that richness and composition of the restored grassland depended strongly on the community composition before tree cutting, as well as on the presence of grassland species in the neighbourhood. Periodical tree cutting enables the maintenance of a temporal-spatial mosaic of scrub-grassland communities in isolated habitats and the preservation of local species diversity.
41059633|Background: Twelve distinct explanations have been proposed for the co-existence of species in ecological communities. Types of mechanism: The mechanisms can be divided into those that are stabilizing, i.e. with an increase-when-rare mechanism, and those that are equalizing, the latter on their own only delaying the exclusion of species. However, by evening out fitness, equalizing mechanisms can facilitate the operation of stabilizing mechanisms. Importance: It is suggested that circular interference networks, co-evolution of similar interference ability, cyclic succession, equal chance (neutrality) and initial patch composition are likely to be unimportant, or perhaps not even occur. Equal chance is an equalizing mechanism. Allogenic disturbance, alpha-niche differentiation, environmental fluctuation (relative non-linearity and/or the storage effect) and pest pressure are probably important. All four are stabilizing. More evidence is needed on aggregation, interference/dispersal trade-offs and the spatial mass effect. Aggregation and the spatial mass effect are equalizing. Suggestions are made of the evidence needed to make informed judgements on which contribute the most to co-existence in plant communities.
3236063|Experimental plots in grass heath, previously subjected to various sod cutting treatments, contained a seed store of ericoid dwarf shrubs, but seeds of grasses of the former grass heath were not found. The density of emerging dwarf-shrub seedlings in the plots was determined mainly by soil moisture, but with density of seeds stored in the soil and soil acidity as modifying factors. It is concluded that the restoration of a dwarf-shrub heath by sod cutting is relatively successful, as compared to other measures, because the grass seeds become obsolete.
3236578| Seed banks in cattle dung, soil under cattle dung and soil under vegetation and growth response of plant species to the changes in soil nitrogen availability were studied in an alvar limestone grassland on land, Sweden, in order to analyse the impact of dung deposition and decomposition on the formation of patches of plant species. Results suggest that patches of four plant species could result from cattle dung deposition and decomposition. Impact of dung could proceed in three ways: (1) by changing the relative abundance of species in the soil seed bank under dung, and/or (2) by influencing the deposition of seeds in the dung, and/or (3) by intensifying the growth of some species through nutrient release. Species patches could result from one or more of these aspects. For instance, patches of Arenaria serpyllifolia may be induced by dung deposition because of the dominance of its seeds in dung, while the pattern of Cerastium semidecandrum and Festuca ovina may be due to the abundance of their seeds in the soil seed bank under dung and their positive growth response to increased nitrogen availability. 
3236749|Patterns of plant species composition and their relationships to soil and topographic variables were investigated in tropical dry forests across the north central Yucatan, Mexico. Seven sites were studied in the oldest accessible forests along a 200-km transect oriented northwest to southeast; an eighth site was located in a little-disturbed area located 75 km northeast of the transect. Two of the sites were on Mayan ruins. All sites were sampled using 9 - 24, 10 m x 20 m plots (n = 132) for woody stems  3.0 cm diameter breast height. The important natural forest species were Bursera simaruba, Caesalpinia gaumeri, Gymnopodium floribundum, Piscidia piscipula, and Thouinia paucidentata. The two most important woody species in ruin woodlands were Brosimum alicastrum and Croton lundellii. Forest plots (n = 108) had 17 species on average, ruin plots (n = 24) nine species. Mean basal area of stems at the forest plots (20.7 m<sup>2</sup>.ha<sup>-1</sup>) was lower than in ruin plots (28.4 m<sup>2</sup>.ha<sup>-1</sup>). Detrended Correspondence Analysis generally placed plots by site along the geographic transect. Natural forest plots and sites were separated from the plots on ruin sites. The five soil and topographic variables (slope, soil depth, percent surface rock, soil pH, total soil organic matter) differed significantly among sites. Plot values were correlated with DCA axe scores. Intersite floristic variation reflects an overall west to east environmental gradient affected by climate.
3237187|Prosopis glandulosa var. glandulosa has played a central role in the encroachment of woody plants in southern Texas, grasslands and savannas by acting as a nurse plant for various shrubs that establish in its understory. To test for continued facilitation of established understory shrubs by Prosopis and to determine if established shrubs compete with the Prosopis nucleus, selective removal experiments were conducted and monitored over a 2 - 5 yr period. Short-term (1 - 3 days) and long-term (2 yr) growth and physiological activities (midday net photosynthesis and leaf/shoot water potential) of two common understory shrubs, Zanthoxylum fagara and Berberis trifoliolata, growing with Prosopis, were generally comparable to those of individuals occurring in clusters where Prosopis was removed. Shrubs growing with an intact Prosopis occasionally showed significantly higher leaf-[N] and pre-dawn water potentials than those in clusters lacking a live Prosopis, especially under drought conditions; however, these differences did not translate into greater midday leaf gas exchange or shoot growth. By comparison, removal of understory shrubs elicited large increases in Prosopis net photosynthesis, annual trunk growth in each of the 5 yr monitored, and seed pod production in three of the four years monitored. Seven of 26 Prosopis plants in experimental clusters with an intact understory died over a 5-yr period, compared to only two of the 26 plants in clusters with the cleared understory. Results indicate that (1) the founding overstory Prosopis plant may continue to facilitate understory shrubs following their establishment, but these beneficial effects appear to be small and transitory, and (2) the understory shrubs have a pronounced negative effect on Prosopis, such that competition between overstory and understory woody plants is strongly asymmetrical. These findings suggest that understory shrubs will likely persist despite changes in microclimate and soils (potentially) that occur after the Prosopis plant, which facilitated their ingress or establishment, has died. Soil resource depletion by shallow-rooted understory shrubs appears to be a primary factor contributing to the demise of the deeply rooted, overstory Prosopis plants, especially on upland sites with duplex soils where below-ground competition is accentuated.
3237271| The characteristics of microhabitats of established Pinus sylvestris and Betula seedlings were studied in a small windthrow gap in a mature P. sylvestris-dominated forest in the Petkeljrvi National Park in eastern Finland. Seedlings were strongly clustered in disturbed microhabitats, particularly uprooting pits and mounds, formed by tree falls. They covered 3 % of the 0.3.ha study area consisting of the gap and some of the forest edge. Although Betula occurred only as scattered individuals in the dominant canopy layer of the forest, it accounted for 30 % of the seedlings found in the study area. Betula regeneration was almost completely restricted to pits and mounds, where 91% of the seedlings were found. Uprooting spots were also the most important regeneration microhabitats for Pinus, where 60 % of the seedlings grew, even though the seedlings were found in other substrates as well, particularly on sufficiently decomposed coarse wood. Undisturbed field- and bottom-layer vegetation had effectively hindered tree seedling establishment, which emphasises the role of soil disturbance for regeneration. While the establishment of seedlings was found to be clearly determined by the availability of favourable regeneration microhabitats, the early growth of seedlings was affected by a complex interaction of environmental variables, including the type of microhabitat, radiation environment and interferences caused by competing seedlings and adjacent trees. In the most important regeneration microhabitats, i.e. in uprooting pits and on mounds, the distributions of the local elevations of Pinus and Betula seedlings were different. Pinus seedlings occurred closer to ground level, i.e. on the fringes of pits and lower on mounds, while Betula seedlings grew deeper in pits and higher on mounds. The position of the Betula seedlings indicate that they may have a competitive advantage over Pinus seedlings in the dense seedling groups occurring in uprooting spots. We suggest that this initial difference in Pinus and Betula establishment may affect the subsequent within-gap tree species succession and can, in part, explain the general occurrence of Betula in conifer-dominated boreal forests. 
40925503|Questions: Perching and nursing effects drive initial steps of forest expansion over grasslands. Nursing effect is obviously related to niche mechanisms, while perching effect is likely to result both from neutral and niche factors. This study assessed the effect of neutral and niche factors on species composition in sapling communities developing beneath isolated trees/shrubs (ITS) in grassland. Location: A mosaic of Campos grassland and Araucaria forest in So Francisco de Paula, southern Brazil (2928S, 5013W). Methods: We described sapling communities beneath 32 ITS using mean number of forest woody saplings of different species. We performed a stepwise canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) to select ITS traits that maximized the association with species composition. Then we evaluated the contribution of distance from seed source, ITS traits and distance-structured ITS traits on sapling community assembly using a variation partitioning method based on CCA and partial CCA. Results: Sapling species composition was significantly explained by ITS traits (ITS dispersal mode, ITS growth form, crown area:ITS height ratio, crown area, ITS height and crown area: volume ratio). Distance from seed sources explained only a minor, non-significant fraction of sapling species composition. Distance-structured trait variation was negligible. Conclusions: Sapling community assembly beneath ITS was mostly explained by niche factors related to both nursing and perching effects. Dispersal limitation explained only a small fraction of variation in species composition beneath ITS, suggesting that neutral-based perching effect had a minor role in community assembly.
3236199| This phytosociological study of the beaches, dunes, and associated lower mountain slopes of Attu Island is the first effort to identify the major coastal vegetation types of the Aleutian Islands using numerical methods. It is the first attempt to use the relev method in southern coastal Alaska and provides a basis for future comparison with other areas. 76 relevs represent the range of structural and compositional variation in the matrix of vegetation and landform zonation at 16 locations. Data are analyzed by multivariate methods using the MULVA-4 computer package and ordered with Wildi's numerical procedure to produce results similar to traditional phytosociological tabular classification. Nine major community types are distinguished in four physiognomic groups: 1. Dwarf-shrub mire: Vaccinium idiginosum-Empetrum nigrum: 2. Meadow: Athyrium filix-femina-Streptopus amplexifolius, Artemisia tilesli-Veratrum album, Elymus mollis-Montia (Claytonia) sibirica, Ligusticum scoticum-Elymus mollis; 3. Beach meadow: Elymus mollis-Senecio pseudo-arnica, Lathyrus maritimus-Elymus mollis; and 4. Beach: Mertensia maritima and Arenaria (Honckenya) peploides. These community types are described and interpreted in response to a complex, topographic gradient. Phytogeographic comparison of Attu Island with neighboring areas suggests close relationship to the beach and beach-meadow types of eastern Kamchatka and to the mesic meadows of the Alaskan Semidi Islands; there is a slightly lower relationship to the mesic meadows of nearby Buldir Island. 
3235706|We return to the problem of pattern detection with focus on locating vegetation edges. We assume transect sampling with contiguous quadrats and we postulate a vegetation model in which pattern confounds responses to random, serial, and possibly edge-generating effects. Realizing that strong serial effects will enhance the appearance of vegetation continuity, we probe the residuals for evidence of edges. Two independently derived structures furnish the evidence: a deviations profile and an ordination map. The profile displays compositional changes along the transect as deviations from a theoretical continuum state. The ordination traces the transect as an irregular line in vegetation hyperspace. On this irregular line, the transect segments appear as apices and the compositional dissimilarities of the transect segments as inter-apex distances. Sharp apices (in full dimension) isolated by long inter-apex distances (also in full dimension) indicate possible edges. While the subtending angle to an apex reflects changes in population proportions, the criterion for measuring edge sharpness, the height of the deviations profile expresses quantitative effects, the criterion for measuring edge intensity. The deviations profile does not seem to have direct parallel in past edge detection. The inter-apex distance has a parallel in the Ludwig-Cornelius compositional distance. We describe the details of sampling and analysis, and present numerical results. We also include a short glossary in App. 5.
3236938|The endemic New Caledonian conifer Agathis ovata occurs as an emergent tree in fire-prone shrublands (maquis), and fire-sensitive rainforest. Growth, survivorship and recruitment over 5 yr were compared for populations from forest and maquis on ultramafic substrates in New Caledonia to investigate whether demographic behaviour varied in response to the strongly contrasting forest and shrubland environments. Growth of seedlings and of small (30-100 cm height) and large (100 cm height; 5 cm DBH) saplings was slow, but varied significantly among stages, site types and years. The greatest difference in growth rates was among stages, seedlings growing 0.34 cm.yr<sup>-1</sup>, small saplings 1.06 cm.yr<sup>-1</sup> and large saplings 2.13 cm.yr<sup>-1</sup>. Tree DBH increased by only 0.05 cm.yr<sup>-1</sup> and, based on these rates, individuals with DBH of 30 cm are estimated to be more than 700 yr old. Few trees (3.5%) produced cones in any year and seedling recruitment was low, but some recruitment was recorded each year in both maquis and forest. Rates of recruitment per parent were highest in forest (1.28.yr<sup>-1</sup>, cf 0.78.yr<sup>-1</sup>), but the higher density of trees in maquis meant that overall recruitment was greater there (92 ha<sup>-1</sup>.yr<sup>-1</sup>, cf 56 ha<sup>-1</sup>.yr<sup>-1</sup>). Seedling mortality ranged from 0.9 to 2.9% among years with no significant difference between maquis and forest. No sapling mortality was recorded, but annual tree mortality ranged from 0 to 1.4%. Evidence from a recently burned site indicated that while trees may survive fire, seedlings and saplings do not. Post-fire seedling recruitment per ha from surviving trees was four times lower than in unburned sites, but growth rates were four times higher. Similar demographic attributes, including high survivorship, low growth rate and low rates of recruitment over a long reproductive life, characterize Agathis ovata populations in both maquis and rainforest in New Caledonia and are indicative of a broad tolerance of light environments that is unusual among tree species. These demographic attributes help to explain the long-term persistence of the species in these strongly contrasting habitats.
4499176| Question: What is the relationship between soil fertility and plant species richness in the 'fertile islands' occurring beneath two species of legume (Cercidium praecox and Prosopis laevigata)? Location: Tehuacn-Cuicatln region, central Mexico. Methods: Plant richness was measured in three micro-environments (below canopies of C. praecox, below canopies of P. laevigata and in areas without canopies). The concentration of soil nutrients (C, N and P), C and N in the microbiota, and processes of ecosystem functioning (net C mineralization rate and N mineralization) were measured. The relationship between soil variables and plant richness were assessed with ANCOVAs. Results: Soil nutrients and species richness increases markedly under fertility islands. There were higher concentrations of C and N in the soil, faster rates of C mineralization, and higher species richness under P. laevigata canopies. The relationship between soil fertility and species richness was always positive except for total N, ammonium and net C mineralization rate under C. praecox, and for available P under P. laevigata. Conclusions: The sign of the relationship between soil fertility and species richness varies according to the nutrient and the micro-environment. Positive relationships could result from between species complementarity and facilitation. Negative relationships could be explained by a specific limitation threshold for some soil resources (P and N for plants and C for the soil microbiota) which eliminate the possibilities of between species complementarity and facilitation above that threshold. As in all observational studies, these relationships should be considered only correlational. 
3237105|The consequences of extensification on grassland invasion by weeds was studied in French Pyrenean hay-meadows through a survey of the population dynamics of one very successful colonizer: Chaerophyllum aureum. Experiments established in natural permanent grasslands allow us to test the effect of different intensities of cutting on the demography of adult and seedling populations and on the production of seeds and their survival in soil. Although an early cut can control population density by drastically reducing invasion by new genotypes, the results reveal a positive effect of early cutting on adult and seedling survival probably by decreasing intraspecific competition. Allocation of resources to sexual reproduction in response to cutting is limited, affecting especially the seed viability in soil. Nevertheless, the invasive ability of this species is due largely to a strategy whereby those adults showing a high survival rate tend to be perennial.
3236265|The vegetation class is generally accepted as the highest category in vegetation taxonomy. Vegetation classes, following the tradition, are defined mainly on the basis of character species. However, these are sometimes relatively rare and not always really representative of the ecological conditions of plant communities included in the class. In the present study the possibilities are discussed for a more comprehensive definition of the class, including spatial structure and environmental characteristics of the vegetation and the geographical distribution of character species. These include criteria with practical value, in particular for the understanding of vegetation in tropical areas. Some cases of well-known vegetation classes are discussed; in most of them the ranges of single character species and the range of the class as a whole largely coincide.
3236977|Woody legumes growing in dry climates can increase soil nutrient content and facilitate plant growth in their understorey. We investigated differences in soil fertility and herbaceous community in relation to the presence and absence of the legume Retama sphaerocarpa in a shrubland in a mediterranean type climate. The results showed a higher content of limiting nutrients for plant growth, such as phosphorus and nitrogen, under the R. sphaerocarpa canopy. Herbaceous biomass, cover and nitrogen content increased below the canopy. However, species richness and diversity were diminished in the presence of a dense canopy of R. sphaerocarpa. Nitrogen isotopic analysis did not indicate a clear relationship between symbiotic fixation in R. sphaerocarpa and nitrogen content of soil and plants under its canopy. Nevertheless, herbs growing in the understorey showed a linear correlation between foliar N content and <sup>15</sup>N values. The existence of a dense shrub canopy induced a smaller monthly variation in herb richness, diversity and biomass, suggesting that it provides a stable microhabitat facilitating herbaceous vegetation establishment and growth. The 'shelter' effect was more important when environmental conditions became stressful for herbaceous plants.
41059552|Question: What were the temporal patterns and rates of tree mortality in a recent episodic tree mortality event? Have similar events occurred in the past, and does climatic variability play a role in the disturbance regime? Location: Intact Picea abies-dominated taiga in the Arkhangelsk region, northwestern Russia. Methods: We reconstructed the past tree mortality and disturbance history by applying dendroecological methods in five forest stands and related these to climatic data. The role of other potential causes of tree mortality was assessed in a field inventory. Results: The recent episode lasted from 1999 to 2004, influenced all stands studied, and killed on average 21% of trees with a diameter of over 10 cm at 1.3-m height. The annual tree mortality rate in the decades preceding this episode was 0.49%. During the past 200 years, the stands have experienced chronic small-scale disturbances, with several irregular disturbances of moderate severity. The recent episode was associated with abundant signs of the bark beetle Ips typographus. Furthermore, the timing of both the recent tree mortality episode and the past disturbance events was associated with dry summers. Conclusion: The results indicate a connection between climatic variability and forest dynamics, the likely driving factors being droughts and bark beetles. In the context of the past 200 years, the recent episode was potentially at the higher end of the range of disturbance variability in terms of severity and spatial extent. This has ecological implications in a changing climate, potentially influencing ecosystem structure and long-term dynamics.
3236761|Ice storms cause periodic disturbance to temperate forests of eastern North America. They are the primary agents of disturbance in some eastern forests. In this paper, a forest gap model is employed to explore consequences of ice storms for the long-term dynamics of Tsuga canadensis-northernern hardwoods forests. The gap model LINKAGES was modified to simulate periodic ice storm disturbance in the Adirondack Mountains of New York. To adapt the gap model for this purpose, field data on ice storm disturbance are used to develop a polytomous logistic regression model of tree damage. The logistic regression model was then incorporated into the modified forest gap model, LINKADIR, to determine the type of damage sustained by each simulated tree. The logistic regression model predicts high probabilities of bent boles or severe bole damage (leaning, snapping, or uprooting) in small-diameter trees, and increasing probability of canopy damage as tree size increases. Canopy damage is most likely on gentle slopes; the probability of severe bole damage increases with increasing slope angle. In the LINKADIR simulations, tree damage type determines the probability of mortality; trees with severe bole damage are assigned the highest mortality rate. LINKADIR predicts Tsuga canadensis dominance in mesophytic old-growth forests not disturbed by ice storms. When ice storms are simulated, the model predicts Acer saccharum-dominated forests with higher species richness. These results suggest that ice storms may function as intermediate disturbances that enhance species richness in forested Adirondack landscapes.
4096739|Scientific progress in plant ecology is at risk of being obscured by increasing ignorance of major works in the field. The driving force seems to be the twin seductions of novelty and crowd psychology. I illustrate this tendency with three examples from plant community ecology that span the past thirty years of ecological research. I offer, as one solution, the concept of a canon: a short list of essential books that we assume all students and co-workers have read, a short list that summarizes the wisdom of the discipline. A canon can be likened to DNA, be it in music, art, or science, as it carries forward through time the key ideas that have worked in the past. Without a canon, there is no memory of past achievement, no context for appreciating current work, and no way of judging the quality of newer productions. I suggest 20 essential books (the short canon), and 22 complementary readings, for a total of 42 books needed in any young professional's library on plant ecology.
3236243|This contribution is a comment on the paper by Belbin & McDonald (1993) on the comparison of three classification strategies for use in ecology. There are two problems in evaluating clustering methods: does the sample adequately reflect the population structure, and what is the nature of the clusters sought. First, one has to decide on the number of clusters to be obtained. Possibly the best approach of all is the Bayesian coding theory for inductive inference. This may depend on the objectives of the clustering, which can be manifold. Phytosociologists do not agree on the nature of the clusters they seek, and are reticent in providing a formal definition of their clusters. As a method for identifying gradients Correspondence Analysis has had some success, so that a classification method largely based on it, notably TWINSPAN, may better reflect what phytosociologists are intuitively seeking than alternative variance minimisation methods. Additionally, TWINSPAN incorporates the characterisation through indicator species. Maybe we are more interested in these differentiating species than in the existence of clusters per se.
3235977|Changes in land use, particularly the type of forest management, and their spatial pattern, especially woody plant diversity, were related to each other in an area in the Basque region (Spain). The number and diversity of boundaries between landscape patches is related to the development of the spatial complexity of the landscape, C(s), measured in bits and defined as: C(s) = H(b) H(1), where H(b) is the boundary diversity and H(1) the spatial heterogeneity generated by these boundaries. As to the vegetation types, changes in land use over the last 50 yr have resulted in a less diversified and more fragmented landscape, especially on a small scale. Forest plantation has become the predominant land use. The frequency of land use changes is studied regarding its influence on the present levels of woody plant diversity.
3235662|We tested the following hypotheses for the first five years of a grassland succession: (a) community changes are mainly directional and related to time after disturbance rather than to environmental fluctuations; (b) rates of succession decrease over time, and (c) plant communities in different plots converge on a similar composition within five years of succession. We tested those hypotheses using a Principal Components Analysis applied to data from four successional plots established in successive years in a large cropland in the Inland Pampa, Argentina. Community changes were correlated to the age of the plots, and unrelated to rainfall variability, a major environmental variable in grasslands. Successional rates were constant over the five years, probably because of the continued dominance of different annuals; we conclude that successional rates depend on the life history of the dominant species rather than on any emergent community property. We found no evidence of convergence or divergence; we concluded that the results of successional studies may depend on the temporal and spatial scale of observation.
3237213|The vegetation in a grassland area in the prefecture of Kilkis (N. Greece), known for its surface Cu-mineralization, was studied. 43 quadrats were established along a transect through an area where the vegetation formed patches of different size. Cover-abundance and frequency estimates for all species were made. Normal Association Analysis revealed five quadrat groups characterized by Trifolium scabrum, Linaria pelisseriana, Anthoxanthum ovatum, Gypsophila muralis and Minuartia hirsuta ssp. falcata. 43 soil samples were analysed for pH, organic C, CaCO<sub>3</sub>, total content of Fe, Zn, Pb, Cu, Mn, Ca, Mg, K, Na and soil texture. From a discriminant analysis performed on soil data five soil groups resulted, which are highly related to the five vegetation groups. Thymus sibthorpii, Minuartia hirsuta ssp. falcata and Rumex acetosella are the most important taxa with respect to physiognomy and patchiness of the vegetation. The number of species in each group of quadrats is affected by the relative favourableness or severity of the soil conditions. Metal contents, mainly Zn, Cu, Mg and Na, and soil texture are considered to be among the main factors controlling the structure and physiognomy of the vegetation.
3236328|The post-fire regeneration of a 45-yr-old Pinus halepensis (Aleppo pine) forest, burned in July 1989, has been studied on Mount Parnis, Attiki, Greece. Four experimental plots at various slopes and exposures were established at altitudes of 400 - 450 m, and monitored for 3 yr at 3-month intervals. Early regeneration took place abundantly, through both resprouting and seed germination of mostly hard-seeded herbs and shrubs; the floristic richness was high with 80 taxa. Pine seedling emergence took place during the winter of the first post-fire year. The mean pine seedling density by the end of the recruitment period (March 1990) was 5 - 6 seedlings/m<sup>2</sup>. This density decreased slightly during late spring and considerably during summer. During the second post-fire year only a relatively slight decline was observed; thereafter the density was stabilized to 1 - 2 seedlings/m<sup>2</sup>. Mortality follows a negative exponential curve that levels off at ca. 20 %. Height distributions throughout the three post-fire years were all positively skewed as a result of the presence of few very tall saplings. A considerable fraction (20 %) of very short (5 - 15 cm) saplings were still alive 39 months after the fire; these may constitute the sapling bank. Based on the analysis of height distribution curves, it is concluded that the taller seedlings survived significantly better than the shorter ones.
25549231|Question: Can a simple soil classification method, accessible to non-experts, be used to infer properties of the biological soil crust (BSC) communities such as species richness, evenness, and structure? Location: Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, an arid region of the Colorado Plateau, USA. Methods: Biological soil crusts are highly functional soil surface communities of mosses, lichens and cyanobacteria that are vulnerable to soil surface disturbances such as grazing. We sampled BSC communities at 114 relatively undisturbed sites. We developed an eight-tier BSC habitat classification based upon soil properties including texture, carbonate and gypsum content, and presence of shrinking-swelling clays. We used simple structural equation models to determine how well this classification system predicted the evenness, richness, and community structure of BSC relative to elevation and annual precipitation. Results: We found that our habitat classification system explained at least 3.5  more variance in BSC richness (R = 0.57), evenness (R = 0.59), and community structure (R = 0.34) than annual precipitation and elevation combined. Gypsiferous soils, non-calcareous sandy soils, and limestone-derived soils were all very high in both species richness and evenness. Additionally, we found that gypsiferous soils were the most biologically unique group, harboring eight strong to excellent indicator species. Conclusions: Community properties of BSCs are overwhelmingly influenced by edaphic factors. These factors can be summarized efficiently by land managers and laypeople using a simple soil habitat classification, which will facilitate incorporation of BSCs into assessment and monitoring protocols and help prioritize conservation or restoration efforts.
3237356| In this study we tested the hypothesis that diaspore buoyancy is an important factor in determining the distribution range of riparian plants, by measuring the floating capacity of fruits and seeds from 17 alpine vascular plant species during 1 yr. Minimum, median, mean, and maximum ( 1 yr) floating times of fruits and seeds were then related to the downstream distribution of plants along the free-flowing Vindel River in northern Sweden. The distances from the alpine headwater region to the most downstream occurrence of plants, and to the cessation of a more continuous distribution, were evaluated. The variation in downstream limits of plants could not be statistically explained by variation in seed buoyancy between species, indicating that floating ability of seeds is not important for plant distribution patterns. There may be several reasons for this, and they may differ between species. 
4499186|Questions: Can a statistical model be designed to represent more directly the nature of organismal response to multiple interacting factors? Can multiplicative kernel smoothers be used for this purpose? What advantages does this approach have over more traditional habitat modelling methods? Methods: Non-parametric multiplicative regression (NPMR) was developed from the premises that: the response variable has a minimum of zero and a physiologically-determined maximum, species respond simultaneously to multiple ecological factors, the response to any one factor is conditioned by the values of other factors, and that if any of the factors is intolerable then the response is zero. Key features of NPMR are interactive effects of predictors, no need to specify an overall model form in advance, and built-in controls on overfitting. The effectiveness of the method is demonstrated with simulated and real data sets. Results: Empirical and theoretical relationships of species response to multiple interacting predictors can be represented effectively by multiplicative kernel smoothers. NPMR allows us to abandon simplistic assumptions about overall model form, while embracing the ecological truism that habitat factors interact.
3236446| Van der Maarel et al. (1995) - hereafter VNP - criticize our analyses of land limestone grassland. They have four general objections, addressed below. 1. VNP attribute our significant results to randomness (`volatility'); however, significant deviation from randomness cannot be explained by randomness. VNP's conclusion of volatility derives from results that are inconsistent with ours. Their ecological interpretation assumes spatial and temporal near-constancy in the vegetation; we demonstrate that these assumptions are not correct. 2. We discussed physical limitations to plant module packing. VNP give estimated module sizes. We appreciate this information, though data on actual module sizes and overlap patterns would be required before the real module packing effects could be determined. If module packing were really the main cause of deficits of variance in richness, the effect would not fluctuate between sites and years, as VNP admit it does. 3. The shape of the richness frequency distribution is a potentially interesting additional form of analysis, albeit one that we had chosen not to include in our analysis. However, it is surprising that VNP dismiss analysis of richness variance, but then interpret a more subtle aspect of the richness distribution - the skewness. VNP's redefinition of the terms 'Niche facilitation' for a deficit of low richness values, and 'Niche limitation' for a deficit of high values, leads them to misrepresent our arguments. They are mistaken in suggesting that niche limitation will necessarily lead to a skewed curve: they do not allow for the fact that the species frequencies, on which the null model is based already, incorporate effects of species interactions. 'Niche facilitation', as defined by VNP, would lead to a variance excess, not a deficit as they assume. 4. VNP's criticism of a priori guild classifications had already been met by our use of the intrinsic guild approach. Guild analyses offer the best way forward. VNP use principally the methodology of 1987. There have been a number of methodological advances since that time. We used these advances in our original paper specifically to circumvent the kinds of problems that they identify. We agree with VNP that it would be very useful to explore the mechanisms behind assembly rules with experiments, but the logical first step is to identify potential assembly rules, as we have been attempting to do. We conclude that, whilst VNP make some interesting observations, none of their criticisms invalidate our results or conclusions. Our original approach stands as the best known approach, we believe, for searching for community structure in such data, and we reaffirm the validity of our ecological conclusions. 
3235860| A case study is presented on the statistical analysis and interpretation of vegetation change in a wetland subjected to water extraction and acidification, without precise information on the environmental changes. The vegetation is a Junco-Molinion grassland and the changes in vegetation are evaluated on the basis of relevs in 1977 and 1988 of 20 plots in a small nature reserve on moist oligotrophic, Pleistocene sands in the Netherlands. The changes are attributed to water extraction (since 1972) and soil acidification and the effect of the environmental changes on the vegetation is inferred from data on water depth and acidity collected in 1988. Many species typical of wetlands decreased in abundance, including rare species such as Parnassia palustris, Selinum carvifolia and Ophioglossum vulgatum. Some species increased, notably Anthoxanthum odoratum, Holcus lanatus and Plantago lanceolata. A significant decrease was found in the mean Ellenberg indicator values for moisture and acidity. The mean indicator value for nutrients did not change significantly. Multivariate analysis of the species data by Redundancy Analysis demonstrated the overall significance of the change in species composition between 1977 and 1988 (P < 0.01, Monte Carlo permutation). The spatial and temporal variation in the species data was displayed in ordination diagrams and interpreted in terms of water depth and pH. A simple model is developed to infer the change in water depth and pH from the relev data and recent data on water depth and pH. Because the correlation between water depth and pH made a joint estimation of the changes useless, the change in pH was estimated for a series of likely changes in water depth. For the most likely change in water depth, significant acidification was inferred from the change in vegetation. The model is more generally applicable as a constrained calibration method. 
3236996|The currently prevailing view is that saplings require gaps or larger disturbances in order to grow into the canopy. This study documents an exception. In California's Pseudotsuga-mixed hardwood forests, crowns of Pseudotsuga menziesii (Douglas fir) are within those of angiosperm trees (Arbutus menziesii and Quercus species). In the forests we examined, every Pseudotsuga was younger and all but one were growing more rapidly in girth than the Arbutus or Quercus whose crown it had penetrated. Furthermore, as saplings, the Pseudotsuga had grown at rates between those of suppressed saplings and canopy dominants. The recruitment of emergent Pseudotsuga substantially alters these canopies because of the large size Pseudotsuga attains. Given the density of Pseudotsuga growing in canopy crowns, such recruitment is likely. As a mechanism of recruitment, this through-growth differs from gap recruitment in that the turnover of canopy trees is determined by an understory species' growth rate rather than the overstory species' longevity, and community attributes may change rapidly by replacement of canopy dominants with a dissimilar species. Pseudotsuga could grow through the canopy because of its greater potential height (> 60 m vs. 20-40 m for the angiosperms), narrower crown and its branches suffering less mechanical damage than those of the angiosperms. In general, resource levels in the understory, canopy height, and interspecific differences in maximum height and crown architecture all influence the likelihood of through-growth. Therefore, for vegetation types whose dominants differ substantially in growth form, through-growth may be a mechanism for rapid ecosystem change.
3236147|A numerical classification method and the Braun-Blanquet method, based on external criteria, were compared with the aim of clarifying the differences in predictive power. The numerical analysis leads to a changed perspective on the floristic data and produces, as a whole, an ecologically more differentiated classification. The groups produced by numerical analysis are almost identical with the Braun-Blanquet classification with respect to marginal site conditions but they may differ in cases of intermediate site conditions. Nevertheless, a classification emerges which is on the whole, both floristically and as to site, very similar to the Braun-Blanquet classification. The discriminatory importance of the external variables is, to a large extent, the same in both methods, but discriminant analysis shows that the numerical classification is somewhat more predictive.
25173239|Question: What are the effects of different aspects of data collection and analysis on the spatial partitioning of ordination results by multiscale ordination? Locations: Heterogeneous pasture at Marchairuz in the Jura mountains, Switzerland and Mixed hardwood-pine forest in Oostings Natural Area, NC, USA. Methods: We evaluated the efficiency of different sampling designs for identifying the spatial structure of plant communities and analysed two datasets with multiscale ordination. We compared the effects of quadrat size, the number of species included in the analysis, data type, detrending and ordination method on the shape and precision of the community variogram summarizing spatial community structure. Results: A three-block sampling design provided a more even distribution of the number of pairs of observation per distance class than random, transect or grid designs. The precision of variogram estimates depended more strongly on the number of species than on the number of quadrats. In contrast, the choice of data type (abundance transformation) had little influence on the shape of the variogram. Detrending reduced the range of spatial autocorrelation. An increase in quadrat size resulted in a smoother variogram and stronger spatial autocorrelation. Principal components analysis (PCA) and Redundancy analysis (RDA) resulted in a larger range of spatial autocorrelation values than did Correspondence analysis (CA) and Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA), but the shape of the variograms was similar. Conclusion: Random samples as well as transects and regular grids may not be efficient sampling designs for spatial analysis of community structure. While the number of species considered strongly affects the precision of a community variogram, its shape depends on the size of the sampling units. Earlier studies may have overestimated the spatial scale of internal organization in plant communities.
40925519|Questions: Do growth forms and vascular plant richness follow similar patterns along an altitudinal gradient? What are the driving mechanisms that structure richness patterns at the landscape scale? Location: Southwest Ethiopian highlands. Methods: Floristic and environmental data were collected from 74 plots, each covering 400 m.The plots were distributed along altitudinal gradients. Boosted regression trees were used to derive the patterns of richness distribution along altitudinal gradients. Results: Total vascular plant richness did not show any strong response to altitude. Contrasting patterns of richness were observed for several growth forms. Woody, graminoid and climber species richness showed a unimodal structure. However, each of these morphological groups had a peak of richness at different altitudes: graminoid species attained maximum importance at a lower elevations, followed by climbers and finally woody species at higher elevations. Fern species richness increased monotonically towards higher altitudes, but herbaceous richness had a dented structure at midaltitudes.Soil sand fraction, silt, slope and organic matter were found to contribute a considerable amount of the predicted variance of richness for total vascular plants and growth forms. Main Conclusions: Hump-shaped species richness patterns were observed for several growth forms. A mid-altitudinal richness peak was the result of a combination of climate-related water-energy dynamics, species-area relationships and local environmental factors, which have direct effects on plant physiological performance. However, altitude represents the composite gradient of several environmental variables that were interrelated. Thus, considering multiple gradients would provide a better picture of richness and the potential mechanisms responsible for the distribution of biodiversity in high-mountain region of the tropics.
4096777|Question: Do stressful environments facilitate plant invasion by providing refuges from intense above-ground competition associated with productive areas, or prevent it by favouring locally adapted native species? Location: An invaded and fragmented oak savanna ecosystem structured along a landscape-level stress gradient associated with soil depth, elevation, and canopy openness. Methods: Vegetation and environmental data were collected from 184 plots in seven savanna remnants along the gradient. Using multivariate (CCA) and post-hoc regression analyses, we determined the relationship between environment and the richness and abundance of invasives. Results: 46 of 119 species were naturalized exotics. CCA indicated the importance of environmental variation (mostly soil depth) for community structure but not for invasion; invasive species richness was similar in all areas. However, the abundance of invasives and their impacts on native diversity appear to increase significantly in less stressful habitats. Deeper soils had lower evenness and significantly fewer native species. This result was associated with dominance by exotic perennial grasses and large increases in vegetation height, suggesting strong above-ground competition. Conclusions: Low-stress environments were not more invasible per se but appear to be more susceptible to invasion by species with strong competitive impacts. The causes of decreasing exotic impact with decreasing soil depth may reflect shifts in competitive intensity or an increased importance of stress tolerance, both of which may favour natives. Alternatively, this ecosystem may simply lack high-impact invaders capable of dominating shallow soils. Conservation challenges are twofold for this endangered plant community: controlling invasives that currently dominate deeper-soils and accounting for a diverse pool of invaders that proliferate when the current dominants are removed.
3235688|Using the results of a total floristic survey of two veld types (Arid Sweet Bushveld and Mixed Bushveld) in the northeastern Transvaal, South Africa, we linked median annual rainfall from a surface response model to each of 139 samples. The samples had been classified floristically into 15 plant communities. These communities represent two broad divisions, corresponding with the concepts embodied in the two veld types. Using contingency tables, we defined the conditions of median annual rainfall and elevation for each of the veld types. Using a geographic analysis system we predicted the distribution of the veld types in an area of 120 000 km<sup>2</sup> outside the study area. The predicted distribution was validated by comparison with a digitized version of the Acocks map. We conclude that the defined conditions of median annual rainfall and elevation provide confident criteria for the definition of these veld types.
3236350|We predicted that plants that can establish on volcanic soils with similar disturbance histories will have similar growth characteristics. We tested this prediction by a multivariate analysis of 27 traits of 84 species found six years after an eruption on Mount St. Helens, Washington State, USA, and Mount Usu, Hokkaido, Japan. These traits include vegetative, life-history, phenological and seed-biology characteristics. Cluster analysis revealed five species groups: annual herbs, perennial forbs, graminoids, shrubs and trees. Each group has distinct vegetative, life-history, and seed-biology traits. Except for shrubs, which were lacking on Mount Usu, both floras were well represented in each group. On intensely disturbed sites on both volcanoes, perennial forbs, whose development is dependent primarily on well-developed below-ground organs and wind-dispersal, expanded their cover more rapidly than did graminoids. These graminoids generally produce gravity-dispersed seeds and have close-set rhizomes and/or shoots. These results suggest that species that can establish during the early stages of succession on each volcano have similar vegetative, life-history, and seed-biology traits.
3236942|We test to what extent mean environmental conditions and environmental heterogeneity are related to species richness in a regular geographical grid system (UTM) of 10 km x 10 km in the NE Iberian Peninsula (i.e. Catalonia, ca. 31 900 km<sup>2</sup>). Species richness of each UTM quadrat was estimated by compiling a large database (more than a million records) from bibliographic references and atlases. Mean environmental conditions of each quadrat were derived from climatic maps. Environmental heterogeneity was estimated from the diversity of geological substrates and climatic classes in each quadrat. The increase in effective (real) area due to topographic complexity was also considered (derived from the digital elevation model). The statistical analysis was performed by a weighted analysis of deviance assuming a negative binomial error distribution. The results suggest that species richness in the study area is a function of both within-quadrat heterogeneity (specifically, effective area, heterogeneity of geological substrates, heterogeneity of January temperature) and mean environmental conditions (mean annual temperature, Thornthwaite moisture index and aspect). All these parameters showed a positive relationship with species richness. Quadrat heterogeneity accounted for ca. 2/3 of the explained deviance, suggesting the importance of environmental heterogeneity when using a geographical grid system. The study fits well with earlier results on the importance of climatic parameters on plant species richness and provides one of the few rigorous, quantitative, coarse-scale studies testing environmental heterogeneity in plant species richness.
3236888|As part of a larger survey of biodiversity in gardens in Sheffield, UK, we examined the composition and diversity of the flora in two 1-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats in each of 60 gardens, and compared this with floristic data from semi-natural habitats in central England and derelict urban land in Birmingham, UK. Garden quadrats contained more than twice as many taxa as those from any other habitat type. Ca. 33 % of garden plants were natives and 67 % aliens, mainly from Europe and Asia. A higher proportion of garden aliens originated from Asia and New Zealand than in the UK alien flora as a whole; 18 of the 20 most frequent plants in garden quadrats were natives, mostly common weeds. Garden quadrats showed no evidence of 'nestedness', i.e. a tendency for scarce species to be confined to the highest diversity quadrats. Conversely, species in all semi-natural and derelict land data sets were significantly nested. Compared to a range of semi-natural habitats, species richness of garden quadrats was intermediate, and strikingly similar to the richness of derelict land quadrats. Although species accumulation curves for all other habitats showed signs of saturation at 120 quadrats, gardens did not. Correlations between S rensen similarity index and physical distance were insignificant for all habitat types, i.e. there was little evidence that physical distance played any part in structuring the composition of the quadrats in any of the data sets. However, garden quadrats were much less similar to each other than quadrats from semi-natural habitats or derelict land.
40925522|Question: What is the relative importance of national-, regional- and within-beach-scale influences on vegetation composition and floristic affinities of New Zealand gravel beaches? Location: Coastal New Zealand. Methods: We sampled vegetation composition at 61 gravel beaches, quantifying site factors and adjacent landscape characteristics. Site, climate and geographic relationships between gravel beaches and related ecosystems were inferred using GIS data layers. To simultaneously investigate influences at different spatial scales, we used ordination and variation partitioning to examine relationships between composition and environment, and hierarchical models to understand floristic affinities with related ecosystems. Results: At a national scale, compositional variation among beaches reflects mean annual temperature and spring vapour pressure deficit; within regions, proximity of native woody vegetation and coastal turfs are important; within-beach variation is related to substrate stability and particle size distribution. The gravel beach flora is 50% exotic, reflecting the highly modified nearby landscapes; 30% of species are characteristic of coastal sands, 20% of braided riverbeds and 8% of coastal turfs.Affinities with coastal sand communities are unrelated to microsite sandiness or area of sand dunes within 50 km. Affinities with braided riverbeds are related to the bed area of those rivers draining within 200 km and proportion of gravel in the substrate. Affinities with coastal turfs are related to proximity to the nearest turf and the proportion of humus in the substrate. Conclusions: Examining multiple scales of influence in a landscape context is essential to understand composition of naturally discrete ecosystems that span wide geographic ranges and to underpin their conservation management.
3236654|Spatial patterns of shrub life history and Ceanothus distribution are examined in relation to topographically-mediated differences in drought severity within 3 watersheds on the coastal and inland flank of the Santa Ynez Mountains, California. Spatially distributed fields of drought severity are simulated for the studied watersheds using high-resolution digital terrain data and daily climate data in combination with a process-based hydro-ecological model (RHESSys). Field samples of species composition are spatially integrated with the distributed drought data for analysis of ecological relationships. Patterns of seedling recruitment type correspond to topographic variability in drought severity in ways that are consistent with concepts presented in the literature. Species that depend on fire for recruitment are increasingly represented with increasing drought severity, the converse also applies. Sites that experience moderate drought severity permit co-dominance of species from both recruitment modes. Residual analysis suggests that some of the unexplained variability is related to substrate. Analyses also indicate that the distribution of 5 Ceanothus shrubs reflect differences in drought severity in ways that are consistent with their resistance to water stress-induced xylem dysfunction. Species from the subgenus Cerastes sort in accordance with moisture availability and have unique spatial distributions. Results are evaluated and discussed with respect to studies on plant morphology, resource use and seedling establishment patterns.
41059544|Questions: How important is management disturbance on gamma species richness of woody plants at intermediate landscape scales? How is species richness related to other climatic and biotic factors in the study area? How does the assumption of spatial stationarity affect assessment of relationships among species richness and explanatory variables (e.g. management, biotic and climatic factors) across extensive study areas? Location: Central Spain (regions of Castilla y Len, Madrid and Castilla-La Mancha). Scale: Extent: 150 000 km. Grain: 25 km (5  5-km cells). Methods: Information from 21 064 plots from the 3SNFI was used to evaluate richness of tree and shrub species at intermediate landscape scales. In addition to variables well known to explain biodiversity, e. g. environmental and biotic factors, effect of management treatments was evaluated by assessing clearcutting, selection cutting, stand improvement treatments and agrosilvopastoral systems (dehesas). Results from GWR techniques were compared with those from OLS regression. Results: Patterns o gamma species richness, although strongly affected by both environmental and biotic variables, were also significantly modified by management factors. Species richness increased with percentage of selection cutting stands and improvement treatments but decreased with percentage of clearcutting stands. Reduced species richness of woody plants was associated with agrosilvopastoral practices. Species richness for trees was closely related to basal area, annual precipitation and topographic complexity; species richness for shrubs was closely related to topographic complexity and agrosilvopastoral systems. Most relationships between species richness and environmental or biotic factors were non-stationary. Relationships between species richness and management effects tended to be stationary, with a few exceptions. Conclusions: Landscape models of biodiversity in Central Spain were more informative when they accounted for effects of management practices, at least at intermediate scales. In the context of current rural abandonment, silvicultural disturbances of intermediate intensity increased gamma species richness of woody plants. Exclusion of factors such as agrosilvopastoral systems from models could have led to spurious relationships with other spatially co-varying factors (e. g. summer precipitation). Patterns of spatial variation in relationships, provided by GWR models, allowed formulating hypotheses about potential ecological processes underlying them, beyond generalizations resulting from global (OLS) models.
3237005|A system of sand talus cones in a small forested rocky sandstone area was investigated to determine the importance of disturbance-related dynamics and mesoclimate to vegetation differentiation. These cones (usually 3-12 m long) are formed by the accumulation of sand at the foot of sandstone rocks and are subject to frequent disturbance by the transport of sand. Vegetation was recorded both at the whole-cone level and at the within-cone level; the latter was approached by means of a transect of small squares along each cone. Soil profiles were recorded at the upper, centre and bottom parts of the cones. To express mesoclimatic differentiation among the cones within the rocky area, the potential insolation was calculated from the horizon angular height and the likelihood of thermal inversions was estimated by the height of the cones above the valley bottom. The major environmental factor correlated with variation in cone vegetation is the disturbance dynamics as determined by the structure of the soil profile; active cones (with sand at the surface) are colonized by different species as compared with non-active cones (with surface covered by humus sediments). There is a clear primary succession gradient from plants able to cope with continuous sand transport to stands of tall bryophytes, small shrubs and herbs. Quite often the same gradient is found within cones, with late successional vegetation confined to the lower, stabilized parts of the cones, while the upper part is still being affected by sand transport. The differentiation along the gradient of disturbance is much stronger than the differentiation due to climatic or other gradients. Indirect data indicate that the long-term average rate of sand accumulation is ca. 1 mm/yr. If sand transport ceases, Sphagnum peat accumulates on some of the cones; the depth of accumulated Sphagnum remains may reach 50 cm. The development of the peat layer is but weakly correlated with the measured variables suggesting that random processes at the beginning of Sphagnum establishment may be a driving force. By measuring Sphagnum growth and decomposition, and the peat density, we estimated the time needed for their development to be several hundreds of years.
3236536|The central grassland region of North America is characterized by large gradients of temperature and precipitation. These climatic variables are important determinants of the distribution of plant species, and strongly influence plant morphology and tissue chemistry. We analysed regional patterns of plant litter quality as they vary with climate in grassland ecosystems throughout central North America including tall-grass prairie, mixed grass prairie, shortgrass steppe, and hot desert grasslands. An extensive database from the International Biological Program and the Long-Term Ecological Research Program allowed us to isolate the effects of climate from those of plant functional types on litter quality. Our analysis of grass species confirms a previously recognized positive correlation between C/N ratios and precipitation. Precipitation exhibited a similar positive relationship with lignin/N and percent lignin. Although there was no significant correlation between temperature and C/N, there was a significant positive relationship between temperature and both percent lignin and lignin/N. Among functional types, C<sub>3</sub> grasses had a slightly lower C/N ratio than C<sub>4</sub> grasses. Tall grass species exhibited higher C/N, lignin/N, and percent lignin than short grass species. This understanding of the regional patterns of litter quality and the factors controlling them provides us with a greater knowledge of the effect that global change and the accompanying feedbacks may have on ecosystem processes.
40295822|Question: Invasive alien plants can affect biomass production and rates of biogeochemical cycling. Do the direction and intensity of such effects depend upon the functional traits of native and alien species and upon the properties of the invaded habitat, with the same alien species having differing impacts in different habitats? Location: Lowlands of Switzerland. Methods: Fourteen grassland and wetland sites invaded by Solidago gigantea and widely differing in biomass production and soil P availability were surveyed. To determine whether the impact of the species was related to site fertility, we compared the invaded and native vegetation in terms of biomass, species composition, plant traits and soil properties. Results: S. gigantea generally increased the above-ground biomass production of the vegetation and soil C content, while reducing nutrient concentrations in biomass and N availability in the soil. However, it had no significant effect on plant species richness, soil respiration, soil pH and P availability. Leaves of S. gigantea had a greater C content than those of native species; other leaf traits and root phosphatase activity did not differ significantly. Conclusions: Our results suggest that a conservative nutrient-use strategy allows S. gigantea to invade a broad range of habitats. The observed effects of invasion did not vary according to biomass production of the invaded sites, but some effects did depend on soil P availability, being more pronounced at more P-rich sites. Thus, the full range of invaded habitats should be considered in studying the potential impact of plant invasions on ecosystem processes.
3237063|Our overall objective was to use a soil water model to predict spatial patterns in germination and establishment of two important perennial C<sub>4</sub>-bunchgrasses across the North American shortgrass steppe and desert grassland regions. We also predicted changes in establishment patterns under climate change scenarios. Bouteloua gracilis dominates the shortgrass steppe from northeastern Colorado to southeastern New Mexico. Bouteloua eriopoda dominates desert grasslands in central and southern New Mexico. Germination and establishment for each species were predicted at 16 sites along the gradient using a daily time step, multi-layer soil water model (SOILWAT) to determine the percentage of years that temperature and soil water criteria for germination and establishment were met. Percentage of years with predicted establishment decreased from north to south for B. gracilis, but increased from north to south for B. eriopoda, comparable to observed dominance patterns. The 95 % confidence interval around the point at which simulated establishment were equal for the two species was near the location of the shortgrass steppe-desert grassland ecotone where both species are abundant. The intersection in percentage of years with establishment for the two species was predicted to move further north when climate was scaled using three Global Circulation Models (GCMs), indicating a possible northward expansion of B. eriopoda. Our results suggest that recruitment by seed may be an important process in determining, at least in part, the geographic distribution of these two species. Changes in climate that affect establishment constraints could result in shifts of species dominance that may or may not be accompanied by changes in species composition.
40925502|Question: The majority of studies investigating the impact of climate change on local plant communities ignores changes in regional processes, such as immigration from the regional seed pool. Here we explore: (i) the potential impact of climate change on composition of the regional seed pool, (ii) the influence of changes in climate and in the regional seed pool on local community structure, and (iii) the combinations of life history traits, i.e. plant functional types (PFTs), that are most affected by environmental changes. Location: Fire-prone, Mediterranean-type shrublands in southwestern Australia. Methods: Spatially explicit simulation experiments were conducted at the population level under different rainfall and fire regime scenarios to determine the effect of environmental change on the regional seed pool for 38 PFTs. The effects of environmental and seed immigration changes on local community dynamics were then derived from community-level experiments. Classification tree analyses were used to investigate PFT-specific vulnerabilities to climate change. Results: The classification tree analyses revealed that responses of PFTs to climate change are determined by specific trait characteristics. PFT-specific seed production and community patterns responded in a complex manner to climate change. For example, an increase in annual rainfall caused an increase in numbers of dispersed seeds for some PFTs, but decreased PFT diversity in the community. Conversely, a simulated decrease in rainfall reduced the number of dispersed seeds and diversity of PFTs. Conclusions: PFT interactions and regional processes must be considered when assessing how local community structure will be affected by environmental change.
3235620|The composition of the bryophyte diaspore bank in an old-growth Picea abies forest was studied before and after experimental disturbance of forest-floor patches. 40 species, both hepatics and mosses, emerged from spores, and probably also from gemmae and moss fragments, in greenhouse cultivations of soil samples. The three most abundant taxa were Pohlia nutans, Sphagnum spp. and Polytrichum commune/ longisetum. Initially, the number of species from the diaspore bank in mineral soil, 9.9 species/sample, was higher than that in humus, 6.6. Four years after the disturbance took place, the reverse was found. Several species that are typical colonisers of disturbed soil were very common in the diaspore bank. By contrast, some of the most abundant forest floor species appeared to be absent. The diaspore bank of bryophytes appears to play a role similar to that of the seed bank in vascular plants: (1) it allows species to survive unfavourable periods (temporal dispersal); (2) it facilitates rapid colonisation after disturbance; (3) it influences the post-disturbance species composition and diversity. The results emphasise that the understanding of vegetation succession patterns is, to a large extent, dependent on quantitative data on the relative importance of spatial and temporal dispersal.
3236051|The distribution of Raunkiaer life forms along rainfall and temperature gradients was determined for the floras of 27 geomorphological districts in Israel. Phanerophytes and chamaephytes are relatively strongly represented in districts with very low rainfall, decrease up to 150 mm and 400 mm of mean annual rainfall respectively, and remain more or less constant at higher rainfall figures. Hemicryptophytes and geophytes increase along the rainfall gradient. Therophytes show an optimum between 200 and 500 mm of rainfall. The distribution of life forms is less clearly correlated with mean annual temperature, though hemicryptophytes and geophytes show a negative correlation with mean annual temperature and with mean annual minimal temperature.
3235719|The population ecology of Acacia tortilis, one of the important woody species in the arid and semi-arid regions of northern Africa, was studied in the Sudan. Ten sample plots were established and all individuals in the plots were mapped and their basal diameter, stem height, crown height and cover measured annually for three years. Individuals were grouped into different height-classes, 'life-forms': trees > 1.65 m, shrubs > 0.65 m and < 1.65 m, saplings < 0.65 m and seedlings (saplings less than one year old). The population density was 510 ind./ ha in 1985, 432 ind. / ha in 1986 and 218 ind. / ha in 1987. The life-form distribution of the population showed clear differences between plots and years. Mortality in Acacia tortilis, expressed as loss in individuals per year, amounted to 167 ind. / ha / yr. Drought and lethal cutting were found to be the main mortality factors. The population declined by 15.3 % from 1985 to 1986 and by 49.5 % from 1986 to 1987. Natality (recruitment), expressed as number of newly established saplings, was 13 ind. / ha / yr. Recruitment is apparently discontinuous and bound to years with a relatively high precipitation.
4499243|Question: Chronic stress events are defined as disturbance events that exceed the lifespan of the dominant plant species, fluctuate in intensity and lack abruptness or physical destruction of biomass. Can the effects of chronic stress events be measured on vegetation communities? Did two chronic stress events, the removal of a tide gate and a four year drought, cause a temporary or permanent shift in the vegetation communities of a tidal marsh? Location: Tidal marsh in southeastern United States. Methods: Change in species composition and dominance and community change on a landscape level salinity gradient were measured between time periods ranging from four months to seven years to construct a statistical baseline reference community at freshwater, oligohaline, and mesohaline sections of a tidal marsh. Statistical shifts in the plant community were defined as changes in the plant community that fell outside of the defined baseline reference community. Results: Plant community changes outside of the reference community occurred in 13 out of 378 community comparisons. Removal of the tide gate had a greater effect on interstitial salinity levels than the drought and was most intense in the oligohaline marsh, where between 20 to 45% of the freshwater/oligohaline community types permanently converted to oligohaline community types. However, community shifts in the freshwater and oligohaline marsh induced by the drought were temporary, lasting from 1 to 3+ years. Neither chronic stress event permanently altered the mesohaline plant communities. Conclusion: The effects of chronic stress events could be detected; an extended historical record of vegetation change (18 years) was necessary to identify community shifts outside of a reference condition of the community and to determine if those shifts were permanent or temporary.
3236411|The integrated synusial approach of the vegetation is based on the differentiation of several spatio-temporal organization levels. A phytocoenosis (community of the second level) is considered as a complex of synusiae (communities of the first level) and is characterised by a strong tendency to self-organization. At each level, a typology of the communities can be performed. Ecological indicator values as well as different diversity indices are calculated for each vegetation unit. They are useful for understanding the spatial and temporal organization of the phytocoenoses. As an example, this approach is applied to wooded meadows.
3236921|In the southeastern USA, harvest of pine straw sometimes involves mechanical raking of natural Pinus palustris (longleaf pine) communities. Little is known about the effects of raking nor how these effects may vary in time and space. In a two yr experiment, we examined the effects of mechanized raking on Pinus palustris dominated communities (scrub oak, dry savanna, and mesic savanna) by monitoring vegetation at seven spatial scales (0.01-100 m<sup>2</sup>). We measured floristic similarity and the proportion of species initially present that were gained (i.e. new species) or lost during four sampling periods. Relationships between spatial scale and these community attributes were analyzed using a repeated measures approach and functional response curves. Spatial scale clearly affected observed rates of species loss and floristic similarity; losses declined and floristic similarity increased as scale increased. We relate these patterns to expanding population sizes with scale and our inability to detect species reductions in large populations. Scale had little influence on species gains. The effects of raking did not differ across scales, but raking caused greater mean losses of species and greater mean changes in floristic similarity when mean values were calculated over all scales. Raking also increased the mean rate of species gains in the mesic savanna during one period. Otherwise, interaction effects of community and raking were largely absent from both mean values and response curves. Despite significant short-term effects of raking, changes in species richness were minor.
3237117|The invasion by non-native plant species of an urban remnant of a species-rich Themeda triandra grassland in southeastern Australia was quantified and related to abiotic influences. Richness and cover of non-native species were highest at the edges of the remnant and declined to relatively uniform levels within the remnant. Native species richness and cover were lowest at the edge adjoining a roadside but then showed little relation to distance from edge. Roadside edge quadrats were floristically distinct from most other quadrats when ordinated by Detrended Correspondence Analysis. Soil phosphorus was significantly higher at the roadside edge but did not vary within the remnant itself. All other abiotic factors measured (NH<sub>4</sub>, NO<sub>3</sub>, S, pH and % organic carbon) showed little variation across the remnant. Non-native species richness and cover were strongly correlated with soil phosphorus levels. Native species were negatively correlated with soil phosphorus levels. Canonical Correspondence Analysis identified the perennial non-native grasses of high biomass as species most dependent on high soil nutrient levels. Such species may be resource-limited in undisturbed soils. Three classes of non-native plants have invaded this species-rich grassland: (1) generalist species ( 50 % frequency), mostly therophytes with non-specialized habitat or germination requirements; (2) resource-limited species comprising perennial species of high biomass that are dependent on nutrient increases and/or soil disturbances before they can invade the community and; (3) species of intermediate frequency (1-30 %), of low to high biomass potential, that appear to have non-specialized habitat requirements but are currently limited by seed dispersal, seedling establishment or the current site management. Native species richness and cover are most negatively affected by increases in non-native cover. Declines are largely evident once the non-native cover exceeds 40 %. Widespread, generalist non-native species are numerous in intact sites and will have to be considered a permanent part of the flora of remnant grasslands. Management must aim to minimize increases in cover of any non-native species or the disturbances that favour the establishment of competitive nonnative grasses if the native grassland flora is to be conserved in small, fragmented remnants.
40925550|Question: Thousands of small isolated forest fragments remain around churches ("church forests") in the almost completely deforested Ethiopian Highlands. We questioned how the forest structure and composition varied with altitude, forest area and human influence. Location: South Gondar, Amhara National Regional State, Northern Ethiopia. Methods: The structure and species composition was assessed for 810 plots in 28 church forests. All woody plants were inventoried, identified and measured (stem diameter) in seven to 56 10 m  10-m plots per forest. Results: In total, 168 woody species were recorded, of which 160 were indigeneous. The basal area decreased with tree harvest intensity; understorey and middle-storey density (<5cm DBH trees) decreased with grazing; overstorey density (>5cm DBH trees) increased with altitude. The dominance of a small set of species increased with altitude and grazing intensity. Species richness decreased with altitude, mainly due to variation in the richness of the overstorey community. Moreover, species richness in the understorey decreased with grazing intensity. Conclusions: We show how tree harvesting intensity, grazing intensity and altitude contribute to observed variations in forest structure, composition and species richness. Species richness was, however, not related to forest area. Our study emphasizes the significant role played by the remaining church forests for conservation of woody plant species in North Ethiopian Highlands, and the need to protect these forests for plant species conservation purposes.
25173193|Question: What is the effect of leaf litter on growth and mortality of feather mosses. Three experiments were conducted to isolate the shading effect from the effect of leaching of soluble compounds from the leaf litter effect on feather moss mortality and growth. Location: Edmonton, Alberta and the northern boreal coniferous forest, west-central Alberta, Canada. Methods: In a field experiment Populus tremuloides (aspen) leaf litter was applied to beds of feather mosses dominated by Hylocomium splendens. Treatments were one layer of leaves held in place with netting; one layer of leaves coarsely ground, sprinkled over the moss layer; a shade cloth equivalent to one layer of leaves; and a control. In two growth chamber experiments, the application of aqueous extracts of P. tremuloides and Pinus contorta leaf litter and the effect of shade and soluble carbohydrates were tested on the growth and mortality of Ptilium crista-castrensis. Results: Mortality of Hylocomium was greatest under the intact leaves, followed by the treatments using shade cloth and ground leaves and finally the control. The application of aqueous extracts of aspen leaf litter resulted in senescence or death of nearly all Ptilium shoots compared to no effects for the control or for similar extracts of pine needle litter. Extracts from aspen litter had greater concentrations of phenolic compounds and soluble sugars than pine extracts. Addition of sugars to Ptilium allowed it to grow and accumulate carbohydrates, even in low light conditions. Conclusions: Results suggest that broad-leaved deciduous overstory species can limit the growth of feather mosses through their leaf litter and by implication affect the humus form, nutrient cycling, and understory composition of these forests.
3236215|Reclamation of former, degraded forest lands occupied by Imperata cylindrica is one of the crucial environmental and forestry issues in the humid tropics, notably Southeast Asia. We suggest that it is possible to gradually restore the original natural forest cover with the help of a sacrifice fallow crop of fast-growing exotic tree species. Recently, a set of suitable fast-growing plantation tree species has been identified and stand establishment methods developed for this purpose. We assessed the regeneration of natural vegetation in stands of different plantation tree species and evaluated the ecological impact of species composition in the plantation understorey. PCA ordination, regression analysis and analysis of covariance were applied at different stages of the study. We found a marked vegetational resemblance between stands dominated by Acacia mangium: they had the highest number of indigenous trees in their understorey, whereas stands of other plantation trees supported more diverse grass and herb vegetation. A high proportion of evergreen woody vegetation reduces the risk of fire and grass competition and enhances secondary succession towards natural forest.
4499270|Question: Do severe winter flood events lift the nutrient limitation of biomass production in a river floodplain? How does this affect plant species richness? How long do the effects last? Location: Floodplain grassland on calcareous sandy loam near river Rhine in The Netherlands. Methods: Plots were fertilised with four treatments (control, N, P, N+P) for 21 years; plant species composition, vegetation biomass and tissue nutrient concentrations were determined every year between 1985 and 2005. Results: Fertilisation with N generally increased biomass production and reduced species richness, but these effects varied over time. During the first four years of the experiment, biomass production appeared to be co-limited by N and P, while N fertilisation dramatically reduced plant species richness; these effects became weaker subsequently. Following two extreme winter floods in 1993-94 and 1994-95 and a drought in spring 1996, the effects of fertilisation disappeared between 1998 and 2001 and then appeared again. Flooding caused an overall reduction in species richness (from c. 24 to 15 species m
3235736|Development of planted seedlings of four canopy tree species in recently abandoned pastures (mown and unmown) and in ca. 40-yr old secondary dry forest in Guanacaste National Park, Costa Rica, was studied from July 1989-June 1992. The species were the light-demanding Cedrela odorata and Swietenia macrophylla, and the shade-tolerant Hymenaea courbaril and Manilkara chicle. Seedling mortality was high and primarily correlated with dry season drought. After the first dry season, M. chicle and C. odorata showed < 5 % survival in the pasture and 20 % in the forest, but after 3 yr survival had decreased to 3% in all plots. Survival of S. macrophylla was highest in the mown pasture (45 % after 3 yr) and lowest in the forest (10 %). For H. courbaril, survival was 40 - 55 % under all three conditions. Growth rates were low, with a height increment of < 15 cm/yr, possibly due to low precipitation in 1990 and 1991. All species grew taller in the pasture than in the forest. Differences in soil depth, texture and drainage appeared to contribute to variation in the results both within and between plots. Herbivory contributed to the lower survival of C. odorata and S. macrophylla in the forest.
3236858| Large phytosociological data sets of three types of grassland and three types of forest vegetation from the Czech Republic were analysed with a focus on plot size used in phytosociological sampling and on the species-area relationship. The data sets included 12975 relevs, sampled by different authors in different parts of the country between 1922 and 1999. It was shown that in the grassland data sets, the relevs sampled before the 1960s tended to have a larger plot size than the relevs made later on. No temporal variation in plot sizes used was detected in forest relevs. Species-area curves fitted to the data showed unnatural shapes, with levelling-off or even decrease in plot sizes higher than average. This distortion is explained by the subjective, preferential method of field sampling used in phytosociology. When making relevs in species-poor vegetation, researchers probably tend to use larger plots in order to include more species. The reason for this may be that a higher number of species gives a higher probability of including presumed diagnostic species, so that the relev can be more easily classified in the Braun-Blanquet classification system. This attitude of phytosociologists has at least two consequences: (1) in phytosociological data bases species-poor vegetation types are underrepresented or relevs are artificially biased towards higher species richness; (2) the suitability of phytosociological data for species richness estimation is severely limited. 
4499280|Rationale: Few techniques exist for non-destructive measurement of the biomass of different co-occurring growth forms in a similar manner, and the available techniques tend to be tedious and time consuming. Aim: This paper provides an alternative technique for the measurement of components of biomass (defined in terms of growth forms) and describes an apparatus effective to perform these measurements in samples of vegetation stands up to 1.5 meter tall. Approach: The technique is based on a regression relationship between a number of probes [multiple height measurements of targeted growth forms with the help of mini disks (3 cm in diameter)] taken in a given area, and the dry biomass of these growth forms within that area. Test: We tested the method in a multi-layered shrubland composed of three major growth forms (shrub, stoloniferous grass and tussock grass) to: (1) establish how accurate the new method predicts the biomass of different plant growth forms, and (2) determine the sampling intensity necessary for reliable results. The technique proved to be very effective in terms of predicting the biomass of the respective growth forms within sample plots, even at a very low density of probes. Conclusion: The Multipoint Minidisk Meter method provides a good alternative biomass estimation method for vegetation composed of diverse growth forms, especially where sampling time is of essence. It will be especially useful to closely track changes in biomass within the same plot over time.
3236998|Spatial data can provide much information about the interrelations of plants and the relationship between individuals and the environment. Spatially ambiguous plants, i.e. plants without readily identifiable loci, and plants that are profusely abundant, present non-trivial impediments to the collection and analysis of vegetation data derived from standard spatial sampling techniques. Sampling with grids of presence/absence quadrats can ameliorate much of this difficulty. Our analysis of 10 fully-mapped grassland plots demonstrates the applicability of the grid-based approach which revealed spatial dependence at a much lower sampling effort than mapping each plant. Ripley's K-function, a test commonly used for point patterns, was effective for pattern analysis on the grids and the gridded quadrat technique was an effective tool for quantifying spatial patterns. The addition of spatial pattern measures should allow for better comparisons of vegetation structure between sites, instead of sole reliance on species composition data.
4096751|Questions: This paper examines the long-term change in the herbaceous layer of semi-arid vegetation since grazing ceased. We asked whether (1) there were differences in the temporal trends of abundance among growth forms of plants; (2) season of rainfall affected the growth form response; (3) the presence of an invasive species influenced the abundance and species richness of native plants relative to non-invaded plots, and (4) abundance of native plants and/or species richness was related to the time it took for an invasive species to invade a plot. Location: Alice Springs, Central Australia. Methods: Long-term changes in the semi-arid vegetation of Central Australia were measured over 28 years (1976-2004) to partition the effects of rainfall and an invasive perennial grass. The relative abundance (biomass) of all species was assessed 25 times in each of 24 plots (8 m x 1 m) across two sites that traversed floodplains and adjacent foot slopes. Photo-points, starting in 1972, were also used to provide a broader overview of a landscape that had been intensively grazed by cattle and rabbits prior to the 1970s. Species' abundance data were amalgamated into growth forms to examine their relationship with environmental variation in space and time. Environmental variables included season and amount of rainfall, fire history, soil variability and the colonization of the plots by the exotic perennial grass Cenchrus ciliaris (Buffel grass). Results: Constrained ordination showed that season of rainfall and landscape variables relating to soil depth strongly influenced vegetation composition when Cenchrus was used as a covariate. When Cenchrus was included in constrained ordination, it was strongly related to the decline of all native growth forms over time. Univariate comparisons of non-invaded vs impacted plots over time revealed unequivocal evidence that Cenchrus had caused the decline of all native growth form groups and species richness. They also revealed a contrasting response of native plants to season of rainfall, with a strong response of native grasses to summer rainfall and forbs to winter rainfall. In the presence of Cenchrus these responses were strongly attenuated. Discussion: Pronounced changes in the composition of vegetation were interpreted as a response to removal of grazing pressure, fluctuations in rainfall and, most importantly, invasion of an exotic grass. Declines in herbaceous species abundance and richness in the presence of Cenchrus appear to be directly related to competition for resources. Indirect effects may also be causing the declines of some woody species from changed fire regimes as a result of increased fuel loads. We predict that Cenchrus will begin to alter landscape level processes as a result of the direct and indirect effects of Cenchrus on the demography of native plants when there is a switch from resource limited (rainfall) establishment of native plants to seed limited recruitment.
4096742| Question: How does fire affect the aggregation patterns of trees in a species-poor oak woodland? Location: East-central Minnesota, USA. Methods: More than 10 000 trees with DBH > 2 cm (comprising more than 11 000 stems) were monitored in a 16-ha grid on an annual basis from 1995- 2001 in a species-poor temperate woodland. Different portions of the grid experienced different frequencies of controlled burns. Aggregation indices were calculated for individual species and individual size classes within species. A community-wide aggregation index was also calculated for different burn units. Spatial data were managed, and many of the aggregation indices calculated using a GIS ArcInfo (ESRI). Results: Fire initially increased clumping, although repeated fires reduced it, a finding that suggests a corollary to the intermediate-disturbance hypothesis, the corollary stating that intermediate levels of disturbance are expected to maximize community-wide patterns of aggregation. Analyses also showed that all species are aggregated at small scales, that the degree of aggregation of a stem type (species or size) declines with distance from individual stems, that the degree of aggregation of large stems is usually less than that of small stems, and that rare species are more aggregated than common species. Findings from this study are consistent with those from similar studies in other temperate and tropical forests, woodlands, and savannas. Conclusion: The spatial patterns of trees in this woodland are dynamic, continually changing in response to the relative strengths of the often opposing forces of competition, which tends to reduce clumping, and disturbance, which, at low and intermediate frequencies, tends to increase it. 
3235951|Abies magnifica (Red fir) forests in the Cascade Range and Sierra Nevada of California are composed of groups, or patches, of even-sized individuals that form structurally complex stands. Patches may be even-aged, resulting from synchronous post-disturbance establishment, or multi-aged, reflecting continuous recruitment of seedlings moderately tolerant of shade. We analyze the population structure (i.e. age, size, and spatial patterning) of A. magnifica, and associated A. concolor, White fir, and reconstruct the disturbance history of two mature to old-growth A. magnifica forests in order to determine the relationship between disturbance and forest structure. Within both stands examined, the distributions of A. magnifica seedlings, saplings, and small understory trees were clumped, with clump sizes corresponding to the area of canopy gaps. Gaps were created by frequent wildfire (mean fire return interval of 41 yr) and by windstorms. Severe fire initiated mass establishment of Abies magnifica, whereas gaps created by windthrow released already established individuals. Low intensity fire stimulated little recruitment, but Red fir established continuously during fire-free intervals. Thus, the complex age and structures of Red fir forests reflect both episodic and continuous recruitment, as determined by the type and severity of natural disturbance.
3236151|Natural Pinus resinosa (red pine) stands in Newfoundland are restricted to 22 small, dry, nutrient-poor sites. A short wildfire cycle (15-30 yr) of both surface and crown fire regulates stand perimeters and is the main factor in regulating stand development. At the nucleus of current stands < 100 yr old, a few trees > 200 yr occur, usually showing multiple fire scars. Stem char heights confirmed an increased flammability of the stand and tree mortality for fires moving in the upslope position, as well as for mixed Pinus resinosa-Picea mariana stands. All P. resinosa stands are severely nutrient-deficient. Leaf concentrations of N, P and K were below or near the reported critical values. Nutrient concentrations were highest three months after a surface fire, but dropped considerably one year later. A gradual increase to near post-fire levels is achieved four years after fire. Foliar nutrient concentrations were positively correlated with average width of the annual rings. Aspects of the ericaceous understory dynamics and its relation to P. resinosa regeneration are also discussed.
3235832|Little is known of the dynamics of the alpine cushion plant communities of Tasmania. The present study investigates the nature of the short (5 yr) and long (850 yr plus) term dynamics within one such community at Newdegate Pass, Tasmania. This involved observations of permanent plots, quadrat sampling of cushion heath in different stages of a secondary succession and cuticular analysis of a core through the cushion peat. Data from the peat core showed the continued presence of the cushion heath community at this site for at least 850 yr, while the regeneration patterns indicated community composition was largely achieved by species accumulation rather than species replacement. Over a 5-yr period there was little or no change in total percentage cover yet a surprisingly high degree of interspecific competition for space in areas of complete plant cover. These observations best fit non equilibrium models of community succession and stability.
3236413|How can up to 40 plant species coexist on 1 m<sup>2</sup> of grassland? Taking limestone grasslands of northern Switzerland as an example, coexistence is described and analysed with the Dynamic keyhole-key model. This model is a comprehensive formalization of the observation that different species occupy different microsites within an ecosystem. Where species -diversity (keys) and microsite diversity (keyholes) match, coexistence can occur. Microsite diversity is mostly biogenic. For example, Microtus arvalis (common vole) creates (1) nutrient-rich microsites (excreta) where Dactylis glomerata and Galium album grow preferentially; (2) gaps which are colonized by Arabis hirsuta and Myosotis arvensis; and (3) microsites where this small rodent mainly feeds and where species such as Primula veris s.l. and Viola hirta are found because they are not eaten. Changing weather conditions, an example of abiogenic microsite diversity, permit the coexistence of species with high water-stress tolerance, such as Salvia pratensis and Plantago lanceolata, and low tolerance, such as Dactylis glomerata and Trifolium pratense. Other cases of the matching of plant species and microsite diversity are given. The generality of the model is investigated by testing its predictions about species coexistence in other grassland types in northern Switzerland. In fertilized meadows with 35 - 40 species / 50 m<sup>2</sup>, uniform fertilizer application, frequent mowing, poor conditions for small rodents and other factors reduce the diversity of microsites and thus the possibility for the coexistence of different species. In xeric grasslands the diversity is only 31-36 species / 50 m<sup>2</sup>. This may be explained by both the historic and the actual biogeographic situation which results in a small species pool for these grasslands. Old nonfertilized city lawns have only 8-36 species / 50 m<sup>2</sup>. Homogeneous soil, frequent mowing and other factors drastically reduce microsite diversity. Only 20 - 50 species of the Swiss flora can stand frequent mowing and even fewer species are able to immigrate into the lawn 'islands' in the cities. Thus both species pool and microsite diversity are very small. These examples show that the keyhole-key model allows the understanding of species diversity and coexistence in these grassland types and probably also in other ecosystems. Comparisons between the model and other models of coexistence and its limitations and potentials are discussed.
4499159|Questions: Do islet area, number of biotopes and distance from the mainland shape lichen species richness on islets? Are there any species- or substrate group-specific trends associated with these factors? Location: Islets of the west Estonian Archipelago, Estonia. Methods: A species list was compiled for each of the 32 islets and the relative abundance of each species was estimated. The lichens were divided into seven groups according to their substrate preferences. Generalized linear model (GLIM) analysis was applied to test the effect of the islet traits on the number of lichen species on the islets and in the substrate groups. The probability of presence/absence and abundance of the most frequent species according to the islet traits were tested with GLIM and general linear mixed model. Results: The lichen flora of the islets consisted of 326 taxa, the number of lichen species per islet varied from 2 to 197. Total number of species per islet and within the substrate groups was positively correlated with islet area and with number of biotopes, and negatively correlated with distance from the mainland; however, these relationships varied among the substrate groups. Although individual lichen species showed variation in responses, general trends in island biogeography were evident. Conclusions: The distribution pattern of lichens on the studied islets follows the theory of island biogeography: the number of species per islet depends on isolation, area and biotope diversity. Species specific traits, such as dispersal strategy and growth form, as well as availability of a particular substrate are important for formation of the lichen flora on islets.
4096640|Questions: Boreal forests along small streams are bryophyte diversity hotspots because they are moist, productive and relatively high pH. Do these factors also explain the large differences in species richness and species composition found among streamside sites? Do the species of species-poor sites represent nested subsets of the species of more species-rich sites? How do the results apply to conservation? Location: Forests along small streams in mid-boreal Sweden. Methods: Survey of the flora of liverworts and mosses and habitat properties, including calculation of a pH-index based on species indicator values, in 37 sites
3236940|In French Guiana, inselbergs in the form of granite outcrops rise abruptly from the surrounding rain forest. They constitute isolated islands of a special type of vegetation restricted to this peculiar substrate. Shrub granitic vegetation, organized in thickets on open exposed rocks of inselbergs, are described using the Braun-Blanquet method combined with Correspondence Analysis. This phytosociological study revealed only one particular shrub community on each inselberg, including predominantly evergreen and sclerophyllous shrubs, especially microphanerophytes, belonging to the Clusiaceae, Myrtaceae and Bombacaceae. These outcrop communities exhibit species endemic to the Guianas region and also species rare in French Guiana. Affinities with flora of other inselbergs and vegetation types in South America are examined and discussed. Reasons for observed floristic and structural changes in each community are also discussed.
3235764|Dry forests occupy a larger area in the tropics than rain forests. They grow under a wide range of rainfall conditions; the determining characteristics are the occurrence of a dry season of 2-6 months duration, and the dominance of deciduous woody perennials. The knowledge of the ecophysiological properties of woody perennials from these forests, essential for the development of forest restoration strategies, is still scanty. This paper describes the ecophysiological behaviour of 10 species of woody perennials growing in a secondary dry forest, which has been recovering since 1944 on the bills of the Botanical Garden of Caracas. Four species, Astronium graveolens, Bauhinia megalandra, Sapindus saponaria and Tabebuia chrysantha, were initially planted while the others, Bursera simaruba, Capparis flexuosa, Erythroxylon cumanense, E. densum, E. orinocense and Eugenia casearioides, reproduced from seed sources existing in forest remnants growing nearby. Specific leaf areas measured are relatively high, covering a range from 11 to 34 m<sup>2</sup>/kg. Nitrogen and phosphorus levels are also high compared to data reported from dry forests elsewhere, therefore no nutrient limitation for photosynthetic productivity is apparent. Osmotic pressure () of leaf sap extracted from frozen samples taken during the growing season, is correlated with the corresponding content of soluble sugars and the ions Mg and K; Ca-ions do not play a significant role in explaining the variance of . Most species maintained a diluted leaf sap during the rainy season, characterized by  values between 5-15 bar. The osmotic pressure increased strongly in older leaves and during the dry season. Four species showed more stable  values throughout the growing season, with C. flexuosa and B. simaruba characterized by higher and lower  values, respectively. Proline was found to be a reliable indicator of water stress in these woody species, the amount of proline measured in leaf sap being logarithmically correlated with the corresponding  value. Osmotic pressure of leaf sap and leaf xylem tension was higher during the dry season for all species, while the contrary was true for leaf conductance. Leaf conductance was better correlated with leaf-air vapour pressure deficit than with leaf xylem tension. The most drought-tolerant species were C. flexuosa, E. casearioides and the three Erythroxylon species. Drought resistance of B. simaruba, B. megalandra and A. graveolens was associated with their high sensitivity to leaf-air VPD and lower leaf conductances. The other two species occupied intermediate positions.
4499264| Question: Can satellite time series be used to identify tree and grass green-up dates in a semi-arid savanna system, and are there predictable environmental cues for green-up for each life form? Location: Acacia nigrescens/Combretum apiculatum savanna, Kruger National Park, South Africa (25 S, 31 E). Methods: Remotely-sensed data from the MODIS sensor were used to provide a five year record of greenness (NDVI) between 2000 and 2005. The seasonal and inter-annual patterns of leaf display of trees and grasses were described, using additional ecological information to separate the greening signal of each life form from the satellite time series. Linking this data to daily meteorological and soil moisture data allowed the cues responsible for leaf flush in trees and grasses to be identified and a predictive model of savanna leaf-out was developed. This was tested on a 22-year NDVI dataset from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer. A day length cue for tree green-up predicted 86% of the green-ups with an accuracy better than one month. A soil moisture and day length cue for grass green-up predicted 73% of the green-ups with an accuracy better than a month, and 82% within 45 days. This accuracy could be improved if the temporal resolution of the satellite data was shortened from the current two weeks. Conclusions: The data show that at a landscape scale savanna trees have a less variable phenological cycle (within and between years) than grasses. Realistic biophysical models of savanna systems need to take this into account. Using climatic data to predict these dynamics is a feasible approach. 
3235566|43 stands of a dry tropical forest vegetation occurring in the Vindhyan region of India were studied and the data were analysed using multivariate methods. The vegetation comprised five community types forming a mosaic and was distributed in non-contiguous patches. The environmental relationships of these community types were analysed by Detrended Correspondence Analysis and Discriminant Analysis, which illustrated the importance of soil texture in determining the distribution of these communities. Analysis of data for saplings indicated the dynamic nature of patches and of the community types. We conclude that dry tropical forest vegetation is a mosaic of communities which are dynamic in space and in time.
3237064|In high-elevation communities of the southern Andes, plant cover is low due to severe environmental conditions and vegetation occurs mostly as isolated small (< 1 m<sup>2</sup> patches. Most patches are dominated by flat cushion plants. We evaluated patterns of plant species co-occurrence and species affinity for patches with and without cushion plants and different species richness. We mapped and recorded species composition of patches occurring within two 20 m x 20 m plots at the NE slope of Cerro Chall-Huaco, Nahuel Huapi National Park, Argentina. In these plots, we identified 32 and 24 plant species, and a maximum of 15 and 12 species per patch, respectively. The community was characterized by positive associations between species. Patches in which either of the common cushion plants Mulinum leptacanthum and Oreopolus glacialis occurred sustained richer communities than patches in which they were absent. Patches dominated by different cushion plants did not differ in species composition, but species differed in their affinities for patches with different numbers of species. Because richness increased with patch size and patch size with time, differential affinities of plant species suggest that successional changes take place in the patches. Some small herbaceous species appear to act as late colonizers, mostly restricted to species-rich patches. Flat cushion plants are considered 'nurse plants'; they strongly modify micro-environmental conditions and allow establishment and survival of associated species.
3237079|A common goal in functional type research is to find a useful classification that defines the dynamic behaviour of groups of species in relation to environmental variation. Long-term data sets on the dynamics of forests are difficult to obtain; thus, it would be useful if more readily available data, such as that on morphological and life history characters, could be used to derive groups that reflect the dynamics of the species. We used a 30-yr data set on the dynamics of subtropical rainforests in Australia to derive classification based on the dynamics of the species and compared this classification with groups of species derived by other approaches. Functional types were derived for ca. 80 tree species using subjective, deductive and data-driven approaches. The subjective classification used was a pioneer to late successional grouping. The deductive classification was an extension of the vital attribute approach. Two data sets were used for the data-based classifications, one based on morphological, life history and phenological characters (morphological data) readily available from taxonomic descriptions and another based on long-term observations on the establishment, growth and death of all individuals on permanent plots (dynamic data). SAHN (Sequential, Agglomerative, Hierarchical and Nested) clustering techniques were used for the numerical classifications. There was some similarity between the classification based on dynamic characters and the subjective and deductive classifications. The classification based on the readily available morphological characters showed less similarity with other classifications. However, the morphological data could be used to predict group membership in the dynamic classification using discriminant analysis with 87% accuracy. Thus, it appears that surrogate classifications might be found to describe the dynamics of the subtropical rainforest site. Further exploration and testing at other sites is required, especially to link the functional classification to specific perturbations.
23012429|Question: The eu-atlantic forest herb Ceratocapnos claviculata showed a recent increase in frequency within its native range and an eastward and northward range expansion in Central Europe. To gain deeper understanding of factors affecting the range expansion of the species, we analyzed vegetation relevs at three different scales and asked the following questions: As the species occurs in a wide range of vegetation types, is variation in community composition across the entire range related to climatic environmental zones and tree cover? Are there differences in species composition and habitat characteristics between the native range and the two invaded regions (S Sweden and NE Germany)? Did community composition and habitat characteristics within the native range (The Netherlands) change between `before 1970' and `1990 to 2006'? Location: W, C and N Europe. Methods: We analysed vegetation-plot data with C. claviculata from various databases and own surveys using partial CCA, partial DCA, Indicator Species Analysis, MANCOVA and multiple regression. Results: Using vegetation plots from the entire distribution range, climatic environmental zones explained 68.9% of the total canonical Eigenvalue. Differences in floristic composition and habitat characteristics between the two invaded regions were as large as between native and invaded range sites. However, relevs from the invaded range were generally characterized by anthropogenic disturbance. Accordingly, abundance of C. claviculata was positively linked to silvicultural intensity. New relevs from 1990 to 2006 were characterized by higher Ellenberg nutrient indicator values, lower species diversity, higher proportions of neophytic and hemerobic species and showed a lower cover of the study species than old relevs from before 1970. Conclusions: Across the range of C. claviculata, climatic environmental zones determine vegetation composition. Accordingly, the species is characterized by a broad macroclimatic amplitude. Vegetation composition and structure differ significantly between the two regions of the new range. Thus, the species has successfully established under various biotic and abiotic environmental conditions. Beyond potential positive effects of soil eutrophication and mild winters, anthropogenic impact may directly facilitate seed dispersal and provide sites and resource conditions suitable for germination and establishment of C. claviculata, whereas a decrease of forest management may constrain the species.
3237096|The subalpine oligotrophic heath-grasslands, assigned to the Pulsatillo-Vaccinietum and Violo-Nardetum, occurring at the upper ridges in the Vosges at 1100 - 1300 m a.s.l. are of conservational interest because they form natural, mature and stable ecosystems. The Pulsatillo-Vaccinietum is particularly rich in endemic plant species and subspecies due to a local oceanic-subarctic climate and the continuous occurrence of the community throughout the Holocene period, when the association was not affected by changes in the prevailing environmental conditions. After a period of abandonment during and after World War II, agriculture was intensified through mineral fertilization and liming, sometimes mowing, and even ploughing and sowing. Seven pastures were selected to estimate the present plant biodiversity. Losses of biodiversity were assessed on the Kastelberg ridge by diachronic analysis of the vegetation composition and structure over the last 30 years. Species diversity changed in both associations through a decrease in the abundance of oligotrophic, acidophilic species, typical of the mountains of western Europe, and an extension of grassland types of the Violo-Nardetum trifolietosum. Strategies for a return to more natural conditions include the abandonment of fertilization and liming, except locally around farms. Regular mowing is needed in order to decrease the nutrient level of the sites.
25173170|Question: In deciduous-dominated forest landscapes, what are the relative roles of fire weather, climate, human and biophysical landscape characteristics for explaining variation in large fire occurrence and area burned? Location: The Great Lakes-St. Lawrence forest of Canada. Methods: We characterized the recent (1959-1999) regime of large ( 200 ha) fires in 26 deciduous-dominated landscapes and analysed these data in an information-theoretic framework to compare six hypotheses that related fire occurrence and area burned to fire weather severity, climate normals, population and road densities, and enduring landscape characteristics such as surficial deposits and large lakes. Results: 392 large fires burned 833 698 ha during the study period, annually burning on average 0.07%  0.42% of forested area in each landscape. Fire activity was strongly seasonal, with most fires and area burned occuring in May and June. A combination of antecedent-winter precipitation, fire season precipitation deficit/surplus and percent of landscape covered by well-drained surficial deposits best explained fire occurrence and area burned. Fire occurrence varied only as a function of fire weather and climate variables, whereas area burned was also explained by percent cover of aspen and pine stands, human population density and two enduring characteristics: percent cover of large water bodies and glaciofluvial deposits. Conclusion: Understanding the relative role of these variables may help design adaptation strategies for forecasted increases in fire weather severity by allowing (1) prioritization of landscapes according to enduring characteristics and (2) management of their composition so that substantially increased fire activity would be necessary to transform landscape structure and composition.
3237222|Plant communities of trampled soil dominated by plants characterized by the C4-assimilation syndrome were investigated in Europe. These species, belonging to genera such as Chamaesyce, Amaranthus, Eleusine, Eragrostis and Setaria, are thermophilous, late-germinating, prostrate herbs or grasses. The centre of their distribution is in the (Sub)Tropics. A syntaxonomic revision of the phytosociological material from Europe (incl. the Macaronesian Archipelago) revealed three alliances: the Euphorbion prostratae from Spain, the Polycarpo-Eleusinion indicae from Italy, and Slovenian and Croatian Istria, and the Eragrostio-Polygonion arenastri from temperate regions of Europe. The latter two syntaxa are described as new. All three alliances belong to the order Eragrostietalia (class Stellarietea mediae). Vicarious (ecologically analogous) communities occur also in southern Africa, eastern Asia and North America. The communities studied in the present paper are considered to be an impoverished form of highly diversified trampled plant communities typical of (sub)tropical areas.
3236830| This study analyses the pollen signature of tropical lowland forests (< 1000 m a.s.l.) in the Asian monsoon climate. Its aim is to investigate how well the pollen data can reproduce the vegetation patterns in tropical India, and how the variations in the pollen composition are related to the gradient of decreasing plant moisture availability (measured by the ratio of actual over equilibrium evapotranspiration) that is associated with the strong seasonality of precipitation that characterizes the monsoon climate regime. We used canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) to relate the variations in the pollen composition of 71 surface soil samples from evergreen and semi-evergreen forests distributed along the western coast of south India (8 48 N-15 08 N), with the climate characteristics of the sampling sites. We show that variations in plant moisture availability strongly determine variations in the pollen composition; for example evergreen and semi-evergreen forests can be distinguished on the basis of their pollen assemblages. Variations in the mean temperature of the coldest month associated with elevation also determine distinct pollen assemblages; for example evergreen forests above 800 m a.s.l. present different pollen signatures than those below this altitude/temperature limit. Variations in the relative abundance of some pollen taxa are strongly related to plant moisture availability and taxa indicators of climate can be identified. Hence, modern pollen assemblages from tropical forests in south India carry considerable information about vegetation patterns and climate. Paleoclimatic changes, notably in the monsoon season, could be quantified. 
3235865|Despite the obvious importance of savannas, the response of semi-arid temperate savannas to disturbance has hardly been studied. The objective of this study was to determine the response of annual plants and vegetation to severe disturbance (tilling) in the grassland phase of a semi-arid savanna characterized by perennial bunchgrasses. Most species of annual plants responded positively to tilling; however, 25 % of the species did not respond or responded negatively. Response of plants and vegetation was more strongly influenced by precipitation than disturbance, even for the severe disturbance used in this study. Tilling-induced differences were negligible during a relatively dry year. Response of annuals to disturbance in semi-arid temperate savannas may not be consistent with response in other systems.
3235855|The environment of the oak Quercus robur is precisely classified using a mathematical definition of the environment of a plant previously developed by the senior author. The definition is explained in words and a minimum of symbolism is used. The inclusion of each object in the environment of the oak is justified by a semi-formalized sentence, fully translated into ordinary English at the first usage. A diagram known as an 'envirogram', originally developed for the animal environment, is described. It presents the classification of the environment of a specific organism in simple graphic form. Two envirograms are given, for acorn and mature oak tree. These are the first plant envirograms to be constructed. A simplified community in a small habitat containing oaks and other organisms is described. It is fully analysed using a minimum of symbolism and classified as being of second order. The method gives mathematical precision to the notion that living organisms in a habitat are functionally related and it provides a modus operandi for the analysis of such a community.
3235891|Two contrasting Egyptian desert environments are examined by ordination and integrated interpretation methods. A crude site moisture index is strongly related to vegetation in both desert regions. Water quality is an additional strong control of floristic variation on the Sinai coastal plain and disturbance (by grazing and woodfuel collection) is important in the Eastern Desert. Useful indicator groupings of species are obtained as part of the analysis and are potential aids in the development and conservation of desert areas. Modern numerical methods offer considerable advances on the traditional descriptions of Egyptian desert ecosystems.
3236281|Grass cover along a grazing intensity gradient in Patagonia decreases, whereas bare soil and shrub cover increases. Our objective was to study the effect of a change in the dominant plant functional type on soil water balance, primary production, herbivore biomass, roughness, and albedo. Using a soil water balance model, we found increases in evaporation and deep drainage, and a decrease in total transpiration along the grazing intensity gradient. Above-ground primary production, estimated from transpiration, decreased along the grazing intensity gradient because shrubs did not fully compensate for the decrease in grass production. Using a statistical model, we calculated herbivore biomass from estimates of above-ground primary production. Estimated herbivore biomass was lowest in the shrub-dominated extreme of the grazing gradient. Roughness increased from the grass-dominated to the shrub-dominated community. Albedo had a maximum at an intermediate position along the gradient. Our results suggest that changes in plant functional type composition, independent of changes in biomass, affect ecosystem functioning and the exchange of energy and material with the atmosphere. Grasses and shrubs proved to be appropriate plant functional types to link structure and function of ecosystems.
4096661|Questions: Which factors best predict the probability of elephant and frost damage in Kalahari sand woodland savanna? What is the association between tree mortality and the disturbance regime? Location: Western Zimbabwe. Methods: Elephant and frost damage, topkill, and wholeplant mortality were quantified in ten common tree species in a Kalahari sand savanna in Zimbabwe. Individual trees were tagged in 20 plots and monitored over a two-year period. A model selection approach was used to test the association between the probability of damage and size, prior damage, and neighbourhood effects, and to investigate the effect of damage on mortality. Results: Elephant damage differed strongly among species, and was not influenced by neighbourhood effects or prior disturbance. Frost damage also varied across species, and declined as a function of stem size and neighbourhood tree cover, and - against expectations - prior disturbance. Topkill increased as a function of elephant and frost damage, but was lower in previously damaged than in undamaged trees. Conclusions: Frost and elephant damage are influenced by community composition, and frost damage is also correlated with community structure and prior disturbance. Frost is an important and generally overlooked disturbance agent in southern African woodlands, where it may play a key role in association with other disturbance factors - such as elephant herbivory - that reduce woodland canopy cover.
3235765|The few surveys made and taxonomic considerations suggest that African dry forests are commonly diverse and dominated by vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal, VAM tree species. Ectomycorrhizal, ECM tree species are usually absent or occur in small numbers, but occasionally dominate. Nitrogen-fixing species (which also mostly form VAM) are, in general, few. Theoretical considerations and the limited data available suggest that phosphorus is the limiting nutrient. This probably explains the paucity of N<sub>2</sub>-fixing species. It is more difficult to explain why VAM-species and not ECM-species dominate, or vice versa, in situations where P is limiting. A dominance of either type will be reinforced by processes mediated by hyphal networks. Because few taxa form ECM, such processes will promote the development of low diversity stands, whereas very many species can share the benefits of a VAM-network. Fertilizer trials are needed to identify precisely the limiting nutrient(s), and the reactions of species with different root symbioses to additions of N and P. In connection with such studies the fractional contribution of N<sub>2</sub> to N<sub>2</sub>-fixing spp. can be estimated by 15<sup>N</sup>-methodology. Analogous possibilities do not exist for work on mycorrhizas, but comparative studies of A-values, or phosphatase and protease activities would be worthwhile. A promising approach would be studies of ECMand VAM-seedlings transplanted into a variety of sites, including each other's habitats.
4499171|In landscapes subject to intensive agriculture, both soil fertility and vegetation disturbance are capable of impacting strongly, evenly and simultaneously on the herbaceous plant cover and each tends to impose uniformity on the traits of constituent species. In more natural and ancient grasslands greater spatial and temporal variation in both productivity and disturbance occurs and both factors have been implicated in the maintenance of species-richness in herbaceous communities. However, empirical data suggest that disturbance is the more potent driver of trait differentiation and species co-existence at a local scale. This may arise from the great diversity in opportunities for establishment, growth or reproduction that arise when the intensity of competition is reduced by damage to the vegetation. In contrast to the diversifying effects of local disturbances, productivity-related plant traits (growth rate, leaf longevity, leaf chemistry, leaf toughness, decomposition rate) appear to be less variable on a local scale. This difference in the effects of the productivity and disturbance filters arises from the relative constancy of productivity within the community and the diversity in agency and in spatial and temporal scales exhibited by disturbance events. Also, evolutionary responses to disturbances involve minor adaptive shifts in phenological and regenerative traits and are more likely to occur as micro-evolutionary steps than the shifts in linked traits in the core physiology associated with the capacity to exploit productive and unproductive habitats. During the assembly of a community and over its subsequent lifespan filters with diversifying and convergent effects may operate simultaneously on recruitment from the local species pool and impose contrasted effects on the similarity of the trait values exhibited by co-existing species. Moreover, as a consequence of the frequent association of productivity with the convergence filter, an additional difference is predicted in terms of the effects of the two filters on ecosystem functioning. Convergence in traits selected by the productivity filter will exert effects on both the plant community and the ecosystem while divergent effects of the disturbance filter will be restricted to the plant community.
4096773|Questions: 1. Are there competitive response strategies for light in juvenile plants? 2. If so, do plant traits (e.g. seed weight, relative growth rate, height and biomass) correlate with the strategies? Location: Controlled greenhouse study using perennial vegetation typical of wet meadows in Northeast Ohio, USA. Methods: We used two light manipulations in a greenhouse to screen ten replicates of 19 plant species for three proposed competitive response strategies ('escape', 'forage', 'persist'). We measured the time it took a seedling to die and the maximum height achieved when grown in the dark to assess two strategies, persist and escape. The biomass of seedlings when grown under a controlled, low-intensity, shifting light source was measured to test a third strategy, forage. Results: We found significant variation across species in the measurements used to assess each strategy. The species ranking for each strategy was not concordant across strategies. Traits were found that correlated with the escape strategy (seed weight, height and biomass) and persist strategy (time to reach maximum height). No traits were found that correlate with the forage strategy. Conclusions: There appear to be trade-offs by plants in the three strategies tested in this study. Species which had the best performance on one strategy typically scored poorly on the other strategies. However, many species fall in the middle range, ranking similarly across the 'persist', 'escape', and 'forage' strategies.
3237321| Changes of the ground-layer vegetation between 1983 and 1993 were studied on permanent oak forest plots in Skne and eastern Smland, two regions of South Sweden rich in oak but with different climatic conditions. 79 of the 123 more common species differed considerably in frequency between Skne and Smland. The oak forests in Skne contained more typical forest species, whereas the number of light-demanding grassland species was higher in Smland. Almost half of the more common species showed significant changes in frequency between 1983 and 1993. Several species of clearings and some light-demanding grassland species increased their frequency in Skne. They were probably favoured by canopy thinning which occurred in 65 out of 95 permanent plots. Only two species decreased in frequency in Skne, but 14 species showed a decrease in Smland. All were typical grassland species and their decline may be regarded as a long-term response to ceased grazing and tree canopy closure as almost no tree cutting occurred during the study period in Smland. Total species richness increased with management intensity in Skne. This was due to decreasing species losses and increasing establishment of new species at intense management. A small general increase in species numbers was recorded in Smland. Species richness was more closely related to soil pH in Skne than in Smland. The floris variability between the oak forest plots was closely related to soil pH in both Skne and Smland. We suggest that changes of light conditions as a result of changes in forest management are important for current secondary succession in South Swedish oak forests, whereas the general floristic pattern is to a large extent controlled by soil acidity. 
3236252|This study describes the biomass and net primary productivity of the forests of Central Himalaya occurring in areas where vegetation ranges from close-canopy broad-leaved forest to stunted open-canopy timberline vegetation. The forests studied were Acer cappadocicum forest at 2750 m, Betula utilis forest at 3150 m, and Rhododendron campanulatum forest at 3300 m altitude in Central Himalaya. With the rise in altitude the forest biomass decreased from 308.3 ton/ ha in Acer forest to 40.5 ton/ha in Rhododendron forest. The decrease in net primary productivity was less steep, from 19.6 ton/ha/yr in Acer forest to 10.0 ton/ha/yr in Rhododendron forest. The production efficiency of leaves (net production per unit leaf weight) in these forests is higher than in low altitude broad-leaved forests of Central Himalaya, i.e. from 2.89 in Acer forest to 3.41 g net production/g leaf biomass/yr, against 0.81-1.55 at lower altitudes.
3236490|The role of the propagule bank in aquatic plant maintenance was studied in two riverine wetlands. Four sites were selected, characterized respectively by flooding, drying up, both disturbances operating, and neither operating. Our hypothesis was that recolonization after drying up would mostly involve seeds and buds from the propagule bank, whereas recolonization after floods would mostly involve rhizomes. Dry sites were characterized by a high density of seeds, and a high similarity between seed species and established vegetation. Unspecialized fragments remaining in wet parts of the sediment probably also contribute to species maintenance. Species maintenance in sites subjected to flooding was highly dependent on deeply anchored rhizomes, as indicated by the strong floristic similarity between species that occur in the established vegetation and rhizomes in the bank. Regeneration of the community after scouring floods also involved seeds, some species being able to flower under water. When scouring flooding and drying up were superimposed, regenerative strategies exhibited in the bank did not simply result from the 'addition' of the two disturbance effects. When the disturbances did not occur too closely together in time, species were able to survive either by: (1) producing many propagules under aquatic conditions or (2) coping with the temporal variability by producing several types of propagules.
40295830|Questions: How does landscape position influence biotic and abiotic attributes of western juniper (Juniperus occidentalis) encroached ecosystems? How does intercanopy plant community structure respond to changes in soil moisture and temperature based on juniper cover and topographic position? Location: Steens Mountain, southeast Oregon, USA. Objectives: Competition with western juniper modifies plant community composition, alters soil hydrology, and reduces plant productivity. Research is needed to understand these influences across heterogeneous landscapes. This study characterizes the relationship between juniper encroachment and soil water, soil temperature, topographic position, and intercanopy plant community structure. Methods: Using a completely randomized block design, plant density and cover, percent bare ground, percent soil moisture, soil temperature, heat accumulation, and elevation were sampled in 10 m plots representing low (< 1 %), moderate (~ 14%), and high (~ 27%) juniper cover at four aspects. The relationship and difference between vegetation patterns and environmental variables were analyzed using AOV, NMS, and MRPP ( = 0.1). Indicator species analysis tested for shifts in dominant species along ecological gradients. Results: Soil moisture remained higher in low juniper cover sites than moderate and high juniper cover sites. North-facing sites had highest soil moisture at 5 cm depth with low and moderate juniper cover levels. With increasing soil temperature from May to June, soil moisture declined by 19.7% at 5 cm depth. Achnatherum lemmonii and Pseudoreogneria spicata occurred in closed juniper stands while Achnatherum occidentale and Leymus cinereus were common when encroachment was limited. Application: This approach can be used to predict ecosystem response to western juniper encroachment across heterogeneous landscapes.
4499246|Attention is drawn to a source citing some 90 000 papers in vegetation science and related fields published before 1995. A subject index is provided.
40925507|Question: How does competition between quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides) and white fir (Abies concolor) affect growth and spatial pattern of each species? Location: The northern Sierra Nevada, California, USA. Methods: In paired plots in mixed aspen- (n = 3) or white fir-dominated (n = 2) stands, we mapped trees and saplings and recorded DBH, height, species, and condition and took increment cores. We tallied seedlings by species. Tree ring widths were used as a measure of basal area change over the last decade, and canopy openness was identified using hemispherical photographs. Linear mixed models were used to relate neighborhood indices of competition, stand, and tree-level variables to diameter increment. Spatial patterns of stems were identified using the Neighborhood Density Function. Results: White fir radial growth was higher in aspenthan white fir-dominated plots. Individual-level variables were more important for white fir than for aspen growth, while variables representing competitive neighborhood were important only for aspen. The forest canopy was more open in aspen- than white fir-dominated stands, but ample aspen seedlings were observed in all stands. Canopy stems of aspen and white fir were randomly distributed, but saplings and small trees were clumped. Aspen saplings were repelled by canopy aspen stems. Conclusions: Variation in canopy openness explained more stand-stand variation in white fir than aspen growth, but high light levels were correlated with recruitment of aspen seedlings to the sapling class. Radial growth of aspen was predicted by indices of neighborhood competition but not radial growth of white fir, indicating that spacing and stem arrangement was more important for aspen than white fir growth. Fire suppression has removed a major disturbance mechanism that promoted aspen persistence and reduced competition from encroaching conifers, and current forests favor species that regenerate best by advance regeneration (white fir).
41059629|Question: Although mangrove forests are generally regarded as highly threatened, some studies have shown that mangrove canopies in the Pacific coast of Mexico have been increasing in recent decades. We investigated the possible causes driving this reported mangrove expansion. Location: The mangrove lagoons of Magdalena Bay in Baja California, Mexico. Methods: We used 50-year-old aerial photographs and 24-year-old satellite images to compare long-term vegetation change, surveyed a coastal vegetation transect to analyse flooding levels, compiled six decades of tidal and oceano-graphie information, as well as hurricane data to analyse changes in storm frequency or sea-level conditions, and used isotopic analysis to date the age of trees along the gradient. Results: A significant increase in mangrove cover has occurred in backwaters of the lagoons during the last 40 years, and especially during the El Nio anomalies of the 1980s and 1990s, while at the same time the mangrove fringe has been receding. Conclusions: The observed change can be attributed to the combined action of the warm surface waters of El Nio events and sea-level rise. Jointly, these two effects are sufficient to flood large areas of previously non-flooded salt flats, dispersing mangrove seedlings inland. The inland expansion of mangroves, however, does not ease conservation concerns, as it is the seaward fringes, and not the inland margins, that provide the most valuable environmental services for fisheries and coastal protection.
3236796| The first objective of this paper is to define a new measure of fidelity of a species to a vegetation unit, called u. The value of u is derived from the approximation of the binomial or the hypergeometric distribution by the normal distribution. It is shown that the properties of u meet the requirements for a fidelity measure in vegetation science, i.e. (1) to reflect differences of a species' relative frequency inside a certain vegetation unit and its relative frequency in the remainder of the data set; (2) to increase with increasing size of the data set. Additionally (3), u has the property to be dependent on the proportion of the vegetation unit's size to the size of the whole data set. The second objective is to present a method of how to use the value of u for finding species groups in large data bases and for defining vegetation units. A species group is defined by possession of species that show the highest value of u among all species in the data set with regard to the vegetation unit defined by this species group. The vegetation unit is defined as comprising all relevs that include a minimum number of the species in the species group. This minimum number is derived statistically in such a way that fewer relevs always belong to a species group than would be expected if the differential species were distributed randomly among the relevs. An iterative algorithm is described for detecting species groups in data bases. Starting with an initial species group, species composition of this group and the vegetation unit defined by this group are mutually optimized. With this algorithm species groups are formed in a data set independently of each other. Subsequently, these species groups can be combined in such a way that they are suited to define commonly known syntaxa a posteriori. 
3236127|Two marginal and two central populations of the pseudo-annual aquatic plant Ranunculus lingua were studied over four years. The main purpose was to quantify potentially influential abiotic and biotic factors and to derive predictions about life-history differences between the populations. Variation in abundance and height of R. lingua ramets at different depths were related to water-level fluctuations, to abundance of other helophyes (emergent macrophytes), and to the occurrence of invertebrate grazing and fungal pathogens. Clear differences between marginal and central populations were shown in the depth distribution of ramet numbers and ramet heights, as well as in the dynamic patterns, where marginal populations had a higher flux of ramets. These patterns and regression analyses indicated that abiotic factors have a greater influence in marginal populations, whereas biotic factors are more important in central populations. It is suggested that marginal habitats for R. lingua would favour life-histories with a high reproductive capacity, whereas a large size of ramet would be the most important life-history feature in central habitats. This was supported by the fact that ramets in marginal populations, in spite of their smaller size, produced higher number of rhizomes than ramets in central populations. Variation in regional abundance was finally related to differences in demographic processes and dispersal potential between the populations.
3235810|Woody vegetation was studied in 44 sites in Senegal. Species composition and density were analysed with TWINSPAN and Canonical Correspondence Analysis; 16 vegetation types were defined. A supervised, multispectral and multitemporal classification of day and night, dry season NOAA-AVHRR imagery was used to identify their distribution with a classification accuracy ranging from 60 - 100 %.
3237207|We surveyed tornado damage 14 months after disturbance in three adjacent forest sites in southeastern Missouri, USA: upland, an occasionally-flooded lowland and a frequently flooded swamp. We analysed three 0.09-ha plots in the swamp, and three 0.04-ha plots in the other sites and recorded the herbaceous-layer in five 1-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats per plot. Overall, 30 % of the individuals and 64 % of the basal area of these sites was blown down. However, mortality was less than structural damage: 20 % of the trees were dead 14 months post-disturbance, an intermediate level of mortality relative to other wind disturbances. Damage varied widely among species, sites and tree sizes, but large trees of all species were most likely to be damaged and least likely to resprout. While damage was greatest in the wettest site, we attribute the increase to larger tree sizes and lower density there, rather than to inherent rooting instability. This study suggests that different forest composition and structure may be sufficient to cause differential damage, without topographic effects. Herbaceous-layer response was more rapid than in a previously reported tornado windthrow in Pennsylvania, and was dominated by fast-growing, shade-intolerant forbs.
3236589|Question: Predictive models in plant ecology usually deal with single species or community types. Little effort has so far been made to predict the species composition of a community explicitly. The modelling approach presented here provides a conceptual framework on how to achieve this by combining habitat models for a large number of species to an additive community model. Our approach is exemplified by Nardus stricta communities (acidophilous, low-productive grassland). Location: Large areas of Germany, 0-2040 m a.s.l. Methods: Logistic regression is applied for individual species models which are subsequently combined for an explicit prediction of species composition. Several parameters reflecting soil, management and climatic conditions serve as predictor variables. For validation, bootstrap and jackknife resampling procedures are used as well as ordination techniques (DCA, CCA). Results: We calculated significant models for 138 individual species. The predictions of species composition and species richness yield good agreements with the observed data. DCA and CCA results show that the community model preserves the main patterns in floristic space. Conclusions: Our approach of predicting species composition is an effective tool that can be applied in nature conservation, e.g. to assess the effects of different site conditions and alternative management scenarios on species composition and richness.
4096645|Questions: In the absence of herbivores, what is the importance of shrub facilitation for the colonization of grasslands by Fagus sylvatica and Quercus pubescens? Is there an indirect facilitative effect of shrubs on tree seedlings by limiting herb competition? Location: Causse du Larzac, southern Massif Central, France. Methods: We conducted field experiments on the facilitative role of shrubs in seedling emergence and survival, in relation to potential negative effects of shading and the presence of herbs. The effects of shade and herbs on allocation and root morphology were analysed in a pot experiment. Results: According to these experiments, the establishment of both tree species was facilitated by shrubs, but the two species differed in the processes underlying this facilitation. Shade directly facilitates the emergence rate of both species. Shade also indirectly facilitates Fagus survival by limiting herb competition. No indirect facilitation of Quercus survival was detected. These differences reflect variation in the tolerance of herb competition by seedlings of the two species. The tolerance of herb competition by Quercus seedlings allows regeneration over a wide area under each shrub and some regeneration events in grasslands at low grazing intensity. In contrast, for Fagus, only a narrow area under each shrub is suitable; regeneration is zero in grassland. The high tolerance of herb competition by Quercus seedlings may result from the avoidance of root competition. Conclusions: In grasslands with severe drought stress, and almost obligatory shrub facilitation for tree seedling regeneration, the tolerance of herb competition may alter the precise role of facilitation in the colonization process.
3236302|The effects of grazing upon the composition of a grassland were examined in a replicated grazing experiment with sheep over eight years. Grazing was controlled to produce two levels of grazing in each of winter, spring and summer, combined in a 2 x 2 x 2 factorial experimental design. Particular species were either increased or decreased by winter grazing while, in general, dicotyledonous species were favoured by grazing in both winter and spring. A model fitting the main effects of grazing in three seasons showed the importance of grazing in winter and spring to achieve sward diversification.
4096706|Question: How accurately can a suite of suggested functional traits predict plant species response to succession from semi-open woodland to closed deciduous canopy forest? Location: Southeastern Sweden. Methods: Abundance of 46 field-layer plant species in a temperate deciduous forest, measured as frequency of occupied plots, was estimated in 1961, 1970 and 2003. Abundance change over time across species was tested for correlations with functional traits and literature information on habitat preference. Results: Increase in abundance was positively correlated with specific leaf area (SLA), weakly negatively correlated with seed mass and not significantly correlated with plant height or start, peak and length of the flowering period. Change in abundance was correlated with the Ellenberg light indicator value, whereas no correlations were found with Ellenberg values for nitrogen, calcium and moisture, or forest preference according to the literature. Conclusions: SLA was a better predictor of how field layer plants responded to succession from semi-open woodland to closed canopy forest than empirically-derived measures of habitat preference. The same holds for SLA in relation to seed size, indicating that interactions in the established life-cycle phase are more important than the recruitment phase for species response to succession.
3236900| Since many wood-living forest species are influenced by the dynamics of coarse woody debris (CWD), information about the spatial pattern of CWD under natural conditions is essential to understand species distributions. In this study we examined the spatial pattern of downed logs and wood-decaying fungi in an old-growth boreal Picea abies forest in northwestern Sweden that is governed by gap-phase dynamics. The spatial pattern of wood-decaying fungi was studied to draw conclusions about species dispersal abilities. A total of 684 logs with a diameter > 10 cm were mapped and analysed with Ripley's K-function. The distribution of all logs taken together displayed a significant aggregated pattern up to 45 m. The different decay stages also deviated from random expectations. Fairly fresh logs and logs in the middle decay stage were clumped up to about 25 and 35 m respectively, and late decayed logs aggregated up to 95 m. Logs with diameters from 10-29 cm were aggregated up to 25 m, whereas logs 30 cm diameter were randomly distributed. The result suggests that gap-dynamics do have an impact on the spatial pattern of the CWD, creating fine-scale clumping. The random distribution of large logs may result from the slightly regular spacing of large living trees. The spatial patterns of 16 species (n > 20) of wood-decaying fungi were analysed with Ripley's K-function. Three patterns were aggregated, for Gloeophyllum sepiarium, Coniophora olivacea and Vesiculomyces citrinus. These results indicate that the distribution of most species at the stand level is generally not influenced by dispersal limitations. 
3235589|Morphological (size and shape) and functional (growth, reproduction and phenology) attributes are used to characterize 42 annual species of Mediterranean grasslands according to their strategy. Principal component analysis of the matrix of 42 species x 9 attributes shows that the main trend of variation is related to plant size. Larger species have larger seeds, lower relative growth rates and lower reproductive output. The second and third trends of variation are related to plant shape. Ordination of species shows differences in shape between taxa and growth forms (grasses, legumes, forbs). The relative abundance of species with different attributes vary with the level of stress (water and nutrient availability) and disturbance (grazing and ploughing). Size is related to stress, with larger plants dominating in productive habitats and smaller ones in the most unproductive. Disturbance is related to shape and phenology, since grazing favours species with low canopies and ploughing favours species with shorter life cycles, that are usually small in size. Relations between plant attributes and habitat characteristics are examined within the more general framework of plant strategy theory.
3237083|We analysed attributes of the understorey flora in different plant communities along two grazing gradients in arid Australian rangelands. We aimed to determine if there were patterns among species in response to grazing, and easily recognizable 'indicator response types' for monitoring grazing-induced change in community composition. Measurements were stratified by vegetation patch type, in woody groves and open patches. Trait selection and analyses followed a hierarchical approach which searched for patterns within major plant life forms. Patch type exerted a dominant influence on both life forms and species attributes, but interacted with grazing. Grazing was associated with loss in differentiation of species composition between patch types, rather than loss in numbers of species overall. Heavy grazing was variously associated with small size, prostrate habit, low meristems, small leaves, coated leaves, high regrowth potential, plasticity in response to grazing, and high fecundity; and light grazing with opposing attributes. Many attributes tended to vary independently of each other and grazing-related attribute syndromes were recognisable only among grasses. This could be because the environmental filters acting on the communities have given rise to many different species with different natural attribute combinations, few of which are closely associated with grazing resistance. For grassy communities 'large, erect tussocks branching above-ground' and 'small, sprawling basal tussocks' may have potential as response types indicative of light and heavy grazing respectively, but no response types could be identified for herbaceous communities.
3237325|The aim of this study was to evaluate the possibility to use neighbour species composition to explain demographic variations in seasonal tillers in perennial grasses. Two warm-season species of the Argentina flooded pampa, Paspalum dilatatum and Sporobolus indicus, were used as models. Tiller structure and dynamics of target plants and the identity of their nearest neighbours were analyzed within a semi-natural grassland community for an entire annual growth cycle. Canonical Correlation Analysis of tillering behaviour of target plants and neighbour species composition showed significant relationships for summer neighbourhood data. Community components affecting tiller demography were identified, and their spatial variation was described as different gradients of neighbourhood composition (NCG). NCG varied between target species, determining different spatial variation in neighbouring canopy dynamics and tiller dynamics. The tiller structure and dynamics of P. dilatatum plants were significantly correlated with the seasonal pattern of their neighbouring canopy density (NCD). Plants placed on the NCD-fluctuating extremes along NCG showed an unstable modular structure and short-lived tillers, as compared to those placed in the centre of the gradient. Relative density of the neighbouring canopy showed little variation along the NCG of S. indicus plants, which presented a tiller structure more stable and uniform than P. dilatatum plants did. Identification of NCG may be a promising approach to understanding changes in tiller dynamics of target species in relation to spatial and temporal changes in community structure.
4096683| A recent analysis published in this journal found different relationships between mean Ellenberg indicator values and environmental measurements in different vegetation types. The cause was stated as bias in mean Ellenberg values between relevs which in turn suggested to reflect a bias in individual Ellenberg values. We discuss two phenomena that could explain these results without the need to invoke bias in either individual or mean Ellenberg values. Firstly, slopes of linear regression lines underestimate true relationships when analyses involve explanatory variables measured with error. Secondly, syntaxon-specific distributions of Ellenberg values follow from the floristic definition of phytosociological units. Mean Ellenberg values per relev therefore carry the stamp of their associated syntaxon even though associated abiotic conditions may vary between relevs. This will lead to variation in slopes and intercepts between vegetation types not because of bias in individual Ellenberg values but because of prescribed bias in the distribution of Ellenberg values between syntaxa. The residual variation in calibrations carried out across vegetation types is undoubtedly reduced by introducing vegetation type as a factor. However users should note that this is unlikely to reflect bias in individual Ellenberg values but is more likely to reflect error in environmental measurements as well the constraint imposed by phytosociological classification. 
40925483|Question: How does vegetation develop during the initial period following severe wildfire in managed forests? Location: Southwestern Oregon, USA. Methods: In severely burned plantations, dynamics of (1) shrub, herbaceous, and cryptogam richness; (2) cover; (3) topographic, overstory, and site influences were characterized on two contrasting aspects 2 to 4 years following fire. Analysis of variance was used to examine change in structural layer richness and cover over time. Non-metric multidimensional scaling, multi-response permutation procedure, and indicator species analysis were used to evaluate changes in community composition over time. Results: Vegetation established rapidly following wildfire in burned plantations, following an initial floristics model of succession among structural layers. Succession within structural layers followed a combination of initial and relay floristic models. Succession occurred simultaneously within and among structural layers following wildfire, but at different rates and with different drivers. Stochastic (fire severity and site history) and deterministic (species life history traits, topography, and predisturbance plant community) factors determined starting points of succession. Multiple successional trajectories were evident in early succession. Conclusions: Mixed conifer forests are resilient to interacting effects of natural and human-caused disturbances. Predicting the development of vegetation communities following disturbances requires an understanding of the various successional components, such as succession among and within structural layers, and the fire regime. Succession among and within structural layers can follow different successional models and trajectories, oc-curs at different rates, and is affected by multiple interacting factors.
3236524|Consequences of habitat fragmentation have garnered much attention over the past few decades. The resulting literature has been useful for understanding how land-use changes influence population viability and community structure, but we are still hampered by a major aspect of the conceptual framework within which most fragmentation work arises. Specifically, habitat between fragments ('matrix') is usually treated as uniform and ecologically irrelevant. However, recent work on animals shows that matrix habitat can profoundly influence within-fragment dynamics. We review related evidence for plants. Various matrix types (e.g. clear-cutting, agriculture, or urbanization) can act in different ways to alter resource availability and movement of pollinators, seed dispersers, and herbivores. Inclusion of matrix qualities in fragmentation studies is further complicated since most matrices are not static; sites in which timber harvesting or agriculture occur develop through succession or change as crops are rotated, respectively, such that their influence on within-fragment processes vary temporally. Also, many plants are not restricted to remnants of original habitat. Using studies of forest understory plants, we summarize work showing how diversity can change significantly through time in matrix. Understanding the persistence of a species across fragmented landscapes will require more attention to matrix habitat, and to the species utilizing the matrix.
3236837|Wamelink et al. (2002) calibrated Ellenberg indicator values for acidity and water availability against measured soil pH and measured mean spring groundwater level (MSL), respectively. Linear regression between indicator value and measured value of all the observations gave a poor fit. Regression lines per phytosociological vegetation class, on the other hand, generally described the observations well. In this article we demonstrate that this result is, at least partly, an artefact. First, because the data utilized are likely to contain systematic errors, and second, because a wrong regression model was applied. A sigmoid function for the relation between the indicator value for water availability and MSL gives a far better fit than a linear function does. 'Vegetation class' is not an obvious choice as an extra explanatory variable for the regression, as it is only a convenient label for vegetation and should not be used as if it were a real independent environmental variable. In general, indicator values of plant species should be calibrated against environmental variables with great care. This implies that researchers should have knowledge about the ecological demands plants make on their environment, as well as about the spatial and temporal variability of this environment.
3237287|The nurse-plant syndrome is a widely recognized example of positive (facilitative) influences of plant species on the establishment and growth of other species. Most studies of the nurse-plant syndrome have been on species that reproduce mainly from seed rather than vegetatively. In this study, we experimentally compared the influences of two species of nurse shrubs, Schinus patagonicus and Berberis buxifolia, on the survival and growth of vegetatively reproducing herbaceous and woody plants in a post-fire shrubland in northern Patagonia, Argentina. The vegetation beneath shrubs was removed by clipping and, in a paired-sample design, one half of the canopy of each shrub was removed. We determined species richness, counted number of resprouts, and measured photon flux density and soil moisture beneath cut and uncut halves of each shrubs. Abundances of resprouts were several times greater beneath the uncut vs. the cut shrubs, as was the mean number of species. Thus, shrubs have a strong facilitating influence as measured by resprout densities and the number of species. Numbers of resprouts and of species were twice as high beneath Schinus as beneath Berberis, implying important differences in the facilitative effects of the two shrubs species. Microsites beneath Schinus were characterized by lower and more heterogeneous light levels but by greater soil moisture. Even though the reproductive mode in this post-fire shrubland is overwhelmingly vegetative, facilitation by nurse shrubs is important and differentially effective for different species of nurse shrubs.
3236714|We studied small-scale turnover in a calcareous grassland community in 2 cm x 2 cm subplots within 46 10 cm x 10 cm plots from 1996 to 1999. In different years, 73 -84% of the subplots were occupied by rooted plant individuals, but the location of empty subplots varied considerably between years. Seedlings were the most mobile components in subplots - during one year (from July to July), seedlings either appeared or disappeared in on average 85% of all subplots where seedlings had occurred during that year. Within a one-year period, vegetative ramets appeared or disappeared in an average of 30% of all subplots that had rooted plants at either the beginning or the end of that year. When only previously empty subplots were taken into account, 80% of appearances were due to clonal growth and 20% due to seedling establishment. Ca. 75% of the seedlings, however, established in subplots that already contained a rooted plant individual. There were significantly less generative appearances when a moist summer was followed by a dry one, and significantly more vegetative appearances when a dry summer was followed by a moist one. 24-33% of the established seedlings survived the first year; from the second year onwards the annual survival was greater than 50%. Seedling survival was higher among short-lived species. Generative turnover varied between species, but we found no correlation with life history characteristics or frequency. Vegetative turnover of species was dependent on the year and on species traits. Sedges had a significantly higher turnover than grasses. Species potentially able to move clonally > 10 cm per year had a higher turnover than slower species. Turnover was not dependent on species frequency in the community. Forbs with more seedlings also had a higher vegetative turnover. There were no evident links between spatial mobility and species coexistence; predominating species exhibited contrasting turnover rates, subordinate species had contrasting turnover rates as well. Turnover is important in more general terms as a process resulting in free gaps - arenas for recruitment of whatever species.
3236577| Current land-use abandonment and the current rise in temperature in the Alps both suggest that tree limits may change. When it is assumed that the climate of the early mid-Holocene between 8000 and 5000 yr before present is analogous to that of the predicted climate of the late 21st century, palaeo-ecological studies of the early Holocene may provide data for the prediction of the vegetation pattern in a century from now. It appears that mid-Holocene charcoal assemblages can be used to reconstruct the spatial patterns of the vegetation before, or during, the practice of slash-and-burn. Correspondence analysis (CA) of charcoal assemblages shows that an important ecological gradient is determined by elevation. However CA also shows that charcoal assemblages in profiles between 1700 and 2100 m a.s.l. are roughly stratified: the more recent assemblages from the topmost aentimetres of soil are intermediate between the lowermost assemblages and assemblages from higher elevations. This suggests that the woody communities at the highest elevation were located at lower elevations at a later date. The taxonomic diversity of the soil charcoal assemblages has been compared to that of present-day phytosociological relevs after transformation to charcoal-equivalent data. This comparison revealed that the vegetation pattern along the altitudinal gradient in the mid-Holocene was different from that at present. The assemblages indicate that some communities disappeared, that Picea is a late-Holocene invading species, and that there is no strict modern analogue for the vegetation structure prior to that of 3000 yr ago. The past structure of the woody vegetation was also different from that of today. Although past vegetation is not a good analogue for predicting future vegetation patterns, it still has potential as an indicator for the potential presence of tree species where there is none today. If we assume a temperature rise, and take into account current trends of landscape use abandonment, then we can expect strong vegetation dynamics at the upper tree line in the future: Abies alba may expand to occupy elevations of ca. 1800-2000 m in mixed communities with Picea abies, Pinus sylvestris and hardwood species, and Pinus cembra may expand up to 2500-2700 m a.s.l. 
3236563|A latitudinal trend in forest carbon uptake across Europe has been described by the EUROFLUX group, suggesting a considerable uptake in Italian Quercus ilex, Fagus sylvatica and Picea abies forests while a much lower C sink is reported in Scandinavian Picea abies forest. These results are discussed on the basis of the existing literature, and considered to be open to considerable doubt.
4499226|Over the last 20 years, several studies comparing recent survey data with historical data from the early 20th century documented an increase in species numbers on high mountain summits of the European Alps. This increase has more or less explicitly been attributed to an upward migration of plant species due to anthropogenic climate warming. However, a reconsideration of the historical and recent data has revealed that more than 90% of the recent species occurrences on mountain summits concern species that were already present at the same or even at higher altitudes within the study region at the time of the historical surveys. This finding suggests that suitable habitats already occurred on these summits under the mesoclimatic conditions prevailing at the beginning of the 20th century and that these habitats were, at least in part, occupied by these plant species. Consequently, the observed increase in species number during the last century does not require the additional temperature increase due to anthropogenic climate change. We therefore consider the phenomenon of increasing species number on high mountain summits to be primarily the result of a natural dispersal process that was triggered by the temperature increase at the end of the Little Ice Age and that is still in progress mostly due to the dispersal limitation of the species involved. Since both the natural dispersal process and a potential upward migration due to anthropogenic climate warming would take place at the same time, we suggest seeding and transplanting experiments in order to assess their respective roles in the increase in species number on mountain summits.
3236648|There is growing evidence that plant and animal species are arranged in hierarchies of relative competitive performance. More work is needed to determine which plant traits best predict relative competitive performance. We therefore measured relative competitive performance of 63 terrestrial herbaceous plant species using Trichostema brachiatum as a reference species (that is, phytometer or target species). The neighbour species came from a wide array of terrestrial vegetation types (e.g. rock barrens, alvars, old fields), and represented a wide array of growth forms (e.g. small rosette species such as Saxifraga virginiensis and large clonal graminoids such as Agropyron repens). The experiment was repeated with two pot sizes: large (control) and small (stress treatment). Relative competitive performance in large pots (controls) was highly correlated with that in small pots (stress treatment) (r = 0.90, p < 0.001). The hierarchy of relative competitive performance in the large pots was also highly correlated with the hierarchy in the small (stressed) pots (r<sub>s</sub> = 0.91, p < 0.001). Principal components analysis and multiple linear regression showed that plant size (measured by total biomass, above-ground biomass, below-ground biomass, canopy area, height and leaf area index) and leaf shape (measured as length to width ratio, length, width) were the two characteristics that best predicted relative competitive performance (large pots, r<sup>2</sup> = 0.55; small pots, r<sup>2</sup> = 0.48).
3237042| We studied revegetation patterns after experimental fine-scale disturbance (e.g. uprooting) in an old-growth Picea abies forest in southeastern Norway. An experimental severity gradient was established by manipulation of the depth of soil disturbance; two types of disturbed areas were used. Species recovery was recorded in the disturbed patches in three successive years after disturbance. The cover of vascular plants and, even more so the cover of bryophytes and lichens, recovered slowly after disturbance. The least severe treatments (removal of vegetation and removal of vegetation and the litter layer) was followed by the fastest recovery. The mean number of vascular plant species was usually higher three years after disturbance than before disturbance, while the opposite was true for bryophytes. Several vascular plant species that were abundant in intact forest floor vegetation (Vaccinium myrtillus, V. vitis-idaea and Deschampsia flexuosa) recovered during a three-year period primarily by resprouting from intact rhizomes and clonal in-growth. Other important recovery mechanisms included germination from a soil-buried propagule bank (e.g. Luzula pilosa, Plagiothecium laetum agg., Pohlia nutans and Polytrichum spp.) and dispersal of propagules into the disturbed patches (e.g. Betula pubescens and Picea abies). Microsite limitation seemed to occur in several species that were abundant in the soil propagule bank (e.g. the ferns Athyrium filix-femina, Gymnocarpium dryopteris and Phegopteris connectilis) but which did not appear in disturbed patches. Disturbance severity influenced revegetation patterns, recorded both as trajectories of vegetation composition in a DCA ordination space and as change in floristic dissimilarity. The length of the successional path (compositional change measured in -diversity units) increased with increasing disturbance severity, and was also influenced by the area of the disturbed patch and the distance to intact vegetation. The rate of succession depended on the method by which it was measured; decreasing year by year in floristic space, while first decreasing and then increasing in ordination space. The reason for this difference is explained. 
4096741|Questions: Does distance decay exist in an old-growth neotropical forest? Is this distance decay stronger than expected due to environmental heterogeneity alone? At what spatial scales are distance decay manifested? Location: La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, Central America. Methods: An index of distance decay is applied appropriate for small quadrats (the probability of encountering a conspecific tree) to a grid of 1170 0.01-ha plots. A null model is provided that accounts for environmental heterogeneity. Results: Significant, but weak, distance decay is found. After correcting for known patterns of environmental heterogeneity, the distance decay almost disappears, except for fine spatial scales. Conclusions: These results are inconsistent with models that predict distance decay at all spatial scales. However, biological processes leading to distance decay may be more relevant and detectable at scales broader than this study. Research utilizing objectively-located samples over much broader scales is necessary to evaluate the generality and magnitude of distance decay.
3237370|Semi-arid woodlands are two-phase mosaics of canopy and inter-canopy patches. We hypothesized that both above-ground competition (within canopy patches), and below-ground competition (between canopy patches), would be important structuring processes in these communities. We investigated the spatial pattern of trees in a Pinus edulis-Juniperus monosperma woodland in New Mexico using Ripley's K-function. We found strong aggregation of trees at scales of 2 to 4 m, which indicates the scale of canopy patches. Canopy patches were composed of individuals of both species. Crown centers of both species were always less aggregated than stem centers at scales less than canopy patch size, indicating morphological plasticity of competing crowns. In the smallest size classes of both species, aggregation was most intense, and occurred over a larger range of scales; aggregation decreased with increasing size as is consistent with density-dependent mortality from intraspecific competition. Within canopy patches, younger trees were associated with older trees of the other species. At scales larger than canopy patches, younger trees showed repulsion from older conspecifics, indicating below-ground competition. Hence, intraspecific competition was stronger than interspecific competition, probably because the species differ in rooting depth. Woodland dynamics depend on the scale and composition of canopy patches, aggregated seed deposition and facilitation, above- and below-ground competition, and temporal changes in the spatial scale of interactions. This woodland is intermediate in a grassland-forest continuum (a gradient of increasing woody canopy cover) and hence we expected, and were able to detect, the effects of both above- and below-ground competition.
3236255|We present data from the first 11 years of a long-term study of the dynamics of an annual grassland on serpentine soil in Jasper Ridge Biological Preserve, Northern California. Annual rainfall amounts and distributions varied greatly over the period 1982-1993, as did the amount and distribution of gopher disturbance. Temporal variation in gopher disturbance showed no relationship with rainfall, but spatial variation in disturbance frequency was related to soil depth. The disturbance regime experienced by the grassland is complex, both spatially and temporally, and most of the area is disturbed at least once every 3-5 years. Plant species abundances showed a variety of responses to climate variation and disturbance. Abundances of individual species in any given year could not be linked directly to rainfall amount due to hysteresis effects and other interactions. The grassland composition changed markedly over the study. Exclusion of gophers suggested that changing abundances of several species were linked to gopher disturbance. In particular, perennial species' abundances increased greatly in the years following exclosure, but then subsequently declined. Data on plant densities on gopher mounds disturbed at different times of year and in different years indicate that the local species composition remains distinct for a number of years following disturbance. Disturbance history is hence a major factor controlling local community variation. Changing species importances, a complex disturbance regime and the importance of disturbance history make prediction and modelling of this system difficult. It is suggested that the same is probably true for many plant communities, and that long-term studies must be an essential part of ecological research programs. This study illustrates the practical problems inherent in maintaining long-term field experiments and in analyzing complex time series data which suffer from inadvertent deviations from the original experimental design.
23012490|Question: How do species traits respond to environmental conditions and what is their effect on ecosystem properties? Location: Salt marshes, Northwest Germany. Methods: On 113 plots along the German mainland coast and on one island, we measured environmental parameters (soil nutrient content, inundation frequency, groundwater level and salinity), collected traits from 242 individuals (specific leaf area [SLA], whole plant C:N ratio, and dry weights of plant organs) and sampled above-ground biomass as an ecosystem property. We constructed a path model combining environmental parameters, functional traits at community level and above-ground biomass, which was tested against a dependence model using path analysis; model fit was evaluated by structural equation modelling (SEM). Results: The final model showed good consistency with the data and highlights the major role of groundwater level, salinity and nutrient availability as the most important factors influencing biomass allocation in salt marshes. Aboveground living biomass was mostly determined by stem biomass, which was mediated through an allometric allocation of biomass to all other plant organs, including leaf mass. C:N ratio and SLA were the major drivers for dead biomass. Conclusion: We emphasize an indirect link between standing biomass and environmental conditions and recognize stem biomass, plant C:N ratio and SLA as keystone markers of species functioning in determining the relationship between environment and ecosystem properties.
41059620|Question: How do pre-fire conditions (community composition and environmental characteristics) and climate-driven disturbance characteristics (fire severity) affect post-fire community composition in black spruce stands? Location: Northern boreal forest, interior Alaska. Methods: We compared plant community composition and environmental stand characteristics in 14 black spruce stands before and after multiple, naturally occurring wildfires. We used a combination of vegetation table sorting, univariate (ANOVA, paired t-tests), and multivariate (detrended correspondence analysis) statistics to determine the impact of fire severity and site moisture on community composition, dominant species and growth forms. Results: Severe wildfires caused a 50% reduction in number of plant species in our study sites. The largest species loss, and therefore the greatest change in species composition, occurred in severely burned sites. This was due mostly to loss of non-vascular species (mosses and lichens) and evergreen shrubs. New species recruited most abundantly to severely burned sites, contributing to high species turnover on these sites. As well as the strong effect of fire severity, pre-fire and post-fire mineral soil pH had an effect on post-fire vegetation patterns, suggesting a legacy effect of site acidity. In contrast, pre-fire site moisture, which was a strong determinant of pre-fire community composition, showed no relationship with post-fire community composition. Site moisture was altered by fire, due to changes in permafrost, and therefore post-fire site moisture overrode pre-fire site moisture as a strong correlate. Conclusions: In the rapidly warming climate of interior Alaska, changes in fire severity had more effect on post-fire community composition than did environmental factors (moisture and pH) that govern landscape patterns of unburned vegetation. This suggests that climate change effects on future community composition of black spruce forests may be mediated more strongly by fire severity than by current landscape patterns. Hence, models that represent the effects of climate change on boreal forests could improve their accuracy by including dynamic responses to fire disturbance.
3237071|Relations between the distribution of herbaceous and woody species from the flora of Israel and the variation (25 - 900 mm) in mean annual rainfall are described using a grid-based approach integrating multivariate techniques (cluster analysis and DCA-ordination) and GIS. The analysis was based on an extensive data base of vascular plant records in 10 km x 10 km grid cells representing the climatic zones of Israel. Cluster analysis revealed three geographically distinct clusters of grid cells which could be arranged along the main rainfall gradient in the study area. The main subdivision is between cells from the Mediterranean region and cells from the more arid region. The second subdivision separated cells from the arid region into two distinct groups which differed significantly in rainfall. Clustering of herbaceous and woody species was similar, but boundaries separating adjacent clusters based on woody species were consistently linked to more rainy areas. Cell scores on the first DCA-axis were significantly correlated with mean annual rainfall, but this relationship was not linear. Log-transformation of the rainfall data resulted in a higher correlation between the DCA-scores and rainfall, indicating that variation in rainfall had a stronger effect on species composition in relatively dry than in more mesic regions. Slopes of linear regression models relating cell scores on the first DCA-axis to mean annual rainfall, as well as the corresponding R<sup>2</sup>-values, were highest in the desert, intermediate in the dry Mediterranean, and lowest in the mesic Mediterranean territory. These results indicate that both the per-unit effect of rainfall on plant species composition and its relative importance as a determinant of compositional variation decreased from relatively dry to more mesic regions. The length of the first axis, as well as the slopes of regression models relating cell scores on the first DCA-axis to mean annual rainfall were consistently higher in the case of woody species which are characterized by a higher rate of compositional variation. Due to lack of comparable data, it is difficult to evaluate whether our results can be generalized to other regions. However, an analysis of data obtained from different parts of the world points to a considerable variability in the degree to which rainfall affects patterns of floristic variation. Our findings that compositional responses to rainfall may vary between different groups of species and may depend on the part of the rainfall range which is being considered may partially explain this inconsistency.
3236318|An overview of the vegetation history of Calthion palustris meadows is presented with special emphasis on the natural habitats of the character species. The response of meadow species under the influence of drainage was calculated using species-environment response curve techniques. The changes were monitored in permanent plots situated on sites with various intensities of drainage. The similarity with an undisturbed local reference type of the hay meadow community was calculated for all plots and years. On this basis a half-life time of the Calthion palustris stands could be assessed. The half-life time was small in the plots which are most affected by drainage. The response to drainage of character species of the Calthion palustris was very different. This imposes problems for some definitions of the community concept.
3237148|Empirical data on many species of terrestrial orchids suggest that their flowering pattern over the years is extremely irregular and unpredictable. A long search for the reason has hitherto proved inconclusive. Irregular flowering was attributed to costs associated with sexual reproduction, to herbivory, or to the chaotic behaviour of the system represented by difference equations describing growth of the vegetative and reproductive organs. Data on the seasonal growth of leaves and inflorescence of Dactylorhiza majalis are used here to test alternative explanations of the irregular flowering patterns of orchids. These patterns are found to be extremely rare in our data set. Neither costs of reproduction nor grazing seem to explain the rare events of a transition from flowering one year to sterility or absence the next year. These transitions are almost exclusively characteristic of one of four experimental sites, the only unmown site, where the mean leaf area and incidence of flowering in the whole population is also in decline. It is therefore hypothesized that irregular flowering regimes may be characteristic of sites with temporarily or steadily declining populations and that they are usually not present in prosperous ones - at least for D. majalis.
3236444|The community structure of a species-rich grassland was investigated at a small spatial scale (0.001 m<sup>2</sup>), to determine whether evidence suggesting assembly rules could be found in temporal or spatial variation in either species richness or guild proportions. The community was alvar lime-stone grassland on the island of Oland, Sweden. Three sites were sampled: two lightly grazed, the other recently ungrazed. Plots with and without fertilizer were compared. Evidence was sought for restriction on the ability of species to co-occur within a limited spatial area. Restriction due to a limited number of niches available, `niche limitation', could be manifest as lower variance in quadrat richness than expected under a null model (i.e. RV<sub>r</sub>, the ratio of observed: expected variance in richness, would be < 1.0). In several cases, RV<sub>r</sub> values were significantly < 1.0, even using a patch model to allow for possible spatial variation in the environment. Low RV<sub>r</sub> values were found only at the smallest square quadrat size, 10 cm<sup>2</sup>. On Fertilized plots in the years immediately after application of fertilizer, low RV<sub>r</sub> could not be demonstrated. Explanations of low RV<sub>r</sub> other than niche limitation are considered, such as environmental heterogeneity (present and/or historical) and limitations to the co-occurrence of individual plant modules. Assembly rules based on guild membership were sought by looking at the variance across quadrats in the proportions of species from morphological guilds. An assembly rule would be seen as relatively constant proportion, estimated via RV<sub>gp</sub>, the ratio of observed:expected variances in guild proportions. Significant guild proportionality was found in some cases. There was no evidence of guild proportionality in the years after the application of fertilizer. The significant effects in RV<sub>r</sub> were more numerous than expected on a random basis, though not observed in every site in every year. Similar trends were seen in RV<sub>gp</sub>. At the space/ time scales examined, the species in a plant community may be constrained by assembly rules only intermittently, e.g. when resources are more limiting (Wiens 1977). Under this concept, when competition is relaxed, such as following fertilizer application, there is a temporary microhabitat `waterhole' in which more species can coexist, and the assembly rules break down, at least temporarily whilst the species composition adjusts. There was some indication of a return to more deterministic community structure four years after fertilization commenced. Variants of van der Maarel's Carousel model were tested. A Niche-limited Carousel Model (i.e. a model in which there is some limitation in the number of species that can occupy a microsite) would imply restricted variation in richness through time for a single quadrat (temporal RV<sub>4</sub>). Overall differences between years in species richness were demonstrated, and their effect removed; after this adjustment there was support for the Niche-limited Carousel Model. The extent of this limitation varied between sites. There were also consistent differences between quadrats in species richness. There was little evidence for constancy of guild proportions through time. The site that showed the strongest community structure in time and space, least year-to-year variation in mean species richness, and least response to fertilizer perturbation, is that on the shallowest soil. Possibly the thin soil results in greater resource limitation, supporting suggestions that assembly rules are stronger when resources are more limited.
3236057|Cover percentage values for plant species were estimated using the line-intercept method along two belt transects starting at the lower mangrove frontier and ending at the upper height of the salt marsh. Twelve perennial species representing five growth forms were recorded with a total cover ranging between 10 and 50 %, depending on the type of substrate. Principal components analysis of the soil data indicated an array of stands, on the basis of which four vegetation zones could be distinguished. The procumbent growth form predominating on the salt marsh is related to high salinity levels. The procumbent vegetation shows a zonation related to the degree of waterlogging. The rhizomatous growth form is found on sites with a low bicarbonate content and saturation percentage levels, while the undershrub- and stoloniferous growth forms occupy sites of low salinity level, linked with intermediate values of the other edaphic factors.
23012748|Questions: What is the effect of herbaceous layer on seedling establishment of three woody pioneer species in open areas of central Chile under a semi-arid mediterranean climate? How do inter-annual and habitat conditions (slope aspect) modulate this effect? Under high stress conditions such as the drier year and habitat (north-facing slope) do herbs reach low abundance and have neutral effects on woody seedlings? Under medium stress conditions for these woody species, such as the wetter year and south-facing slope, does the herbaceous layer reach greater abundance and have positive effects on woody seedlings due to increasing soil water content? Location: A watershed on the outskirts of Santiago, Chile, subjected to clearing of woody vegetation through firewood extraction and human-set fires. Methods: In spring 2007, we set up 20 plots (3 m  2 m). Half of each plot had herbs removed manually and by application of herbicide. In both halves of each plot, one seedling (8 months old) of each of the three native woody species (Colliguaya odorifera, Schinus polygamus and Quillaja saponaria) was planted and survival monitored subsequently. The experiment was repeated in two consecutive growing seasons (20072008 and 20082009) that differed significantly in total precipitation (152 and 256.5 mm, respectively), and replicated in two sites that differed in aspect and abiotic conditions: a moister south- and a drier north-facing slope. Results: In the first and drier year, the herbaceous layer had low cover and no significant effect on seedling survival of woody species. During the second year, herbs had greater cover and a significant positive effect on spring survival of C. odorifera in the north-facing slope, which was lost after summer. During this wetter year on the south-facing slope, herb cover had a positive effect on survival of S. polygamus (mainly during summer). Conclusions: The role of mostly ruderal herbs on woody seedling establishment depended on the species, rainfall of the current year and slope aspect, and may be explained by soil moisture patterns. This suggests that the effect of ruderal herbs on woody seedlings shifts from neutral under high stress conditions produced by drought to positive under moderate stress conditions. Our results contribute to understand interactions between ruderal herbs and woody species under contrasting abiotic conditions. Therefore, control of the herbaceous layer may not be needed in restoration programmes for this region. Moreover, herbs may benefit restoration of woody cover in mesic habitats.
3236374|A vegetation map at scale 1 : 5 million is presented. It covers Bangladesh, Burma (Myanmar), India, Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, Vietnam and Sri Lanka and fills a conspicuous gap in the cartography of tropical vegetation, following the publication of vegetation maps of South America, Africa and Malaysia. For conformity, it is presented as one sheet at a scale of 1 : 5 million. It uses the basic map of the American Geographical Society (1942; bipolar oblique conformal projection) which forms the base for FAO's Soil map of the world. Basic information was obtained from many published maps, unpublished observations and satellite data. The limits of the main vegetation types have been updated with a complete set of Landsat MSS images (369 scenes) with a mosaic of Landsat TM data for 1991 and with recent forest maps from Asia. Nine main vegetation units, which are groups of forest formations, have been identified and mapped, including woodlands, thickets and wooded savannas. Agricultural land has been shown in a uniform pale green colour in order to clearly express the extent of human impacts on woody vegetation. In spite of the necessary oversimplification of the ground data, this map is probably the most explicit expression of the remaining forest stands and of the regression of natural vegetation in the region. It can be considered as a benchmark for future monitoring of tropical vegetation.
3236848|This paper discusses the relationship of vegetation phenology and three climate variables (rainfall, minimum and maximum temperature) at 17 savanna sites in Botswana and Zambia. Interactions among climate variables were responsible for the largest variation in vegetation canopy phenology measured by the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) and tree shoot extension from ground observations. The most important determinant of savanna phenology in southern Africa was the interaction between minimum and maximum temperature. This observation indicates the need to incorporate minimum and maximum temperature in modelling the impact of climate change on savanna vegetation. Cluster analysis, using five NDVI metrics, separated the study sites into four savanna types with distinct tree:grass ratios. The semi-arid sites were characterized by a co-dominance of the tree and grass components while at more mesic sites, the significance of the grass component was lowest on sites with kalahari sand and mopane woodland. The use of NDVI metrics applied in the study provides an additional technique, that explicitly takes into account the tree:grass ratio during the growing season, for the classification of savanna vegetation types at local scale.
23012505|Questions: What was the tree species composition of forests prior to European settlement at the northern hardwood range limit in eastern Qubec, Canada? What role did human activities play in the changes in forest composition in this region? Location: Northern range limit of northern hardwoods in the Lower St. Lawrence region of eastern Qubec, Canada. Methods: We used early land survey records (18461949) of public lands to reconstruct pre-settlement forest composition. The data consist of ranked tree species enumerations at points or for segments along surveyed lines, with enumerations of forest cover types and notes concerning disturbances. An original procedure was developed to weigh and combine these differing data types (line versus point observations; taxa versus cover enumerations). Change to present-day forest composition was evaluated by comparing survey records with forest decadal surveys conducted by the government of Qubec over the last 30 years (19802009). Results: Pre-settlement dominance of conifers was strong and uniform across the study area, whereas dominance of maple and birches was patchy. Cedar and spruce were less likely to dominate with increasing altitude, whereas maple displayed the reverse trend. Frequency of disturbances, especially logging and fire, increased greatly after 1900. Comparison of survey records and modern plots showed general increases for maple (mentioned frequency increased by 39%), poplar (36%) and paper birch (31%). Considering only taxa ranked first by surveyors, cedar displayed the largest decrease (19%), whereas poplar (15%) and maple (9%) increased significantly. Conclusions: These changes in forest composition can be principally attributed to clear-cutting and colonization fire disturbances throughout the 20th century, and mostly reflected the propensity of taxa to expand (maples/aspen) or decline (cedar/spruce) with increased disturbance frequency. Qubec's land survey archives provide an additional data source to reconstruct and validate our knowledge of North America's pre-settlement temperate and sub-boreal forests.
3236515|The relationship between intensity and timing of cattle grazing on changes in the size and composition of the soil seed bank were investigated in a 3-yr study in a Mediterranean grassland in northeastern Israel. Treatments included manipulations of stocking rates and of grazing regimes, in a factorial design. The retrieved soil seed bank community was rich in species, with 133 species accounting for 80% of the 166 species recorded at the site. Within the seed bank, 89% of the species were annuals. Seed bank dynamics was analysed in terms of plant functional groups and germination strategies. In terms of total seed bank density and including all functional groups, 42% of the seeds present in the soil did not germinate under watering conditions. The dormancy level differed greatly among functional groups. The seed bank of annual legumes, crucifers, annual thistles and annual forbs had a large fraction of non-germinated seeds and characterized areas grazed early in the growing season under high and very high grazing intensity. These functional groups were considered to have a higher potential for persistent seed banks production. In contrast, short and tall annual grasses and tall perennial grasses, that were dominant in ungrazed or moderately grazed paddocks, generally had seed banks with a very small fraction of non-germinated seeds. Seed bank densities varied widely between grazing treatments and years. Under continuous grazing, heavy grazing pressure reduced seed bank densities of grasses and crucifers in comparison to moderate grazing. The greatest reduction on the seed bank densities resulted from heavy grazing concentrated during the seed-set stages.
40925515|Question: How does the ant Atta vollenweideri indirectly affect the shrub Grabowskia duplicata! Does environmental modification induced by nest building affect the life history and population structure of this dominant shrub? Location: Halophytic savanna of western Uruguay, South America. Methods: We compared the density of three shrub size classes, seedlings, saplings and adults, among patches created by ant nest building and in non-modified areas. We studied key soil properties for plant growth in both live nests and non-modified areas. We performed a greenhouse experiment to study the effects of soils (live nest versus non-modified area) on shrub germination probability. We also assessed vegetative propagation by measuring the incidence of root suckers and clonal offshoots in live nests and non-modified areas through a field survey. Results: Seedling-size class was more abundant on live nests than in non-modified areas, suggesting that environmental conditions of this type of habitat (i.e. increased sodium and moisture content of soil, and decreased soil compaction) could facilitate shrub recruitment. We did not find any effects of soil type (live nests versus non-modified areas) on shrub germination probability. However, the vegetative propagation incidence was higher in the environment with live nests. Conclusions: We found a strong indirect relationship between the ant A. vollenweideri and the shrub G. duplicata. This relationship seems to be mediated by an allogenic engineering process, i.e. soil bioturbation caused by nest building. The environmental conditions of live nests seem to facilitate shrub recruitment, mainly by increasing vegetative propagation.
40295790|Questions: What are the feedbacks among the seed bank, parent vegetation, and landscape structure that control plant species turnover in space and time in a tidal freshwater marsh? How can these feedbacks be used to better understand marsh community dynamics and to establish restoration practices that seek to restore vegetation diversity of this important and widely distributed ecosystem? Location: Potomac River, Virginia, United States (15 km south of Washington, DC). Methods: We sampled the seed bank and standing vegetation in a tidal freshwater marsh and explored similarities between seed bank and vegetation composition through space and time. We then investigated marsh surface elevation, distance to nearest tidal channels, and life history of component species as potential explanations for the observed vegetation patterns. Results: The composition of individual plots changed considerably from year to year; however, the composition at broader spatial (whole marsh) and temporal (4 years) scales was relatively stable. Species composition of the seed bank was dissimilar to both the previous and current year's standing vegetation, and similarity to standing vegetation was particularly low in plots dominated by annual species. Landscape structure and life history characteristics of individual species best explained the spatiotemporal variability in marsh vegetation. Conclusions: Restoration designs should be landscapedependent and explicitly incorporate spatially structured elements such as elevation gradients to maximize community diversity in reconstructed tidal freshwater marshes. Optimal designs include areas of high seed input, areas of high species turnover, as well as other areas of greater stability.
40925462|Questions: We asked several linked questions about phenology and precipitation relationships at local, landscape, and regional spatial scales within individual seasons, between seasons, and between year temporal scales. (1) How do winter and summer phenological patterns vary in response to total seasonal rainfall? (2) How are phenological rates affected by the previous season rainfall? (3) How does phenological variability differ at landscape and regional spatial scales and at season and inter-annual temporal scales? Location: Southern Arizona, USA. Methods: We compared satellite-derived phenological variation between 38 distinct 625-km landscapes distributed in the northern Sonoran Desert region from 2000 to 2007. Regression analyses were used to identify relationships between landscape phenology dynamics in response to precipitation variability across multiple spatial and temporal scales. Results: While both summer and winter seasons show increases of peak greenness and peak growth with more precipitation, the timing of peak growth was advanced with more precipitation in winter, while the timing of peak greenness was advanced with more precipitation in summer. Surprisingly, summer maximum growth was negatively affected by winter precipitation. The spatial variations between summer and winter phenology were similar in magnitude and response. Larger-scale spatial and temporal variation showed strong differences in precipitation patterns; however the magnitudes of phenological spatial variability in these two seasons were similar. Conclusions: Vegetation patterns were clearly coupled to precipitation variability, with distinct responses at alternative spatial and temporal scales. Disaggregating vegetation into phenological variation, spanning value, timing, and integrated components revealed substantial complexity in precipitation-phenological relationships.
25173168|Question: What are the genesis and development of thicket clumps within a savanna landscape at geomorphically different locations and what are the driving forces? Location: The Kagera Region, in the border area of Rwanda, Uganda and Tanzania. Methods: The vegetation of 32 dry evergreen thicket clumps and their surrounding savannas have been analysed at different geomorphic locations. At each vegetation plot Na, K, Mg, Ca, Al, Fe/, H, P, C, N, bulk density and particle size were determined for each soil horizon. The impact of soil and termite mounds on thicket clump dynamics on seasonally waterlogged plains, gentle slopes and stony hillsides were assessed. Results: Thicket clumps and their surrounding savannas have a distinct structure and floristic composition. They also have distinct soil properties although parent materials are the same. On seasonally waterlogged plains, new thicket clumps can develop on Macrotermitinae mounds; on stony hillsides. Trinervitermes and Macrotermes show a uniform distribution pattern and may initiate the genesis of thicket clumps. Conclusions: Geomorphology broadly determines the significance and interactions of the main factors affecting site-specific vegetation dynamics. On seasonally waterlogged plains, thicket clumps are restricted to termite mounds. Since intra-species competition dictates a minimal distance between neighbouring Macrotermitinae colonies, thicket clumps do not coalescence. By contrast, on stony hillsides, the vegetation mosaic is highly dynamic and determined by the interplay of several factors. The growth of thicket clumps is mainly a function of the fire regime and the browsing intensity. At the present time, frequent cool, early dry season fires and the near absence of large browsers have favoured the advance and coalescence of thicket clumps and forest patches on stony hillsides.
3236295|Variation of soil matric potential of a Wet Evergreen and a Moist Semi-deciduous West African forest were compared. The two forest types differed strongly in their soil water regime. Wet Evergreen forest experienced matric potentials below - 100 kPa only occasionally, while in Moist Semi-deciduous forest matric potentials were less than - 2.5 MPa for periods of several weeks or more each season. A water balance equation was used to simulate the soil water regime at both sites and predict severity and length of the dry period. The predictions showed good agreement with the field measurements of soil water potential over a 2-yr period. The methodology was used to estimate the occurrence and severity of droughts over longer periods at the two sites. The balance calculations suggest that droughts occur occasionally in the Wet Evergreen forest under study. The potential impact of droughts on species distribution and vegetation disturbance in tropical forests is discussed.
3236703|Whether nitrogen-fixing plants facilitate or inhibit species change in primary succession is best resolved by examining their impacts throughout the plant's entire life cycle from arrival to senescence. We experimentally examined two aspects of the successional impacts of a nitrogen-fixing shrub, Coriaria arborea, on Mt. Tarawera, a volcano in New Zealand: factors limiting Coriaria colonization and impacts of Coriaria-induced soil changes on a later succession tree, Griselinia littoralis. Coriaria germination was promoted by artificial wind protection and by the presence of heath shrubs. Transplanted Coriaria seedlings survived only if nodulated with Frankia, and the addition of Coriaria-enriched soils slowed Coriaria seedling growth and did not improve seedling survival. This explained why Coriaria seedlings were found mostly in protected habitats away from adult Coriaria, and suggested that Coriaria thickets are not self-replacing. Coriaria increased soil fertility by developing a 4 cm thick organic soil horizon that was richer in nitrogen (tenfold) and phosphorus (threefold) than pre-Coriaria stages. These soil changes resulted in three- to sixfold increases in growth of Griselinia when it was grown in Coriaria-enriched soils in a glasshouse. Coriaria's net effect on primary succession is facilitative, but the establishment of Coriaria is itself facilitated by the amelioration of the physical habitat by earlier colonists, suggesting facilitation is important throughout the life cycle of Coriaria. Sequential facilitative events determine the order of species replacements in this study but inhibition, linked to the developmental stages of Coriaria, may determine the rate of species change.
4096627|Question: The use of expert-based indicator values to estimate abiotic conditions from vegetation is widespread. However, recent research has shown that expert judgement may contain considerable bias and thereby introduces a large amount of uncertainty. Could expert based indicator values be replaced by indicator values based on field measurements? Location: Europe. Methods: We developed a method to estimate species response based on measured physical data, and a method to predict abiotic conditions from the vegetation composition using these responses. This method was tested for soil pH. Results: We were able to estimate the pH response of 556 species of the Dutch flora. Ca. 20% of the responses were, at least, bimodal and many responses had a very wide range. The simplest method ('raw mean') yielded the best prediction of pH; the indicator value of a species is the mean of the soil pH values of the sites where it was observed. A list of all raw-mean estimates per species is given. The predicted pH of a new site is the mean of the indicator values of the present species. The estimated species responses were validated on independent Dutch and European data sets. Older successional stages seem to be predicted better than younger stages. Conclusions: Our method performed better than the popular Ellenberg indicator system for the Dutch data set, while being just as easy to use, because it only needs a single value per species. We foresee that, when more data become available, our method has the potential to replace the Ellenberg system.
3235643|Greenhouse and field studies were conducted to determine the effects of artificial fruit removal and clipping (simulated deer browsing) on components of reproduction of two indeterminate dune annuals: Cakile edentula var. lacustris (Bigel.) Hook and Corispermum hyssopifolium L. The results showed that both species were able to partially or completely compensate or even overcompensate for low to moderate levels of clipping or fruit removal only if the damage occurred in the early stages of fruit development. The indeterminate habit of growth of both species facilitated their compensatory ability. The removal of fruits and clipping of plants which mimick browsing by white tailed deer along Lake Huron resulted in a significant increase in their period of flowering and fruiting, especially in the early stages of fruit development. The plants compensated for fruit loss by increasing the number of fruits per plant. A delay in fruit removal or clipping to later stages of fruit maturation of both species drastically reduced reproduction. Similar experiments in the field revealed that, although the critical periods during which the plants were most susceptible were the same, the plants had lower compensatory ability. Fruit damage and clipping generally did not affect the seed mass of both species.
23012423|Questions: How can predictions of potential species distribution derived from presence-only data and different modelling algorithms be compared and evaluated? Where does suitable habitat for Juniperus oxycedrus exist within the study area and which bioclimatic variables prove to be most important in the prediction of J. oxycedrus potential distribution? Location: Central High Atlas, Morocco. Methods: Ecological niche factor analysis (ENFA), maximum entropy approach (MAXENT) and generalized linear models (GLM) were applied to either presence-only data of J. oxycedrus (ENFA and MAXENT) or presenceabsence data (GLM), using bioclimatic variables as predictors. Model accuracy of ENFA, MAXENT and GLM was assessed using their specific evaluation measures and prediction success by means of the minimal predicted area (MPA). Finally, the three maps of potential species distribution were intersected to investigate their consistency in the geographic distribution of predicted suitable habitat. Results: Species distribution models calculated by ENFA, MAXENT and GLM show good model quality according to their evaluation measures. However, calculation of MPA revealed considerable discrepancies in geographic distribution and spatial extent of areas predicted as suitable habitat for J. oxycedrus. Conclusion: Suitable habitat for J. oxycedrus is predicted using all applied modelling approaches in 8% of the study area (mostly the north-western part). MAXENT gave the best results considering model accuracy and prediction success according to the MPA scores. Predictors representing maximum temperature and potential radiation were selected in all methods to explain species occurrences. This points to a possible shift of the species' potential distribution in cases of a rise in summer temperature due to climate change.
3237261|Despite increasing temperatures since the end of the Little Ice Age (ca. 1850), wildfire frequency has decreased as shown in many field studies from North America and Europe. We believe that global warming since 1850 may have triggered decreases in fire frequency in some regions and future warming may even lead to further decreases in fire frequency. Simulations of present and future fire regimes, using daily outputs from the General Circulation Model (GCM), were in good agreement with recent trends observed in fire history studies. Daily data, rather than monthly data, were used because the weather and, consequently, fire behavior can change dramatically over time periods much shorter than a month. The simulation and fire history results suggest that the impact of global warming on northern forests through forest fires may not be disastrous and that, contrary to the expectation of an overall increase in forest fires, there may be large regions of the Northern Hemisphere with a reduced fire frequency.
3237068|Long-term regeneration dynamics of Mediterranean maquis was investigated by analysing historical aerial photographs of Mt. Carmel, one of the largest protected areas in the Mediterranean region of Israel. Two sets of aerial photographs were processed, one from 1960 (before the area was protected), and the second from 1992 (21 yr after the area was declared a nature reserve). The photographs of each year were classified into three vegetation states based on the percentage cover of trees: open maquis with tree cover < 33.3 %, moderately developed maquis (tree cover 33.3 - 66.6 %), and closed maquis (tree cover > 66.6 %). Grid maps constructed from the classified images were used to determine probabilities of transition between vegetation states. Closed maquis showed zero probability of transition to either open or moderately developed maquis. Probabilities of `forward' transitions (transitions from low-cover to high-cover classes) were higher on north-facing than on south-facing slopes. On north-facing slopes, the area of open maquis decreased from 87 % to 46 % during the period studied, while that of closed maquis increased from 3 % to 29 %. On south-facing slopes open maquis decreased from 87 % to 69 % while closed maquis increased from 1 % to 8 %. Within a particular aspect, tree cover in 1960 was a reliable predictor of tree cover in 1992. This indicates that micro-scale patterns of tree distribution in 1960 were important in determining the structure of the maquis 32 yr later. Simulations based on the empirically derived transition probabilities suggest that, under current climatic conditions, the process of maquis regeneration on Mt. Carmel may take 500 - 1000 yr.
4096759|Question: The evolution of general flowering and mast fruiting of dipterocarps in tropical rain forest has been explained by different mechanisms. We studied whether the abundance of flowering conspecifics influences the recruitment success of tropical forest trees in Borneo. Location: Sepilok Forest Reserve, Sabah, Malaysia. Method: We examined the recruitment success of 17 species of Dipterocarpaceae in a 640-ha sample area over two flowering events in 2001-2002 using seed traps and quadrats. Seed predation experiments were used to investigate if post-dispersal seed survival was density-dependent. Results: We found a negative relationship between the percentage of flowers abscised per individual and the number of flowering conspecifics and a positive relationship between the percent of flowering trees that produced viable seeds and the number of flowering conspecifics. However, we found no evidence of decreasing pre- and post-dispersal predation with increasing numbers of flowering conspecifics. High levels of flower abscission, and pre- and post-dispersal seed mortality, resulted in near-complete recruitment failure of most species, with only three species successfully recruiting in only one year. One of these, Parashorea tomentella, satiated seed predators over a large area, while Hopea beccariana and Shorea multiflora only recruited in small isolated clumps. Seed predation experiments suggest that post-dispersal seed survival was positively density-dependent in the short-term. Conclusions: Increased density of flowering conspecifics may contribute to increased likelihood of successful cross-pollination during low intensity flowering events and, in some cases, to enhanced probability of short-term seed and seedling survival. Both processes may contribute to the evolution of mast fruiting and general flowering in Southeast Asian lowland dipterocarp forests.
3236609|Considerable losses and degradation of heathlands (in moorlands and lowlands) have been reported across Europe, with Calluna vulgaris (heather) being replaced by other species, often grasses. Increasing atmospheric nitrogen deposition and overgrazing have been suggested as the driving factors behind this change. This possibility was investigated in a study of the interacting effects of nutrient inputs and grazing on heather and three grass species (Nardus stricta, Deschampsia cespitosa and D. flexuosa) in the field, on a moorland in northeastern Scotland. In addition, the interacting effects of increasing nutrients and Calluna canopy height on N. stricta and D. cespitosa were studied using turves in an outdoor experimental area. In the field, fencing had a larger effect than fertilizer on the growth of all species, except for N. stricta, the species most unpalatable to herbivores. Fencing led to an increase in the height of the Calluna canopy, which may reduce light availability for the grasses. In the turf experiment, the height of the Calluna canopy affected the diameter of the grass tussocks and percentage of green matter (i.e. live leaf material), with plants under the more closed Calluna canopies being smaller. This study suggests that the slow-growing, evergreen Calluna is a more effective competitor than the faster growing grasses when it has a tall, intact canopy, even at increased levels of nutrient supply. However, overgrazing promotes gap formation in the Calluna canopy, providing an opportunity for grasses to take advantage of increased nutrients. Thus the conservation of heather moorlands requires an understanding of the grazing level which allows Calluna to maintain sufficient canopy structure to outcompete grasses for light.
3235898|We studied distribution patterns of vascular plant species and environmental variables for three years along a permanent transect traversing a closed-drainage watershed in the northern Chihuahuan Desert of south-central New Mexico, USA. The transect extended for 2.7 km from a basin floor playa (1310 m elevation, fine-textured soil), across a piedmont slope, and onto the base of a granitic mountain (1410 m elevation, coarse-textured soil). The gradients in elevation and soils across our transect, along with variable seasonal rainfall, downslope redistribution of water and organic matter, and soil texture-related variation in infiltration, water holding capacity, and moisture release characteristics, interact to generate a complex spatial and temporal gradient of available soil water and nitrogen. We grouped plant species into guilds according to growth form and photosynthetic pathway type. These guilds are spatially and temporally differentiated along the transect such that particular groups utilize particular seasonal phases or spatial regions of the gradient. We identified six distinct plant communities along the transect. C<sub>4</sub> perennial grasses dominated the mesic/high nitrogen portion of the gradient, which occurred at the highest (upper piedmont grassland, dominated by Bouteloua eriopoda) and lowest (playa, dominated by Panicum obtusum) elevations along the transect. C<sub>3</sub> shrubs were dominant in the xeric/low nitrogen portion of the gradient located near the middle of the transect (bajada shrubland, dominated by Larrea tridentata). C<sub>3</sub> shrubs also dominated a narrow zone of vegetation located adjacent to the playa (playa fringe, dominated by Prosopis glandulosa). C<sub>4</sub> perennial grasses, C<sub>3</sub> subshrubs, and C<sub>3</sub> and C<sub>4</sub> perennial forbs and annuals were co-dominant in the intermediate locations along the gradient, which occurred below (mixed basin slopes) and above (lower piedmont grassland) the bajada shrubland. Life-form distribution patterns at the small scale of our study reflect some of the patterning that occurs at larger scales in response to climate gradients. The distributions of some species and guilds along the transect are apparently modified by competitive interactions.
4499196| Questions: 1. Which habitats have the highest degree of invasion? 2. Do native species-rich communities have also a high degree of invasion? 3. Do the patterns of association between native and alien species richness vary between habitats. Location: Catalonia region (NE Spain). Methods: We conducted a large regional analysis of 15655 phytosociological relevs to detect differences in the degree of invasion between European Nature Information System (EUNIS) habitats representative of temperate and Mediterranean European areas. Results: Alien species were present in less than 17 % of the relevs and represented less than 2% of the total number of species per habitat. The EUNIS habitats with the highest alien species richness were arable land and gardens followed by anthropogenic forb-rich habitats, riverine and lakeshore scrubs, southern riparian galleries and thickets and trampled areas. In contrast, the following habitats had never any alien species: surface running waters, raised and blanket bogs, valley mires, poor fens and transition mires, base-rich fens, alpine and sub-alpine grasslands, sub-alpine moist or wet tall-herb and fern habitats, alpine and sub-alpine scrub habitats and spiny Mediterranean heaths. There was a unimodal relationship between the mean native and mean alien species richness per EUNIS habitat with a high number of aliens in habitats with intermediate number of native species and a low number of aliens at both extremes of the native species gradient. Within EUNIS habitats, the relationship was positive, negative or non-significant depending on the habitat type without any clear pattern related to the number of native species. Alien species richness was not related to plot size, neither between habitats nor within habitats. Conclusions: The analysis emphasised that the habitats with a higher degree of invasion were the most disturbed ones and that in general habitats rich in native species did not harbour less invaders than habitats poor in native species. 
25173149|Questions: 1. How does species richness of recipient communities affect Reynoutria invasion? 2. How does Reynoutria invasion change host community structure? 3. Are there any differences in habitat preferences among three closely related Reynoutria taxa? 4. How does the genetic structure of Reynoutria populations change along the course of a river? Location: River Jizera basin, north Bohemia, Czech Republic. Methods: Nine 0.25 km plots were chosen along the river. Within each plot all main habitat types were determined and sampled using the Braun-Blanquet scale to determine the invasibility of various communities. The patches invaded by Reynoutria taxa and surrounding Reynoutria-free vegetation in the same habitat type were sampled as relev pairs to compare the composition of invaded and non-invaded vegetation. In addition, to characterize the genetic structure of Reynoutria populations along the river, 30 samples from different clones were collected. Results and conclusions: 1. The species richness of communities has no influence on the success of Reynoutria invasion in the area studied. The combination of environmental conditions and propagule spread is more important to the invasion success than the number of species in the host community. 2. Reynoutria invasion greatly reduces species diversity. 3. R. japonica invaded more habitat types than R. sachalinensis and R.  bohemica. The hybrid R.  bohemica outcompetes the parental taxa at sites where both taxa co-occur. 4. Isozyme analysis revealed phenotype variability in the hybrid in contrast to the parental taxa. Different hybrid phenotypes are distributed randomly on the middle and lower reaches of the River Jizera; one of them dominates and the other three occur occasionally. This pattern supports the hypothesis that sexual reproduction occasionally occurs within Reynoutria taxa.
40925461|Question: Vascular epiphytes and hemiepiphytes (E/HE) in neotropical forests account for a large fraction of plant richness, but little is known of how the interplay between phorophyte architectural characteristics and habitat perturbation affect communities of E/HE. Location: Sabal mexicana forests in a coastal area of Veracruz, Mexico. Methods: We compared communities of E/HE on phorophytes with different architectural characteristics  the palm S. mexicana and non-palm phorophytes  in three environments: conserved sites, perturbed sites and small regenerated forest fragments. We combined traditional (abundance, species richness, similarity and complementarity indices) and more recent (phylogenetic diversity) metrics to describe the communities of E/HE. Results: Overall, we recorded 924 E/HE individuals (nine families, 16 genera and 21 species). The abundance and species richness of E/HE was higher on palms than on non-palm phorophytes. Abundance-based complementarities between phorophytes and sites were high. We detected clear changes in community structure of E/HE with habitat perturbation, but there were no effects on the phylogenetic diversity of the E/HE community. Palm phorophytes hosted a more phylogenetically diverse community of E/HE than did non-palm phorophytes. Conclusions: Palm phorophytes are key elements supporting the conservation of resilient communities of E/HE in S. mexicana forest. Habitat fragmentation has a strong effect on the structure of the E/HE community in S. mexicana forests. Ferns are the group of epiphytes most severely affected by habitat perturbation, but we detected no significant effect on the phylogenetic diversity of the community.
40925549|Objectives: To (1) assess the strength of evidence for the role of termites in vegetation heterogeneity in African savannas, and (2) identify the mechanisms by which termites induce such heterogeneity. Location: African savannas. Methods: We conducted a review of the literature, a meta-analysis and qualitative systems analysis to identify mechanisms to explain the observed patterns. Results: The review provided evidence for termiteinduced heterogeneity in floristic composition and vegetation patterning in savannas across Africa. Termites induced vegetation heterogeneity directly or indirectly through their nest-building and foraging activities, associated nutrient cycling and their interaction with mammalian herbivores and fire. The literature reviewed indicated that termite mounds essentially act as islands of fertility, which are responsible for ecosystem-level spatial heterogeneity in savannas. This was supported by the meta-analysis, which demonstrated that mounds of Ancistrotermes, Macrotermes, Odontotermes (family Macrotermitinae), Cubitermes (family Termitinae) and Trinervitermes (Nasutitermitinae) are significantly enriched in clay (75%), carbon (16%), total nitrogen (42%), calcium (232%), potassium (306%) and magnesium (154%) compared to the surrounding savanna soil. Conclusions: Termite activity is one of the major factors that induce vegetation patterning in African savannas. The implications of this are discussed and research questions for future studies and modelling efforts are indicated.
3237094|We conducted a study in the laurel forest of Tenerife (Canary Islands, Spain) to describe the characteristics of natural gaps and to assess the role of treefall gaps in forest dynamics. Very little is left of the natural laurel forest with i.a. Laurus azorica, Ilex canariensis and Prunus lusitanica. We looked for treefall gaps in 80 randomly located 2500 m<sup>2</sup> plots. These plots represented ca. 1 % of the remaining and protected laurel forest of Tenerife. We recorded the characteristics of the species causing the gaps, gap architecture and gap age in all observed gaps larger than 10 m<sup>2</sup>. We inventoried the regeneration in each gap and in a neighbouring control plot with the same topography. Large gaps (> 75 m<sup>2</sup>) were not common in the laurel forest. The absence of large gaps could be due to the physiognomy of the vegetation, the mild weather or the rarity of disturbances. Instead of forming gaps, many trees decompose in place and branches from neighbouring trees and suckers from the decomposed trees occupy the free space. Also, the high rate of asexual regeneration could contribute to the fast closing of the gap. The number of gaps created by Prunus lusitanica was higher than expected (based on canopy composition) while Ilex canariensis and Laurus azorica created fewer gaps. In this evergreen forest, differences between gap and non-gap conditions are not as distinct as in other forest types. Only 0.4 % of the canopy is in the gap phase (0.6 % including gaps smaller than 10 m<sup>2</sup>. No differences were found in patterns of regeneration between gap and non-gap phases in the forest. Gaps do not explain the persistence of pioneer species in the laurel forest.
3236607|The floristic effects of river-borne litter that accumulates in riparian zones may vary in space and time depending on variations in mass and particle size of the deposited litter. To analyse the effects of litter mass and size we applied differentsized litter (natural uncut pieces and powder) to riparian vegetation at different quantities. Vegetation responses were analysed after one season at the community level (total biomass or richness for all species) and species traits (biomass or richness for groups of species). At the community level uncut litter, but not powder, reduced species richness and both uncut and ground litter reduced above-ground biomass. At the species trait level uncut litter had a stronger effect than powder on species richness and biomass. The only positive effect of litter addition was that powder increased graminoid species richness. The topsoil conditions indicated that the major impact of deposited, river-borne litter was that it acted as a physical barrier directly preventing established plants from penetrating the litter layer and reducing light and soil temperature.
4096620| Questions: 1. To what extent is biomass production of a Caucasian alpine tundra plant community limited by soil nitrogen and/or phosphorus? 2. Can the foliar N:P ratio predict the nutrient limitation pattern of alpine vascular plant communities? Location: Lichen-rich tundra on Mt. Malaya Khatipara in the NW Caucasus, Russia (4327' N, 4142' E; alt. 2800 m a.s.l.). Methods: We conducted a 4-year fertilization experiment (N, P, N+P, lime additions and irrigation) on the alpine tundra in the northwestern Caucasus, Russia. We determined responses of biomass, tissue nutrient concentrations and nutrient pools of the above-ground component of the plant community. Results: Total plant community biomass did not respond to fertilization. However, lichen biomass strongly decreased in response to the N- and N+P treatments, whereas vascular plant biomass increased in response to the N- and even more to the N+P treatment, but not to P or lime addition or irrigation. P-concentrations in vascular plant species were very low, but their biomass production was not principally P-limited, suggesting adaptation to low soil P-availability. The N-limitation of vascular plant biomass production in the community, which in lowlands usually occurs at N:P ratios below 16, could not be predicted from the mean foliar N:P mass ratio in the control (N:P = 29). Conclusions: This Caucasian alpine plant community is an example of N- and P-co-limitation of vascular plant biomass production, with N being the principal and P the secondary limiting nutrient. Critical N:P ratios as determined for lowland communities are not applicable here. 
4096712|Questions: 1. How are the long-term dynamics of the root hemiparasite Rhinanthus angustifolius related to vegetation structure, grassland management and climate? 2. Does R. angustifolius have a long-term impact on standing crop and community composition? Location: A formerly fertilized grassland, part of a larger brook valley system in the nature reserve 'Drentsche Aa', near Groningen, The Netherlands. Methods: Vegetation development has been monitored since 1973 in 54 permanent plots in nine management regimes without fertilizer application. Results: 1. The hemiparasite established when standing crop was less than
3236770|The relationship between vegetation and environment was investigated for calcareous grasslands in a region in the west of Spain, France, Britain and Ireland defined by climatic criteria. Vegetation was sampled using objective methods and data collected on soils, land cover, location and management. Climate data were obtained from an available database. Examination of the first axis of vegetation variation as defined by Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) showed a gradient from the Irish and British samples to those from France. The Spanish samples formed a separate group on the second axis. The species composition along the gradients is discussed. Correlations between the vegetation gradients and environmental variables were determined. The strongest correlations with the first DCA axis were for temperature, latitude, soil organic matter, grazing and land cover. The second DCA axis was highly correlated with rainfall, altitude and land cover. The third and fourth DCA axes were more difficult to interpret but appeared to be related to land cover. The results indicate that climate factors are important at this scale, but should not be considered in isolation and that factors relating to land cover and management should also be taken into account.
3236549|Natural dynamics in the boreal forest is influenced by disturbances. Fire recurrence affects community development and landscape diversity. Forest development was studied in the northeastern boreal forest of Quebec. The objective was to describe succession following fire and to assess the factors related to the changes in forest composition and structure. The study area is located in northeastern Quebec, 50 km north of Baie-Comeau. We used the forest inventory data gathered by the Ministere des Ressources naturelles du Quebec (MRNQ). In circular plots of 400 m<sup>2</sup>, the diameter at breast height (DBH) of all stems of tree species greater than 10 cm was recorded and in 40 m<sup>2</sup> subplots, stems smaller than 10 cm were measured. A total of 380 plots were sampled in an area of 6000 km<sup>2</sup>. The fire history reconstruction was done based on historical maps, old aerial photographs and field sampling. A time-since-fire class, a deposit type, slope, slope aspect and altitude were attributed to each plot. Each plot was also described according to species richness and size structure characteristics. Traces of recent disturbance were also recorded in each plot. Changes in forest composition were described using ordination analyses (NMDS and CCA) and correlated with the explanatory variables. Two successional pathways were observed in the area and characterized by the early dominance of intolerant hardwood species or Picea mariana. With time elapsed since the last fire, composition converged towards either Picea mariana, Abies balsamea or a mixture of both species and the size structure of the coniferous dominated stands got more irregular. The environmental conditions varied between stands and explained part of the variability in composition. Their effect tended to decrease with increasing time elapsed since fire, as canopy composition was getting more similar. Gaps may be important to control forest dynamics in old successional communities.
25549278|Question: How does the interaction between two dominant shrub species in a coastal sand dune community change during their life history? Does this interaction influence their population dynamics? Location: A semiarid coastal sand dune system in southeast Spain. Methods: For 3 years we monitored physiological status, growth and reproductive effort of Juniperus phoenicea and Pistacia lentiscus, the dominant shrub species, growing either alone or in close spatial association. We also recorded adult mortality patterns and characterized seedling survival, soil properties and microclimate conditions beneath canopies and in bare ground. Results and conclusions: There was a strong bi-directional interaction between the two studied species, with a net balance that changed in sign with increasing plant development. While mature individuals facilitated the establishment of seedlings of both species, adult mortality patterns suggested asymmetric competition at later life stages. The interaction with Pistacia negatively affected growth of juniper and contributed to its high mortality rates, while juniper had almost no effect on mature Pistacia individuals. Physiological data suggested that Pistacia had a competitive advantage over juniper, most likely because of differences in rooting patterns and tolerance to salinity, which may determine the source of water available for each species. Community dynamics are governed by facilitation at the seedling stage and shaped by differences in physiological traits in adult plants. Plant-plant interactions, which are strongly affected by environmental gradients, are important drivers of community dynamics in this system.
3236036|We examine the effects of changing plot size on parameter estimation efficiency in multivariate (community-level) ecological studies, where estimation efficiency is defined in terms relating to the statistical precision of estimates of all variables (e.g. species) in a data set. Three `efficiency criteria' for multivariate estimation are developed, and the relationship between estimation efficiency and plot size examined using three field data sets (deciduous understory, coniferous understory, and mire vegetation) from central Canada. For all three communities, estimation efficiency was found to increase monotonically with increasing plot size. However, relative gains in efficiency at larger plot sizes were offset by substantial increases in sampling effort (enumeration time per plot). Our results indicate that the largest plot size possible, given the constraints of time, should be used for parameter estimation in plant communities. Also, plots that are larger than the mean patch size should be utilized when sampling heterogeneous vegetation.
3237140|We hypothesize that plant species diversity is favoured when actual resource supply ratios are balanced according to the optimum resource supply ratios for the vegetation as a whole. This 'resource balance hypothesis of plant species diversity' (RBH) follows from two different mechanisms of plant species coexistence, namely: 'differential resource limitation', which allows species to coexist in a competitive equilibrium in a homogeneous environment and 'micro-habitat differentiation', which builds on spatial heterogeneity. Both mechanisms require that resource supply ratios are intermediate between the optimum supply ratios of the species present in the species pool. Additional conditions, concerning the resource acquisition and requirement ratios of the species, are easier to meet for the second mechanism than for the first. To test the RBH we measured species diversity parameters in 74 grassland plots, as well as the N, P and K concentrations in the above-ground biomass. We used a new ceiling detection algorithm to examine the relationship between maximum observed diversity and the N/P-, P/K- and K/N-ratios in the biomass. Most of these ceiling relationsips could be described by parabolic curves with significant quadratic terms. This indicates that high diversity does not occur at the extremes of the observed ranges of nutrient ratios. This supports the RBH.
3236887|Nutrient conservation in vegetation affects rates of litter decomposition and soil nutrient availability. Although resorption has been traditionally considered one of the most important plant strategies to conserve nutrients in temperate forests, long leaf life-span and low nutrient requirements have been postulated as better indicators. We aimed at identifying nutrient conservation strategies within characteristic functional groups of NW Patagonian forests on Andisols. We analysed C-, N-, P-, K- and lignin-concentrations in mature and senescent leaves of ten native woody species within the functional groups: broad-leaved deciduous species, broad-leaved evergreens and conifers. We also examined mycorrhizal associations in all species. Nutrient concentration in mature leaves and N- resorption were higher in broad-leaved deciduous species than in the other two functional groups. Conifers had low mature leaf nutrient concentrations, low N-resorption and high lignin/N ratios in senescent leaves. P- and K-resorptions did not differ among functional groups. Broad-leaved evergreens exhibited a species-dependent response. Nitrogen in mature leaves was positively correlated with both N resorption and soil N-fertility. Despite the high P-retention capacity of Andisols, N appeared to be the more limiting nutrient, with most species being proficient in resorbing N but not P. The presence of endomycorrhizae in all conifers and the broad-leaved evergreen Maytenus boaria, ectomycorrhizae in all Nothofagus species (four deciduous, one evergreen), and cluster roots in the broad-leaved evergreen Lomatia hirsuta, would be possibly explaining why P is less limiting than N in these forests.
4499183| Question: How is grazing intensity associated with species and morpho-functional traits (MFTs) composition, productivity and richness of annual dominated grasslands? Have native and exotic species similar associations to this gradient? Location: Anthropogenic grassland in the Espinal vegetation in the sub-humid area of the mediterranean type climate region of Chile (3558' S,7217' W). Methods: Data were obtained from a long-term (eight years) experiment with six stocking rates (1 to 3.5 sheep/ha). Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) and regression analysis were used to determinate the relationship between grazing intensity and biomass, richness, abundance and traits of the species. Results: The first DCA axis was related to grazing intensity and explained most of the floristic variation (69.3%); the abundance of some non-native species, e.g. Vulpia megalura were highly correlated with this axis. In the DCA for MFTs the first axis explained 87% of the variance and was also related to grazing intensity; the abundance of small size plants and shallow roots increased with grazing intensity. The relative abundance of grasses and composites, but not of legumes, changed with stocking rate: as grazing intensity increased composites became the predominant species to the detriment of grasses. The above-ground biomass measured in exclusion cages declined with increasing grazing pressure. The richness of exotic species was greater compared to native ones at low stocking rates, but they converge to similar values at higher stocking rates. However, the relative abundance of exotic species was greater than 75% in all stocking rates. Conclusions: Grazing intensification has large effects in the structure of grassland in central Chile. With grazing intensities greater than 1 sheep/ha species characteristics change; evolving in a few years (6-8) towards a similar community regardless of the stocking rate. The overgrazed community has more native than exotic species richness, possibly due to greater defence traits against herbivory of this group of species. 
3236219|A dataset of some 10 000 plots was used to describe the climatic relationships of 33 widespread New Zealand tree species. Estimates of mean annual temperature, temperature seasonality, mean annual solar radiation, and moisture balance were derived from mathematical surfaces fitted to climate station data. Plots were also categorized into five lithological classes and three drainage classes. Generalized additive models were used to examine species/environment relationships. Mean annual temperature and mean annual solar radiation are most strongly correlated with current tree distributions, followed by moisture balance, temperature seasonality, lithology, and drainage. Most broad-leaved tree species other than Nothofagus spp. reach their greatest levels of occurrence in warm, moist environments with high solar radiation. In contrast, Nothofagus spp. generally reach their greatest levels of occurrence in cooler and/or lower insolation environments, and all have lower levels of occurrence on rhyolitic substrates which have resulted from large-scale geomorphic disturbance, mostly over the past few thousand years. Although coniferous species have widely differing climatic optima, many are biased towards lithological classes characterized either by large-scale geomorphic disturbance or harsh edaphic conditions. The relevance of these results to particular synecological questions is briefly discussed. Continuing adjustments in the range of slow-dispersing Nothofagus spp. are strongly suggested, and the climatic suitability of extensive rhyolitic basins in the central North Island, from which these species are largely absent, is confirmed.
3236537|Europe is characterized not only by large geomorphological variability but also by a long history of land use. This resulted in a highly variegated landscape. Based on the IGBP-transect initiative, a north south transect was established across Europe ranging from north Sweden to central Italy in order to study effects of global change. Mainly process oriented studies were established on plots along the transect, and these were used to establish functional relationships as basis for landscape integration. However, it became apparent that the transect approach was not sufficient to mirror the European environment. From early on, the assessment of land cover was not constrained to this transect but complemented with measurements focused on Europe at a continental scale. Also, continental networks of flux measurements and ecosystem experiments were established, because these were able to encompass a larger inherent variability of climate, geology and land use. Resulting from the Kyoto protocol emphasis moved stronger from observations along transects towards a continental scale quantification of fluxes given the reporting needs. In this process the transect and the networks merged into research clusters, which provided a scaling and verification mechanism. Thus, the European situation may serve as an example of how the initial idea of transects has further evolved and broadened to continental scale studies in a region where anthropogenic land use dominates over climate change.
23012721|Questions: Does species richness and abundance accumulate with grazing protection in low productivity ecosystems with a short evolutionary history of grazing, as predicted by emerging theory? How do responses to grazing protection inform degradation history? Location: Mulga (Acacia aneura) dry forest, eastern Australia, generally considered chronically degraded by livestock grazing. Methods: Three paired exclosures (ungrazed, and macropod-grazed) were compared with open-grazed areas after 25 years using quadrats located on either side of the fences. Additionally, the regional flora for mulga dry forest was assessed to identify species that may have declined and could be threatened by grazing. Results: Low herbaceous biomass accumulation (< 1.3 t ha-1) with full grazing protection confirmed a low productivity environment. For most plant life forms the highest species richness was in macropod-grazed exclosures, an intermediate grazing disturbance that best approximates the evolutionary history of the environment. This was the net outcome of species that both declined and increased in response to grazing. Regeneration and subsequent self-thinning of mulga was promoted with grazing protection, but did not confound interpretation of species richness and abundance responses. At the regional scale only 11 native species out of 407 comprising the mulga dry forest flora were identified as rare and potentially threatened by grazing. Conclusions: Significant increases in richness or abundance of native plants with grazing protection, persistence of perennial grasses, regeneration of mulga and scant evidence of a major decline in the regional flora are not consistent with established assertions that long-grazed mulga dry forest has crossed functional thresholds that limit recovery. Further, a peak in species richness under intermediate (macropod) grazing is counter to the shape of the response predicted by emerging theory for recovery of species richness in a low productivity environment. The finding prompts a more thorough understanding of the distinction between environments with inherently low productivity and those degraded by grazing.
25549227|Question: To what extent do tree growth, mortality, and long-term disturbance patterns affect stand structure and composition of an old-growth Picea abies forest? Location: Boreal Sweden. Methods: We linked data from three 50 m  50 m permanent plots established in 1986 with dendrochronology data to evaluate tree growth and mortality over an 18-year period and to describe a several-hundred-year disturbance history for this forest type. Results: Averaged over all diameters, P. abies trees had an annual mortality rate of 0.60%; however, diameter had a striking effect on both growth and mortality, with trees of intermediate diameters (ca. 20-30 cm) showing faster growth and lower mortality. Their increased vigor gave rise to a diameter distribution resembling the 'rotated sigmoid' (not reverse-J) proposed for such conditions, and it led to a deficit of snags of intermediate diameters. Slow-growing trees had an increased likelihood of dying. Although recruitment occurred in most decades over the past 400 years, two prominent recruitment peaks occurred (mid 1700s and 1800s), neither of which appeared to cause a shift in tree species composition. The lack of fire evidence suggests that fire was not responsible for these recruitment peaks. Conclusions: Taken together, these results depict a rather impassive system, where canopy trees die slowly over decades. Field observations suggest that fungal infections, mediated by wind, account for much of the mortality during these periods of relative quiescence. However, these periods are at times punctuated by moderate-severity disturbances that foster abundant recruitment.
3236553|We measured tree damage and mortality following a catastrophic windthrow in permanent plots in an oak forest and a pine forest in central Minnesota. We monitored changes in forest structure and composition over the next 14 years. Prior to the storm, the oak forest was dominated by Quercus ellipsoidalis, and the pine forest by Pinus strobus. The immediate impacts of the storm were to differentially damage and kill large, early-successional hardwoods and pines. Subsequent recovery was characterized by the growth of late-successional hardwoods. In both forests the disturbance acted to accelerate succession. Ordination of tree species composition confirmed the trend of accelerated succession, and suggested a convergence of composition between the two forests.
3235618|We investigated changes in the composition and abundance of understory species after fire in the southern boreal forest around Lake Duparquet, Quebec. Ten plots of 100 m<sup>2</sup> were sampled in each of eight sites varying in post-fire age from 26 to 230 yr, with 20 1-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats in each of these 80 plots. Variation in the understory was described by DCA ordination and interpreted as a regeneration succession series. Thickness of the organic layers, stand age and canopy composition were all correlated with vegetational change. This change was not constant throughout succession; some old sites showed an increase in the diversity and abundance of certain pioneer species. This was partly related to openings in the canopy resulting from a major outbreak of spruce budworm, which affected sites dominated by Abies balsamea. The ordinations were performed on both the 100-m<sup>2</sup> plots and the 1-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats. Heterogeneity within sites was larger at the 1-m<sup>2</sup> scale and there was a great deal of overlap in the position of the quadrats in ordination space. At the smaller scale of analysis, stand age and thickness of the organic layers were not correlated with the changes observed in the understory.
4096775|Question: Large variation in the similarity between seed bank and standing vegetation generally occurs along environmental gradients. We asked: 1. How is seed bank-vegetation similarity in Mediterranean semi-arid annual plant communities related to variation in primary productivity; 2. How is this productivity-similarity relationship affected by exclusion from grazing. Location: Mediterranean, semi-arid rangeland in the Northern Negev desert, Israel. Methods: Density of seeds and plants, and species composition of the seed bank and vegetation were compared in grazed and ungrazed subplots, in four neighbouring topographic sites differing in productivity. Seed bank samples were collected in autumn, just before the rainy season, and vegetation samples in the following spring, at peak above-ground biomass, when net primary productivity was assessed. Results: Quantitative and qualitative similarities between seed bank and the vegetation (
3236799|Horizontal/vertical profiling is a method used to assess vegetation space occupancy. This study investigated consistency and repeatability of measurements made on plots designed to describe forest understory vegetation structure. 20 circular, 100-m<sup>2</sup> plots were measured by six independent observers, three times during the summer of 1997. The plots, located in south-central Alaska, were established in a closed Picea glauca (white spruce)/Betula papyrifera (paper birch) forest. Consistency and repeatability of measurements were evaluated by examining components of variance. Response variables were absolute and relative canopy cover. Results indicate that observers were not consistent relative to each other estimating vegetative cover from one plot to the next and from one measurement period to the next, making measurements unrepeatable.
3236985|The montane rain forest in Chiapas, Mexico has been subject to continuous human disturbance, mainly by wood extraction, cattle grazing and fire. To address the effect of this kind of disturbance regime on regeneration, survival and growth of naturally established tree seedlings were evaluated during a 3-yr period in three forest stands which varied in frequency and intensity of human disturbance. Frequency of cattle browsing on transplanted seedlings of Cornus disciflora, Liquidambar styraciflua and Oreopanax xalapensis planted on different facing slopes was evaluated over an 18-mo period, their survival and growth was also determined. The density of seedlings, number of species and survival of naturally recruited tree seedlings decreased with increased intensity of disturbance. Only seedlings of Pinus and Quercus species were recorded in heavily disturbed conditions. Seedlings grew more vigorously under moderately disturbed than in undisturbed or heavily disturbed conditions. More extreme microclimatic variation (air temperature, relative humidity and solar radiation) was recorded in heavily vs moderately disturbed forest. Survival and growth of transplanted tree seedlings differed with species. Grazing damage varied among seedlings located on different facing slopes. Plants located on NE facing slopes survived better than those on other slope positions. The mean proportion of surviving individuals of L. styraciflua (80%) and C. disciflora (78%) was higher than those for O. xalapensis (60%). A higher number of C. disciflora and O. xalapensis seedlings were grazed than L. styraciflua in any slope orientation treatment. The results suggest that human disturbance negatively affects natural recruitment, reduces richness of tree seedlings and favours a small number of tree species.
3237046|We investigate the characteristics of the wavelet transform as an approach to analyzing spatial pattern. Compared to the familiar methods of paired quadrat or blocked quadrat variance calculations, the wavelet method seems to offer several advantages. First, when wavelet variance is plotted as a function of scale, the peak variance height is determined by pattern intensity and does not increase with scale and, depending on the wavelet chosen, the position of the variance peak matches the scale exactly. Second, the method produces only faint resonance peaks, if any, and third, by using several different wavelet forms, different characteristics of the pattern can be investigated. Fourth, the method is able to portray very clearly trends in the data, when the pattern is nonstationary. Lastly, the wavelet position variance can be used to identify patches and gaps in data with random error. We demonstrate these characteristics using artificial data and data from previously published studies for comparison. We show that two versions of the familiar blocked quadrat variance technique are forms of wavelet analysis.
40925468|Question: Large databases contain many plots, but few subsets with measured environmental data. To obtain broader datasets, researchers use expert-based indicator values as surrogates; alternatively, these can be estimated by imputation. Does imputation provide more exact approximations than indicator values? Location: West Carpathians (Slovakia, Poland, Czech Republic) and Bulgaria. Methods: We developed a simple imputation method based on plot similarity that estimates missing environmental variables for plots  MOSS (mean of similar samples). This was tested for pH and conductivity, important environmental factors influencing vegetation composition and structure within wetlands, on two datasets of 485 (West Carpathians) and 118 (Bulgaria) plots for which directly measured values were available. The West Carpathian dataset was used for calibration. Imputation was based on calculating mean of the measured factor from a group of most similar plots. Using pre-defined similarity criteria, we selected subsets of both datasets and compared estimated and measured values. Using root mean-squared error of prediction, we compared predictive power of MOSS with Ellenberg indicator values and other recent methods. Results: Within one study region, MOSS predicts sample pH and conductivity more precisely than Ellenberg and similar calibration methods. Predictive power slightly decreased when MOSS was transferred to a distant region. Conclusions: Imputation using MOSS appears to accurately predict pH and conductivity from existing composition data within a single geographical region, and thus increases number of replicates. MOSS does not require expert-based indicator values, which may be imprecise. We provide examples where MOSS can be utilised without risk of circular reasoning or introducing pseudo-replications.
4499180|Question: In relation to a single fire, do repeated wildfires in Mediterranean type ecosystems (1) reduce plant species richness or diversity; (2) modify patterns of abundance or dominance of plant species or (3) alter plant composition? Location: Pinus halepensis dominated communities of Catalonia, northeastern Iberian Peninsula, western Mediterranean Basin. Methods: Regional, paired design with 14 study sites, each consisting of a once burnt area (1994) and a twice burnt area (1975-1993 and 1994). Ten years after the last fire, we recorded all vascular plant species present in nested plots and quantified their relative abundances on transects. We compared species richness, diversity, dominance and relative abundance and species-area correlations between paired once and twice burnt areas and assessed their floristic composition similarity. Results: No statistically significant differences were found in species richness or diversity. Slopes of species-area correlations were higher in once burnt areas. In twice burnt areas, dominance by one or two species was higher. P. halepensis showed lower relative abundance and nanophanerophytes showed higher relative abundance. No differences were found for resprouter, seeder or resprouter-seeder species. Floristic composition similarity between paired areas tended to be higher in less productive sites. Conclusions: Fire recurrence had contrasting effects on species richness at different spatial scales. Repeated burning reduced the relative abundance of the dominant tree species, which resulted in a higher relative abundance of shrubs. It also promoted the dominance of herbs, particularly Brachypodium retusum. However, it did not change the relative abundance of regenerative groups. Paired areas were more similar as they were more Mediterranean in terms of climatic conditions.
3236632|Observations of different plant communities over several decades reveal five types of dynamics: constant, fluctuating, growing, decaying, intermittent. With a modelling approach based on interacting particle systems (cellular automata), these distinct types of dynamics can be simulated. In addition, the proposed model shows a strong tendency towards the formation of patches when started with random initial conditions. Further, it gives evidence for dominance resulting from the interplay of plant characteristics and patterns rather than being attributable to certain plant types alone, so making questionable the existence of key species and the usefulness of a constant mapping key over extended periods. The presented model unifies the fundamental dichotomy in vegetation dynamics between determinism (predictability) and disorder (chance effects) by showing the outcome of both classical theories as special cases.
3235955|A two-phase grassland mosaic was described using species association measures and pattern analysis techniques on local frequency data from six transects of contiguous quadrats. One phase consisted of almost mono-specific patches of Setaria incrassata, which was negatively or not associated with ten common species. The other phase was dominated by Themeda triandra which was positively associated with several species. PQV analyses revealed similar, significant, anisotropic scales of contagion of Setaria and Themeda, with phases alternating over 9 m up-slope and 4 m along the contour. Setaria was associated with a tree canopy and deeper soils of higher organic carbon content than Themeda, which was negatively associated with tree canopies. Excavation of Setaria rhizomes indicated mean densities of 20.5 putative genets/m<sup>2</sup> and 3.6 ramets per genet. Dense clonal growth, seedling recruitment and a competitive exclusion mechanism may contribute to patch maintenance.
3236460| Plant microclimates of three tropical superpramo sites at 4100 - 4600 m a.s.l. in Ecuador were monitored over a five-month period and results were evaluated in local and biogeographical contexts. Soil temperatures tended to decrease with altitude, whereas quantum flux density (QFD) exhibited no consistent altitudinal pattern. Leaf temperatures of prostrate rosette and cushion plants exhibited diurnal amplitudes of 30 C independent of altitude, while herbaceous perennials and woody shrubs, which were situated higher above the soil surface, had lower maxima and lower daily amplitudes as a result of aerodynamic coupling to the atmosphere. Long-term growth measurements and an analysis of a stem cross-section of the shrub Loricaria indicated that growth conditions at 4060 m a.s.l. were constant over a 4-yr to > 25-yr period. Means and frequency distributions of QFD as well as soil and leaf temperatures in the Ecuadorean Andes closely resemble growing season averages at high alpine sites in the European Central Alps at 2600 m a.s.l. Equivalent growth conditions in equatorial tropical pramo sites and seasonal temperate zone mountains extending to the arctic, suggest that, aside from the duration of the growing season, similar abiotic selection pressures operate on high elevation plants in humid mountain ecosystems, which are largely independent of latitude. 
3237241|The distribution, density and cover of small-scale natural disturbances was surveyed in semi-natural and set-aside vegetation in a hilly landscape in Central Germany in the spring of 1995. More of the landscape was disturbed on set-aside agricultural land in valleys (1.02 %) and on warm south-facing slopes (1.33 %) than on rocky hilltops (0.3 %) and cool north-facing slopes (0.56 %). The major agents of disturbance on set-aside fields were moles, rodents (and their predators) and wild boars. In surrounding semi-natural grasslands, rabbit warrens were common on south-facing slopes and mound-building ants on north-facing slopes. Disturbances were significantly clustered and frequently superimposed. In order to investigate the effects of disturbance quality on plant assemblages in set-aside fields, two common types of disturbances were compared. These were grazing lawns (0.4 - 1.0 m<sup>2</sup>) maintained throughout the summer by common voles (Microtus arvalis), and excavations, 0.7 - 1.6 m<sup>2</sup> in area, where wild boars (Sus scrofa) grubbing for food had removed vegetation and top soil in early spring. Both types of disturbances increased plant species richness on the local scale. Wind-dispersed annual and pauciennial forbs of ruderal habitats (e.g. Carduus acanthoides, Cirsium vulgare, Matricaria maritima, Senecio vernalis) were most abundant on the superficial disturbances made by voles, whereas small, ephemeral field weeds (e.g. Polygonum aviculare, Anagallis arvensis, Chenopodium album, Fallopia convolvulus) predominated on patches grubbed by boars. This study confirms that small-scale disturbances by animals provide a variety of regeneration niches for field weeds and ruderals. The rate of decline in plant species richness on set-aside land is likely to be reduced where land is utilized by a variety of herbivorous and soil-moving mammals.
3236435|Midwestern flatwoods are open woodlands of level uplands and terraces that occur on impervious subsoil horizons and have seasonally wet and dry soils. Vegetation and soil data from six flatwoods remnants on the Illinoian till plain in Illinois were examined to identify what biotic and edaphic factors control vegetation structure, composition and diversity. Soils at all sites are characterized by the presence of argillic horizons (clay pans). Two soil ordination groups were clearly defined, each characterized by separate parent material origin. Canopy and subcanopy composition are dissimilar at sites with soils developed entirely in loess; more similar at sites on lacustrine soils (including acolian sand). Quercus stellata was by far the most important tree species followed by Q. marilandica. Q. stellata importance was negatively correlated with Ca, particularly in the A-horizon. Q. marilandica shows a positive correlation to sand and magnesium, particularly in the B-horizon, and was most frequent and abundant on soils where Ca/Mg ratios are lower than 1.0 in the E and Bhorizons. Total stem density of woody plants was positively related to total available soil moisture as influenced by depth to clay pan and soil textural differences. Ground-cover species richness and diversity were inversely related to tree and total woody stem density and tree diversity. One site with a recent history of annual prescribed fire had significantly greater ground-cover species diversity compared with the unburned sites. Evidence from stand structure and similarity between canopy and subcanopy strata, if reflecting stationary processes of canopy recruitment, suggest that disturbances historically maintained the importance of oak species in most flatwoods. Prescribed fire appears to maintain or enhance ground-cover species diversity at one flatwoods remnant, suggesting that fire could be used to maintain compositional stability at sites with greater available soil moisture.
23012734|Questions: How should we evaluate the success of new distance measures combining community abundance and phylogenetic information? How do we interpret ordinations using these metrics? Methods: We generated synthetic data along a known environmental gradient with two hypothetical underlying phylogenetic structures: niche phylogenetically conserved or dispersed along a gradient. We also examined tree species composition associated with gradients in elevation and longitude in Oregon, USA. NMS ordinations of plots in species space from phylogenetic (PD) and Srensen distance (SD) matrices allowed comparison of the use of PD in different scenarios. Results: PD caused plots to cluster based on the clades that they contained, reducing stress with the synthetic data but not with the real example. Phylogenetic distance highlighted clades related to gradients when these were associated. When phylogeny was not conserved along a gradient, that gradient was less strong. Regardless of phylogenetic conservation, NMS using SD consistently extracted the strongest gradients in species composition. Conclusions: The success of PD should be evaluated on how well it extracts gradients in species composition and allows community ecologists to determine which gradients are partially explained by phylogeny and not based on its ability to reduce ordination stress. PD ordinations can help community ecologists interpret niche conservation but may obscure gradients related to species composition when niches are not conserved along the gradient of interest at the scale of the study.
41059627|Questions: (1) What is the water threshold for shrub seedling establishment in arid scrubland? (2) How do seedling root growth morphological traits affect the water threshold required for seedling establishment? Location: Arid scrubland, Atacama Desert, north-central Chile. Methods: We conducted a field experiment with nine native shrub species under a gradient of simulated rainfall to test if species with deep root architecture have higher seedling survival rates and establish more successfully during water pulses. Results: Seedling survival rate was very low; only 2% of the 12 150 planted seedlings survived the first summer drought. Seedling survival required at least 206 mm of water, which is twice the average rainfall and roughly equivalent to the precipitation during an ENSO (El Nio Southern Oscillation) event in this region. Seedling survival at the onset of the summer drought was best explained by leaf habit, root length and initial seedling size. However, only Senna cumingii seedlings survived through the first year. S. cumingii seedlings had distinctively longer roots than the other shrub species, enabling them to reach moister soil layers. Conclusions: Water conditions resembling rainy years enhance shrub seedling establishment in the Atacama Desert, but the effects of higher water availability are strongly dependent on the shrub species. Rapid and deep rooting appears to be a very important functional trait for successful first-year survival in this arid system where water availability is highly episodic.
3237028|Phenological development of the colonizer Bunias orientalis L. was investigated in permanent plots in herbaceous vegetation, using photography and image analysis. In all habitats but one, B. orientalis showed a two-phased rosette growth behaviour, with a first peak cover reached in spring, roughly coinciding with an early peak cover of the matrix vegetation, and a second autumn growth flush occurring in a phase of reduced matrix vegetation cover. This seasonally bimodal growth pattern of B. orientalis appears to partly compensate for its competitive inferiority in crowded herbaceous vegetation. Small or overshadowed individuals of this species particularly profit from higher above-ground performance or release from overlap in autumn. The significance of temporal niche separation for survival and growth of B. orientalis individuals varies with habitat conditions, being most apparent in occasionally disturbed habitats with a relatively low frequency of gap formation. Despite some limitations, image analysis proved to be useful for phenological investigations within herbaceous plant stands.
3237262| The objective of this study is to determine the factors responsible for the distribution of Pinus resinosa (red pine) at its northern limit in northwestern Qubec. Pinus resinosa is found only on islands and protected lake shores at its northern distribution boundary. The influence of climate on the germination of P. resinosa seed and on the phenology of P. resinosa was investigated in the Lake Duparquet region of northwestern Qubec. The results indicate that P. resinosa seed readily germinates at island- and inland sites, which indicates that germination is not responsible for the distribution of P. resinosa in the Lake Duparquet region. Also, cones and seeds developed normally at island sites and an inland plantation, which suggests that seed production is not hindering the expansion of P. resinosa. These results, together with other studies in the literature, suggest that no climatic factor could explain the present distribution of P. resinosa nor its northern limit. The fire regime appears to be responsible for the restriction of P. resinosa to lake environments and hinders the northward expansion of P. resinosa. The typical crown fire regime of the boreal forest is not conducive for P. resinosa regeneration and restricts the species to fire-sheltered locations such as islands and protected lake shores. 
40295795|Question: Are differences in landscape use of semi-domesticated reindeer reflected in the vegetation of summer grazing grounds? Location: Alpine heaths, central east Sweden. Methods: Dry heath and grass heath vegetation plots with inferred grazing intensities (high, intermediate and low) were selected a priori from an interpolated pellet count map compiled in 2002. In each plot, faecal pellets were counted, environmental variables measured and vegetation sampled by listing presence and absence. Species composition was compared with a detrended correspondence analysis, and a canonical correspondence analysis was used to infer relations between species composition and environmental variables. Plots were also clustered to provide groupings for an indicator species analysis. Results: Significant differences in faecal pellet count were present between the highest and lowest grazing intensities for both vegetation types, showing that the pattern in the interpolated pellet maps was robust. Differences in species composition between grazing intensities were found for the dry heath only. Here, there was an apparent grazing gradient, with lichens and mosses in the low-use plots and grasses and herbs in the high-use plots. No such gradient was found for the grass heath. Conclusions: Within the dry heath vegetation type, grazing levels had a subtle effect on the vegetation, while no effects were seen in the grass heath, probably as a result of the dominance of more grazing-tolerant graminoids. Even in the dry heath, species richness did not differ between grazing levels, but the relative abundances of species differed.
3236518| We propose a hierarchical approach for plant functional classification in disturbed ecosystems to be used for vegetation modelling and global plant trait comparisons. Our framework is based on the persistence of plants at different levels of organization. We assume that the main parameters to determine persistence in chronically disturbed ecosystems are those related to: Individual-persistence capacity, Propagulepersistence capacity (persistence at the population level), Competitive capacity (persistence at the community level) and Dispersal capacity (persistence at the landscape level). The IPCD approach is illustrated for fire-prone and grazed ecosystems from the Mediterranean region and Australia and by assuming a binary classification of the four traits determining persistence which give a total 16 possible functional types. The IPCD framework provides a simple structured and synthetic view from which more elaborated schemes can be developed. 
3236111|Plant succession has been studied since 1977 in permanent plots on a calcareous protosoil in the northern outskirts of Gottingen (Central Germany). At the beginning the substrate was extremely poor in organic carbon and nitrogen. On 128 plots of 100 m<sup>2</sup>, the temporal and spatial distribution of the most conspicuous plant species showed remarkable changes and correlations to soil site factors. While presenting data on Melilotus alba, Medicago lupulina, Agropyron repens, Arrhenatherum elatius, Dactylis glomerata, and Picris hieracioides the mechanisms of successional changes on nutrient-poor soils are discussed. It is demonstrated that a high cover of legumes favours the accumulation of soil nitrogen. Grassland species were more abundant in areas with low humus content whereas ruderal plant species preferred those parts of the area which contained more humus in the substrate. Life-form, colonization and population strategies play an important role in the described successional processes, in addition to resource competition. Finally, some methodological conclusions for permanent plot studies are presented.
40295772|Question: Are differences in microhabitat preferences of co-occurring epiphytic Hymenophyllaceae species (filmy ferns) correlated with differences in ecophysiological responses to light availability and humidity in the host tree? Location: The Andean foothills in south-central Chile. Methods: We evaluated the distribution pattern of nine filmy fern species in microhabitats that differ in light availability and humidity in four host tree species. A DCA was developed to assess Hymenophyllaceae species microhabitat preference in terms of canopy openness (CO) and relative humidity. We assessed whether differences in chlorophyll content, maximum photochemical efficiency (Fv/Fm), photosynthetic capacity (
40295784|Question: What are the consequences of frequently occurring landslides on vegetation dynamics, floristic and structural diversity? Location: 3927N; 3113WMorro Alto, Flores Island, Azores, Portugal. Methods: Six comparable landslides were selected. Plots were placed at the top, slope and toe of landslides. Data on floristic composition and biovolume, demography and size structure of the dominant tree species (Juniperus brevifolia) were collected. Hierarchical agglomerative clustering and Principal Component Analysis were used in order to identify succession stages and compare succession pathways and vegetation recovery in different parts of the landslides. Results: Four stages of primary succession on substrates formed by landslides were identified: pioneer (Festuca-Sphagnum grassland), assembly (Juniperus-Festuca-Sphagnum open scrub), building (Juniperus-Sphagnum scrub) and mature (Juniperus-Sphagnum woodland). Concerning J. brevifolia populations, the succession pathways are independent of location on the landslide. However, at the floristic level, there are some differences, mainly in the pioneer stage at the toes of landslides. Better abiotic conditions, resulting in a higher succession rate, are probably responsible for a faster vegetation recovery on landslide toes. Conclusion: Landslides trigger succession processes that enable a massive regeneration of the dominant tree species and existence of species not present in mature forests. They are also responsible for the simultaneous occurrence of vegetation of different structures. Overall, landslides increase the floristic and structural diversity of the vegetation, consequently increasing landscape heterogeneity.
3237367|315 isolated semi-natural and natural stands in NW Germany were investigated floristically, 285 stands of ancient woodlands and 30 recent ones. In the study area nearly all semi-natural and natural ancient woodlands are found on mesotrophic or eutrophic sites and can be assigned to the Fagetalia. 54 selected herbaceous and five woody Fagetalia-species have been tested in their association to ancient woodlands. 21 of the 59 selected plant species show a highly significant association to ancient woodlands and seven species show a weak significance. 31 plant species are not significantly correlated with ancient woodland sites, but 25 of them have a low frequency. The result shows that investigations of the historical ecology can help to understand floristic composition of present-day woodlands. Restriction of many woodland species to ancient woodlands, especially rare species, emphasizes the importance of woodlands with a long continuous history for the preservation of endangered species. Irrespective of ecological conditions, the restriction of plant species to ancient woodlands seems to be mainly caused by their low ability to colonize recent woodlands, especially isolated stands. Differences in the association to ancient woodlands between European countries are assumed to be a function of both time and degree of isolation of woodlands, of the dispersal mode of the plant species and of the availability of suitable habitats.
3236223| The measurement of diversity, one of the most important concepts in present-day ecology, can be improved by methods of diversity ordering which have recently been developed. This ordering is achieved by a D() diversity index family. Indices of this family show varying sensitivities to the rare and abundant species as the scale parameter, , changes. The aim of this paper is to review and assess 12 methods of diversity ordering and discuss their relationships in detail. Two of the methods are new to the ecological literature. The diversity ordering methods are compared as to their effectiveness in graphically displaying the differences of community structure and demonstrating the (non-)comparability of communities. Small, medium and large data sets were used to evaluate the methods. A small artificial data set (five to seven species) and a large semi-artificial data set (31 - 141 species) are used in this paper. The results suggest that Rnyi's diversity index family and Logarithmic dominance ordering are the most useful methods for diversity ordering of communities of all sizes. Right-tail-sum diversity ordering performs well for small communities. 
4499245|The recent Forum contribution by Grime (2006) contrasts the MacArthur/Diamond assembly-rule approach to studying plant communities with the study of environmental trait gradients. Both are valid and useful. In doing so, Grime declares that the assembly rules model, in which negative interactions between plants act with limiting similarity to cause local trait divergence, is "not supported by empirical study of plant communities". This is, he says, the agony of community ecology. I show that there is now abundant evidence for assembly rules, and no agony.
40295839|Question: The Janzen-Connell hypothesis predicts that herbivores and pathogens prevent seedlings from establishing in dense patches near adult conspecifics. Although many studies have investigated the Janzen-Connell hypothesis, the environmental context-local or regional-in which juveniles establish is often overlooked. The objectives of this study were: (1) to evaluate Janzen-Connell effects in contrasting environments, and (2) to incorporate microsite variation into the study of this hypothesis. Location: Pacaya-Samiria Reserve, Peru. Methods: I assessed seedling performance of two tree species, Garcinia macrophylla and Xylopia micans, during one growing season. In an observational study, mortality and growth rates were regressed against distance to the nearest adult conspecific, conspecific seedling density, heterospeciflc plant density, and several abiotic variables in upland and floodplain forests. Field and shadehouse experiments were used to isolate distance-and density-dependent effects. Results: Contrary to predictions, seedling survivorship increased in the presence of conspecific seedlings (Garcinia) and heterospeciflc understory plants (Garcinia and Xylopia) in the observational study. Survivorship in the field experiment, however, was unaffected by conspecific seedling density or adult proximity. In the shadehouse, Garcinia growth rates were highest in floodplain soils collected near adult conspecifics, but mortality was unrelated to the soil's habitat or proximity to an adult. Conclusions: The positive density dependence found in this study could have been produced by: (1) environmental factors that increase both density and survivorship, or (2) interspecific facilitation, if heterospecifics reduce herbivore or pathogen pressure on the focal species. Such interactions could help explain species coexistence in tropical forests.
3235568|Floristic data on the occurrence of Hepaticae at 939 localities of 10<sup>2</sup> - 10<sup>3</sup> m diameter in the Nizky Jesenik Mts. (area 3624 km<sup>2</sup>) were subjected to TWINSPAN classification. The results were interpreted in terms of the site conditions at each locality. Groups of localities showed marked differences in distribution within the areas, mainly in relation to altitude and substrate. The grouping of species partly corresponded to their sociological behaviour (i. e. their distribution on a smaller spatial scale). Joint occurrences of species of different sociological groups indicate the presence of habitat complexes which become apparent on the larger spatial scale. The use of such data in landscape ecology is discussed.
3235920|To study the rate of revegetation during succession on the volcano Usu, northern Japan, vegetation structure and species composition were monitored from 1984 to 1988 in permanent quadrats near the summit of the volcano, which had been almost completely deforested by 1 to 3 m thick volcanic deposits in 1977-78. Analyses of vegetation structure included species richness, species diversity (H'), evenness (J'); year-to-year changes were quantified using Community Coefficient (CC), and Percentage Similarity (PS). While species turnover rates fluctuated and vegetation cover gradually increased, species richness, diversity and evenness did not fluctuate much. The diversity parameters showed slightly different levels for three habitat types distinguished. CC values comparing subsequent years with the starting year 1984 suggest only minor changes in qualitative species composition; PS values decreased more rapidly, indicating larger changes in species cover. A few well-rooted perennial plants were predominant, therefore, PS decline resulted from dominance-controlled community structure. PS-value detected not only habitat difference, but also the rate of the volcanic succession, suggesting that PS is most effective to evaluate successional pace.
3246586|In this study, data from dry temperate grassland vegetation in Denmark are used to compare the predictive power of gradients obtained by ordination. One of the problems of ordination methods based on weighted averaging, namely the assumption of symmetric, unimodal response curves, is investigated by smoothing species responses to simple and complex gradients respectively. It was found that species response types to a pH gradient are diverse and often deviate from a unimodal, symmetrical shape. Bimodal responses were also found, but they disappeared when more influential gradients were considered. Many species showed truncated responses with optima near gradient ends. In order to assess the impact of unrealistic response assumptions and reported problems with instability on the performance of DCA, the predictive potentials of measured variables and coenoclines extracted by DCA were compared. Despite field data violating the assumption of unimodal response, DCA was found to extract gradients predicting species abundance better than the environmental variables available. Shortcomings and advantages of indirect and direct methods in plant ecology are discussed.
3235824| The dynamics of the seed bank may provide clues to the process of recovery of the vegetation of disturbed sites. The role of the seed bank may be more important in areas with a seasonal climate than in areas where seedling recruitment is not limited to one season. We studied the seed bank and the seed rain in three sites of the Chilean mediterranean-climate region (3348'S) which differed in the degree of anthropic disturbance: a closed-canopy, second-growth forest; an open matorral; and an old-field. Additionally, we tested the germination of seeds from the soil and from the current-year seed crop. The seed bank varied considerably between the two years of study, although no change in the vegetation could be observed. Seed density and species richness were lower in 1989 than in 1988. The seed bank of the second-growth forest changed less between years, while the old-field showed the largest change. The highest seed rain occurred under shrub patches in the open matorral, while few seeds fell in the spaces between shrub clumps or in the old-field. In the forest, seed rain was low and correlated with species cover. Germination was low (0 - 15%) in tests using either soil samples or fresh seeds. These results indicate that matorral succession is a very slow process, limited mainly by low germination and low arrival of propagules to open areas. Most woody species have animal-disseminated fleshy propagules. The presence of established shrubs which may serve as perches or refuges for animals increases species richness in the seed rain and the seed bank. 
40925475|Questions: What are important forest characteristics determining colonization of forest patches by forest understorey species? Location: Planted forests on land recently reclaimed from the sea, the Netherlands. Methods: We related the distribution of forest specialist species in the understorey of 55 forests in Dutch IJsselmeer polders to the following forest characteristics: age, area, connectivity, distance to mainland (as a proxy for distance to seed source) and path density. We used species of the Fraxino-Ulmetum association for the Netherlands as reference for species that could potentially occur in the study area. Results: Area and age of the surveyed forests explained a large part of the variation in overall species composition and species number of forest plant species. The importance of connectivity and distance to the mainland of forest habitats became apparent only at a more detailed level of dispersal groups and individual species. The importance of forest parameters differed between dispersal groups and also between individual species. After 60 years, 75% of the potential pool of wind-dispersed species has reached the polders, whereas this was only 50% for species lacking specific adaptations to long-distance dispersal. However, the average percentage of successful colonizing species present per forest was substantially lower, ranging from 15 to 37%. Conclusions: The data strongly suggest that the colonization process in polder forests is still in its initial phase, during which easily dispersed species dominate the vegetation. Colonization success of common species that lack adaptations to long-distance dispersal is affected by spatial configuration of the forests, and most rare species that could potentially occur in these forests are still absent. Implications for conservation of rare species in fragmented landscapes are discussed.
3237369| Seasonal variation in nutrient concentration in leaves and branches of Quercus pyrenaica was studied in natural Q. pyrenaica forest in the Sierra de Gata (Salamanca Province, Spain). Two permanent plots were established at the two extremes of a rainfall gradient in this area: annual mean precipitation from 720 mm at Fuenteguinaldo (granite bedrock) to 1580 mm at Navasfras (schists and graywackes). Leaf and branch samples were collected every three weeks during the growing season from May to October, at three height levels of the tree canopy. Seasonal changes and internal nutrient dynamics were investigated for N, Ca, Mg, K, Na, Mn, Fe and P during a two-year period. The concentrations of all nutrients varied among the seasons; these variations were related to nutrient mobility and the annual physiological cycle. Nutrient concentrations decrease in the case of K and P, while the sparse mobile nutrients Ca, Mg, Mn and Fe gradually accumulated during each growing season. In Navasfras a considerable resorption of P from senescing leaves was detected. Different patterns were found for the other nutrients studied (Na and N). 
4499175|Question: What is the relative importance of low- and high-severity fires in shaping forest structure across the range of Pinus ponderosa in northern Colorado? Location: Colorado Front Range, USA. Methods: To assess severities of historic fires, 24 sites were sampled across an elevation range of 1800 to 2800 m for fire scars, tree establishment dates, tree mortality, and changes in tree-ring growth. Results: Below 1950 m, the high number of fire scars, scarcity of large post-fire cohorts, and lack of synchronous tree mortality or growth releases, indicate that historic fires were of low severity. In contrast, above 2200 m, fire severity was greater but frequency of widespread fires was substantially less. At 18 sites above 1950 m, 34 to 80% of the live trees date from establishment associated with the last moderate- to high-severity fire. In these 18 sites, only 2 to 52% of the living trees pre-date these fires suggesting that fire severities prior to any effects of fire suppression were sufficient to kill many trees. Conclusions: These findings for the P. ponderosa zone above ca. 2200 m (i.e. most of the zone) contradict the widespread perception that fire exclusion, at least at the stand scale of tens to hundreds of hectares, has resulted in unnaturally high stand densities or in an atypical abundance of shade-tolerant species. At relatively mesic sites (e.g. higher elevation, north-facing), the historic fire regime consisted of a variable-severity regime, but forest structure was shaped primarily by severe fires rather than by surface fires.
3237115|This paper aims at proposing efficient vegetation sampling strategies. It describes how the estimation of species richness and diversity of moist evergreen forest is affected by (1) sampling design (simple random sampling, random cluster sampling, systematic cluster sampling, stratified cluster sampling); (2) choice of species richness estimators (number of observed species vs. non-parametric estimators) and (3) choice of diversity index (Simpson vs. Shannon). Two sites are studied: a 28-ha area situated in the Western Ghats of India and a 25-ha area located at Pasoh in Peninsular Malaysia. The results show that: (1) whatever the sampling strategy, estimates of species richness depend on sample size in these very diverse forest ecosystems which contain many rare species; (2) Simpson's diversity index reaches a stable value at low sample sizes while Shannon's index is affected more by the addition of rare species with increasing sample size; (3) cluster sampling strategies provide a good compromise between cost and statistical efficiency; (4) 300 - 400 sample trees grouped in small clusters (10 - 50 individuals) are enough to obtain unbiased and precise estimates of Simpson's index; (5) the local topography of the Western Ghats has a major influence on forest composition, the steep slopes being richer and more diverse than the ridges and gentle slopes; (6) stratified cluster sampling is thus an interesting alternative to systematic cluster sampling.
25549254|Question: How do N fertilization and disturbance affect the understorey vegetation, microbial properties and soil nutrient concentration in boreal forests? Location: Kuusamo (6622'N; 2918'E) and Oulu (6502'N; 2547'E) in northern Finland. Methods: We conducted a fully factorial experiment with three factors: site (two levels), N fertilization (four levels) and disturbance (two levels). We measured treatment effects on understorey biomass, vegetation structure, and plant, soil and microbial N and C concentrations. Results: The understorey biomass was not affected by fertilization either in the control or in the disturbance treatment. Fertilization reduced the biomass of deciduous Vaccinium myrtillus. Disturbance had a negative effect on the biomass of V. myrtillus and evergreen Vaccinium vitis-idaea and decreased the relative proportion of evergreen species. Fertilization and disturbance increased the biomass of grass Deschampsia flexuosa and the relative proportion of graminoids. The amount of
3236405|Recent disturbance models have identified changes in resource availability as factors that control plant community response. Soil nutrient resources typically are assumed to change following forest disturbance, usually with nutrient availablity increasing initially and subsequently decreasing through later stages of succession. We examined the effects of disturbance (clearcut harvesting with a brief recovery period) on soil organic matter, pH and extractable soil nutrients in successional aspen forests of northern lower Michigan to determine relationships of these variables to changes in herbaceous layer vegetation. Two site types were identified: drymesic (glacial outwash sands, low in organic matter) and mesic (calcareous clay till, high in organic matter). Extractable nutrient concentrations were 1.5 to 3 times higher in the A<sub>1</sub> horizon of mesic sites than those of dry-mesic sites. Soil pH and cations increased after disturbance on mesic sites, but not on dry-mesic sites. Patterns of change with disturbance were less pronounced in lower horizons on both site types. Herblayer species diversity increased after disturbance on mesic sites, but with decreases in the importance of shade-tolerant tree species and Maianthemum canadense. Species characteristic of open habitats (e.g. Pteridium aquilinum, Rubus spp., Fragaria virginiana, and Diervilla lonicera), increased in importance. Soil factors, species composition and diversity on dry-mesic sites changed little after disturbance, with Pteridium aquilinum and ericaceous species remaining dominant in both mature (55 - 82 yr) and disturbed ( 15 yr) stands. These results suggest that soil nutrient resources do not always change through secondary succession and that patterns of change can be distinctly site-dependent. Disturbance response patterns in the herbaceous layer of these aspen forests are also site-dependent.
3235660|The Northern Iberian Peninsula is dominated by various types of vegetation from deciduous oak and ash to evergreen oak woodlands. A recent vegetation map of Spain portrays vegetation series which are charaterized in terms of their phytogeographic region or bioclimatic (altitudinal) belt. The aim of this paper is to determine whether the areas comprised by both phytogeographic regions (Eurosiberian and Mediterranean) in the study area, as established from the phytogeographic characterization of the vegetation, can be discriminated by climatic variables using multivariate methods, and to compare these with other conventional approaches. In addition, bioclimatic (altitudinal) belts and the main vegetation types were tested for discrimination by climatic variables. Conventional climatic criteria as well as discriminant and principal component analysis were applied to climatic data from 205 meteorological stations for which vegetation information had been taken from the vegetation map. Conventional criteria are good predictors of the phytogeographic division (Mediterranean and Eurosiberian regions) in the study area. Results were improved by multiple discriminant analysis based on climatic data of the dry period of the year (June to September). Both regions in the study area can be predicted with over 95 % accuracy. Using the same multivariate procedure and temperature data the bioclimatic (altitudinal) belts of the study area can be predicted with over 90 % accuracy. The main vegetation groups of the study area can also be predicted with over 80 % accuracy. Ordination analysis supported the results of the discriminant analysis. Empirical models have been generated to predict the phytogeographic- and belt character of any station in the area. The significance of the various periods of the year for discriminating regions and belts is evaluated. The responsiveness to climatic events during the year may be region specific. This study confirms the strong relationship between climate and vegetation in the Northern Iberian Peninsula, particularly regarding the Eurosiberian-Mediterranean boundary.
3236305|Population dynamics, mortality factors, growth and dry weight changes in Quercus floribunda seedlings were studied to determine the implication of sun and shade microsites and the role of mast years on regeneration and maintenance of oak forests in Kumaun Himalaya. The number of seedlings was significantly greater at the sun microsites, but seedling survival was not, as ground herbage clearance at sun microsites accounted for 53.5 % mortality. Insect herbivores (e.g. acorn worm) were also one of the major mortality factors. At both microsites, most mortality was encountered between June and August. The initial seedling height at sun microsites was significantly lower compared to shade microsites. Seedlings at sun microsites were superior in terms of number of leaves and peak dry weight. Dry mass allocation in seedling components and root:shoot ratio was similar at both microsites. The study shows the importance of sun microsites and of masting in the potential for regeneration and expansion of Q. floribunda forests.
3236680|In dryland ecosystems and other harsh environments, a large part of the vegetation is often clustered, appearing as 'islands'. If 'independent' species, usually colonizers, can be distinguished from species which are 'dependent' on the presence of the colonizing species for successful establishment and/or persistence, the type of spatial pattern of the association - isotropic (spatially symmetric) or anisotropic (spatially asymmetric) - can give information on the underlying environmental factors driving the process of association. Modified spatial pattern analysis based on Ripley's K-function can be applied to bivariate clustered patterns by cardinal direction in order to detect possible anisotropy in the pattern of association. The method was applied to mapped distribution patterns of two types of semi-arid shrubland in southeastern Spain. In shrubland of Retama sphaerocarpa, low shrubs of Artemisia barrelieri were significantly clustered under the canopy of the Retama shrubs in all four cardinal directions, suggesting an isotropic facilitation effect. In low shrubland dominated by Anthyllis cytisoides and Artemisia barrelieri, Anthyllis shrubs occurred more frequently than expected on the eastern side (and downslope) of an Artemisia shrub. The possible environmental factors driving the two association patterns are discussed and recommendations for further applications of the analytical method are given.
3237273|In order to explain conifer species recruitment in Canada's southeastern boreal forest, we characterized conifer regeneration microsites and determined how these microsites vary in abundance during succession. Microsite abundance was evaluated in deciduous, mixed and coniferous stands along a 234-yr postfire chronosequence. Conifers were most often found in relatively well-illuminated microsites, devoid of litter, especially broad-leaf litter, and with a reduced cover of lower vegetation (< 50 cm tall). Although associated with moss-rich forest floor substrates, Abies balsamea was the most ubiquitously distributed species. Picea glauca and especially Thuja occidentalis seedlings were frequently found on rotten logs. Light measurements did not show differences among seedling species nor between stand types. The percentage cover of broad-leaf litter decreased significantly during succession. Also, rotten logs covered with moss occupied a significantly larger area in the mid-successionnal stands than in early successional deciduous or late successional coniferous stands. The results suggest that the presence of specific forest floor substrate types is a factor explaining low conifer recruitment under deciduous stands, conifer codominance in the mid-successional stage, and delayed Thuja recolonization after fire. Results also suggest that some facilitation mechanism is responsible for the observed directional succession.
40925463|Question: Have past windstorm events influenced the structure and composition of mountain forests in the Tatra Mountains? Can severe and infrequent wind disturbances lead to dynamic coexistence of two tree species with different ecological requirements? Location: Subalpine mixed spruce-larch forest at 1200-1300 m a.s.l. in the Slovakian Tatra Mountains. A forested site affected by catastrophic large-scale windthrow on 19 November 2004. Methods: Sixty-seven spruce and 30 larch cross-sections from the oldest cohorts were collected in a regular pattern in a 100-ha plot. Tree-ring series were analysed to reconstruct growth releases associated with past windthrows. A boundary-line release criterion was applied to detect disturbance year. Spatial patterns of release signals were statistically detected with Mantel's test. We compared reconstructed years of disturbance events with historical records. Results: Releases in both species showed three main pulses. More than 85% showed major or moderate releases in 1865-1879, 48% in 1915-1924, and 25% in 1940-1949. All of these disturbance events affected the whole 100-ha area. Releases were spatially patterned in the first disturbances, but distributed randomly in the last. Releases co-occurred in time with enhanced production of compression wood, suggesting disturbances were of wind origin. Reconstructed dates of windthrows were confirmed using historical data on storms. Conclusions: At least three windthrows of major and moderate severity took place in the last 150 years on southern slopes of the Tatra Mountains. This disturbance regime may contribute to coexistence of spruce and larch through differences in vulnerability and response to heavy windstorms.
3237246|The natural origin of old Quercus ilex (holm oak) forests on the west coast of Corsica is a matter of dispute. This paper discusses the use of pedoanthracology, especially adapted to approach topics in palaeoecology requiring a high spatial precision. It also shows the importance of fire in vegetation change during the Holocene. Pedoanthracology relies on botanical identification and AMS <sup>14</sup>C dating of micro-charcoal found in soil. Three test pits were dug in a forest currently protected within the 'Man and Biosphere' program. These pits yielded large quantities of charcoal. There is evidence that Pinus nigra ssp. laricio (laricio pine) and understorey heather species (Ericaceae) played an important role in the vegetation at the beginning of the Subatlantic (ca. 2500 BP). The importance of Pinus pinaster (maritime pine), Quercus ilex and a few mesophilic species increased between 2000 and 1000 BP. Charcoal fragments found in the soil show the role of fire in the vegetation changes recorded. The late expansion of P. pinaster results from a high fire frequency. The hypothesis proposed in the paper suggests that fires destroyed the remaining toxic humus that had accumulated during the millennia which preceded the arrival of Q. ilex to our study sites. The late development of holm oak forest is a combination of the migration of the species and the increase of fire frequency since 2500 BP, most probably resulting from slash-and-burn agriculture.
4499163|Question: How consistent are relationships of forest lichen community composition with environmental variables across geographic scales within region and across regions? Location: Northwestern continental USA and east central continental USA. Method: Four macrolichen data sets were compiled using identical plot sample protocol: species abundance estimated in 0.4-ha permanent plots on a systematic grid, as part of government (USDA-FS) forest inventory programs. One data set in each region represented a large area; the other represented part of the large area. We used global NMS ordination of plots based on species abundance to extract major axes of variation in community composition. Correlations of species, guilds, and environmental variables with ordination axes were compared between geographic scales for the two regions. Results: Primary axes of community variation at larger scales were correlated with climate variables and related geographic variables such as latitude and elevation, and with pollution. Forest vegetation variables such as stand age and tree species composition became more important at small scales. Community variation unexplained by macro-environment variables also became more important at small scales. Of several hundred species tested, ten lichen species showed consistent behaviour between scales within region (one also across regions) and are thus potential general indicators of ecological conditions in forests. Of six lichen guilds tested, several show strong patterns not consistently related to environmental conditions Conclusions: Interpretation of lichen species and community composition as indicating particular environmental conditions is context-dependent in most cases. Observed relationships should not be generalized beyond the geographic and ecological scale of observation.
3236376|Plant species richness and species-area relations were examined for three landscapes (toposequences), each with a summit or upland, a midslope and a toeslope or lowland, in a shortgrass steppe in Colorado. The number of plant species in the largest plot size (0.16 ha) varied from 38 to 53. Neither the exponential relationship: s = a + b log A, nor the power function: S = cAz fit the data equally well in all situations. The processes acting upon species diversity here seem to operate at two spatial scales. The number of species in plots smaller than 3 m<sup>2</sup> was independent of the total number of species in the 0.16-ha plots and was constrained by the presence of the dominant bunchgrasses. Beyond 3 m<sup>2</sup>, species number in each plot size was a function of the total number of species in the 0.16-ha plot.
40925546|Question: Does the introduced pathogen Phytophthora cinnamomi change Banksia woodland aor -diversity and what are the implications for species re-colonization? Location: High rainfall zone of the Southwest Australian Floristic Region (SWAFR). Methods: We measured pathogen-induced floristic change along a disease chronosequence, and resampled historic quadrats in Banksia attenuata woodlands of the SWAFR. The chronosequence represents three disease stages: (1) healthy vegetation with no disease expression; (2) the active disease front; and (3) diseased vegetation infected for at least 15 years. Comparative data were obtained by resampling diseased plots that were historically disease-free when established in 1990. Results: -diversity differed substantially for both chronosequence and historic data, while -diversity was maintained, as measured by plot species richness and Simpson's reciprocal index. Species of known pathogen susceptibility were significantly reduced in cover-abundance, including the structurally dominant species; Banksia attenuata, B. ilicifolia and Allocasuarina fraseriana. Although these species remained present on diseased sites, there were overall reductions in canopy closure, leaf litter and basal area. These declines were coupled with an increase of species with unknown susceptibility, suggesting potential resistance and capacity to take advantage of altered site conditions. Conclusions: This study highlights the ability of an introduced plant pathogen to alter community floristics and associated stand variables. Species coverabundances are unlikely to recover due to a reduced seed source, altered site conditions and pathogen persistence at the landscape level. However, maintenance of -diversity suggests continued biological significance of Phytophthora-affected sites and the formation of novel ecosystems, themselves worthy of conservation.
3235993|N, P and K dynamics were investigated in grazed and ungrazed alpine forb and grassy meadows in the Garhwal Himalaya. The growth forms examined were dwarf shrubs, forbs and graminoides. N, P and K contents were determined for various plant components and soil. The contribution of plant parts to the total vegetation capital of N, P and K was 20-33% (live shoot), 6-8% (dead shoot), 2-3% (litter) and 56-71% (root) in ungrazed plots, and 16-27, 6-7, 1-2, and 64-76% respectively in grazed plots. Grazing removed between 41-69% of total uptake of nutrients from the grassland. In protected areas, however, 65 to 81 % of all nutrients were retained by the vegetation. This retention of nutrients is due to translocation to roots and rhizomes and is considered beneficial during grazing as it aids resprouting of the vegetation.
3236133|Short-lived components in a dry tropical forest ecosystem in India - tree foliage, fine roots and herbaceous plants - are shown to be important for biomass production and nutrient cycling. With 62 % they contribute much more to the dry matter production than the long-lived components- tree boles, branches and coarse roots - which make up only 38 %. The contribution of short-lived components to the total uptake of different nutrients was also high: 18 - 30 % for tree foliage, 26 - 34 % for fine roots and 6 - 19 % for herbs; their share in the total nutrient storage is less: 6 - 19 % for tree foliage, 4-8 % for fine roots and 0.6-1.3 % for herbs. The transfer of nutrients by the short-lived components was also substantial: 31 - 46 % for foliage, 7 - 24% for herbs and 33-45% for fine roots. The results indicate that the short-lived components play a significant role in the functioning of a dry tropical forest.
3236125|A high-altitude boreal Picea abies forest, with tree ages of up to 410 yr, was studied with respect to age structure, spatial regeneration patterns, and substrate. The results suggest that recruitment is primarily dependent on germination substrate but also negatively correlated with the density of the tree layer. 60 % of all spruces < 1.3 m high grew on substrates connected with tree-fall; ca. 40 % were found on decomposing logs and stumps, covering only ca. 6 % of the forest floor. Individual logs remain important as a regeneration substrate for ca. 150 yr. Continuous presence of decomposing coarse wood is a condition for the maintenance of the population structure under the prevailing climatic conditions. Peaks in the age distribution (the 1870's and the 1940's - 1950's) are probably climatically induced. The results challenge the previous assumptions that this kind of forest undergoes cyclic development. Long-term structural stability with climatically induced minor variations may be an alternative model.
3237001|This study explores the determinants of distribution, abundance and regeneration of six Pinus species (P. halepensis, P. nigra, P. pinaster, P. pinea, P. sylvestris and P. uncinata) that occur naturally in Catalonia, northeastern Spain. The aim of this study was to generate accurate predictions of the distribution of each species using simple and readily available environmental variables. We used recursive partitioning and GIS analyses to relate the data base of 10600 field plots from the Forestry Inventory of Catalonia with abiotic and biotic characteristics of each plot. We present general patterns of distribution, dominance and regeneration for the six species and then focus on P. halepensis, the most abundant pine species in the western Mediterranean Basin. For all six species, the models correctly classified more than 80% of the distribution using abiotic factors, mainly altitude and rainfall variability. Biotic factors such as the basal area of other pine species were necessary to accurately predict patterns of pine species dominance. Biotic factors, especially the basal area of evergreen species (mainly Quercus ilex), were of overriding importance when predicting patterns of seedling occurrence. Potentially important factors such as land use and fire history were of little significance for predicting distribution at the scale of our study. Our models failed to predict accurately which species (and in which numbers) co-occur with P. halepensis. Factors not included in this study, such as stand age, disturbance (cutting, clearing) and other human-induced factors, are probably the main determinants of co-existence patterns.
3236498|Competition and facilitation may occur simultaneously in plant communities, and the prevalence of either process depends on abiotic conditions. Here we attempt a community-wide approach in the analysis of plant interactions, exploring whether in a semi-arid environment positive or negative interactions predominate and whether there are differences among co-occurring shrub species. Most shrubs in our plot exerted significant effects on their understorey communities, ranging from negative to positive. We found a clear case of interference and another case where the effect was neutral, but facilitation predominated and the biomass of annuals under most shrubs in our community was larger than in gaps. Effects on soil water and fertility were revealed as primary source of facilitation; the build-up of soil organic matter changed soil physical properties and improved soil water relations. Facilitation by shrubs involved decoupling of soil temperature and moisture. Sheltering from direct radiation had an effect on productivity, but significant differences in understorey biomass did not parallel understorey light environment. A positive balance of the interaction among plants, essentially mediated by changes in soil properties, is the predominant outcome of plant interactions in this semi-arid community.
40295816|Question: What factors determine the deviations from the relationship between species richness (which considers species as independent entities) and phylogenetic diversity (PD) (which considers species relatedness)? What are the implications for community composition and phylogenetic structure? Location: Los Alcornocales Natural Park (3603'3645'N and 520'545' W), in southern Iberian Peninsula (Spain). Methods: We recorded all woody species and geographical features on 94 (20mx20m) plots of cork oak woodlands. Disturbance information was obtained from the Park records; precipitation was estimated from local maps. PD was computed as the minimum total length of all the phylogenetic branches spanning the set of species on each site. Then, PD was regressed against species richness to test to what extent the unexplained variance in this relationship could be accounted for by environmental variables and disturbances, and against the representation of species with different regeneration strategies. Results: Species richness and PD are strongly related; however, the remaining variability can be explained by: (1) precipitation and disturbance, and (2) the proportion of seeder species. Thus, the PD both of areas with low precipitation and high disturbance, and of areas with a high representation of seeder species, is lower than what would be expected from the species richness. Conclusions: Regeneration traits are important in structuring plant community composition; specifically, they contribute to shaping biodiversity in Mediterranean ecosystems. Species richness tends to overestimate biodiversity in highly disturbed systems.
3237284|Cliff-face communities of the Niagara Escarpment in Ontario, Canada, are dominated by long-lived Thuja occidentalis and a consistent assemblage of other plants. Our objective was to determine whether seed rain plays a role in determining why these species are dominant. Seed rain was collected from the cliff face and from the surrounding plateauand talus communities at two sites over a 2-yr period in order to compare these three adjacent, but different communities. Multivariate Discriminant Analysis first separated the two sites: primarily due to the importance of Betula papyrifera at one site. The three community types were also separated, although there was still substantial overlap. There was a predictable array of species associated with each community although the seed rain on the cliff faces differed slightly. When characterized by univariate ANOVAs, seed rain in the cliff faces and plateaus had a lower species richness and lower total seed density than the talus sites. Seeds of two of the 11 species analysed individually showed an influence of habitat type on their number. Seed morphology did not influence patterns of seed rain. Finally, there was no correlation between the seed rain and above-ground vegetation in any of the communities. We conclude that the seed rain patterns that exist do not act to filter the plants that form the mature vegetation of cliffs.
3237312|We compared the diversity, phytogeography, and plant communities in two mid-latitude alpine tundras with comparable aerial and elevational extents: Changbaishan Summit in eastern Asia and Indian Peaks in western North America. Despite wide separation, the two areas shared 72 species. In all, 43 % of the species on Changbaishan Summit are also distributed in the alpine zones of western North America, while 22 % of the species on Indian Peaks are also distributed in the alpine zones of eastern Asia. Almost all the shared species also occur in the Beringian region. Phytogeographical profiles of species and genera showed that 69 % of species and over 90 % of genera in both alpine tundras belong to the three phytogeographical categories: cosmopolitan, circumpolar, and Asian-North American. We attributed the current floristic relationship between these widely separated areas to the periodic past land connection between the two continents during the Tertiary and Pleistocene. Indian Peaks has a closer floristic relationship with the Arctic tundra than does Changbaishan Summit. Indian Peaks also has 45 % higher species richness and lower vegetation cover than Changbaishan Summit. Plant communities from the two areas were completely separated in the two-way indicator species analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling on floristic data at both species and generic levels, whereas ordination of communities by soil data produced a greater overlap. The plant communities on Changbaishan Summit in general have lower alpha diversity, higher beta diversity (lower between-community floristic similarity), and more rare species than does Indian Peaks. Mosaic diversity does not differ in the two alpine tundras, although the analysis suggests that Changbaishan Summit communities are more widely spaced on gradients than the Indian Peaks communities.
23012422|Question: What are the main drivers for tree species distribution in the Bavarian Alps? What are the species-specific habitat requirements? Are predictions in accordance with expert knowledge? Location: Bavarian Alps (Southern Germany). Methods: To describe tree speciesenvironment relationships, we established species distribution models for the 14 most common tree species of the region. We combined tree species occurrence data from forest inventories and a vegetation database with environmental data from a digital elevation model, climate maps and soil maps. For modelling, we used generalized additive models (GAM) combined with techniques to account for spatial autocorrelation and uneven coverage of environmental gradients. We developed parsimonious models to judge whether statistical models correspond to models based on expert knowledge. Results: Conceptual models were generally in accordance with expectations. Variables based on average temperatures were the most important predictors in most models. Proxies for soil properties such as water and nutrient availability were statistically significant and generally plausible, but appeared largely redundant for model performance. Altitudinal limits of tree species were generally well represented by models. Most species responded differently to summer and January temperatures, indicating that temperature variables are proxies not only for energy balance, but also for frost damage and drought. Although model building benefits considerably from collation with expert knowledge, there are limitations. Conclusions: Meaningful species distribution models can be obtained from noisy data sets covering only a small fraction of species ranges. Models calibrated with such data sets benefit from hypothesis-driven model building rather than strict data-driven model building. Hence, misleading explanations and predictions can be avoided and uncertainties identified. Nevertheless, projections based on climate scenarios can be substantially improved only with models calibrated on a wider data set. Ideally, environmental gradients should cover the whole niche space of a species, or at least include regions with analogous climate.
40925493|Question: Do tissue element concentrations at the individual species level vary along major vegetation gradients in wetlands, and can they indicate environmental conditions? Location: West Carpathians. Methods: Total plant species composition was recorded in plots distributed along a poor to rich gradient within spring fens and along the gradient from fens to wet meadows. Eriophorum angustifolium (Cyperaceae) and three broadleaf dicotyledonous herb species were collected from the vegetation plots. Tissue N, P, K, Ca and Fe concentrations, N:P and N:K ratios of the species were determined. Each variable was correlated with the sample scores along the first two axes of the DCA ordination, which represented the two main vegetation gradients. Results: and Ca concentrations in a particular species correlated well with the vegetation gradients, thus indicating changes in the element availability to the species. The trends were sometimes contradictory to known patterns at the community level, but the differences could be ecologically interpreted. Contrary to Ca and K, patterns in N, P and Fe concentration appeared to be more species-specific. E. angustifolium had a lower and Ca concentration than the broadleaf herbs. Conclusions: Compared to community-level measurements, element concentrations in individual species correlated less with observed vegetation gradients. Trends found at the species level may indicate changes in ecological conditions affecting the species, although they need not correspond with trends found at the community level. We conclude that the species-level approach cannot substitute, but can advance, the community-level approach in searching for mechanisms underlying vegetation gradients within wetlands.
40295815|Question: Does a land-use variable improve spatial predictions of plant species presence-absence and abundance models at the regional scale in a mountain landscape? Location: Western Swiss Alps. Methods: Presence-absence generalized linear models (GLM) and abundance ordinal logistic regression models (LRM) were fitted to data on 78 mountain plant species, with topo-climatic and/or land-use variables available at a 25-m resolution. The additional contribution of land use when added to topo-climatic models was evaluated by: (1) assessing the changes in model fit and (2) predictive power, (3) partitioning the deviance respectively explained by the topo-climatic variables and the land-use variable through variation partitioning, and (5) comparing spatial projections. Results: Land use significantly improved the fit of presence-absence models but not their predictive power. In contrast, land use significantly improved both the fit and predictive power of abundance models. Variation partitioning also showed that the individual contribution of land use to the deviance explained by presence-absence models was, on average, weak for both GLM and LRM (3.7% and 4.5%, respectively), but changes in spatial projections could nevertheless be important for some species. Conclusions: In this mountain area and at our regional scale, land use is important for predicting abundance, but not presence-absence. The importance of adding land-use information depends on the species considered. Even without a marked effect on model fit and predictive performance, adding land use can affect spatial projections of both presence-absence and abundance models.
3235928|The number of species (species richness) and 13 soil variables were determined in 30 0.1 ha plots in the Duke Forest, Durham and Orange Counties, North Carolina, in order to test whether variability in species richness can be accounted for by the environmental variability hypothesis, or the sampling effect hypothesis. The environmental variability hypothesis predicts a positive correlation between the variance in factors which are ecologically important and species richness. However, the variabilities of environmental factors are unrelated to richness. The sampling effect hypothesis predicts that more rare species will be found in species-rich sites. However, as richness increases, the number of species in all abundance classes increases. Both the environmental variability hypothesis and the sampling effect hypothesis are therefore unlikely to account for the substantial variability in species richness which exists in the Duke Forest.
4499187|Question: How do environmental variables in a hyper-arid fog desert influence the distribution patterns of terricolous lichens on both macro- and micro-scales? Location: Namib Desert, Namibia. Methods: Sites with varying lichen species cover were sampled for environmental variables on a macro-scale (elevation, slope degree, aspect, proximity to river channels, and fog deposition) and on a micro-scale (soil structure and chemistry). Macro-scale and micro-scale variables were analysed separately for associations with lichen species cover using constrained ordination (DCCA) and unconstrained ordination (DCA). Explanatory variables that dominated the first two axes of the constrained ordinations were tested against a lichen cover gradient. Results: Elevation and proximity to river channels were the most significant drivers of lichen species cover in the macro-scale DCCA, but results of the DCA suggest that a considerable percentage of variation in lichen species cover is unexplained by these variables. On a micro-scale, sediment particle size explained a majority of lichen community variations, followed by soil pH. When both macro and micro-scale variables were tested along a lichen cover gradient, soil pH was the only variable to show a significant relationship to lichen cover. Conclusion: The findings suggest that landscape variables contribute to variations in lichen species cover, but that stronger links occur between lichen growth and small-scale variations in soil characteristics, supporting the need for multi-scale approaches in the management of threatened biological soil crust communities and related ecosystem functions.
3235740| A survey is presented of the syntaxonomic status and the internal differentiation of the Genisto-Vaccinion Br.-Bl. 1926. This alliance comprises subalpine heathland communities of low mountain ranges in western Europe, which are dominated by Vaccinium and other dwarf-shrub species. The alliance is assigned to the class Nardo-Callunetea Preising 1949. All available relevs were analysed together according to the Braun-Blanquet approach. The floristic and ecological characteristics of the alliance are given, and the relationship to allied syntaxa is discussed. The Genisto-Vaccinion is divided into two suballiances, the Phyteumo-Vaccinenion and the Carici piluliferae-Vaccinenion. The Phyteumo-Vaccinenion is restricted to the upper belt of the subalpine zone, where it includes the major part of the natural climax vegetation. Two associations are distinguished, the Pulsatillo vernalis-Genistetum Quzel et Rioux 1954 and the Vaccinietum uliginosi-myrtilli Br.-Bl. 1926. The Carici piluliferae-Vaccinenion is bound to the lower belt of the subalpine zone; mostly, the communities have developed secondarily after cutting of the pre-existing woodlands, followed by cattle grazing. Within this suballiance, four associations are described, the Alchemillo saxatilisVaccinietum uliginosi Thbaud ex Schamine et Hennekens 1992, the Allio victorialis-Vaccinietum Schamine et Hennekens 1992, the Pulsatillo alpinae-Vaccinietum Carbiener 1966, and the Leontodonto-Vaccinietum myrtilli Bartsch et Bartsch 1940. The description of the associations includes an appropriate diagnosis and enumeration of the nomenclatural types. 
3237184|In southern France, the natural invasion by Quercus humilis of calcareous grassland takes place in a mosaic of herbaceous and scrubby patches. We hypothesized that the presence of the shrubs Buxus sempervirens and Juniperus communis alter the rate and the pathway of the succession by facilitating the regeneration of Q. humilis. To infer the process of facilitation at a large scale, the spatial distribution of Q. humilis was studied in relation to acorn sources and the type of plant cover in grazed and ungrazed sites. Abundant recruitment up to 80 m from the wood margins and from isolated oak trees in grassland shows that acorns are dispersed effectively. At the three study sites, the density of Q. humilis individuals was higher under shrubs than in grassland, suggesting that facilitation may occur. This density difference was much higher in the grazed sites than in the ungrazed site. Moreover, before grazing by livestock, the distribution of first-year seedlings is independent of vegetation cover. Thus, shrubs improve Q. humilis regeneration by protecting individuals from grazing. The high density of individuals at the northern edge of shrubs suggests that a second facilitation mechanism may exist, probably related to improved germination conditions. Facilitation by shrubs appears to be very important for Q. humilis dynamics.
3236872|The recruitment of the relict shrub Juniperus communis on a mountain in SE Spain was studied during the period 1994-1998. The main objective was to determine both the quantitative and qualitative effects of bird dispersal on seedling establishment. Seed removal by birds, seed rain, post-dispersal seed predation, germination, and seedling emergence and survival were analysed in different microhabitats. Birds removed 53 - 89% of the seeds produced by plants. Seed rain was spatially irregular as most seeds accumulated near stones used by birds as perches and below mother plants while a few seeds were dropped in wet meadows and open ground areas. Post-dispersal seed predation by rodents affected < 10% of dispersed seeds but varied significantly among microhabitats. Only 3.6-5.5% of dispersed seeds appeared viable, as many seeds had aborted or showed wasp damage. Seeds germinated in the second and third springs after sowing, reaching a germination percentage of 36%. Seedling emergence was concentrated in wet meadows. Seedling mortality was high (75 - 80%), but significantly lower in wet meadows, the only microhabitat where seedlings could escape from summer drought, the main mortality cause. Seed abortion, germination and seedling mortality proved to be the main regeneration constraints of J. communis on Mediterranean mountains. Birds exerted a strong demographic effect, although their qualitative effect was limited by abiotic factors which caused the pattern of seed rain to differ from the final pattern of recruitment between microhabitats.
3235659|A classification of plant communities and land systems is presented for the Eden region to assist with the resolution of land use and management conflicts. Vegetation and environmental parameters were sampled at 369 sites and analysed with numerical techniques incorporating elements of the Braun-Blanquet approach. Land surfaces in the study area were described by means of a land systems analysis. A total of 41 plant communities, 3 with 2 subcommunities, were defined and described on the basis of floristic composition, structure and environmental variables. Descriptions of communities include information on habitat, structure, floristic composition of various strata, distribution and representation in reserves. The distributions of plant communities are interpreted in relation to characteristics of their land systems. Plant communities were grouped into 5 major floristic series: Rainforest, Moist Eucalypt Forest, Dry Grassy Eucalypt Woodland and Forest, Dry Shrubby Eucalypt Woodland and Forest and Heath and Swamp. These groupings are distinguished by their structure, physiognomic attributes, composition of their canopy and understorey strata and habitat. Plant communities are differentiated along gradients of moisture availability, soil properties and temperature. A hypothesis is proposed to explain floristic and structural variation in relation to interactions between moisture and soil fertility gradients. Where moisture is high, tall shrubby eucalypt forest, mesic eucalypt forest and rainforest are thought to be segregated along a gradient of increasing soil fertility. On drier sites, dry eucalypt communities with grassy understoreys are thought to inhabit more fertile soils than those with shrubby understoreys. The biogeographic relations and broad conservation values of the major floristic groupings are discussed. Vegetation patterns in the region are related to a latitudinal sequence which prevails in eastern Australia. A preliminary assessment of plant community distributions shows that the reserve system is not representative of the range of vegetation and landscape types in the region.
3236177|A syntaxonomic study of trampled plant communities in North Korea is presented. Analytic and synthetic methods of the Braun-Blanquet approach together with a numeric-syntaxonomical analysis (cluster analysis and principal coordinate analysis ordination) were employed. With the exception of the Bryo-Saginetum japonicae, all the associations, such as the Artemisio asiaticae-Plantaginetum asiaticae, Plantagini depressae-Polygonetum avicularis, Polygono avicularis-Potentilletum costatae, Eragrostio multicaulisPlantaginetum depressae, Euphorbio maculatae-Centipedetum minimae, Digitario pectiniformis-Eleusinetum indicae and Setario viridis-Chlorisetum virgatae, are described for the first time. Some communities also include a number of subassociations. Trampled communities are found along edges of paths and in cracks among paving stones. Soils vary from loamy to sandy and skeletal. A phenomenon of seasonality in expression of ruderal communities was observed in North Korea. It is assumed that this seasonality is controlled by pattern of precipitation showing distinct climatic seasons (e.g. pre-monsoon and postmonsoon periods). The ruderal vegetation seasonality is supposed to become more pronounced towards tropical regions. Several mesophilous or slightly hygrophilous European species occur frequently in North Korean trampled communities including Chenopodium glaucum, C. ficifolium and Potentilla supina. Their occurrence in trampled habitats is hypothesized as being related to high air humidity and associated wet climate.
3236006| Two sets of 40 relevs, made independently by two observers on the same 5m x 5m sample plots, were compared to estimate the sampling error and to assess the effect of this sampling error on (1) estimates of species richness and diversity (2) results of multivariate analyses, and (3) estimation of species turnover in repeated sampling. The relevs were made according to the standard Braun-Blanquet method. The sampling error was estimated for (1) recording of species in sample plots and (2) visual estimation of the degree of cover (or of the general population size). Despite the fact that the sample plots were searched thoroughly for 30 - 40 min, the number of overlooked species was high with a discrepancy of 13% between corresponding relevs. Regarding multivariate analysis, the error caused by missing species was at least as important as the error in visual estimation of species cover. The estimates of degree of cover using the Braun-Blanquet scale are sufficiently reliable for use in multivariate analysis when they are subjected to ordinal transformation. When average cover values are used, the patterns detected are based solely on dominants. Species richness and species diversity could be reliably estimated from the relevs, but the estimates of equitability are very unreliable. The classical relev method remains one of the most efficient survey methods for recognition of vegetation types on the macro-community and landscape scales. 
3236026|Population age structure and succession were investigated in subalpine forests in the Colorado Front Range dominated by Pinus flexilis (limber pine). Age, size, and spatial data were collected from three recent burns (<100 yr old), six ca. 240 year-old post-fire stands, and two old-growth stands (individuals > 400 yr old). The sequence of colonization of now extant trees on these post-fire sites appeared to be consistent: first Pinus flexilis, then Picea engelmannii (Engelmann spruce), and later Abies lasiocarpa (subalpine fir) with a delay between the first Pinus flexilis and Abies of as long as 140 yr. The advantage of Pinus flexilis on post-burn sites can be attributed to avian seed dispersal and the exceptional drought tolerance of its seedlings. The three recent burns were not extensive, and the delay in establishment of Picea and Abies appeared to be limited by harsh site conditions rather than lack of seed dispersal. Spatial analysis indicated a consistent, although sometimes weak, attraction between Pinus flexilis and Picea and Pinus flexilis and Abies at a scale of 1 -4 m, suggesting that Pinus flexilis may facilitate establishment of Picea and Abies seedlings by providing shade or protection from wind. On xeric to slightly xeric sites, Pinus flexilis appeared to form broadly even-aged, non-regenerating populations that were gradually being replaced by Picea and Abies. Replacement is proceeding at a faster rate on the least xeric sites (north aspects, valley bottoms) compared to the most xeric sites (south aspects). On the most extreme sites, Pinus flexilis formed all-aged, self-maintaining populations with no evidence of replacement by Picea and Abies. In these old-growth forests with occasional trees aged at >1300 yr. recruitment is continuous or episodic.
3236745| Estimation of potential annual direct incident radiation has traditionally required numerical integration with simulation models. As an alternative, we present convenient equations for use in spreadsheet, GIS, and database applications. Input variables are latitude, slope, and aspect. The equations apply to 0-60 north latitude, slopes from 0-90, and all aspects. By transforming aspect, the equations can also be applied as an index of heat load, symmetrical about a northeast to southwest axis. 
40925565|Question: What are the main driving factors in 70 years of natural dynamics in tree recruitment in the Biaowiea National Park? Location: Biaowiea National Park, Poland, is one of the least disturbed temperate, lowland forest systems in Europe. Methods: We tested whether fluctuations in large herbivore populations, changes in climate and openness of the forest explained compositional dynamics. Tree recruitment (to size class DBH  5 cm) was measured on permanent transects (in total, 14.9 ha) six times between 1936-2002. These data were related to existing data on ungulate density, climatic parameters and estimates of forest openness collected during the same period. Results: Total recruitment of all tree species combined was negatively correlated with total ungulate density and red deer density. The variation in response between species was related to the preferences of herbivores; the more preferred forage species (especially Carpinus betulus) were positively and the less preferred species negatively related to herbivore density. Total tree recruitment rates were not related to climatic parameters and openness of the forest. Only Alnus glutinosa recruitment was significantly related to climatic parameters, and Ulmus glabra related to forest openness, but there were no predictable patterns in recruitment among species in relation to these factors. Conclusion: The present study indicated that changes in large herbivore density have played animportant role in driving patterns in tree recruitment and species composition during the last 70 years in Bialowieza National Park. In contrast to other studies, increasing herbivore numbers were associated with higher recruitment of preferred and browsing-tolerant species. Periodical crashes in ungulate numbers, whether human-induced or caused by natural factors, may offer windows of opportunity for regeneration of a range of tree species and facilitate more diverse and dynamic forest development.
41059541|Question: Which environmental variables affect floristic species composition of acid grasslands in the Atlantic biogeographic region of Europe along a gradient of atmospheric  deposition? Location: Transect across the Atlantic biogeographic region of Europe including Ireland, Great Britain, Isle of Man, France, Belgium, The Netherlands, Germany, Norway, Denmark and Sweden. Materials and Methods: In 153 acid grasslands we assessed plant and bryophyte species composition, soil chemistry (pH, base cations, metals, nitrate and ammonium concentrations, total C and N, and Olsen plant available phosphorus), climatic variables, N deposition and S deposition. Ordination and variation partitioning were used to determine the relative importance of different drivers on the species composition of the studied grasslands. Results: Climate, soil and deposition variables explained 24% of the total variation in species composition. Variance partitioning showed that soil variables explained the most variation in the data set and that climate and geographic variables accounted for slightly less variation. Deposition variables (N and S deposition) explained 9.8% of the variation in the ordination. Species positively associated with N deposition included Holcus mollis and Leontodn hispidus. Species negatively associated with N deposition included Agrostis curtisii, Leontodon autumnalis, Campanula rotundifolia and Hylocomium splendens. Conclusion: Although secondary to climate gradients and soil biogeochemistry, and not as strong as for species richness, the impact of N and S deposition on species composition can be detected in acid grasslands, influencing community composition both directly and indirectly, presumably through soil-mediated effects.
3237302|Structural dynamics of a natural tropical seasonal-mixed deciduous - forest were studied over a 4-yr period at Mae Klong Watershed Research Station, Kanchanaburi Province, western Thailand, with particular reference to the role of forest fires and undergrowth bamboos. All trees > 5 cm DBH in a permanent plot of 200 m x 200 m were censused every two years from 1992 to 1996. The forest was characterized by a low stem density and basal area and relatively high species diversity. Both the bamboo undergrowth and frequent forest fires could be dominant factors that prevent continuous regeneration. Recruitment, mortality, gain (growth of survival tree plus ingrowth) and loss in basal area (by tree death) during the four years were 6.70 %/yr, 2.91 %/yr, 1.22 %/yr and 1.34 %/yr, respectively. Mortality was size dependent; middle size trees (30-50 cm) had the lowest mortality, while the smallest (5-10 cm) had the highest mortality. Tree recruitment was observed particularly in the first two years, mostly in the area where die-back of undergrowth bamboo occurred. The bias of the spatial distribution of recruitment to the area of bamboo die-back was significant and stronger than that to the forest canopy gaps. Successful regeneration of trees which survive competition with other herbs and trees after dieback of bamboo could occur when repeated forest fires did not occur in subsequent years. It is suggested that both the fire disturbance regime and bamboo life-cycle greatly influence the structure and dynamics of this seasonal tropical forest.
4499291| Question: The utility of beta (-) diversity measures that incorporate information about the degree of taxonomic (dis) similarity between species plots is becoming increasingly recognized. In this framework, the question for this study is: can we define an ecologically meaningful index of -diversity that, besides indicating simple species turnover, is able to account for taxonomic similarity amongst species in plots? Methods: First, the properties of existing measures of taxonomic similarity measures are briefly reviewed. Next, a new measure of plot-to-plot taxonomic similarity is presented that is based on the maximal common subgraph of two taxonomic trees. The proposed measure is computed from species presences and absences and include information about the degree of higher-level taxonomic similarity between species plots. The performance of the proposed measure with respect to existing coefficients of taxonomic similarity and the coefficient of Jaccard is discussed using a small data set of heath plant communities. Finally, a method to quantify -diversity from taxonomic dissimilarities is discussed. Results: The proposed measure of taxonomic -diversity incorporates not only species richness, but also information about the degree of higher-order taxonomic structure between species plots. In this view, it comes closer to a modern notion of biological diversity than more traditional measures of -diversity. From regression analysis between the new coefficient and existing measures of taxonomic similarity it is shown that there is an evident nonlinearity between the coefficients. This nonlinearity demonstrates that the new coefficient measures similarity in a conceptually different way from previous indices. Also, in good agreement with the findings of previous authors, the regression between the new index and the Jaccard coefficient of similarity shows that more than 80% of the variance of the former is explained by the community structure at the species level, while only the residual variance is explained by differences in the higher-order taxonomic structure of the species plots. This means that a genuine taxonomic approach to the quantification of plot-to-plot similarity is only needed if we are interested in the residual system's variation that is related to the higher-order taxonomic structure of a pair of species plots. 
40925510|Question: We explored the functional significance of seasonal aerial seed banks in two coexisting, heterocarpic annual Asteraceae with dormant (Chrysanthemum coronarium) and non-dormant (Anacyclus radiatus) achenes. We hypothesised that the plant achene pool is a significant component of total seed reserves, and that within-season seedling emergence timing is shaped by achene release patterns. Location: SW Spain. Methods: In an observational study, we established temporal achene release patterns. We also quantified the aerial and soil achene pools throughout the release season, and assessed seedling emergence timing. Sowing experiments were used to explore the influence of achene release dynamics on emergence timing, and to establish achene morph-specific patterns of between-year distribution of germination. Results: Achene release extended from late spring to late autumn (Chrysanthemum), or from early autumn to early winter (Anacyclus). Within species, achene morphs differed in release timing. Only in Chrysanthemum, a small achene fraction seemed to persist in the soil, and between-year germination distribution differed among morphs. In coexisting populations, the Anacyclus plant achene pool was an order of magnitude higher than the soil pool throughout the release season, whereas in Chrysanthemum both pools were of the same magnitude during autumn. Within-year seedling emergence was significantly staggered beneath parent plants compared with the pattern resulting solely from the germination response in soil, with the exception of Chrysanthemum in one of the two study years. Conclusions: Results suggest that seasonal aerial seed banks are effective within-season, risk-reducing traits in ruderal Mediterranean habitats characteristic of the study species.
40295787|Question: Can the direct regeneration hypothesis (DRH) be used to predict post-disturbance regeneration after fire, wind disturbance, and clearcutting in northern forests? Do life-history traits such as regeneration strategy and shade tolerance influence post-disturbance regeneration success of tree species? Location: Northern forests in North America. Methods: A meta-analysis was conducted by collecting published data on pre-and post-disturbance stand compositional characteristics in the northern forests. For each tree species, compositional difference (CD) was calculated as the difference between basal area proportions of the post-and pre-disturbance stands, but for post-disturbance stands <25 years of age, post-disturbance proportions were calculated based on relative stem density. Results: Species response to disturbances was best explained by regeneration strategy, while disturbance type had no effect on CD. The proportion of broadleaf trees with either strong or weak vegetative reproduction ability increased after all disturbances. Serotinous species had CD values not significantly different from zero after fire, while CD for semi-serotinous species was negative. The post-disturbance proportions of non-serotinous conifers decreased after all forms of disturbance. Conclusions: All disturbances promote broadleaf trees, regardless of regeneration strategy (suckering, sprouting, or seeding). The DRH is supported for conifers with serotinous cones after fire. Fire causes local extinction of non-serotinous conifers, while wind and clearcutting only decrease the proportion of non-serotinous conifers because of partial survival of seed sources and advanced regeneration. This study suggests that increasing standreplacing disturbances associated with global climate change will promote broadleaf trees in northern forests.
3237089|Semi-desert grasslands and dryland forests are typically arranged along elevation gradients, with low elevation grasslands and savannas separated from higher-elevation woodlands by a diffuse boundary. Recent (< 200 yr) woody plant encroachment into adjacent semi-desert grasslands appears to be a cosmopolitan phenomenon, and has been attributed to disturbance by humans (e.g., livestock grazing, fire suppression); however, little is known about rates, patterns and mechanisms. Are observations of increased woody plant abundance in semi-arid grasslands indicative of a downslope shift in the boundary zone? Experimental plots were established in adjacent oak woodlands and semi-desert grasslands in southeastern Arizona, to determine if mechanisms of acorn predation and dispersal would facilitate or limit downslope movement of oak woodlands. We recovered acorns that had been dispersed 50 m into adjacent grasslands, which suggests that they were cached by acorn predators. Acorns in grassland plots were more than twice as likely to escape predation than acorns that remained in woodland or cleared woodland plots. Contrary to previously published research, simulated perturbations (gap formation, understory and below-ground vegetation removal) did not affect seed predation, suggesting that generalizations from mesic, deciduous oak forests may not be accurately extrapolated to xeric, evergreen oak forests. Recently published studies indicate that xeric conditions limit survival of oak seedlings across the boundary zone, suggesting that observed patterns of acorn dispersal and predation provide the potential for colonization of adjacent grassland only during infrequent years with cool, moist conditions during late summer months.
25549264|Question: Is the assumption of trait independence implied in Westoby's (1998) leaf-height-seed (LHS) ecology strategy scheme upheld in a Mediterranean grazing system dominated by annuals? Is the LHS approach applicable at the community level? Location: Northern Israel. Methods: LHS traits (specific leaf area [SLA], plant height and seed mass), and additional leaf traits (leaf dry matter content [LDMC], leaf area, and leaf content of nitrogen [LNC], carbon [LCC], and phosphorus [LPC]), were analyzed at the species and community levels. Treatments included manipulations of grazing intensity (moderate and heavy) and protection from grazing. We focused on species comprising 80% of biomass over all treatments, assuming that these species drive trait relationships and ecosystem processes. Results: At the species level, SLA and seed mass were negatively correlated, and plant height was positively correlated to LCC. SLA, seed mass, and LPC increased with protection from grazing. At the community level, redundancy analysis revealed one principal gradient of variation: SLA, correlated to grazing, versus seed mass and plant height, associated with protection from grazing. We divided community functional parameters into two groups according to grazing response: (1) plant height, seed mass, LDMC, and LCC, associated with protection from grazing, and (2) SLA, associated with grazing. Conclusions: The assumption of independence between LHS traits was not upheld at the species level in this Mediterranean grazing system. At the community level, the LHS approach captured most of the variation associated with protection from grazing, reflecting changes in dominance within the plant community.
4499168|Questions: What is the observed relationship between biomass and species richness across both spatial and temporal scales in communities of submerged annual macrophytes? Does the number of plots sampled affect detection of hump-shaped pattern? Location: Donana National Park, southwestern Spain. Methods: A total of 102 plots were sampled during four hydrological cycles. In each hydrological cycle, the plots were distributed randomly along an environmental flooding gradient in three contrasted microhabitats located in the transition zone just below the upper marsh. In each plot (0.5 m x 0.5 m), plant density and above- and below-ground biomass of submerged vegetation were measured. The hump-shaped model was tested by using a generalized linear model (GLM). A bootstrap procedure was used to test the effect of the number of plots on the ability to detect hump-shaped patterns. Result: The area exhibited low species density with a range of 1 - 9 species and low values of biomass with a range of
3236612|Vesicular-arbuscular endomycorrhizal fungi include among its members some of the most widespread root symbiont species. It is not known whether these fungal species show environmental or host preferences. In 13 semi-arid savanna sites in Botswana, we found positive correlations between individual environmental factors and the abundance of VAM associations in the roots of an important host, the indigenous fruit tree Vangueria infausta (Rubiaceae). The concentration of phosphorus in the leaves of the host was positively correlated with both phosphorus in the soil and the abundance of VAM associations in its roots, indicating direct benefits to the host of this association. Abundance of VAM associations was significantly different between the studied sites and between seasons and was positively correlated with the mean annual rainfall. In addition, there was a negative correlation with phosphorus concentration in the soil. The differences between the summer and winter abundance of VAM associations were positively correlated with the density of bush cover and the amount of grazing. The apparent correlation found between the abundance of VAM in V. infausta and bush and tree community composition is presumably related to correlations between these two parameters and environmental conditions.
3237139| For the regeneration niche to contribute to the maintenance of species diversity interspecific differences in sensitivity of seedling recruitment to environmental conditions is assumed. We experimentally tested differences between meadow species for the response of seed germination to chilling, and sensitivity of seedling recruitment to microscale heterogeneity. We also compared the dynamics of seedling recruitment in gaps. Seed germination was tested in standard laboratory germination tests, comparing control seeds with seeds chilled at + 4 C, and at - 14 C for one month. Species responses varied from significant increases in germinability after chilling (e.g. Cirsium palustre, Betonica officinalis, Angelica sylvestris) to significant decreases (e.g. Hieracium umbellatum, Succisa pratensis, Selinum carvifolia). In some species, chilling at + 4 C has a similar effect to chilling at - 4 C, in others the effect of chilling at + 4 C was intermediate, and in some, there was no effect of chilling at + 4 C, but an effect of chilling at - 14 C. Different chilling temperatures also affect timing and speed of seed germination under greenhouse conditions. The dynamics of seed germination under field conditions was studied by sowing seeds into artificially created gaps and following their germination, both where the seedlings were removed after emergence and where they were not removed. Species differ in their germination dynamics: they all start late April, but then differentiate from an abrupt maximum and early finish of germination (in the second half of May), to prolonged germination without a marked maximum. Seedling removal increased the total number of germinated seeds, with a marked density dependence at this stage. Seeds were also sown into plots with treatments (1) gaps, sod stripped, above-ground vegetation removed; (2) mown, moss layer removed; (3) mown; (4) untouched control. Seedling emergence was monitored for 3 yr. Seedling recruitment decreased from treatments (1) to (4), but sensitivity differed between species. With increasing seed weight, the difference between gaps and other treatments decreased. The results show that there are considerable differences in seedling recruitment sensitivity between species. 
4499230|Question: How does form (leaf and trunk morphology) relate to function (tolerance of shade and nutrient storage) in trees? Location: Los Toldos montane valley in NW Argentina. Methods: We analysed the relationships amongst (1) ten vegetative and four reproductive traits across 40 tree species, (2) a distribution based measure of recruitment under shade and (3) a distribution based measure of recruitment over a soil fertility gradient. Results: Ordinations revealed three main axes of species' morphological differentiation: (1) evergreen species had leaves with a lower specific leaf area, greater tensile resistance and slower decomposition rate, denser wood and thinner bark than deciduous species; (2) tall tree species that lack spines and are anemochorous were separated from short, spinescent and zoochorous species and (3) species were distinguished according to clonal growth, seed mass and pollination syndromes. Notably, species' recruitment under shade and over a soil fertility gradient were independent of each other, but both were correlated with species' scores along the first axis of morphological variation (tolerant species have attributes that favour resource conservation). Different sets of traits were correlated with recruitment under shade and over a soil fertility gradient when traits where assessed individually. Amongst shade tolerant species, recruitment under shade was negatively correlated with species' maximum height, suggesting differential responses to vertical gradients of light. Conclusions: These results provide new evidence of integration between leaf and stem morphology which is consistent with an evolutionary compromise between high rate of resource acquisition and resource conservation. Generalizations about the functional value of individual morphological characteristics and of 'strategies' vary with the resolution of analyses.
3236179|Sun leaves from 37 species of tree and shrub were collected in four forest types on Pulau Ubin, Singapore. Evidence of habitat-related variation in the form of leaves is presented. The species were from the habitats: mangrove, beach forest, adinandra belukar (secondary forest on degraded soils) and secondary forest on undegraded soils. The mangrove forest species sampled had thicker leaves with a lower specific leaf area than the beach forest species. Leaves of species from the adinandra belukar were thicker and smaller, with more dry weight per unit area, than those of pioneers from undegraded sites. This is interpreted as oligotrophic xeromorphy in adinandra belukar.
3236514|In the framework of land use changes in the Mediterranean area, I asked to what extent different landscape structures might determine long-term dynamics in Mediterranean ecosystems. To answer this question, a spatially explicit model was developed (the Melca model), incorporating two functional types of woody species dominant in Mediterranean ecosystems: a resprouter (R) and a non-resprouter fire-recruiter (seeders, S). The model was used as a tool for generating hypotheses on the possible consequences of different landscape scenarios. Thus, five different hierarchically structured random landscapes were generated, all having the same cover for the two functional types but different landscape structure (ranging from highly heterogeneous to homogeneous landscapes). After a 100-yr simulation, plant cover and spatial pattern had changed and the changes were different for the different initial spatial configurations, suggesting that long-term vegetation dynamics is spatially dependent (the resultant dynamics are sensitive to the initial spatial structure). In the landscapes where R-type species had a low number of large patches and S-species had a large number of small patches, the number of R-patches increased and their size decreased, while the number of S-patches decreased. In these cases, the final cover of the two types changed little from the initial cover. Landscapes with a large number of small R-patches interspersed with S-patches had a decrease in the number of R-patches, an increase in the number of S-patches and a decrease in the size of S-patches. In these landscapes, final cover was significantly changed, increasing in R-type and decreasing in S-type species. These results suggest that low spatial autocorrelation (low aggregation) favours R-type species. Implications for land management are also discussed.
4499206|Objective: To present a non-classificatory technique of map representation of compositional patterns of vegetation as no two plant species assemblages are completely alike and gradations often occur. Variation is depicted as continuous fields instead of classes. Location: Murnauer Moos, Bavaria. Methods: The study combined vegetation ecology and remote sensing methods. The gradual representation of compositional patterns was based on techniques of ordination and regression, instead of mapping class fractions. The floristic field data were collected in releves and subjected to three-dimensional non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMS). The reflectance information corresponding to plots was gathered from remotely sensed imagery with a high spectral resolution. Reflectance values in numerous wavelengths were related to NMS axes scores by partial least squares regression analysis. The regression equations were applied to the imagery and yielded three grey-scale images, one for each ordination axis. These three images were transformed into a red, green, and blue colour map with a specific colour for each position in the ordination space. Similar colours corresponded to similar species compositions. Results: Compositional variation was mapped accurately (R
4096782| Question: Did disturbance, no density-dependence of the dominant species, and negative neighbourhood interactions on rare species affect tree demography during a decline in species diversity associated with the increase of Acer saccharum from 1939-2001? Hypotheses: 1. The rise in dominance of A. saccharum was because of its advantage in disturbances and lack of density-dependence of its demography. 2. Rare species were not favoured by disturbances, including those from Dutch elm disease, and demonstrated negative neighbourhood interactions with A. saccharum. Location: Brownfield Woods in Illinois, USA. Methods: Historical maps of trees ( 7.6 cm DBH) from 1939, 1951, 1988, and 2001 in 16 quadrats (48 m x 68 m) were used to compare demography of eight tree species. Effects of disturbances, density-dependence, and neighbourhood interactions on mortality and recruitment of tree species within a 6-m radius of individual target trees were studied. Results: A. saccharum demonstrated a demographic advantage over rare species. It had lower mortality and higher recruitment rates. Disturbances facilitated recruitment of A. saccharum, but did not enhance rare species. Density-dependence of both mortality and recruitment of A. saccharum occurred, but population projection models indicated that ecological conditions became more favourable for A. saccharum in the past 62 years. Furthermore, negative neighbourhood interactions were detected between rare species and A. saccharum. The increase in neighbouring A. saccharum significantly increased mortality and reduced recruitment of the rare species. Conclusions: The general disturbance regime, enhanced by Dutch elm disease, in Brownfield Woods facilitated the rise of dominance of A. saccharum. Meanwhile, rare species declined as a result of their disadvantage in disturbance and negative neighbourhood interactions with A. saccharum. 
3235806|Many models that simulate the long-term response of forests to climatic change use the assumption that northern and southern range limits are caused by the deleterious effects of cold and hot air temperatures, respectively, on individual tree growth and that growth declines symmetrically with air temperatures above and below some optimal value in between these extremes. To test the validity of this assumption, we combined physiological data for black spruce, Picea mariana, growing near the treeline in subarctic Quebec with a model of the biophysical and biochemical effects of temperature on photosynthesis. The physiological conditions allow black spruce to grow over a wider range of air temperatures than is reflected in its geographic distribution. In particular, the physiological data suggest that the northern range limit of black spruce is not caused by the direct effects of cold growing-season air temperatures on tree growth and that growth is optimal, with respect to temperature, at the southern range limit. While pollen data indicate large geographic changes in spruce abundance with past climatic changes, the current analyses suggest that the direct effect of air temperature on individual tree growth has not caused these changes. Until we better understand the effects of air temperature on ecological processes, the efficacy of climatic change analyses must be evaluated in terms of model assumptions.
3236579|Production and mortality are the component processes that together determine the biomass dynamics of forests. Due to the significant role of forests in the global carbon cycle, it is important to assess how these two processes affect the maximum biomass attained by forests, as well as the dynamics leading up to and following peak biomass. We address these questions for two sets of plots in Picea sitchensis-Tsuga heterophylla forest on the northern Oregon coast that originated from a catastrophic wildfire in the 1840s, using new data on dynamics of live trees and stocks of coarse woody debris (CWD). The set of plots closest to the ocean and occupying steeper, more dissected terrain with areas of thin soils has lower biomass, lower net primary production (NPP) of bole wood and higher tree mortality as a fraction of standing biomass. The two sets of plots have similar CWD levels, most of which has accumulated in the last 25 yr. The present disparity in biomass between the two sets of plots appears to be the result of lower NPP on the low-biomass plots for the entire 140+ yr history of the forest. Over the 58 yr that the high-biomass plots have been measured (from stand age 85 to 143 yr), NPP of bole wood has declined by 41%. Only ca. 6% of this decline can be accounted for by an increase in maintenance respiration of woody tissues. For both sets of plots relative constancy of biomass in the long term appears likely, due to a short time lag in tree regeneration, asynchronous tree mortality and little overall decline in NPP of bole wood in recent decades. However, since tree mortality as a fraction of standing biomass is higher on the low-biomass plots, and NPP of bole wood is slightly lower, the difference in biomass between the two sets of plots should increase if current rates of production and mortality persist.
40295846|Questions: Does tree establishment: (1) occur at a treeline depressed by fire, (2) cause the forest line to ascend upslope, and/or (3) alter landscape heterogeneity? (4) What abiotic and biotic local site conditions are most important in structuring establishment patterns? (5) Does the abiotic setting become more important with increasing upslope distance from the forest line? Location: Western slopes of Mount Rainier, USA. Methods: We performed classification analysis of 1970 satellite imagery and 2003 aerial photography to delineate establishment. Local site conditions were calculated from a LIDAR-based DEM, ancillary climate data, and 1970 tree locations in a GIS. We used logistic regression on a spatially weighted landscape matrix to rank variables. Results: Considerable establishment after 1970 caused forest line elevation to increase over 150 m in specific locations. Landscape heterogeneity increased with distance from the 1970 forest line. At a broad spatial context, we found establishment was most common near existing trees (0-50 m) and at low elevations (1250-1350 m). Slope aspect (W, NW, N, NE, and E), slope angle (40-60) , and other abiotic factors emerged as important predictors of establishment with increasing upslope distance from the forest line to restricted spatial extents. Conclusions: Favorable climatic conditions likely triggered widespread tree establishment. Readily available seed probably enhanced establishment rates near sexually mature trees, particularly in the less stressful environment at low elevations. The mass effect of nearly ubiquitous establishment in these areas may have obscured the importance of the abiotic setting to restricted spatial extents. Topographic variability apparently produced favorable sites that facilitated opportunistic establishment with increasing upslope distance from the forest line, thereby enabling additional trees to invade the alpine tundra.
3237199|Seedling abundance at four microsites (open fynbos, beneath emergent fynbos shrubs, beneath thicket, and beneath forest) was determined at three coastal dune landscapes, located along a gradient of increasing summer rainfall and where fire-dependent fynbos was the predominant vegetation. At all sites thicket seedlings were most common beneath emergent fynbos shrubs and under thicket clumps; seedlings of forest species were most abundant at forest microsites although some individuals were recorded beneath thicket. Very few thicket seedlings were observed in open fynbos. Birds play a keystone role in facilitating establishment of the fleshy fruit-bearing thicket flora. Seedling abundance at microsites of different thicket and forest species was generally unrelated to fruit abundance. Germination success of most species was highest under shaded conditions; soil organic content had no effect on germination. Removal of pulp and bird-ingestion enhanced the germination, relative to untreated controls, of two out of three species tested. A simple Markov model predicted a gradual increase in cover of the thicket and forest component and a gradual decline in fynbos under a 'normal' (20-yr interval) fire regime simulated over 10 cycles. Although inter-fire seedling establishment under emergent fynbos shrubs is important in the initial colonisation of fynbos by obligate resprouting thicket shrubs, these species persist and expand by vegetative recruitment after and between fires, respectively. In the prolonged absence of fire, the endemicrich and fire-dependent fynbos flora would be replaced by species-poor forest and thicket.
3237267|Betula papyrifera (White birch) is a common tree throughout the boreal forest of Canada; makes up 12 % of the total tree volume in insular Newfoundland. It forms pure stands after harvesting and wildfire disturbance and it is a common component in most softwood stands. Little is known regarding the environmental impact of whole-tree or conventional harvesting of this species and variation in impact related to variation in soil and site conditions. This study investigates litter and organic matter production and related site ecology in nine medium to high quality Betula papyrifera stands in three locations in central Newfoundland on a variety of land form and drainage conditions. Three sites, Badger West (BW), Moose Pond (MP) and Middleton Lake (ML) were selected. The ML site has the highest quality (with the best height/age ratio, 18 m/60 yr, and height/DBH ratio, 18 m/30 cm, followed by MP and BW. Litter depth on well developed moders or mulls was usually 2 - 3 cm and varied from 1 - 15 cm. Forest floor depths (measured in 324 profiles) rarely reached 20 cm and was commonly 5 - 10 cm; it varied with position and site. Total and available nutrients indicate that B. papyrifera produces one of the highest -quality organic matter types of the local forest types and is important in improving site quality. The mean N-concentration in green foliage (2.21 %) and trapped litter (1.03 %) was highest at the best quality site ML, followed by MP and BW. The concentration of calcium, 0.85 %, was highest at the poorest quality site. Four years after harvesting, litter depth significantly decreased in all sites and treatments with the exception of the BW whole-tree harvest treatment. Total forest floor depth significantly decreased at all sites in the stem-only harvest treatment as well as the MP whole-tree harvest treatment. There was a significant decrease in available nitrogen following harvesting in both treatments at both the MP and BW sites. Change in available phosphorus was insignificant, with the exception of an increase in the MP stem-only harvest treatment. There was a significant decrease in available potassium at both the ML and BW whole-tree harvest treatments, but a significant increase in the stem-only harvest treatments at ML and MP. There was a significant decrease in available calcium in both treatments at both the MP and BW sites.
3235711|The first objective of this paper was to assess the effects of grazing on seedling establishment of two species whose relative abundance at the adult stage is affected by grazing in a contrasting fashion. Second, we evaluated the relative importance of seed versus safe-site availability in explaining the effect of grazing on seedling establishment. We monitored seedling establishment on a grazed area, on two areas which had not been grazed for two and seven years, and on plots which had been experimentally defoliated. The species compared were Danthonia montevidensis, a native pernnnial grass which dominates both grazed and ungrazed communities, and Leontodon taraxacoides, an invading exotic rosette species from the Compositae family. Continuous grazing enhanced seedling establishment of both species through its effect on the availability of safe sites. Seed availability accounted for only one, but very important, grazing effect: the lack of response by L. taraxacoides to the defoliation in the seven-year old exclosure. Its seed supply was depleted by exclusion of grazing and, consequently, its short-term regeneration capacity after disturbance was lost.
41059632|Aim: Phytosociological databases often contain unbalanced samples of real vegetation, which should be carefully resampled before any analyses. We propose a new resampling method based on species composition, called heterogeneity-constrained random (HCR) resampling. Method: Many subsets of the source vegetation database are selected randomly.These subsets are sorted by decreasing mean dissimilarity between pairs of the vegetation plots, and then sorted again by increasing variance of these dissimilarities. Ranks from both sortings are summed for each subset, and the subset with the lowest summed rank is considered as the most representative. The performance of this method was tested using simulated point patterns that represented different levels of aggregation of vegetation plots within a database. The distributions of points in the subsets resulting from different resampling methods, both with and without database stratification, were compared using Ripley's K function. The mean of random selections from an unbiased sample was used as a reference in these comparisons. The efficiency of the method was also demonstrated with real phytosociological data. Results: Both stratified and HCR resampling yielded selection patterns more similar to the reference than resampling without these tools. Outcomes from the resampling that combined these two methods were the most similar to the reference. The efficiency of the HCR resampling method varied with different levels of aggregation in the database. Conclusions: This new method is efficient for resampling phytosociological databases. As it only uses information on species occurrences/abundances, it does not require the definition of strata, thereby avoiding the effect of subjective decisions on the selection outcome. Nevertheless, this method can also be applied to stratified databases.
3237044|To evaluate the gap dependency of the subcanopy tree species Styrax obassia, we estimated the demographic parameters of this species in a permanent plot in the Ogawa Forest Reserve, Central Japan, a temperate deciduous forest. From the data collected over eight years, we constructed four transition matrix models of Styrax: a whole population; a shaded subpopulation; a gap-site subpopulation; a compound population of shaded and gap-site subpopulations. The whole-population model suggested that the population structure of Styrax is stable in its present condition. The asymptotic population growth rate of the shaded subpopulation was larger than 1, suggesting that this species can maintain its population even under shaded conditions. The elasticity analyses showed the relative importance of survival of adult individuals that stay mostly under a closed canopy. Since the subpopulation in gaps is very small in a mature forest, the contributions of high seedling survival and high fecundity of adult trees in gaps to the whole population growth were smaller than the survival of adult individuals in the shade. Although we showed that this species has the potential to increase its population in larger disturbances, it actually dominates in the study site where the disturbance scale is relatively small. Styrax should be classified as a typical shade-tolerant species, and it also takes good advantage of small scale disturbance. It can sufficiently maintain its population in a mature forest with small-scale disturbances and has the adaptive characteristics of species that live under a closed canopy.
3237354|Neighbour diversity is the diversity of other plant species contacting a reference species. The expected value and confidence intervals of neighbour diversity assuming random contacts can be found using bootstrapping. In general, frequent species have higher expected neighbour diversities with narrow confidence intervals than infrequent species. In fixed sand dunes dominated by lichens and bryophytes most species have lower than expected neighbour diversity. However, the fixed sand dunes seem to be a mixture of two patch types, with the species in lichen-rich patches having higher diversities than the species in bryophyte-rich patches. In hay pastures, nearly all species have lower than expected neighbour diversities. The more frequent the species is, the less is its expected neighbour diversity. This implies that its frequent species are selective as to their neighbours, and so they drive a biological formation of spatial pattern.
3237221|Many ecological studies use Two-Term Local Quadrat Variance Analysis (TTLQV) and its derivatives for spatial pattern analysis. Currently, rules for determining variance peak significance are arbitrary. Variance peaks found at block size 1 and at > 50 % of the transect length are the only peaks whose use is explicitly prohibited. Although the use of variance peaks found at block sizes > 10 % of the transect length have also been warned against, many researchers interpret them regardless. We show in this paper that variance peaks derived from TTLQV are subject to additional 'rules of thumb'. Through the use of randomization and permutation analyses on real and simulated data of species abundance in contiguous plots along a single transect, we show that variance peaks found at block sizes 1, 2 and 3 occur frequently by chance and thus likely do not indicate biologically meaningful patterns. The use of multiple replicate transects decreases the probability of Type II error.
3235612|Data from three forest stands for the past 2000 yr show how the shade-intolerant species Pinus sylvestris and Betula pubescens maintain significant populations in the Swedish boreal landscape. Age structure data from a northern stand close to the range limits of Picea abies and Pinus complement a local pollen diagram, and reveal cyclic population fluctuations which can be related to periods of climatic stress and fire. Pollen data from two southern stands show that high fire frequencies in the past prevented the expansion of Picea populations. Reduction of the fire frequency during the last 200 yr has favoured Picea. A long time perspective reveals the population dynamics of long-lived species and indicates the controlling factors. Such knowledge permits assessment of the current status and likely future of forest stands.
3236997|We used remote sensing and a geographic information system to model the distribution of evergreen shrub communities, called 'heath balds', in the Great Smoky Mountains, North Carolina and Tennessee, USA. The 421 heath balds averaged 1.8 ha in size and covered 0.3% of the landscape. They reached their greatest importance on upper slopes (92% had relative slope positions > 80), convex topography (82% occurred on sites with a curvature greater than 2.6), and elevations between 1100 and 1600 m (94% of the balds). although heath balds were found in old-growth watersheds, the two watersheds with the greatest number of balds burned extensively after logging in the early 1900s. Bald occurrence was positively correlated with burned sites, old growth condition, and a highly acidic rock type. Heath balds showed a striking geographic pattern, with 88.1% of the area of this community found in six watersheds comprising only 35.4% of the study area. Despite similar topography, geology, and history, the eleven other watersheds had only 11.9% of the bald area while comprising 64.4% of the study area. Multivariate models showed that this community occurs on only 0.4 to 9.0% of the seemingly appropriate sites. Once established, this shrub community, with its dense evergreen canopy and thick leaf litter, is resistant to tree invasion. Both forest and shrub communities are stable on sites that are seemingly ideal for heath bald occurrence.
25173243|Questions: Do large trees improve the nutrient content and the structure of the grass layer in savannas? Does the magnitude of this improvement differ with locality (soil nutrients) and season (water availability)? Are grass structure and species composition beneath tree canopies influenced by soil fertility and season? Location: South Africa. Methods: We compared grass leaf nutrient contents and grass sward structure beneath and outside tree canopy areas in three savannas of different soil fertility during the dry and the wet seasons. Results: Grass nitrogen contents were twice as high during the wet season as compared to the dry season, being more strongly elevated underneath tree canopies during the wet season. Grasses had significantly less stem material and provided less dead material underneath trees on the high soil fertility site. Grass species composition differed significantly beneath and outside tree canopies, with more nutritious grass species found sub-canopy. Grass species richness was significantly lower beneath than outside of trees at the site of high soil fertility. Conclusions: Trees improve overall quality of savanna grasses by enhancing grass growth and nutrient uptake during the wet season, and by delaying grass wilting in the dry season. The positive effect of trees on the grass layer might attract grazing herbivores in otherwise nutrient-poor savannas. Hence, single standing large trees should be maintained to sustain high grass quality and, consequently, grazer populations in savanna habitats.
4096644|Questions: How does tree growth in a tropical woodland savanna vary as a function of size, and how is it affected by competition from neighbours, site attributes, and damage caused by disturbance? Location: western Zimbabwe. Methods: Trees of common species were tagged, mapped, and measured annually between 2001 and 2003 in a Kalahari sand woodland savanna. Diameter increments were analysed with mixed model regressions for the largest ramet in each genet. Stem diameter and damage, soil texture, and indices of competition at multiple spatial scales were used as covariates. Results: Stem diameter increased initially and then declined as a function of size in undamaged trees, which grew faster than damaged trees. Growth in damaged trees declined with size. No site differences were detected, and there was evidence for between-tree competition on growth only in the fastest-growing species, Brachystegia spiciformis. In several species the growth rate of the largest ramet increased as a function of the basal area of secondary ramets, contrary to expectations. For many species, the growth models showed poor explanatory power. Conclusions: Growth in Kalahari sand savanna trees varies as a function of size and changes in tree architecture caused by disturbance agents such as fire, frost, and elephant browsing. Disturbance may thus play an important role on vegetation dynamics through its effects on growth in the post-disturbance phase. Growth is highly stochastic for some species in this system, and more deterministic in others. It is hypothesized that this dichotomy may be driven by differences in rooting depth among species.
3237305|Structure, diversity and dynamics of five Japanese temperate old-growth forests were compared, differing from each other in, i.a., climate, dominant tree type, topography, disturbance regime. The forests were Aya, Ogawa, Kanumazawa Riparian, Kanumazawa upland and Senju. A permanent plot (1 - 6 ha) was established in each forest and trees were censused several times at intervals of two years. Mean annual recruitment rates and mortality rates in these forests were both in the range of 0.5 to 4.6 %/yr at the community level. Analyses of the structure and dynamics of populations showed that the underlying process was different among the forests. Some forests experienced compositional shifts in their canopies, others had a constant canopy composition but appeared to lack effective regeneration in recent years. The recruitment rate appeared to be strongly affected by competitive undergrowth vegetation such as dwarf bamboo which has been controlled by natural disturbance or human impact. It is likely that the forests with mostly low recruitment rates had a low species diversity. The current variation in structure, diversity and dynamics of the studied forests might have been determined not only by physical conditions (e.g. climate) but also by chance factors (e.g. disturbance, outbreak of deer population).
3235714|We constructed a perturbation (response) gradient that encompassed several types of disturbances (causes) affecting shortgrass steppe communities, and that was confounded by time scales of initiation and duration. The objectives were to (1) examine the type of disturbance and the relative magnitude of response in relation to the history of the shortgrass steppe, and (2) determine which attributes of the plant communities displayed relationships across the perturbation gradient, rather than across traditional successional - time gradients. Comparisons of disturbance types indicated that long-term heavy grazing by cattle resulted in plant communities which differ less from communities resulting from other disturbances than did long-term ungrazed sites. The removal of grazers from this system promoted attributes of earlier seral stages. Water addition, below-ground grazing by white grubs, and water-plus-nitrogen enrichment had distinct and large impacts on community composition. Nitrogen enrichment resulted in additions but not losses of species. The shortgrass steppe has a high degree of adaptation to both short-term drought and aboveground grazing. Belowground grazing and semi-aridity may be considered antagonistic pressures on the community. Community attributes that displayed a relationship with increasing level of perturbation were decreasing dominance and increasing diversity, and fluctuation in species composition during short-term wet/dry cycles. The level of perturbation was related to negative impacts on the two primary species and a corresponding increase of other warm-season species, but was not related to densities of any other species, life-form, or functional group.
3237347|The long-term spatio-temporal dynamics of a sparse dry-grassland community (Thymo-Festucetum) is investigated by a spatially explicit individual-based simulation model and by analytical model equations. The community (investigated over 15 yr in permanent plots) is characterized by a permanently low cover (30 - 50 %), mainly of the perennial tuft grass Festuca cinerea. Seedling establishment and the fate of juveniles are strongly dependent on weather conditions. The simulation programme focuses on the mechanism of clonal growth of grasses and the reproduction of tufts by fragmentation. Questions answered by the modelling approach were (1) which life-history features of the species are responsible for their persistence and for the low vegetation cover of the community and (2) what are the main mechanisms of species interactions. Different sets of simulation runs, together with the evaluation of the analytical models, show: (1) long-term persistence of the main species is possible only by a combination of sexual and clonal reproduction; the low cover is due to low germination rate, low mortality and limited growth of tufts; (2) the intra and interspecific control of the community is performed mainly via a reduction by already established individuals; (3) persistence of uncommon species relies on a diaspore buffer in, or around, the community ('spatial mass effect').
3236381|Vegetation zonation in salt marshes has traditionally been attributed largely to altitudinal differences, since altitude determines the temporal pattern of tidal flooding and is thus closely related to proximate determinants of the distribution of species and plant communities. We investigated the distribution of vascular plants and plant communities along a series of altitudinal transects in two salt marshes in the northwestern Iberian Peninsula. Our results indicate that altitudinal range varies significantly both among species and among communities, and confirm that salt-marsh vegetation characteristics (species cover and composition) can be predicted on the basis of altitude, particularly at the lower levels of the profile.
3235834|The use of root / shoot ratios to describe allocation of dry weight to structures for capturing soil resources and light is limited due to other functions of the root and shoot such as support and storage. The ratio of fine-root length to leaf area (RLA) provides a better expression of the relative sizes of above- and below-ground exchange surfaces. Dry matter partitioning, leaf area and root lengths were determined for five species of chalk grassland perennial (Carex flacca, Cirsium acaule, Festuca ovina, Leontodon hispidus and Scabiosa columbaria) by extraction of soil cores from an intact sward. The forb species had a greater proportion of their dry matter below-ground. Interspecific variation in values of RLA was considerable, mean values ranging from 137 m/m2 in Cirsium acaule to ca. 27 000 m/m<sup>2</sup> for Festuca ovina. The implications of this interspecific variation in RLA for the competitive interactions in infertile calcareous grasslands are discussed in relation to phenology and internal nutrient cycling.
25173217|Question: Species optima or indicator values are frequently used to predict environmental variables from species composition. The present study focuses on the question whether predictions can be improved by using species environmental amplitudes instead of single values representing species optima. Location: Semi-natural, deciduous hardwood forests of north-western Germany. Methods: Based on a data set of 558 relevs, species responses (presence/absence) to pH were modelled with Huisman-Olff-Fresco (HOF) regression models. Species amplitudes were derived from response curves using three different methods. To predict the pH from vegetation, a maximum amplitude overlap method was applied. For comparison, predictions resulting from several established methods, i.e. maximum likelihood/present and absent species, maximum likelihood/present species only, mean weighted averages and mean Ellenberg indicator values were calculated. The predictive success (squared Pearson's r and root mean square error of prediction) was evaluated using an independent data set of 151 relevs. Results: Predictions based upon amplitudes defined by maximum Cohen's x probability threshold yield the best results of all amplitude definitions (R = 0.75, RMSEP = 0.52). Provided there is an even distribution of the environmental variable, amplitudes defined by predicted probability exceeding prevalence are also suitable (R = 0.76, RMSEP = 0.55). The prediction success is comparable to maximum likelihood (present species only) and - after rescaling - to mean weighted averages. Predicted values show a good linearity to observed pH values as opposed to a curvilinear relationship of mean Ellenberg indicator values. Transformation or rescaling of the predicted values is not required. Conclusions: Species amplitudes given by a minimum and maximum boundary for each species can be used to efficiently predict environmental variables from species composition. The predictive success is superior to mean Ellenberg indicator values and comparable to mean indicator values based on species weighted averages.
40925567|Questions: What is the relative importance of landscape variables compared to habitat quality variables in determining species composition in floodplain forests across different physiographic areas? How do species composition and species traits relate to effects of particular landscape variables? Do lowland and mountain areas differ in effects of landscape variables on species composition? Location: Southern Czech Republic. Methods: A total of 240 vegetation relevs of floodplain forests with measured site conditions were recorded across six physiographic areas. I tested how physiographic area, habitat quality variables and landscape variables such as current land-cover categories, forest continuity, forest size and urbanization influenced plant species composition. I also compared how mountain and lowland areas differ in terms of the relative importance of these variables. To determine how landscape configuration affects the distribution of species traits, relationships of traits and species affinity with landscape variables were tested. Results: Among landscape variables, forest continuity, landscape forest cover and distance to nearest settlement altered the vegetation. These variables also influenced the distributions of species traits, i.e. life forms, life strategies, affinity to forest, dispersal modes, seed characteristics, flooding tolerance and Ellenberg indicator values for nitrogen, light, moisture and soil reaction. Nevertheless, physiographic area and habitat quality variables explained more variation in species composition. Landscape variables were more important in lowland areas. Forest continuity affected species composition only in lowlands. Conclusions: Although habitat quality and physiographic area explained more vegetation variability, landscape configuration was also a key factor influencing species composition and distribution of species traits. However, the results are dependent on forest geographical location, with lowland forests being more influenced by landscape variables compared to mountain forests.
3236741|We examined the response of tree seedling emergence and survival to the dieback of Sasa and canopy gap formation in an old-growth forest near Lake Towada, northern Japan. Synchronous death of Sasa occurred in 1995. We established four types of sampling sites differing in forest canopy conditions (Closed or Gap) and Sasa status (Dead or Live). Gap-Dead sites had the highest light levels and the greatest fluctuation in soil temperatures. The death of Sasa alone facilitated the emergence (Acer japonicum, Fagus crenata, Fraxinus lanuginosa, and Tilia japonica) and survival (Acanthopanax sciadophylloides, F. crenata, F. lanuginosa, Kalopanax pictus, and Sorbus commixta) of species with a seedling bank strategy. Cercidiphyllum japonicum grew at all sites at a higher density than other species, but survived well only in Gap-Dead sites. This behaviour was associated with a seed rain strategy. The additive effects of Sasa death and canopy gap formation promoted seedling emergence of pioneer tree species (Betula maximowicziana, Lindera umbellata, and Magnolia obovata), probably through break of dormancy by the large temperature fluctuation. In addition, the scarcity of advance regeneration in canopy gaps due to Sasa cover facilitates the regeneration of pioneer species. The dominance and dieback cycle of Sasa contributes to species diversity in this forest.
40295773|Aim: To propose a modification of the TWINSPAN algorithm that enables production of divisive classifications that better respect the structure of the data. Methods: The proposed modification combines the classical TWINSPAN algorithm with analysis of heterogeneity of the clusters prior to each division. Four different heterogeneity measures are involved: Whittaker's beta, total inertia, average Srensen dissimilarity and average Jaccard dissimilarity. Their performance was evaluated using empirical vegetation datasets with different numbers of plots and different levels of heterogeneity. Results: While the classical TWINSPAN algorithm divides each cluster coming from the previous division step, the modified algorithm divides only the most heterogeneous cluster in each step. The four tested heterogeneity measures may produce identical or very similar results. However, average Jaccard and S0rensen dissimilarities may reach extreme values in clusters of small size and may produce classifications with a highly unbalanced cluster size. Conclusions: The proposed modification does not alter the logic of the TWINSPAN classification, but it may change the hierarchy of divisions in the final classification. Thus, unsubstantiated divisions of homogeneous clusters are prevented, and classifications with any number of terminal clusters can be created, which increases the flexibility of TWINSPAN.
3237274|We present results from repeated analyses (1962, 1993) of a permanent plot established in 1947, combined with retrospective stand age structure data, in an old Pinus sylvestris stand in Muddus National Park, northern Sweden. The study points towards a successional pathway governed by concurrent disturbance effects of climate variability, reindeer grazing and fire. This is intermediate to the two often advocated ideas on dynamics in boreal forests, that is, one of disturbance-related tree regeneration/mortality and one of continuous regeneration. When the plot was established in 1947 the tree layer (> 1.3 m) consisted of 300 individuals/ha of P. sylvestris and 62/ha of Betula pubescens. Subsequently the stand has become more dense and the species dominance has shifted. In 1993, 362 P. sylvestris and 62 Picea abies individuals were present per ha, while no Betula individuals were found. The number of dead trees increased from zero in 1947 to 200/ha (Pinus) in 1993. Pinus was also the most common species in the sapling layer (< 1.3 m) throughout the study period, though the number dropped from 8912/ha in 1947 to 51 % in 1993. Dead saplings decreased from 2650/ha in 1947 to ca. 50 % in 1962, and only 9 % in 1993. Temporal variations in mortality and sapling mean height coincided with variations in snow depth, indicating a critical period in sapling development when saplings are exposed at the snow/atmosphere interface. The number of living Picea saplings increased slowly until 1993; no dead saplings were found. Most Pinus recruited shortly after the 1774-fire, and during the second half of the 1900s. The major part of the spruce regeneration took place during the later half of the 1900s. No successful Betula recruitment has occurred after the 1930s, and no live Betula were present in 1993, which might be explained as an effect of increased reindeer browsing - the reindeer stock has grown by 50 % since 1961. Although subjected to high mortality, Pinus regenerated and maintained a seedling/sapling bank. In this way Pinus remained dominant in the tree layer after more than 200 post-fire years. The importance of the shade-tolerant Picea has slowly increased, while Betula has died off. Thus, even after 219 yr since fire there is an early successional trend in the stand. This suggests that an increased chronic disturbance (grazing/browsing by reindeer) has partly succeeded earlier discrete fire-disturbance events, and maintained a continuous seedbed favouring the shade-intolerant pine recruitment.
40295783|Question: What are the trends and patterns in the application of ordination techniques in vegetation science since 1990? Location: Worldwide literature analysis. Methods: Evaluation of five major journals of vegetation science; search of all ISI-listed ecological journals. Data were analysed with ANCOVAs, Spearman rank correlations, GLMs, biodiversity indices and simple graphs. Results: The ISI search retrieved fewer papers that used ordinations than the manual evaluation of five selected journals. Both retrieval methods revealed a clear trend in increasing frequency of ordination applications from 1990 to the present. Canonical Correspondence Analysis was far more frequently detected by the ISI search than any other method. Applications such as Correspondence Analysis/Reciprocal Averaging and Detrended Correspondence Analysis have increasingly been used in studies published in "applied" journals, while Canonical Correspondence Analysis, Redundancy Analysis and Non-Metric Multidimensional Scaling were more frequently used in journals focusing on more "basic" research. Overall, Detrended Correspondence Analysis was the most commonly applied method within the five major journals, although the number of publications slightly decreased over time. Use of Non-Metric Multidimensional Scaling has increased over the last 10 years. Conclusion: The availability of suitable software packages has facilitated the application of certain techniques such as Non-Metric Multidimensional Scaling. However, choices of ordination techniques are currently less driven by the constraints imposed by the software; there is also limited evidence that the choice of methods follows social considerations such as the need to use fashionable methods. methods. Methodological diversity has been maintained or has even increased over time and reflects the researcher's need for diverse analytical tools suitable to address a wide range of questions.
3237336|Correspondence analysis (CA) and its Detrended form (DCA) produced by the program CANOCO are unstable under reordering of the species and sites in the input data matrix. In CA, the main cause of the instability is the use of insufficiently stringent convergence criteria in the power algorithm used to estimate the eigenvalues. The use of stricter criteria gives results that are acceptably stable. The divisive classification program TWINSPAN uses CA based on a similar algorithm, but with extremely lax convergence criteria, and is thus susceptible to extreme instability. We detected an order-dependent programming error in the non-linear rescaling procedure that forms part of DCA. When this bug is corrected, much of the instability in DCA disappears. The stability of DCA solutions is further enhanced by the use of strict convergence criteria. In our trials, much of the instability occurred in axes 3 and 4, but ine should not assume that published two-dimensional ordinations are sufficiently accurate. Data sets which have pairs of almost equal eigenvalues among the first three axes could suffer from marked instability in the first two dimensions. We recommend that a debugged, strict version of CANOCO be released. Meanwhile, users can check the stability of their CA and DCA ordinations using the software that we have made available on the World Wide Web (http:// www.helsinki.fi/~jhoksane/). An accurate program for CA, a debugged, strict version of DECORANA (for DCA) and a strict version of TWINSPAN are also available at our site.
25173244|Question: How did the vascular plant species composition of a nunatak in the alpine vegetation belt change over a time span of 100 years? Location: A 5.6-ha nunatak, Isla Persa in the Swiss Alps, that remained ice-free during the last maximum glacier advance in the 1850s and is today partly covered with climactic alpine grassland and dwarf heath shrubs. Methods: Floristic inventories in 1906, 1927, 1972, 1995, 2003 and 2004 and a comparative analysis of the species composition over the period 1906-2004. Results: 31 species that were not recorded in the first inventory were found in the following surveys. However, among them only six were common by 2004. Generally, the new species prefer warmer conditions than those previously present and most newcomers are associated with montane or sub-alpine grasslands and woodlands. In particular, the observed increase of Vaccinium myrtillus and the arrival of shrub and tree species further substantiate a trend towards vegetation composition of the lower altitudinal belt. Ferns represented 26% of the newcomers, probably due to the high dispersal ability of their lightweight spores. The observed species enrichment was globally small compared to previously inventoried summits. Conclusion: Floristic change strongly suggests warmer climatic conditions as the main factor contributing to species compositional change. The relative stability of species richness may be explained by several factors: the isolation of the nunatak and the difficulties for plants to reach the site, the colder local climate, a limited available species pool and interactions of established alpine plants with newly immigrating taxa. Supplementary data collected at a similar altitude would be necessary to better understand the influence of climate change on alpine grasslands.
3237348|Small-scale species frequency and cumulative species frequency were studied in four plots in limestone grassland of the Veronica spicata-Avenula pratensis association on Stora Alvaret on the Baltic island of Oland, Sweden. Species mobility was expressed as increase in cumulative species frequency in 20 subplots of 100 cm<sup>2</sup>. Observed cumulative frequencies from 1985 - 1989 in all four plots, and from 1985 - 1995 in one plot were compared with values following from two null models, a 'minimal mobility' model and a random mobility model. In ca. 50 % of the cases the observed cumulative frequency was not significantly different from the random expectation. However, in many such cases the mean annual frequency was either very high or very low. Three ways of calculating the mobility rate are presented though only one is used: (observed cumulative frequency -lowest annual frequency) / expected cumulative frequency. Values x 100 range from 0 to 100. There were slight differences between the four plots which were interpreted in terms of differences in grazing intensity and soil depth. It is stressed that the idea of the Carousel model has never been meant to suggest that all species would show random mobility, which we now quantify, but that species differ in their mobility rate and that the mean rate is much higher than generally realized.
3236986| This study deals with the habitat restriction of Mammillaria pectinifera, a threatened cactus species, confined to a few low density localities of the Tehuacn valley in tropical Mexico. We analysed the patterns of presence/absence of M. pectinifera in relation to the presence/absence of 48 other plant species, and the variation of environmental factors in 120 sampling plots. A Principal Components Analysis revealed a clear segregation between plots with and without individuals of M. pectinifera. A classification analysis resulted in four groups: two with low prevalence and two with high prevalence of M. pectinifera. Paired comparisons between plots with and without M. pectinifera allowed the characterization of its patterns of occurrence related to the variation of environmental factors. M. pectinifera was found on deep alkaline soils with relatively high surface stoniness and high water retention capacity, showing low species richness compared with plots where it was absent. The limited distribution of M. pectinifera in the Tehuacn Valley seems to be related to particular requirements of this species, being restricted to certain suitable habitat patches. Nevertheless, it is likely that other aspects, such as poor dispersal and establishment abilities, or biotic interactions could be associated with the observed patterns. 
4499255|Questions: 1. Do relationships among forest plant traits correspond to dispersability-persistence trade-offs or other intertrait correlations found in the literature? 2. Do species groups delineated by trait similarity, differ in occurrence in ancient vs. new forests or isolated vs more continuous forest patches? 3. Are these patterns consistent for different forest types? Location: Central Belgium, near Leuven. Methods: We investigate the distributions of a large set of plant traits and combinations among all forest species occurring in patches with varying forest continuity and isolation. Through calculation of Gower 's similarity index and subsequent clustering, 'emergent' species groups are delineated. Then, the relative occurrence of these different groups in forest patches of different age and size, sustaining different forest types (alluvial vs. Quercion), and having different isolation status is compared through multivariate GLM analysis. Results: Correlations among several life history traits point towards trade-offs of dispersability and fecundity vs. longevity. We distinguished three species groups: 1 = mainly shrubs or climbers with fleshy or wind dispersed fruits and high dispersal potential; 2 = dominated by small, mainly vegetatively reproducing herbs; 3 = with spring flowering herbs with large seeds and mainly unassisted dispersal. Relative occurrence of these groups was significantly affected by forest age, area, isolation and forest type. Separate analyses for alluvial and Quercion forests indicated that the relative importance of these factors may differ, depending on forest type and species group. Both forest continuity and isolation are important in restricting the relative occurrence of forest species in alluvial forests, whatever their group membership. In Quercion forests forest patch area was the primary determinant of relative occurrence of species groups. Conclusions: It is very important to preserve the actual forest area including the spatial setting and the dispersal infrastructure within the landscape. Next, forest connectivity may be restored, but it is inherently a long process.
3236857|How much temporal variation in recruitment, mortality and change in size class occurs in the sapling layer of mature temperate forests in the absence of large-scale exogenous disturbance? Using 15 years of data from a flood-plain forest in Big Thicket National Preserve, we found that year-to-year variation in demographic parameters was greater than we originally expected. Death rates were generally more variable than recruitment rates, and were much more variable for large saplings than for small ones. Small saplings of the 10 most common species had at least one year when they experienced two to eight times their long-term mean recruitment and death rates. Large saplings had at least one year when they experienced three to 10 times their long-term mean death rates and at least one year with two to seven times the long-term mean recruitment rate. Temporal patterns in sapling death rates were related to flooding patterns, while temporal patterns in recruitment were related to the Palmer Drought Severity Index, an indicator of drought severity and soil moisture availability. We also identified apparently synchronous patterns of demographic response among less flood-tolerant species which differed from the responses of more flood-tolerant species. We demonstrated the effects of both climatic variation and light variation in affecting stand-wide sapling demographics in a forest where canopy gaps are important for regeneration, and where chronic understorey disturbance favours growth over survivorship as a sapling strategy.
3236400|We evaluated the use of soil organic carbon (SOC) isotopes to describe grass-tree dynamics at locations at the savanna-C<sub>4</sub> grassland ecotone and within a temperate semi-arid Quercus savanna in southeastern Arizona, USA. SOC will not describe grass-tree dynamics at locations within the savanna because isotope composition near the soil surface does not correspond with the overlying vegetation and recent C<sub>3</sub> carbon has been deposited at deep soil depths with no C<sub>4</sub> analog. In contrast, SOC can describe grass-tree dynamics at the savanna-grassland ecotone because isotope composition near the soil surface corresponds with overlying vegetation and significant deep soil deposition of C<sub>3</sub> carbon was not apparent. At the ecotone, trees became established in the last 700-1700 years. There is no evidence to suggest an unstable grass-tree mixture at the ecotone since that time.
3237288|Non-native perennial grasses form 30 % of the live understory biomass in seasonally dry, submontane forests in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, yet their effects on native species are unknown. We removed these grasses from plots of 20 m x 20 m in 1991 and maintained removal and control areas over the next three years. Two fast growing shrub species, Dodonaea viscosa and Osteomeles anthylidifolia, increased in size significantly more in removal areas than in controls. Individuals of the most abundant shrub species, Styphelia tameiameia showed no net growth response to grass removal. They did, however, change their architecture: many branches along the mid and upper sections of the main trunk died and a proliferation of new leaves and shoots occurred in the lower 40 cm of trunk. Basal diameter increase was very small in Metrosideros polymorpha, the dominant tree species in these sites. All species except Styphelia had significantly increased leaf tissue nitrogen in removal plots by 18 months after removal when compared to shrubs in control areas suggesting that removal plot shrubs had greater access to soil nitrogen. Available soil-N pools, which were generally higher in the removal plots, support this interpretation. Light levels near the soil surface were also higher where grasses were removed than where they were present which may have contributed to increased shrub growth. By contrast, soil moisture was consistently lower where grasses were removed than where they were still present. Shrub tissue carbon isotope values were consistent with the interpretation that shrubs in removal plots had less rather than more water available to them. Hence, the increased growth observed in removal plot shrubs could not be due to release from moisture competition. Lastly, our results showed that seedlings of all woody species except Metrosideros were significantly more abundant in removal plots at both one and three years after removal and initially high sapling mortality was balanced by high recruitment into the sapling class. We believe that over time this will result in increased densities of native shrubs if grasses are kept out. With the presence of grasses, shrub growth in these woodlands is reduced and biomass is shifting towards grasses.
3235656|Coastal sage scrub exhibits floristically dissimilar subassociations on opposing aspects in the Santa Monica Mountains of southern California. Southward-facing (Venturan 1) and northward-facing (Venturan II) subassociations were sampled at two scales (1 m<sup>2</sup> and 625 m<sup>2</sup>) each spring for five years following a fire. Mature (10- and 28 yr-old) sites of these subassociation types were also sampled in the study area. The subshrub and herbaceous components that were most prevalent on northerly slopes following the first post-burn year contributed the most cover for all ages examined. Aspect-related differences in species richness were most apparent at the smaller sampling scale where they were equal the first post-burn year and varied inversely thereafter. At this scale, richness values were two times higher on older north-facing sites, largely due to the herbaceous component. South-facing sites displayed progressive decreases in equitability through time. This pattern reflects gradual reduction in overall species richness combined with progressive site domination by fewer species, as manifested by increasing dominance concentration values. By contrast equitability on north-facing sites fluctuated little through time, though dominance concentration tended to decrease. Higher richness, equitability, and overall cover with time after burning on north-facing sites is associated with the relatively mesic habitats upon which this subassociation develops. Post-burn patterns of species richness and stratal differentiation on south-facing slopes are consistent with those reported for other mediterranean-type shrublands, i.e. peak richness was attained the first two years following a fire with subsequent decrease to a constant level.
3237315|Throughout the eastern United States, plant species distributions and community patterns have developed in response to heterogeneous environmental conditions and a wide range of historical factors, including complex histories of natural and anthropogenic disturbance. Despite increased recognition of the importance of disturbance in determining forest composition and structure, few studies have assessed the relative influence of current environment and historical factors on modern vegetation, in part because detailed knowledge of prior disturbance is often lacking. In the present study, we investigate modern and historical factors that control vegetation patterns at Harvard Forest in central Massachusetts, USA. Similar to the forested uplands throughout the northeastern United States, the site is physiographically heterogeneous and has a long and complex history of natural and anthropogenic disturbance. However, data on forest composition and disturbance history collected over the past > 90 years allow us to evaluate the importance of historical factors rigorously, which is rarely possible on other sites. Soil analyses and historical sources document four categories of historical land use on areas that are all forested today: cultivated fields, improved pastures/mowings, unimproved pastures, and continuously forested woodlots. Ordination and logistic regressions indicate that although species have responded individualistically to a wide range of environmental and disturbance factors, many species are influenced by three factors: soil drainage, land use history, and C:N ratios. Few species vary in accordance with ionic gradients, damage from the 1938 hurricane, or a 1957 fire. Contrary to our expectation that the effects of disturbance will diminish over time, historical land use predicts 1992 vegetation composition better than 1937 composition, perhaps because historical woodlots have become increasingly differentiated from post-agricultural stands through the 20th century. Interpretations of modern vegetation must consider the importance of historical factors in addition to current environmental conditions. However, because disturbances such as land use practices and wind damage are complex, it is often difficult to detect disturbance effects using multivariate approaches, even when the broad history of disturbance is known.
3235685|Simulated vegetation data of known structure and varying complexity were analyzed with Correspondence Analysis (CA), Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA), and a polythetic divisive method of classification as incorporated in the computer program TWINSPAN. The CA and DCA axes were statistically compared with the original gradients. In the case of TWINSPAN, the results were visually evaluated. The analyses showed that both CA and DCA will recover the first vegetation gradient in an acceptable manner only if the variation in the vegetation due to second or higher order gradients is small. Second gradients were never recovered in a meaningful manner. The sample points along these axes were so far displaced from their original positions along the gradients that the axes could not be used to represent the gradients. In particular, when the two gradients have the same length, CA and DCA gave very poor results for both the first and the second axes. This is thought to be one of the main reasons why TWINSPAN does not perform well, especially after the first division.
3236967|We investigated the effects of dispersal limitation, diaspore density, soil chemistry, disturbance and mollusc herbivory on the abundance and distribution of the perennial forest herb Dentaria bulbifera (Brassicaceae). After experimental sowing of bulbils in originally empty patches, juveniles of Dentaria emerged in 83% of plots. The seventh year after sowing, plants still persisted and were reproducing in several plots, demonstrating that the species is dispersal-limited. However, long-term survival of transplants was higher at sites where Dentaria occurred naturally, and this difference increased with time after sowing. Thus, the importance of local factors may only be expressed fully several years after colonisation. Differences in soil chemistry and disturbance treatment were not associated with differences in patch suitability. Removal of molluscs, however, significantly increased recruitment, and the effects of a single molluscicide treatment persisted after four years. We conclude that dispersal is not the only limitation to the distribution of Dentaria, and that local factors, such as mollusc herbivory, are also crucial.
3235588|Many authors have postulated regeneration failure and subsequent replacement by other species for Fitzroya cupressoides, especially in the Cordilleras de los Andes. A variety of old-growth forests in natural and man-disturbed areas was sampled to assess the regeneration of forest trees, mainly that of F. cupressoides. Gap-phase regeneration of F. cupressoides in forests of the Cordillera de la Costa and in F. cupressoides- Nothofagus betuloides and F. cupressoides-Pilgerodendron uviferum forests in the Andes is likely to maintain an uneven-aged stand structure that permits the persistence and dominance of F. cupressoides in these forests. F. cupressoides-N. nitida forest occurs on a substrate of logs, branches and coarse debris and does not represent a late-successional stage of the Fitzroya forest in the Andes. F. cupressoides, in association with Drimys winteri, Podocarpus nubigena and other species, establishes abundantly on landslides which occur frequently in the Andes. Gap-phase regeneration, occurring in different site conditions and repeated disturbance, creates a vegetation mosaic where F. cupressoides intermittently regenerates. F. cupressoides also occurs in marginal forests where the species is under the competitive pressure of well-adapted and more aggressive broad-leaved trees, which greatly inhibit its regeneration and establishment. Regeneration of F. cupressoides is abundant in exploited areas where trees were left nearby, grazing was not intense and fire was excluded. Regeneration failure of F. cupressoides for more than 25 yr in an exploited area in the Andes seems to be a consequence of the exploitation methods including large quantities of debris accumulated over extensive areas.
3236678|Spatial heterogeneity is a characteristic of most natural ecosystems which is difficult to handle analytically, particularly in the absence of knowledge about the exogenous factors responsible for this heterogeneity. While classical methods for analysis of spatial point patterns usually require the hypothesis of homogeneity, we present a practical approach for partitioning heterogeneous vegetation plots into homogeneous subplots in simple cases of heterogeneity without drastically reducing the data. It is based on the detection of endogenous variations of the pattern using local density and second-order local neighbour density functions that allow delineation of irregularly shaped subplots that could be considered as internally homogeneous. Spatial statistics, such as Ripley's K-function adapted to analyse plots of irregular shape, can then be computed for each of the homogeneous subplots. Two applications to forest ecological field data demonstrate that the method, addressed to ecologists, can avoid misinterpretations of the spatial structure of heterogeneous vegetation stands.
4499194|Questions: To what extent are the distributions of tropical rain forest tree ferns (Cyatheaceae) related to environmental variation, and is habitat specialization likely to play a role in their local coexistence? Location: Lowland rain forest at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. Methods: Generalized linear (GLM) and generalized additive (GAM) logistic regression were used to model the incidence of four tree fern species in relation to environmental and neighbourhood variables in 1154 inventory plots regularly distributed across
3236696|Many ecological studies have addressed issues of vegetation spatial patterns in attempts to understand the processes generating them. We investigated changes in ecological processes during succession via the analysis of shrubs' spatial patterns in a system of linear sand dunes, an arid ecosystem located in the Negev Desert in Israel during three consecutive years. We hypothesized that spatial patterns change from clustered to regular as succession progresses due to changes in the relative importance of facilitation and competition in this environment. In this ecosystem communities of early successional stages are frequently disturbed by high rates of sand movement, whereas in later successional stages sand stability is high. We mapped in the field individual shrubs on high-resolution aerial photographs, and converted the digital images to a GIS data set. Using Ripley's K-function we analysed spatial patterns at three levels: the single-species level, among species and at the individual level, in three communities characterizing different successional stages. In the early successional communities we found clustered spatial patterns, in comparison with stable habitats where spatial patterns tended to be regular. We argue that these shifts in spatial patterns are indicative of the assumption that in this sand-dune system ecological interactions change from facilitation to competition as succession progresses. Further, we argue that these interactions operate in different spatial scales at the different successional stages, and that the study of these processes should be conducted at the spatial scales specific to each community.
3236637|In this study we examine the factors associated with variations in species richness within a remnant tall-grass prairie in order to gain insight into the relative importance of controlling variables. The study area was a small, isolated prairie surrounded by wetlands and located within the coastal prairie region, which occurs along the northwestern Gulf of Mexico coastal plain. Samples were taken along three transects that spanned the prairie. Parameters measured included microelevation, soil characteristics, indications of recent disturbance, above-ground biomass (including litter), light penetration through the plant canopy, and species richness. Species richness was found to correlate with micro-elevation, certain soil parameters, and light penetration through the canopy, but not with above-ground biomass. Structural equation analysis was used to assess the direct and indirect effects of microelevation, soil properties, disturbance, and indicators of plant abundance on species richness. The results of this analysis showed that observed variations in species richness were primarily associated with variations in environmental effects (from soil and microtopography) and were largely unrelated to variations in measures of plant abundance (biomass and light penetration). These findings suggest that observed variations in species richness in this system primarily resulted from environmental effects on the species pool. These results fit with a growing body of information that suggests that environmental effects on species richness are of widespread importance.
3236353| In this study, we documented patterns of variation in leaf phenology and leaf herbivory in scrub oak (Quercus ilicifolia Wang) along the slope of a closed topographical depression, 15 m deep and 400 m wide, in the pine barrens of eastern Massachusetts. Minimum temperatures over the growing season averaged 6.5 C lower at the bottom of the depression than at the top. Bud break at the bottom of the depression was 2-3 weeks delayed compared with the top. In both years of this study, 1988 and 1989, leaf damage by thrips increased down slope producing differences of about 10 % in the proportion of leaf area damaged between the top and the bottom of the depression. Because thrips fed exclusively on the youngest leaves, this pattern could be attributed to a closer synchrony between the timing of leaf flushing and the period of insect feeding activity towards the bottom of the depression. Average differences in leaf damage between years could also be accounted for by variation in leaf phenology. These patterns support the hypothesis that the degree of temporal overlap between availability of high quality foliage and the period of insect feeding activity may greatly determine spatial and temporal variation in leaf damage by insect herbivores. 
3236099|Two general models have been proposed to explain the structure of the plant community: the community-unit model of Clements and the continuum model of Whittaker and Curtis, the latter based on Gleason's individualistic distribution of species. It is generally assumed that most ecologists now accept the continuum model. Empirical evidence suggests, however, that the continuum in its current form does not fully describe the observed patterns of vegetation along environmental gradients. In this paper, we introduce the hierarchical continuum as a general concept to represent dynamic community structure along regional spatial gradients. The hierarchical continuum is derived from a combination of the individualistic distribution of species, hierarchical assemblage structure, and the core-satellite species hypothesis. The hierarchical continuum concept predicts that the distribution of species across sites in a region will be polymodal, which reflects hierarchical structure, and that the distribution and abundance of species within and between sites will be spatially and temporally dynamic. Regional distribution of plant species in North American tallgrass prairie, southeastern floodplain hardwood forests, northern upland hardwood forests, and boreal forests were either bimodal or polymodal as predicted by the hierarchical continuum concept. Species in tallgrass prairie were spatially and temporally dynamic with an average turnover of 8-9 species per 50 m<sup>2</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup>. In addition the hierarchical continuum concept predicts the potential for fractal (self-similar) patterns of community structure, and provides a framework for testable hypotheses concerning species distributions along environmental gradients.
25173196|Questions: How does vegetation first establish on newly-formed lava substrates? Do very small (cm) and meso-scale (m) variations in the physical environment influence this process and subsequent vegetation development? Location: Mount Hekla, southern Iceland (6400' N. 1940' W). Methods: Data on vegetation structure and the incidence of 'safe sites' suitable for colonisation were collected from high and low points on the surfaces of lava flows emplaced during the 1991 and 2000 A.D. eruptions of Mount Hekla. Effects of flow age and meso-topographic position on vegetation structure (moss cover, patch density, stem length) were assessed by two-way analyses of variance. The distributions of colonisation events and available safe sites were analysed using point pattern techniques. Results: Rapid colonisation of the lava surface was observed, despite stressful environmental conditions. The 1991 and 2000 flows differed significantly in vegetation structure, but there were no significant differences in moss cover, patch density and stem length between 'high' and 'low' sites. Conclusions: Colonisation events are invariably associated with small-scale irregularities on the surface of the lava. The colonisation process appears to be spatially random. Development of the moss 'carpet' proceeds by vertical thickening and lateral growth and coalescence of moss patches that establish in 'safe sites'. This process is rapid, with close to 100% of available safe sites exploited within 20 years. Topographic position makes no difference to the very early stages of vegetation development and cannot be used to 'forecast' the later stages of development.
3236317| Long-term after effects on species number and productivity in calcareous grassland were analyzed after cessation of fertilization. Three series of permanent plots were monitored yearly from 1971 to 1993. These series differed in duration of fertilization and in fertilizer composition, notably the amount of nitrogen and phosphorus. Yearly above-ground production decreased in all series after fertilization had been stopped, however at different speeds. The grass/forb ratio also decreased, while species number and Shannon index of diversity (H) increased. In the series where fertilizer treatment was stopped in 1967 (1968-series), productivity and grass/forb ratio decreased equally as in the plots where fertilization with a high nitrogen content was stopped in 1979 (80/Npk-series). However, species number in the plots of the 80/Npk-series increased faster than in the 1968-series. This was probably the result of a higher number of species present in the seed rain from the surrounding vegetation in the period after 1980 than from after 1968. In the plots receiving a high amount of phosphorus (80/ nPk series), the productivity decreased more slowly than in the high nitrogen plots (80/Npk-series). At approximately the same total production level, the grass/forb ratio remained higher for another five-year period in the 80/nPk-series. Species number and the Shannon index of diversity increased more slowly in the 80/nPk-series than in the 80/Npk-series. Over a given range of productivity, changes in species number and Shannon index correlated better with the grass/forb ratio than with total above-ground phytomass. Therefore, restoration of species-rich grassland should not only be focused on lowering the yearly production, but also on reducing the grass component of the vegetation. 
4096625|Questions: 1. Does resource use efficiency increase with increased species richness in conifer forests? 2. Do patterns found in resource use support niche differentiation/complementarity between species, or is any increase indicative of a selection effect? Location: All data were collected from upper montane (2200-2600 m a.s.l) conifer forests of the Desolation Wilderness in the central California Sierra Nevada, USA. Methods: We established 281 plots of varying levels of conifer richness throughout the wilderness area. Within each plot we used hemispherical photos to measure canopy closure and LAI, total soil carbon and nitrogen from the A-horizon, and stand basal area. We used linear regression and ANOVA to analyse the relationship between stand species richness and resource availability. Results: We found no correlation of either soil nitrogen or carbon with stand biomass. Nor did soil nitrogen and carbon levels change with species richness. Canopy closure increased with species richness but also varied significantly between pure stands of different species. Pure Pinus monticola stands had the lowest canopy closure, Tsuga mertensiana stands the highest. Composition explained more canopy cover variation than did species richness. We found evidence supporting both the sampling effect and niche differentiation models at different stages of stand development. Conclusions: During initial stages of stand development, the interaction between the shade-intolerant Pinus species and shade-tolerant Abies magnifica and T. mertensiana followed the niche differentiation model, but switched to the sampling effect model during the competitive-exclusion stage. In contrast, interaction between A. magnifica and T. mertensiana followed the niche differentiation model.
3235784|The architecture and development of forest eco-units in a mixed Japanese beech forest were studied by means of aerial photographs and belt-transects. Fagus japonica dominates in this forest because it has the ability to reproduce through root-collar sprouts. Each individual has a number of stems that reach the canopy. Two eco-unit types are recognized. Most abundant is the type dominated by multiple-stem F. japonica individuals (type A). The other type is dominated by other tall tree species, mostly Fagus crenata (type B). The most common cycle of development for type A is mature / stem-breakage / growing / mature. After stem-breakage, suppressed sprouts of the same individual replace the broken stem by growing quickly into the canopy. This accounts for the low coverage of patches in the early growing phases and the high coverage in mature phases in the aerial photographs. After uprooting of F. japonica or after death of other canopy tree species, a seedling phase will be necessary, during which canopy species establish themselves from seed and F. japonica may establish itself from sprouts. Dwarf bamboo appeared to inhibit the establishment of seedlings but it does not affect the establishment of F. japonica sprouts. It is concluded that the dominance of F. japonica over other tall tree species is the result of F. japonica reproducing by sprouts.
3237009|Savanna trees have a multitude of positive and negative effects on understorey grass production, but little is known about how these effects interact. We report on a fertilization and shading experiment carried out in a Tanzanian tropical dry savanna around Acacia tortilis trees. In two years of study there was no difference in grass production under tree canopies or in open grassland. Fertilization, however, indicate that trees do affect the nutrient limitation of the grass layer with an N-limited system in open grassland to a P-limited system under the trees. The N:P ratios of grass gave a reliable indication of the nature of nutrient limitation, but only when assessed at the end of the wet season. Mid-wet season nutrient concentrations of grasses were higher under than outside the tree canopy, suggesting that factors other than nutrients limit grass production. A shading experiment indicated that light may be such a limiting factor during the wet season when water and nutrients are sufficiently available. However, in the dry season when water is scarce, the effect of shade on plant production became positive. We conclude that whether trees increase or decrease production of the herbaceous layer depends on how positive effects (increased soil fertility) and negative effects (shade and soil water availability) interact and that these interactions may significantly change between wet and dry seasons.
40925478|Question: Are canopy gap dynamics responsible for driving the structural and compositional changes that have occurred over a 26-year period in a mature Quercus forest remnant? Location: Dobbs Natural Area, an unlogged 3.6-ha forest preserve in west-central Indiana, USA. Methods: We analyzed mapped permanent plot data for a site that illustrates a trend common in Quercus-dominated forests in eastern North America, where recruitment of new stems is dominated by mesophytic, shade-tolerant species such as Acer saccharum, rather than Quercus. We developed a GIS database from stand census measurements taken in 1974 and 2000, employing it to conduct tree-by-tree comparisons that allow direct determination of ingrowth, mortality and survivorship, and to relate the spatial patterns of subcanopy dynamics to canopy gap occurrence. Results: The re-census shows modest changes in canopy composition, but much greater turnover in the subcanopy. Nearly half of all individuals originally present died; much of this mortality resulted from a major decline in subcanopy Ulmus americana. While overall density remained fairly constant, the subcanopy experienced substantial in-growth of shade-tolerant Acer saccharum, Fagus grandifolia, and Tilia americana. Canopy gaps, although forming at rates in the upper range of regional averages, did not significantly benefit subcanopy populations of Quercus spp. or most other taxa with limited shade tolerance. Conclusions: Canopy gaps play a minor role in driving the recent demographic trends of this stand. The spatial and temporal scales of light availability in gaps do not support regeneration of most shade-intolerant species. Compositional change parallels a historical shift in light regimes.
3236984|Vegetation science has relied on untested paradigms relating to the shape of species response curves along environmental gradients. To advance in this field, we used the HOF approach to model response curves for 112 plant species along six environmental gradients and three ecoclines (as represented by DCA ordination axes) in SE Norwegian swamp forests. Response curve properties were summarized in three binary response variables: (1) model unimodal or monotonous (determinate) vs. indeterminate; (2) for determinate models, unimodal vs. monotonous and (3) for unimodal models, skewed vs. symmetric. We used logistic regression to test the influence, singly and jointly, of seven predictor variables on each of three response variables. Predictor variables included gradient type (environmental or ecocline) and length (compositional turnover); species category (vascular plant, moss, Sphagnum or hepatic), species frequency and richness, tolerance (the fraction of the gradient along which the species occurs) and position of species along each gradient. The probability for fitting a determinate model increased as the main occurrence of species approached gradient extremes and with increasing species tolerance and frequency and gradient length. Appearance of unimodal models was favoured by low species tolerance and disfavoured by closeness of species to gradient extremes. Appearance of skewed models was weakly related to predictors but was slightly favoured by species optima near gradient extremes. Contrary to the results of previous studies, species category, gradient type and variation in species richness along gradients did not contribute independently to model prediction. The overall best predictors of response curve shape were position along the gradient (relative to extremes) and tolerance; the latter also expressing gradient length in units of compositional turnover. This helps predicting species responses to gradients from gradient specific species properties. The low proportion of skewed response curves and the large variation of species response curves along all gradients indicate that skewed response curves is a smaller problem for the performance of ordination methods than often claimed. We find no evidence that DCA ordination increases the unimodality, or symmetry, of species response curves more than expected from the higher compositional turnover along ordination axes. Thus ordination axes may be appropriate proxies for ecoclines, applicable for use in species response modelling.
3236847| Mode of tree death in relation to topography was examined in three lowland rain forests; Belalong and Andalau, in Brunei Darussalam and Danum, in Sabah, East Malaysia. In total, 1543 dead trees  20 cm diameter at breast height (DBH) were enumerated in an area of 36 ha. In Belalong, 31 % of the dead trees had died standing, 26 % had snapped, 21 % had uprooted, 19% had either died-standing or snapped and 3 % remained undetermined (n = 436). In Andalau, 46 % had died standing, 11 % had snapped, 14 % had uprooted, 26 % had either died standing or snapped and 3 % remained undetermined (n = 591). In Danum, 37 % had died standing, 22 % had snapped, 14% had uprooted, 24 % had either died-standing or snapped and 3 % remained undetermined (n = 516). Slope position, e.g. whether the tree was located in a valley, midslope, upper slope or ridge, was related to mode of death in all three sites. Elevation and tree diameter were related in two of the sites, and drainage, soil depth and soil shear strength were related in one of the sites. Generally the proportion of standing deaths increased moving from the valleys up to the ridge tops while uprooting proportions had the converse relationship. Slope position had little effect on the proportions of snapped trees. The three modes of death create different types of gaps. The findings substantiate that different topographies have different proportions of these gap types. The predominant gap type may have consequences for local and regional differences in forest structure and composition. 
3235611|Stands of Fraxinus nigra (black ash) near Lake Duparquet (Abitibi region, NW Quebec) are affected each year by spring or early summer flooding. The relationship between environmental factors and radial growth was studied in 50 100-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats laid out in five Fraxinus-dominated stands. Response function coefficients showed that the weather in the year before growth, i.e. in the time of bud formation, had a strong influence on radial increment. Temperatures in April of the year before (year i - 1) and May (i - 1) were positively correlated with growth, while precipitation in April (i - 1) May (i - 1) and June (i - 1) were negatively correlated. Climatic factors positively associated with growth during the year of bud expansion were April (i) temperature and June (i) precipitation. Redundancy analysis showed that radial growth in Fraxinus nigra responded to variation in elevation and geomorphological landform. These differences in stand location and elevation were also related to different responses to climate. The sites most exposed to flooding responded much more to the negative impact of spring precipitation, while the more elevated sites were more responsive to summer precipitation. This study showed that black ash could be used for long term reconstruction of climatic and hydrological fluctuations.
3235927|We present floristic and structural data on seral plant communities (Old-Field, Grassland, Shrubland, and Early Successional, Mid-Successional, and Mature Forest) resulting from the current land use pattern in the Pinus-Quercus forests in the highlands of Chiapas, Mexico. The number of species ranged from 24 in the Old-Field stage up to 100 in the Mature Forest, and the shrub layer was richest in all the forested stands. An almost complete floristic replacement exists between the open and the forested communities. Quercus and Pinus dominate the canopy of old-growth stands, but their recruitment does not occur or is very low in the shade. Vigorous seedlings and saplings of these species are found only in the open seral stages or in forest gaps. Demographic and phytosociological data are used to indicate the successional role of dominant species in the forested stages. Some implications of the regional land use patterns for conservation and succession are discussed.
3235971|Many studies have shown the existence of large between-year fluctuations in the floristic composition of annual Mediterranean pastures, and these fluctuations have been linked to autumn rainfall patterns. It has been postulated that differing interannual weather patterns may play a decisive role in competitive processes, especially during the period of germination and seedling establishment. Removal experiments in conjunction with rainfall manipulation in a phylotron were conducted to test whether competition affects germination and seedling mortality under different autumn rainfall patterns, in pastures at three successional stages after last being ploughed. Early and late autumn rains affect the floristic composition as certain species germinate better under certain conditions than others in each successional stage. In general, however, competition is not manifested through the inhibition of new germination once the space has been occupied, and density-dependent mortality is found only for a few species.
4096728|Question: The use of plant traits to predict weed impact is a long-standing goal in weed ecology. In particular, trait plasticity, i.e. the variability of a trait response to environmental change, is widely considered to contribute to weed success. However, the generality of the role of trait plasticity in determining weed impacts has never been systematically tested. Methods and location: We tested the hypothesis that high-impact environmental weeds have greater plasticity in growth responses to nutrient availability than low-impact species. In a glasshouse experiment, we supplied a complete nutrient solution at five different concentrations to seedlings of 24 species of high- and low-impact environmental weeds from south east Queensland, Australia. Results: Almost all species showed plasticity in biomass accumulation in response to the nutrient treatments, but plasticity in biomass accumulation did not differ between related high- and low-impact species. There was no evidence of nutrient-related plasticity in root:shoot allocation. Seedling survival was greater at higher nutrient concentrations, and also differed greatly between families. Survival among low-impact species was marginally (p = 0.0610) lower than among high-impact species. Conclusion: We conclude that the impact of environmental weeds in south east Queensland cannot be predicted from nutrient-related plasticity in seedling growth. The effects of nutrients on seedling survival warrant further research.
3236214|Both spatial and temporal variability in recruitment probabilities can lead to coexistence in gap-phase regenerating forests which would otherwise tend to be dominated by fewer species. Using modified Markov models, the potential roles were examined of temporal variability and differential mortality rates among species in the dynamics of a forest for which spatial variability has been rejected as a strong factor leading to coexistence. Differential longevity modifies results obtained from a simple Markov model: it exerts a strong influence on the equilibrium species composition, on the rate of community change and on the time a community requires to reach equilibrium. Simulations with varying transition probabilities mimicked a changing climate, producing four main results: 1. Unless the duration of climate states is very long or very short, forest composition is in a continual state of disequilibrium. 2. Species vary in their response times to changing climate. 3. The mean abundance of each species under a varying climate scenario is different from that expected from the mean climate state. 4. The rare, long-lived species was favored by climatic fluctuations at the expense of more common shorter lived species. Differential mortality rates provide an equilibrium-based mechanism for coexistence, and temporally fluctuating recruitment probabilities a non-equilibrium mechanism. Composition could be maintained by differential longevity among species and climatic fluctuations allowing periodic recruitment of the less common species.
3237156|The relationships between biomass of dwarf shrub species and nutrient gradients of forest soils was studied under field conditions in boreal forests. The biomass-response curves of Vaccinium myrtillus and V. vitis-idaea were fitted against soil nutrient gradients using Generalized Linear Models (GLM). Ecological niches of Vaccinium myrtillus and V. vitis-idaea were evaluated, and effects of nitrogen addition (manipulation of the nutrient gradient) on response function were tested. The Vaccinium species showed statistically significant Gaussian responses along soil nitrogen, phosphorus and calcium gradients, but not along other gradients (K and Mg). Furthermore, manipulation of the nitrogen gradient seemed to have a minor effect on response functions, i.e. addition of nitrogen did not change ecological niches of these species. Ecological optima of V. myrtillus and V. vitis-idaea on the nutrient gradients were about the same. This study suggests that differences in dominance between Vaccinium myrtillus and V. vitis-idaea in boreal forest is not determined by nutrient gradients, but may rather be explained by light conditions and/ or moisture availability.
3237311|We studied two sites in the laurel forest of Tenerife to predict future changes in canopy composition. We used two projection methods: Horn's 'Markovian Projection', which utilizes information on juveniles in the vicinity of canopy trees, and a 'Stand Projection', which ignores such information. We performed these projections both including and excluding a-sexual regeneration. Although all of our projections predict a change in species composition, inclusion of a-sexual reproduction decreased the magnitude of successional change. The persistence of Prunus lusitanica and Ilex canariensis appears to be highly dependent on a-sexual regeneration. Both the Markov- and stand projections predict a slight convergence in species composition between the two sites when only sexual regeneration is considered, and also a higher dominance of the shade-tolerant species Laurus azorica. When a-sexual regeneration is also considered, some divergence is shown, with less projected change in the stand projection than in the Markov projection. In spite of some differences between the models, general patterns such as an increase of shadetolerant species (Laurus azorica and Prunus lusitanica) and a decrease of shade-intolerant species (Erica arborea, Erica scoparia and Myricafaya) are consistent.
3236275|We describe an approach for developing a Dynamic Global Vegetation Model (DGVM) that accounts for transient changes in vegetation distribution over a decadal time scale. The DGVM structure is based on a linkage between an equilibrium global vegetation model and smaller scale ecosystem dynamics modules that simulate the rate of vegetation change. Vegetation change is classified into four basic types, based largely on the projected change in above-ground biomass of the vegetation. These four types of change are: (1) dieback of forest, shrubland or grassland; (2) successional replacement within forest, shrubland or grassland; (3) invasion of forest, shrubland or grassland; (4) change in tree/grass ratio. We then propose an approach in which the appropriate ecosystem dynamics module for each type of change is applied and the grid cells of the global model updated accordingly. An approach for accounting for fire, as an example of a disturbance which may strongly influence the rate and spatial pattern of forest dieback, is incorporated. We also discuss data needs for the development, calibration and validation of the model.
40925541|Questions: What is the climatic envelope of European Atlantic heathlands and the relationship between their floristic geographical variability and climatic parameters? Are the biogeographic patterns extracted from genuine heath plants comparable to those extracted from the accompanying flora? To what extent does the species composition extracted from phytosociological data support the current theory of refuge areas of heath vegetation in southern Atlantic Europe during the Pleistocene ice ages? Location: Atlantic Europe and NW Morocco. Methods: The geographical territory in which Atlantic heathlands occur was divided into 23 sectors following geographic and chorological criteria. A presenceabsence table with 333 taxa was then constructed with the available phytosociological data. The taxa were classified into different groups according to their phytosociological affinity. Several types of numerical analysis were performed with this matrix and the climatic data obtained from meteorological sources. Results: Heathlands require a humid and oceanic climate and are limited by cold temperatures in the north and by summer droughts in the south. The highest floristic richness of this vegetation type is found in NW Iberia. Ordinations indicate a strong correlation between floristic composition of biogeographic sector and summer drought (Ios) and thermicity (It). Conclusions: The main climatic factors determining lowland heathland floristic distribution are thermicity and summer drought. The current optimal conditions for heath flora in NW Iberia suggest that there were southern refuges during the Pleistocene ice ages from which northward expansion has taken place.
25173204|Question: How do broad-leaved ravine forests in SE Europe differentiate phytogeographically? Do they differ from analogous European forests? What is their distribution pattern? Location: southeastern Europe, Apennine-Balkan province. Methods: The initial data set of 2189 relevs was stratified geographically and phytosociologically; 614 relevs remaining after stratification were classified with a TWINSPAN and cluster analysis, wich resulted in four clusters and eight subclusters. Average Pignatti indicator values for relevs of each subcluster were subjected to PCA to show ecological relationships among the clusters. The spectra of geoelements and sociological species groups of individual subclusters were calculated to show phytogeographical and sociological relationships between them. The diagnostic species combination was calculated by a fidelity measure (-coefficient) and presented in a synoptic table. Results: Broad-leaved ravine forests in southeastern Europe form a separate group within the European broad-leaved ravine forests. They are well differentiated by the species with a southeast European distribution, as well as by many other species that reflect their different ecological affinities. Conclusions: The phytosociological and phytogeographical relationships between the Apennines and the Balkan peninsula that have already been recognized for other vegetation types have been confirmed for broad-leaved ravine forests. According to the numerical analysis, two suballiances of broad-leaved ravine forests in southeastern Europe are proposed, both belonging to the alliance Tilio-Acerion: an amphi-Adriatic xerothermophilous suballiance Ostryo-Tilienion platyphylli suball. nova and a mesophilous suballiance Lamio orvalae-Acerenion suball. nova, the latter appearing only on the Balkan Peninsula.
23012744|Question: Understanding the aerial movement of seed is of great significance to the management of native and invasive plant species, but has proven difficult to measure. Here we examine how a more quantitative approach to measuring the aerial movement of seed can be achieved. Location: SE Australia. Methods: We describe a novel seed trap (the `Melbourne trap'), for which the proportion of free-stream airflow through the trap can be measured, allowing a more quantitative approach to measuring aerial seed movement. We assessed airflow through the Melbourne trap in a wind tunnel and describe how this information, along with measurements of wind speed and direction, can now be used to derive seed density per volume of airflow. We compare the seed capture and retention efficiency of the Melbourne trap with two simpler and cheaper trap designs, bucket traps and sticky traps. Results: Melbourne and bucket traps captured significantly more species than sticky traps. Seed catch was dominated numerically by Lachnagrostis filiformis (G. Forst.) Trin. Melbourne traps proved more effective than sticky traps, but not bucket traps, in capturing L. filiformis, based on intake area. For all other seeds, Melbourne traps were more effective than both bucket and sticky traps. Conclusion: The Melbourne trap design is a significant advance in quantifying seed dispersal by wind. Melbourne traps will improve the capacity and accuracy of studies that seek to: (i) quantify seed fluxes across landscapes boundaries; (ii) assess directionality of dispersal; (iii) understand processes controlling seed release; and (iv) compare dispersal in wind and water.
3237331|Although there are many studies in searching for the most useful community diversity index, the importance of choosing an appropriate parameter has been neglected. Here, we examined dominance and diversity in early post-fire chaparral communities using different variables, i.e. plant density, cover and biomass. Significant different results were produced by applying different parameters and the difference may be caused by the inconsistency in density, cover, and biomass allocated in each life form. Among the three parameters, biomass was most successful in detecting differences among communities because the apportionment of biomass among species was more variable than that of density. Although the three species variables represent different aspects of community properties and their relative performance may vary among communities, we recommend the use of biomass or productivity data as the most appropriate variable because it can best represent per capita resource use and resource partitioning among organisms in competitive situations.
25173220|Questions: How do climate conditions and the site's ecohydrological properties affect the age and size structure of natural Pinus sylvestris stands on pristine boreal mires? How do the long-term stand dynamics on mires proceed as stands age? Do the mire stands reach a balanced, old-growth stage? Location: Boreal mire forests in southern and northern Finland. Methods: Tree age and diameter distributions were analysed in 52 stands in two climate areas and in two mire site types with different ecohydrological properties. Temporal stand dynamics were examined by (1) comparing the graphs of the stands' mean tree ages by diameter at breast height (1.3 m) classes and (2) describing the changes in stand characteristics and stand age and size structures as a function of stand dominant age in a chronosequence. Results: In the south, the DBH distributions were mostly unimodal and bell-shaped in both site type groups. Age distributions were multimodal and flat in fully-stocked sites but more uneven in sparsely forested composite sites. In the north, both the age and size distributions were clearly uneven in both site type groups. Tree age and size variation increased with stand age, but levelled out in the long term. Particularly in the south, the abundance of small trees decreased as stand age increased. Conclusions: The pine stands on pristine boreal mires are more dynamic than anticipated and are generally not characterised by a balanced, self-perpetuating structure. Their dynamics reflect differences in climate and ecohydrology: on stocked sites in favourable boreal conditions, the stands showed structures typically resultant of inter-tree competition processes that control tree growth and regeneration, whereas in harsh boreal climates, the tree regeneration process is ongoing diversifying the stand structure.
3235712|Transect analyses emphasize the differences in tree species composition and structure of three different wooded wetland tracts in Co. Kerry, Ireland. These are variously dominated by Alnus glutinosa, Betula pubescens, Fraxinus excelsior, Quercus robur and Salix cinerea ssp. oleifolia. Stand density ranged from 16 to 54 live trees per 100 m<sup>2</sup>, tree height did not exceed 15 m, mean individual basal area ranged from 78 to 165 cm<sup>2</sup> and the average total basal area per hectare was between 3.6 and 4.1 m<sup>2</sup>. The sites were quite different in a number of the characteristics recorded. The Irish forests were smaller in stature and denser than others in both temperate zones (Continental Europe, North America, Japan) and the tropics. Crown area indices were also lower than for other areas, ranging from 1.15 to 1.79. The height: diameter relationships may reflect the state of sylvigenesis of each stand. Death by blowdown appears to be less frequent in the younger stands than death by suppression. Gaps are therefore formed gradually, not suddenly, allowing neighbouring suppressed trees to develop into the spaces formed.
3235598|In 1985 an opportunity arose to make use of an area (referred to as Somerford Mead) which had recently been used for intensive grass or cereal production but which originally had been a permanent hay-meadow. Situated on circum- neutral alluvial soils over limestone gravel, it is in close proximity to the River Thames and to species-rich flood meadows, including Oxey Mead (Fig. 1). This paper describes the early stages of an experiment to recreate a 'typical' flood-meadow community using seed harvested from Oxey Mead. Before sowing the seed, soil samples were taken and seedling emergence suggested that little of the original flood-meadow seed bank survived. Although Oxey Mead was known to contain at least 57 species, germination of samples of the sown seed in the glasshouse was confined to 12 species. All except Bromus commutatus and Trisetum flavescens and an additional nine Oxey Mead species were recorded in the field, together with 24 arable weed/ruderal species. Soil-nutrient contents (N, P and K) were high; so the restoration of this flood-meadow using only management techniques (hay cutting at the end of June and aftermath grazing) and the local seed bank would take a long time. The use of a Alopecurus protensis-Sanguisorba officinalis seed mixture was justified by the accelerated succession on Somerford Mead towards the parent community.
25549269|Question: Is stomatal regulation specific for climate and tree species, and does it reveal species-specific responses to drought? Is there a link to vegetation dynamics? Location: Dry inner alpine valley, Switzerland Methods: Stomatal aperture
4096764|Question: How does competition by grasses, grazing by indigenous large herbivores, and their interaction affect the establishment, growth and survival of transplanted native woody and herbaceous seedlings on an abandoned agricultural field? Location: West Coast Renosterveld, Cape Floral Region, South Africa. Methods: Indigenous shrub seedlings were planted in different treatments, where either grass competition or herbivory or both were manipulated. Survival, growth and canopy cover of the seedlings were measured on a monthly basis over 14 months, and compared between treatments. Results: Experimental transplanting of indigenous shrubs into an old field showed that most of the plants investigated competed for resources with grasses on the field, and competition negatively affected the seedlings throughout the experiment. Mortality was higher, and growth was reduced for seedlings exposed to grass competition. Herbivory alone had no significant impact on the target species with the exception of Olea europaea ssp. africana. There was no significant interaction between competition and herbivory. Conclusion: Reduction of herbaceous competition significantly accelerates shrubland recovery on abandoned agricultural fields in renosterveld.
40925505|Question: Can current understory vegetation composition across an elevation gradient of Pinus ponderosa-dominated forests be used to identify areas that, prior to 20th century fire suppression, were characterized by different fire frequencies and severities (i.e., historic fire regimes)? Location: P. ponderosa-dominated forests in the montane zone of the northern Colorado Front Range, Boulder and Larimer Counties, Colorado, USA. Methods: Understory species composition and stand characteristics were sampled at 43 sites with previously determined fire histories. Indicator species analyses and indirect ordination were used to determine: (1) if stands within a particular historic fire regime had similar understory compositions, and (2) if understory vegetation was associated with the same environmental gradients that influence fire regime. Classification and regression tree analysis was used to ascertain which species could predict fire regimes. Results: Indicator species analysis identified 34 understory species as significant indicators of three distinct historic fire regimes along an elevation gradient from low- to high-elevation P. ponderosa forests. A predictive model derived from a classification tree identified five species as reliable predictors of fire regime. Conclusions: P. ponderosa-dominated forests shaped by three distinct historic fire regimes have significantly different floristic composition, and current understory compositions can be used as reliable indicators of historical differences in past fire frequency and severity. The feasibility demonstrated in the current study using current understory vegetation properties to detect different historic fire regimes, should be examined in other fire-prone forest ecosystems.
3235885|A biogeographic model, MAPSS (Mapped Atmosphere-Plant-Soil System), predicts changes in vegetation leaf area index (LAI), site water balance and runoff, as well as changes in biome boundaries. Potential scenarios of global and regional equilibrium changes in LAI and terrestrial water balance under 2 x CO<sub>2</sub> climate from five different general circulation models (GCMs) are presented. Regional patterns of vegetation change and annual runoff are surprisingly consistent among the five GCM scenarios, given the general lack of consistency in predicted changes in regional precipitation patterns. Two factors contribute to the consistency among the GCMs of the regional ecological impacts of climatic change: (1) regional, temperature-induced increases in potential evapotranspiration (PET) tend to more than offset regional increases in precipitation; and (2) the interplay between the general circulation and the continental margins and mountain ranges produces a fairly stable pattern of regionally specific sensitivity to climatic change. Two areas exhibiting among the greatest sensitivity to drought-induced forest decline are eastern North America and eastern Europe to western Russia. Regional runoff patterns exhibit much greater spatial variation in the sign of the response than do the LAI changes, even though they are deterministically linked in the model. Uncertainties with respect to PET or vegetation water use efficiency calculations can alter the simulated sign of regional responses, but the relative responses of adjacent regions appear to be largely a function of the background climate, rather than the vagaries of the GCMs, and are intrinsic to the landscape. Thus, spatial uncertainty maps can be drawn even under the current generation of GCMs.
3235981|We estimated, using logistic regression techniques, the realized niches of the four dominant species in an experimental marsh complex located in the Delta Marsh, Manitoba, Canada. These models were then used to predict the probability of occurrence of these species in selected elevation ranges when water levels were raised in 1985 either 0, 30 or 60 cm above the long-term normal water level. These realized-niche models were calculated using elevation and species data collected in 1980. After having been eliminated by two years of deep flooding, the emergent vegetation in this complex had been re-established during a drawdown beginning in either 1983 or 1984. Our hypothesis was that from 1985 to 1989 the frequencies of occurrence of species in selected elevation ranges would converge to their probabilities predicted from the 1980 logistic models. This was not borne out by our results. Actual frequencies and predicted probabilities of occurrence of a species were similar at best less than 40 % and then mostly in the control (0 cm) treatment. The realized-niche models were not adequate to predict the distribution of emergents after an increase in water level in the short term because the emergent species did not migrate upslope. Emergent species in the medium and high treatments either (1) died out - Scolochloa festucacea and Scirpus lacustris - after 3 yr because they could not survive permanent flooding, (2) stayed where they were - Phragmites australis - because they were unable to move upslope through clonal growth, or (3) became more wide-spread - Typha glauca - only because of the expansion of small local populations already established in 1985 in areas dominated formerly by other species.
25549274|Question: Can lichen communities be used to assess shortand long-term factors affecting seral quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides) communities at the landscape scale? Location: Bear River Range, within the Rocky Mountains, in northern Utah and southern Idaho, USA. Method: Forty-seven randomly selected mid-elevation aspen stands were sampled for lichens and stand conditions. Plots were characterized according to tree species cover, basal area, stand age, bole scarring, tree damage, and presence of lichen species. We also recorded ammonia emissions with passive sensors at 25 urban and agricultural sites throughout an adjacent populated valley upwind of the forest stands. Nonmetric multi-dimensional scaling (NMS) ordination was used to evaluate an array of 20 variables suspected to influence lichen communities. Results: In NMS, forest succession explained most variance in lichen composition and abundance, although atmospheric nitrogen from local agricultural and urban sources also significantly influenced the lichen communities. Abundance of nitrophilous lichen species decreased with distance from peak ammonia sources and the urban center in all aspen succession classes. One lichen, Phaeophysica nigricans, was found to be an effective bioindicator of nitrogen loading. Conclusions: Lichen communities in this landscape assessment of aspen forests showed clear responses to long-term (stand succession) and short-term (nitrogen deposition) influences. At the same time, several environmental factors (e.g. tree damage and scarring, distance to valley, topography, and stand age) had little influence on these same lichen communities. We recommend further use of epiphytic lichens as bioindicators of dynamic forest conditions.
3236354| The demography of woody desert plants along the Colorado River in Grand Canyon, Arizona, USA, was analyzed using 355 pairs of replicated photographs taken as long ago as 1872. Longevity, recruitment, and mortality were determined for 38 species characteristic of ungrazed desert scrub. Individual plants that survived 100 yr or more included Acacia greggii, Ambrosia dumosa, Atriplex canescens, A. confertifolia, Echinocactus polycephalus, Ephedra spp., Fouquieria splendens, Larrea tridentata, Lycium andersonii, Opuntia acanthocarpa, O. basilaris, O. erinacea, Pleuraphis rigida, and Yucca angustissima. This is the first evidence of long lifespan for most of these species, particularly the succulents. Most of the long-lived species registered overall increases in population during the past century. Only four species with lifespans  100 yr had a net loss of individuals between 1889 and the present, and only two decreased between 1923 and the present. It seems likely that climatic fluctuations over the past century are largely responsible for these recruitment and mortality patterns; however, nurse plants, predation refuges and other biotic factors may also play a role. 
3236829|In arid zones dominant woody plants are capable of causing changes in microclimate and soil properties likely to affect species composition, as well as the establishment and spatial distribution of plant species. In North American and European deserts species richness appears to be higher under the canopy of shrubs and trees, in contrast with Chilean deserts where it seems to be lower. Since Prosopis flexuosa (Fabaceae, Mimosoideae) is the most conspicuous tree in the central Monte desert, Argentina, we analysed the effect of this species on the composition and abundance of the shrub and herbaceous layers and on soil properties. We considered two mesohabitats: 'under P. flexuosa canopy' and 'intercanopy areas'. In addition, we analysed the differences between two microhabitats under canopies: 'northern part of the canopy' and 'southern part of the canopy'. Results indicate that species composition and soil properties are affected by both mesohabitats and microhabitats. We found a higher number of shrubs under canopies, whereas that of grasses and perennial forbs increased in intercanopy areas. Concentrations of organic matter, nitrogen, potassium and phosphorus, factors limiting biological productivity in Monte desert soils, were significantly higher under than outside P. flexuosa canopies. Electrical conductivity and concentrations of Na<sup>++</sup>, Ca<sup><sup></sup></sup>{++}, Mg<sup>++</sup> were higher in the northern than in the southern microhabitats. No differences in species richness, evenness or diversity were found between mesohabitats or between microhabitats. We conclude that P. flexuosa modifies the spatial pattern of plant species in the shrub and herbaceous layers and the chemical conditions of the soil, generating spatial heterogeneity on different scales.
41059619|Questions: What is the current distribution of pine and oak species along environmental gradients in southern Spain? Do pine and oak regeneration niches differ from the environmental niches of adults? Is oak species regeneration favoured under the canopy of pine forests? Location: Forest areas of Andalusia (~87 600 km, southern Spain). Methods: We compiled extensive forest inventory data to explore differences in abundance (basal area, mha) patterns of adults (dbh > 7.4 cm) and regeneration (dbh  7.4 cm) of five pine and five oak species. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) and generalized linear models were applied to explore species-environment relationships along climatic, edaphic, topographic and fire-frequency gradients. Results: Both pines and oaks segregated along complex environmental gradients, with pines generally dominating in more severe (colder and drier) environments, while oaks dominated in milder, wetter winter areas. In 40-55% of mature pine stands there was a lack of regeneration in the understorey, while in two oak species (Q. suber and Q. canariensis) 70% of stands did not show regeneration. Pine recruits were found at a higher frequency and abundance under the canopy of their congeners, whereas some oaks (Q. ilex) had greater regeneration under mixed pine-oak canopies. Conclusions: Climatic limitations and soil properties partly explained the regional distribution of pines and oaks. We found evidence for an upward shift of Q. ilex recruits towards areas with colder conditions in pine forests, which could be explained by a possible facilitative effect of the pine canopy on seedling establishment.
3236700|We studied the germinable soil seed bank of tall-tussock grasslands along an altitudinal gradient in the mountains of central Argentina. We selected 10 sampling plots at three altitudinal levels (1200 m, 1600 m and 2200 m). We assessed the composition of the established vegetation and took ten compound soil samples (0 - 5 cm depth) at each plot in autumn and spring. The soil samples were sieved, chilled, and incubated in a glasshouse to assess the composition of the seed bank. The similarity between the composition of the seed bank flora and that of the established vegetation was low throughout the gradient. Most species did not change their seed bank strategy along the gradient. Seed bank richness and density increased with altitude. Most species had a persistent seed bank at all altitudinal levels, and the proportion of such species increased with altitude. These results suggest that a cold climate directly and/or indirectly favours the formation of seed banks and seed persistence in the soil.
3235862| A survey of high-rank syntaxa of vegetation of European springs (class Montio-Cardaminetea) is presented. It shows the complexity of the class and the relations between the units. More than 1200 relevs were arranged into six phytosociological tables, each representing an alliance. A synoptic table comprising all alliances is presented. Bryophytes are the most important group in most of the communities, both regarding biomass and cover. The Adiantetea and the Montio-Cardaminetea are combined into one class. As to floristics and ecology, there are no obvious reasons to distinguish more than one order in this class. The vegetation of European springs is divided into six alliances: (1) Adiantion, split into two new suballiances, Adiantenion and Lycopodo-Cratoneurenion; (2) Cratoneurion commutati; (3) Cardamino-Montion - incl. three new suballiances: Mniobryo-Epilobienion hornemannii, Swertio-Anisothecienion and Cardamino-Montenion; (4) Dermatocarpion; (5) Epilobio nutantis-Montion; (6) Caricion remotae - incl. two new suballiances: Caricenion remotae and Cratoneuro filicini-Calthenion laetae. The alliances are floristically and ecologically characterized and their distributions in Europe shown on maps. 
3236425|A new vegetation classification method, COnstrained-INdicator-SPecies-ANalysis (COINSPAN) is introduced as an elaboration of Two-Way-INdicator-SPecies-ANalysis (TWINSPAN). Instead of operating on the bisection of a primary Correspondence Analysis ordination axis, at each level of division, COINSPAN bisects a primary Canonical Correspondence Analysis axis. The associated computer program, of the same name, performs both analyses as options. COINSPAN is applied to a simple model data set, with two constraining gradients, and to a pine forest vegetation survey in order to illustrate the functioning and utility of the method.
3236462|The peatlands of Atlantic Canada are classified in four plant alliances, consisting of 10 plant associations. The four plant alliances comprise the dry bog communities (Kalmio-Cladonion Wells 1981), wet bog communities (Scirpo-Sphagnion Wells 1981), hummock and ridge communities of slope and string fens (Betulo-Sphagnion Wells all. nov.), and poor, intermediate and rich fen plant communities (Scirpo-Myricion Wells 1981). Distribution maps are presented for releves in each of the 10 associations. Based on species distributions, floristic regions are defined for peatlands in Atlantic Canada. Nutritional characteristics are also described for each plant association. pH and total soil concentrations of calcium, nitrogen and iron proved reliable in separating bog from fen. A boundary between ombrotrophic peatlands and minerotrophic peatlands is suggested, based on a soil pH of 4.0, total soil concentrations of 3.0 mg g<sup>-1</sup> Ca, 4.0 mg g<sup>-1</sup> Fe, 13.0 mg g<sup>-1</sup> N and a Ca/Mg ratio of 2.5. Comparisons between the syntaxa for peatlands in Atlantic Canada and those in Europe are discussed for higher taxa. The possibility of establishing a new order (Chamaedaphno-Scirpetalia Wells ord. nov.) for peatlands in Atlantic Canada is also discussed.
40295845|Questions: Can small and isolated high-conservation value forests (e. g. designated woodland key habitats) maintain old-growth forest characteristics and functionality in fragmented landscapes? To what extent have past disturbances (natural and anthropogenic) influenced the development of old-growth characteristics of these forests? How long does it take for selectively cut stands to attain conditions resembling old-growth forests? Location: Southern boreal zone of central Sweden. Methods: We linked multiple lines of evidence from historical records, biological archives, and analyses of current forest structure to reconstruct the forest history of a boreal landscape, with special emphasis on six remaining core localities of high-conservation value forest stands. Results: Our reconstructions revealed that several of these stands experienced wildfires up to the 1890s; all had been selectively harvested in the late 1800s; and all underwent substantial structural and compositional reorganization over the following 100-150 years. This time interval was sufficient to recover considerable amounts of standing and downed dead wood (mean 60.3 m ha ), a range of tree ages and sizes (mean basal area 32.6 m ha), and dominance of shade-tolerant spruce. It was insufficient to obtain clearly uneven tree age structures and large (> 45cm diameter) living and dead trees. Thus, these forests contain some, but not all, important compositional and structural attributes of old-growth forests, their abundance being dependent on the timing and magnitude of past natural and anthropogenic disturbances. Our landscape-level analysis showed marked compositional and structural differences between the historical forest landscape and the present landscape, with the latter having a greater proportion of young forests, introduction of nonnative species, and lack of large trees and dead wood. Conclusions: The remnant high-conservation value stands were not true representatives of the pre-industrial forests, but represent the last vestige of forests that have regenerated naturally and maintained a continuous tree cover. These traits, coupled with their capacity for old-growth recovery, make them valuable focal areas for conservation.
3236760|We examined the distribution of tree species across five habitats in 69 small plots within a single watershed of the Gunung Palung National Park, West Kalimantan, Indonesia (GPNP). The spatially complex distribution and close proximity of habitats provided an opportunity to test habitat specificity of tree species across strong environmental gradients, in a situation where dispersal into 'inappropriate' habitat should not be a rare event. Habitat had a weak influence on community structure, although species diversity was lower in the alluvium and peat habitats. Association tests based on two randomization models (spatially independent and explicit) were used to examine habitat distribution of 55 'common' and 142 'frequent' taxa. The general patterns were similar in the two models but the interpretation of specific patterns depended greatly on assumptions about dispersal ability. A majority (67%) of the common species was significantly associated with a single habitat, while few were restricted to one habitat. A small proportion (16%) of the species appear to be habitat generalists. The peat habitat had the most profound effect on species distribution. Overall, a large amount of variation was found in the degree of habitat specificity, even within speciose groups. No obvious evolutionary or ecological correlates with degree of habitat specificity were found. These results suggest that a mixture of stochastic and deterministic processes determine species distribution even across strong environmental gradients.
3237021| We studied plant diversity of the understory vascular vegetation in 40 yr-old plantations (immature stands) and old-growth forest stands on southwestern Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. Site-specific comparisons using several indices of species diversity were made between: (1) immature stands segregated according to the canopy cover and dominant canopy tree species; and (2) immature and old-growth stands. There were no significant differences (P < 0.05) among immature stands in species richness (S) and the Shannon-Wiener index (H), in relation to the canopy cover or in S, H and evenness (E) in relation to the dominant canopy tree species. Using the same indices, the plant diversity varied with edaphic conditions (represented by five site associations) and time (represented by two developmental stages). At both stand- and site levels, plant diversity increased with increasing soil moisture, from slightly dry to moist sites, and with increasing plant-available soil nitrogen in both immature and old-growth stands; and the plant diversity of immature stands across the sites studied was considerably lower than in old-growth stands, regardless of site association. The indices of plant diversity, floristic similarity indices, and species turnover rates indicated that the immature stands had their plant diversity at a minimum, but a drastic loss of diversity expected in the stem exclusion stage had not materialized. We attributed decline in plant diversity to the absence of old-growth structural features in immature stands. Several measures to foster the stand-level diversity were proposed. 
3237167|Our objective was to evaluate the effects of burrowing activities by banner-tail kangaroo rats (Dipodomys spectabilis Merriam) on plant community structure and species dominance for two patch types at the ecotone between shortgrass steppe and desert grassland in New Mexico, USA. 10 mounds produced by kangaroo rats were selected in patches dominated by Bouteloua gracilis (the dominant in shortgrass steppe communities) and 10 mounds were selected in patches dominated by B. eriopoda (the dominant in Chihuahuan desert grasslands). Plant cover and density by species were sampled from three locations associated with each mound: the mound proper, the edge of the mound in the transition area, and the off-mound vegetation. Similar cover of B. eriopoda for the edges of mounds in both patch types indicates the ability of this species to respond to animal disturbances regardless of the amount of cover in the surrounding undisturbed vegetation. By contrast, cover of B. gracilis was low for all mounds and mound edges in patches dominated by this species. Much higher cover of B. eriopoda on mound edges compared to the undisturbed vegetation in B. gracilis-dominated patches indicates that kangaroo rats have important positive effects on this species. Lower cover of perennial grasses and higher cover of forbs, shrubs, and succulents on the edges of mounds in B. eriopoda-dominated patches compared to patches dominated by B. gracilis indicate the importance of surrounding vegetation to plant responses on disturbed areas. Our results show that kangaroo rats have important effects on both species dominance and composition for different patch types, and may provide a mechanism for small-scale dominance patterns at an ecotone; thus providing further support for their role as keystone species in desert grasslands.
40925486|Question: Does measurement of plant cover have consistent and comparable definitions in its applications for vegetation response in monitoring and research? Methods: A survey of the sources of definitions of cover was completed to determine common definitions and evaluate the comparability of the resulting cover methods between 1950 and 2007. Results: Methods for estimating and defining cover have varied, and relatively few citations often form the core of widely used sampling methods. Three common definitions were derived: Aerial cover -the proportion of each species at the uppermost surface of the vegetation (e.g., the aerial view), Species coverthe cover of the upper layer of each plant species independent of overhanging cover of other species, and Leaf cover - all the layers of each species from the uppermost surface to the surface of the soil (related to leaf area index). Aerial cover is the least time consuming and most easily linked to imagery, but emphasizes the dominant plants. Species cover better expresses the response of individual species but can be substantially more time consuming than aerial cover. Leaf cover correlates well to plant volume, biomass, and physiology, but can be prohibitively time consuming to collect. Conclusions: For common monitoring goals, such as species immigration (invasion) and emigration (loss of desired species), species cover can be a better choice. Publications often do not distinguish the type of cover being reported and this can lead to difficulty because the three cover methods do not result in directly comparable data, except in some unusual situations.
3235640|In a study of the relationships between vegetation and environment in North Snowdonian grasslands, 166 quadrats on 10 altitudinal transects were analysed with Detrended Correspondence Analysis, Detrended Canonical Correspondence Analysis and Fuzzy Set Ordination. These techniques provide consistent results. DCCA and FSO, both using floristic community data and environmental information, simplify the procedure of vegetation-environment analysis. FSO analyses and synthesizes ecological information; it may yield more reasonable and interpretable results.
3237004|Relationships between species richness and biomass are common, but the causes remain controversial. It has been suggested that a hump-shaped relationship may be an artifact of few individuals in both low and high biomass samples. We used rarefaction to standardize species richness to a constant number of individuals in 99 quadrat samples from relict calcareous prairies. Animal ecologists have long used rarefaction to standardize species richness to a constant number of individuals. The expected species richness of each quadrat was determined for 10, 25, 50, 100 and 150 individual plant ramets using the EcoSim program which resampled the data in each quadrat 1000 times. Because we had few samples with biomass over 300 g/m<sup>2</sup>, our data showed a positive relationship between species richness and biomass. The relationship was largely unaffected by rarefaction. Even at the most extreme case of rarefying to 10 individual ramets, the relationship was clear. Monte Carlo covariance tests did not change the shape of the richness-biomass relationship and significant correlations between observed species richness and rarified species richness suggest that the number of individuals had negligible effects on richness patterns. Because the data had no strong declining phase, these results may not apply to the declining phase of a humped relationship. The results are discussed with reference to other methods of standardizing species richness. Most importantly, we suggest that expressing species richness per number of individuals is inappropriate and may lead to incorrect conclusions.
3237291|Generalized additive, generalized linear, and classification tree models were developed to predict the distribution of 20 species of chaparral and coastal sage shrubs within the southwest ecoregion of California. Mapped explanatory variables included bioclimatic attributes related to primary environmental regimes: averages of annual precipitation, minimum temperature of the coldest month, maximum temperature of the warmest month, and topographically-distributed potential solar insolation of the wettest quarter (winter) and of the growing season (spring). Also tested for significance were slope angle (related to soil depth) and the geographic coordinates of each observation. Models were parameterized and evaluated based on species presence/absence data from 906 plots surveyed on National Forest lands. Although all variables were significant in at least one of the species' models, those models based only on the bioclimatic variables predicted species presence with 3 - 26 % error. While error would undoubtedly be greater if the models were evaluated using independent data, results indicate that these models are useful for predictive mapping - for interpolating species distribution data within the ecoregion. All three methods produced models with similar accuracy for a given species; GAMs were useful for exploring the shape of the response functions, GLMs allowed those response functions to be parameterized and their significance tested, and classification trees, while sometimes difficult to interpret, yielded the lowest prediction errors (lower by 3 - 5 %).
3236299|We studied the effect of flooding frequency on the vegetation of the northern part of the Delta region in the southwestern Netherlands under different grazing and soil conditions using Detrended Correspondence Analysis. We found grazing and frequency of flooding to be the most important environmental factors that determine zonation of vegetation types in the area. We used logistic regression to describe the probability of occurrence of 25 vegetation types in relation to the frequency of flooding under grazed and ungrazed conditions. We implemented the vegetation response model in a Geographical Information System so as to calculate new vegetation maps of outer dike areas under different flooding regimes. The model will be used for evaluation of the effects of different sluice management schemes on outer dike plant zonation in the research area.
3237048|We tested the hypothesis that seedling establishment, the critical stage in the invasion of grassland by shrubs, is limited by competition with perennial grasses in seasonally wet/dry savannas. We placed seeds of two invasive exotic shrubs - Cryptostegia grandiflora, a woody vine, and Acacia nilotica, an arborescent legume - into pots with a wide range of existing above- and below-ground herbaceous biomass provided by either a tussock or a stoloniferous perennial grass. We also imposed different levels of watering frequency (5, 10 and 21 d), nutrient addition (+ and -) and grass clipping intensity (no clipping, clipped to 5 cm and clipped to 25 cm). There was no effect of any treatment on shrub seedling emergence or survival and all of the seedlings that emerged survived the 90-d growing period. Herbaceous competition also failed to have an effect on biomass accumulation in shrub seedlings. More frequent watering significantly increased above- and below-ground biomass accumulation for both shrub species and nutrient addition significantly increased Cryptostegia biomass accumulation. Based on these results, we question the proposition that reduction in competition by herbs via livestock grazing has been a significant factor in determining the rate or pattern of exotic shrub increase in the seasonally wet/dry tropics. We also question the suitability of the two-layer soil moisture hypothesis as a basis for management practices to control the ingress of woody species into grasslands and open savannas.
23012493|Question: To what extent do low flammability fuel traits enhance the survival and persistence of fire-sensitive (slowing-growing, non-serotinous, non-resprouting) dominant trees in highly flammable landscapes, under varying fire-weather conditions? Location: Mixed forests co-dominated by flammable Eucalyptus species and fire-sensitive Callitris glaucophylla in Pilliga State Forest, southeast Australia. Methods: The influence of vegetation composition (relative abundance of Callitris and flammable Eucalyptus) on fire intensity and survival of fire-sensitive Callitris was assessed across gradients of Callitris abundance in mixed EucalyptusCallitris forests that burned under low-moderate and extreme fire-weather conditions. Results: In areas that burned under low-moderate fire-weather conditions, as Callitris abundance increased, fire intensity declined and Callitris survival increased (46%). By comparison, in extreme fire-weather conditions, lower fire intensity at higher levels of Callitris abundance, was not sufficient to increase Callitris survival (4%). Callitris survival was also positively related to trunk diameter. Ground fuel type, but not biomass, varied with vegetation composition. Conclusions: These results demonstrate that flammable feedbacks, mediated by low flammability fuel traits of dominant trees, can provide an important mechanism for enhancing the survival and persistence of slow-growing, non-serotinous, non-resprouting, fire-killed trees in highly flammable landscapes. By modifying vegetation and fuel structure, patches of fire-sensitive Callitris reduce fire intensity, and thereby reduce Callitris mortality, enhancing population persistence. However, this feedback loop is insufficient to ensure Callitris survival under extreme fire-weather conditions, when fire intensity is greater. After burning, stands remain vulnerable to future fires, until trees grow large enough to modify fuel levels and reduce stand flammability.
3236631|Local variation in individual density, species composition, species richness and species diversity of terrestrial pteridophytes were studied at four sites in the tropical lowland rain forest of western Amazonia. 15 568 pteridophyte individuals representing 40 species were recorded in four plots. The variability among subplots within the same plot was considerable in all the characteristics measured (number of individuals, number of species, species diversity); the square 1-ha plot was more homogeneous in these respects than any of the three 5 m by 1300 m transects. Species richness was affected by the density of individuals both within and among plots. Density of individuals was not affected by topographical position within any of the plots, whereas in some of the plots both species richness and species diversity were. Clustering and ordination analyses showed that floristically similar subplots could be found in different plots: although there was a tendency for subplots from the same plot to be floristically similar and therefore to group together, many recognized groups included subplots from two or more plots. Both within and among plots, the floristic differences corresponded to topographic position and were probably related to soil drainage. This was also evident in that the abundance patterns of many species followed the topography.
4096731|Question: Along river floodplains lower distribution limits of plant species seem largely determined by their tolerance to rarely occurring floods in the growing season. Such distribution patterns remain fixed for many years suggesting additional effects of winter floods at lower positions. Our objective was to investigate the direct and indirect effects of winter floods on colonization of floodplains in a series of field experiments. Location: River Rhine, The Netherlands. Methods: We measured the direct effects of winter floods on seedling survival and seed removal and survival at low and high floodplain elevation. Indirect effects of winter flooding through changes in the soil were investigated by measuring seedling emergence on soil transplants that were exchanged between high and low floodplain elevation. To investigate indirect effects of floods on the germination environment through changes in the vegetation structure, we measured the effects of vegetation removal on recruitment of sown species. Results: Recruitment was seed limited at both floodplain elevations. An additional effect of vegetation removal on seedling emergence was also observed. Soil types from both zones did not differently affect seedling emergence. Seeds were not removed from the soil surface by a single winter flood. Moreover, seeds remained viable in the soil for at least two years, while the experimental plots were flooded several times during the experimental period. During one of those floods a thick sand layer was deposited at the low zone and subsequently no seedlings were observed anymore. Conclusions: Colonization of low floodplain zones in years between subsequent summer floods is prevented by seed limitation while the direct effects of winter floods are limited except for irregularly occurring sand depositions.
25549234|Questions: What are the colonization trends in vegetated vs. bare-ground plots over a 10-year period in a central Alpine glacier foreland? What are the long-term effects of artificial seed addition to these plots? Location: Glacier foreland of the Rotmoosferner in the Central Alps, Obergurgl, Tyrol, Austria, 2380 - 2400 m a.s.l. Methods: A total of 40 permanent plots were established on moraines ice-free for 35 and 50 years on vegetated and bare-ground areas. Half of them were treated with a seed mixture in 1996 and 1997. Number and cover of the species were recorded in 1996 and from 2002/2003 to 2006. Results: Species richness doubled in the control plots and tripled in seeded plots on the 35-year-ice-free moraine. On the 50-year-ice-free moraine the increase in species number was more modest. Significant site, seeding and time effects were found. Seed addition had no effects in the bare-ground plots on the older moraine and low effects in those on the younger moraine. All plots showed significant changes in cover of single species. The pioneer species decreased significantly in both moraines, in the control as well as in the seeded plots. A disappearance during the next years is predicted. Conclusions: Colonization in bare-ground plots is limited by a lack of safe sites, whereas vegetated plots facilitate recruitment and establishment. Colonization on the glacier foreland is also dispersal limited. Seed addition enhanced the presence of already established species, and late successional species were newly introduced.
40925476|Questions: To what extent do plant species traits, including life history, life form, and disturbance response characteristics, affect the degree to which species distributions are determined by physical environmental factors? Is the strength of the relationship between species distribution and environment stronger in some disturbance-response types than in others? Location: California southwest ecoregion, USA. Methods: We developed species distribution models (SDMs) for 45 plant species using three primary modeling methods (GLMs, GAMs, and Random Forests). Using AUC as a performance measure of prediction accuracy, and measure of the strength of species-environment correlations, we used regression analyses to compare the effects of fire disturbance response type, longevity, dispersal mechanism, range size, cover, species prevalence, and model type. Results: Fire disturbance response type explained more variation in model performance than any other variable, but other species and range characteristics were also significant. Differences in prediction accuracy reflected variation in species life history, disturbance response, and rarity. AUC was significantly higher for longer-lived species, found at intermediate levels of abundance, and smaller range sizes. Models performed better for shrubs than sub-shrubs and perennial herbs. The disturbance response type with the highest SDM accuracy was obligate-seeding shrubs with ballistic dispersal that regenerate via fire-cued germination from a dormant seed bank. Conclusions: The effect of species characteristics on predictability of species distributions overrides any differences in modeling technique. Prediction accuracy may be related to how a suite of species characteristics co-varies along environmental gradients. Including disturbance response was important because SDMs predict the realized niche. Classification of plant species into disturbance response types may provide a strong framework for evaluating performance of SDMs.
3236056|A simple method is described to analyze plant species abundance data with many zero values. To investigate the impact of an environmental factor on rare species, two subsets of sampling plots are selected pair-wise from the original data set. They differ in the value of the particular factor under consideration but are similar with respect to all other factors. Subsequently, the botanical composition of these subsets, including rare species, is compared using non-parametric tests. An example is given from a study on ditch bank vegetation. Some limitations, and a method for taking into account the dependence of the statistical tests, are discussed.
4499222| Question: Factors influencing seedling establishment are known to vary between open sites and those protected by plant cover. In many desert regions, protected microhabitats below shrubs are essential for establishment of many cactus species. Very little is known about these factors for Andean cacti and how the importance of vegetation cover varies with cactus species. Are Andean cacti associated more frequently to vegetation cover than to open ground? Are they associated to certain shrub species? Is the distributional pattern in relation to cover similar for different cactus species? In what microhabitat (below or away from shrubs) are cactus seeds more abundant? These questions are addressed for the case of an Andean semi-desert. Location: Semi-arid tropical Andes, La Paz department, Bolivia. Methods: We examined 132 isolated shrubs  50 cm along a line across two microhabitats: areas below and away from shrubs/trees. Shrub crown size was measured. The among-shrub samples were taken from open spaces contiguous to each of the sampled shrubs. In both microhabitats, all cactus species were recorded. The cardinal direction of the cacti was also registered. Correlation between canopy diameter and number of beneficiaries was evaluated for Prosopis flexuosa. The cactus seed bank in each microhabitat was also studied. Results and Conclusions: The four cactus species found behaved differently in relation to shrub canopies. These distributional differences could be due to differences in growth form. Columnar cacti apparently need the shade of shrubs. Only the columnar species is able to grow near the base of the tallest nurse species. The opuntioid cacti studied seem more facultative: although apparently preferring shrub under-canopies, they are able to establish in open ground. The globose cactus is the most indifferent to the presence of plant cover. These patterns parallel others found in North America. The capacity of different cacti to appear in open spaces could be related to vegetative propagation, and not necessarily to seedling tolerance of heat. 
3236581| In the framework of the European Vegetation Survey common data standards are proposed for recording phytosociological relevs for syntaxonomical classification. The authors wish to establish the notion that common data standards for recording phytosociological data can only be advantageous for advancing the credibility and application of vegetation science, and may stimulate other projects. 
3235922|In a 1-ha plot in an unflooded moist tropical forest in Reserva de Produccion <tex-math>$Faun\acutep{i}stica$</tex-math> Cuyabeno in Amazonian Ecuador, 96 species of vascular herbaceous plants were found rooted in the ground; they were all perennials; 25 species were pteridophytes, representing 11 families, 71 species (14 families) were angiosperms. Araceae, Marantaceae, and Poaceae were the most important angiosperm families. The total abundance of the ground herbs was 10 960 individuals, the total cover was 250 m<sup>2</sup>, or 2.5% of the 1-ha plot. Species of ground herbs exhibit two major life-form strategies: the obligate terrestrial species (59%) are restricted to the ground; the facultative terrestrial species (41 %) have climbing and epiphytic individuals as well. Difference in life-form strategy as well as difference in edaphic specialization along a topographic gradient are two factors that may enhance the number of coexisting species within the 1-ha sample plot.
4499271|Question: Phytogenic mounds (nebkhas) - the natural accumulation of wind-blown sediments within or around the canopies of plants - have been proposed as important structures for locally maintaining high species richness in coastal and arid ecosystems. Nebkhas are assumed to increase habitat heterogeneity, but what is the importance of the nebkha host species relative to other nebkha characteristics in determining the associated plant assemblages? Are some host species more effective in creating diversity hotspots, or does a single species-area relationship apply to all nebkhas, regardless of host species? Can the influence of the host be ascribed to its indirect effects on abiotic attributes of the nebkha complex? Methods and location: We investigated plant species richness and composition on nebkhas around six psammophytic species on Mediterranean coastal dunes of the Sinai Peninsula. Results: Plant species richness was significantly related to nebkha size by the single power function according to the general prediction of island biogeography theory, but this relationship was modified - though to a limited degree - by nebkha host species identity. Canonical Correspondence Analysis revealed that nebkha host species identity and nebkha environmental and non-environmental factors significantly explained species composition on the nebkhas, but host species identity did so to a greater extent. The latter might reflect differences in seed trapping ability or free space for colonization between host species. Conclusion: Differences in community composition and richness among nebkhas formed by different host species represent a key factor in the maintenance of plant diversity on arid coastal dunes.
40295840|Questions: 1. How big is the difference in the herbaceous layer composition between flooded and unflooded stands? 2. Are there species or species groups which have an affinity to ancient vs. recent forests in stands with different water regimes? 3. Are patterns of life history traits different between flooded and unflooded stands as well as between ancient and recent forests in stands with a different water regime? Location: Floodplain forests in the Middle Elbe region and district of Leipzig, Central Germany. Methods: The herbaceous layer was studied in randomly selected quadrats of 9 m in 2000 and 2001. Six ancient (
3237322|The tree population size structure and relationship between tree diameter and age were examined in a subalpine fen and surrounding Picea-Abies forest in northern Colorado. The fen grades from a sedge fen, through an ecotone, to a treed fen (i.e. fen colonized by trees). Tree growth rate varies across the vegetational gradient, with the sedge fen having the slowest growth, and the upland forest having the fastest growth. Differences in growth rate are related to the average size of peat hummocks, with areas containing tall hummocks exhibiting the highest tree growth rates. Size structures display the characteristic reverse-J distribution generally indicative of stable populations, but forest vegetation is expanding into the open regions of the fen, and within the treed fen an increase in Abies lasiocarpa is occurring. These changes are primarily attributed to a positive feedback situation wherein the fen's surface is built up by peat accumulation. Distinct hummocks form first on the open fen but then coalesce to form raised peat islands in the treed fen. This new substrate provides habitat with a comparatively low water table and allows the growth of mesophytic forest vegetation. A pathway for this vegetational development is proposed.
3236987| We evaluated variability in cover estimation data obtained by (1) two sampling teams who double sampled plots and (2) one team that used two methods (line intercepts and visual estimation of cover classes) to characterize vegetation of herbaceous wetlands. Species richness and cover estimates were similar among teams and among methods, but one sampling team scored cover higher than the other. The line intercept technique yielded higher cover estimates but lower species richness estimates than the cover class method. Cluster analyses of plots revealed that 36% and 11% of plots sampled consecutively by two teams or using two methods, respectively, were similar enough in species composition and abundance to be paired together in the resulting clustering tree. Simplifying cover estimate data to presence/absence increased the similarity among both teams and methods at the plot scale. Teams were very similar in their overall characterization of sites when cover estimation data were used, as assessed by cluster analysis, but methods agreed best on their overall characterization of sites when only presence/absence data were considered. Differences in abundance estimates as well as pseudoturnover contribute to variability. For double sampled plots, pseudoturnover was 19.1%, but 57.7% of pseudoturnover cases involved taxa with  0.5% cover while only 3.4% involved taxa with > 8% cover. We suggest that vegetation scientists incorporate quality control, calibrate observers and publish their results. 
3236192|Some remarks are made on the special problem encountered in arctic plant geography and vegetation studies, viz. the circumpolar distribution of many taxa, which may have been described independently in different countries. 80 % of the arctic bryophytes, 70% of the lichens and 50% of the vascular plants have a circumpolar distribution and especially amongst the vascular plants there are several cases of confusion. Special attention is paid to Dupontia fisheri s.l., Carex aquatilis s.l. and C. bigelowii s.l. Especially for a classification of vegetation based on floristic data, having a list of accepted plant names and knowing their synonyms is of paramount importance. An electronic database for arctic vegetation will foster, if not require, more unified approaches to the description of plant communities.
3236927| We have constructed a phenological model of leaf area index (LAI) of forests based on biological principles of leaf growth. Field data of maximum LAI from 794 plots with mature or nearly mature stand ages over China were used to parameterize and calibrate the model. New measurements of maximum LAI from 16 natural forest sites were used to validate the simulated maximum LAI. The predictions of seasonal LAI patterns were compared with seasonal changes derived from the 1-km satellite AVHRR-NDVI data for nine undisturbed forest sites in eastern China. Then, we used the model to map maximum LAI values for forests in China. Model results indicated that the PhenLAI model generally predicted maximum LAI well for most forest types, even when maximum LAI is > 6. This suggests an ecological approach to the saturation problem in satellite detection of high forest LAI where the relationship between NDVI and LAI reaches an asymptote near a projected LAI value of 5 or 6. Furthermore, the predictions of seasonal LAI patterns in timing and dynamics were generally consistent with the satellite NDVI changes, except for monsoon forest and rain forest in south China where satellite detection of seasonal variation in leaf area is hardly possible. Compared with average projected LAI measurements of global forests from 809 field plots in literature data, our maximum LAI values were close to the global literature data for most of Chinese forests, but the average area-weighted maximum LAI for all forests of China (6.68  3.85) was higher than the global mean LAI of the 809 field plots (5.55  4.14). We believe that forest LAI in China is commonly > 6, especially in tropical rainforest, subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest, temperate mixed forest, and boreal/alpine spruce-fir forest where satellite detection of high LAI is hardly possible. 
3237205|Root harvests and root windows were used to study the influence of fire, mowing and nitrogen additions on root lengths, biomass, and nitrogen content in tall-grass prairie. Four years of nitrogen additions (10 g m<sup>2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) increased below-ground mass by 15 % and nitrogen concentration in that mass by 77 %. In general, live roots and rhizomes exhibit greater increases in nitrogen concentrations than detrital roots and rhizomes. After four years of treatment, live roots and rhizomes immobilized an additional 1.5 to 5 g/m<sup>2</sup> of nitrogen, depending upon specific treatment, while dead roots and rhizomes immobilized an additional 3 to 3.5 g/m<sup>2</sup>. Average root growth parameters, as measured with root windows, were positively correlated with above-ground peak foliage biomass; however, the only significant correlation was between average new root growth and above-ground peak foliage biomass (r = 0.73, p  0.04). Root growth and decay, as measured by annual mean values for eight root windows over a four year interval, were insensitive to climatic and treatment effects.
4499166|Question: Populus tremula (Aspen) is a post-fire successional tree with a large number of host-specific lichens. One, Ramalina sinensis, will colonize very young aspen stands. The apothecia of this species are attacked by a parasitic fungus, Abrothallus suecicus. The incidence and severity of disease caused by this parasite was studied in nine stands between 22 and 180 years old. Location: Central Sweden. Method: Thalli of R. sinensis were randomly sampled from nine stands. Each thallus was weighed and the number of diseased and non-diseased apothecia were scored for each thallus. Results: The data show (1) an increase in both disease incidence and disease severity with increasing stand age; (2) that smaller thalli show an increasing probability of being diseased in older stands; (3) that high disease levels prevail in older aspen stands; and (4) a broad variation in disease severity for thalli of similar size in the four older stands. Conclusions: The studied chronosequence is too short to elucidate whether the Abrothallus-Ramalina system is driven by disease escape in space and time, or co-existence. However, the high disease levels in older stands suggest that conservation programs aiming to sustain this system cannot only focus on preservation of isolated old-growth stands, but also need to incorporate continuous creation of young stands. If succession is ignored, conservation of organisms originally adapted to, now vanishing, large-scale disturbance regimes is likely to fail. We point out the need to assess the role of disease in conservation.
3236419| Classification of the vegetation of the Farasn Islands using TWINSPAN technique resulted in the recognition of seven community types associated with seven different habitat types: silty runnels, palm orchards, rocky plains, rocky plateau crevices, coastal sand dunes, sand plains, and mangroves. These communities were dominated or co-dominated by 13 perennial species; 87 associate species were recorded in the study area with chamaephytes dominating the life-form spectrum. Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) indicated that organic carbon, soil moisture, silt, electrical conductivity and calcium carbonate were the major edaphic gradients controlling the distribution of the plant communities on the Farasn Islands. Higher species richness was recorded in the plant communities inhabiting the palm orchards, the crevices of the rocky plateau, silty runnels, rocky plains and rocky plateau, while those of the mangrove and sand formations (dunes and plains) showed a lower species richness. Soil texture and organic matter are the main factors promoting species diversity in the more diversified habitats, while high salinity and calcium carbonate are the main factors associated with lower species diversity in the less diversified habitats of the study area. 
3236174|The traditional approach to the analysis of species association within a community, based upon co-occurrence in sampling units such as quadrats, has been to test all pairs of species, using a 2 x 2 contingency table for each pair. It has long been recognised that all these rests are not independent of each other, but there is an additional problem in that the association between any particular pair may depend on the combination of the other species that are present or on the environmental factors that determine that combination. We use a 2<sup>k</sup> contingency table to examine this problem and find that pairwise associations are not independent of the other species. The second problem that we consider is the effect of spatial autocorrelation in the data which makes the statistical tests too liberal. In the absence of a derived solution for a deflation factor to correct the test statistic calculated from a 2<sup>k</sup> table, we describe a Monte Carlo approach that provides an approximate solution to this problem. In our data the amount of deflation that is necessary for a 2<sup>k</sup> table is small compared to the amount required for the 2 x 2 tables used to test pairwise association.
3235782|Forests in the southwestern Cape are restricted to sheltered stream banks and patches of rock scree owing to protection from recurrent fire and the more favourable soil moisture conditions in these habitats. The effects of a prescribed burn on 17 March 1987 on the forest / fynbos boundaries in the Swartboskloof catchment are described. No evidence of erosion of the forest edge was recorded, although this could be ascribed to the low intensity of the fire. Soil properties, primarily pH and aluminium and available phosphorus levels, differed markedly between forest and fynbos. It is argued, however, that this is a result, not a cause of vegetation change. Light extinction levels and soil moisture availability after the fire were lower in the fynbos than in the forest, and are considered to preclude incursions of forest species into fynbos of a low post-fire age.
3236289|Using size-distance data we tested the intensity and importance of competition between Hilaria mutica (a tussock grass), Larrea tridentata (a microphyllous shrub) and Opuntia rastrera (a succulent) in the Chihuahuan desert. We also compared the vertical and horizontal distribution of roots to assess the potential degree of overlap in the use of soil resources. The relationships between sizes and distances of nearest-neighbour plants suggested that intraspecific competition is generally more important than interspecific competition. However, evidence of stronger inter than intraspecific competition was found in some cases. Species combinations showing significant interspecific competition involved always Opuntia, whereas Larrea and Hilaria did not influence each other. The analysis of the symmetry of competition showed that Opuntia was adversely affected by the presence of Hilaria or Larrea. Although differences were found in the distribution of roots, the results of the size-distance study support the idea that, (particularly) Opuntia, below-ground niche differentiation is not sufficiently important to totally avoid the negative effects of plant competition.
3236509|Research into interspecific variation in functional traits is important for our understanding of trade-offs in plant design and function, for plant functional type classifications and for understanding ecosystem responses to shifts in species composition. Interspecific rankings of functional traits are a function of, among other factors, ontogenetic or allometric development and environmental effects on phenotypes. For woody plants, which attain large size and long lives, these factors might have strong effects on interspecific trait rankings. This paper is the first to test and compare the correspondence of interspecific rankings between laboratory grown seedlings and field grown adult plants for a wide range of functional leaf and stem traits. It employs data for 90 diverse woody and semi-woody species in a temperate British and a (sub)Mediterranean Spanish flora, all collected according to a strict protocol. For 12 out of 14 leaf and stem traits we found significant correlations between the species ranking in laboratory seedlings and field adults. For leaf size and maximum stem vessel diameter > 50 % of variation in field adults was explained by that in laboratory seedlings. Two important determinants of plant and ecosystem functioning, specific leaf area and leaf N content, had only 27 to 36 and 17 to 31 % of variation, respectively, in field adults explained by laboratory seedlings, owing to subsets of species with particular ecologies deviating from the general trend. In contrast, interspecific rankings for the same traits were strongly correlated between populations of field adults on different geological substrata. Extrapolation of interspecific trait rankings from laboratory seedlings to adult plants in the field, or vice versa, should be done with great caution.
3237249|I studied cryptogam (i.e. bryophyte and lichen) communities on fallen logs in the Duke Forest, Durham and Orange Counties, North Carolina, USA, to determine the relationship of log characteristics and microsite to community composition. Species composition and abundance were estimated for 111 randomly selected fallen logs. Interior wood samples were used to identify the tree species. I determined physical and chemical characteristics for each log, and described the log microsite. Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) detected a clear gradient in cryptogam species composition which is correlated with the species of log and the presence of bark. Communities on hardwood bark, hardwood wood, and pine substrates were the most distinct. CCA also revealed that the microsite is not as closely related to species composition as are substrate pH and density. The majority of the cryptogam species encountered on the fallen logs are commonly reported from other substrates in the forest. However, within the habitat type of fallen logs, several species were apparently restricted to certain substrate types.
3236377| A coupled carbon and water flux model (BIOME2) captures the broad-scale environmental controls on the natural distribution of vegetation structural and phenological types in Australia. Model input consists of latitude, soil type, and mean monthly climate (temperature, precipitation, and sunshine hours) data on a 1/10 grid. Model output consists of foliage projective cover (FPC) for the quantitative combination of plant types that maximizes net primary production (NPP). The model realistically simulates changes in FPC along moisture gradients as a consequence of the trade-off between light capture and water stress. A two-layer soil hydrology model also allows simulation of the competitive balance between grass and woody vegetation including the strong effects of soil texture. 
4096748|Question: Does the seed bank filter annual plant composition and determine cover at the species level? Location: 510 m a.s.l., central Spain. Methods: Seven transects and 136 quadrats were established in a semi-arid gypsum system. Seed bank samples were collected in each quadrat in September. The community was sampled the following April. For each quadrat we measured slope, microslope, landform, elevation, perennial cover and crust cover. Seed bank was estimated using the direct emergence method in glasshouse. Relationship among seed bank and annual community was assessed by Mantel correlations. Above-ground cover for the five most abundant species was modelled with GLMs. Results: Seed bank density was the best predictor for annual community cover; perennial cover and landform were also included in the model. Species composition between September seed bank and April annual community cover was also highly related according to the Mantel test. This relationship was constant, even when the effect due to other abiotic (landform, microslope) or biotic (perennial cover, crust cover) parameters were partialled out. Microslope, elevation and seed bank density were the best parameters to predict spring cover of the five most abundant species. Conclusions: Above-ground and below-ground community compartments are strongly related in terms of abundance and species composition. This relationship is filtered by several environmental factors (e.g. perennial cover, landform, microslope) that exert a strong control at community and individual levels. Our results support the hypothesis that annual community performance is affected by seed bank pattern.
3236493| Description of the spatial structure of vegetation is the first step in generating hypotheses regarding underlying processes. It is also important to take into account variation in spatial structure between different localities to be able to distinguish between life history traits and the influence of environment on population processes. Correlogram analysis was used to examine spatial recruitment and mortality patterns of Aspidosperma polyneuron, an emergent tree species, at Reserva Municipal de Santa Genebra (SG), a forest fragment in southeast Brazil. The spatial structure of individuals was compared with two areas with similar physiognomy, one in the same forest and another at Mata do Ribeiro Cachoeira (RC), a semi-deciduous forest located ca. 14 km away. Seedling, sapling and adult mortality occurred in clumps, while seedling recruitment occurred mostly in one region of the area. The spatial pattern varied among the three study areas, and the differences were higher between fragments than within SG. The adults showed a negative correlation in space with saplings and seedlings in one of the SG areas, which could be a consequence of intraspecific competition, or the influence of density or distance dependent natural enemies. However, this pattern was not observed in the other areas. The results suggest that the mechanisms governing the spatial population dynamics of A. polyneuron vary among nearby and similar localities. 
25173225|Question: In the Northern Hemisphere, species with dispersal limitations are typically absent from secondary forests. In Australia, little is known about dispersal mechanisms and other traits that drive species composition within post-agricultural, secondary forest. We asked whether mode of seed dispersal, nutrient uptake strategy, fire response, and life form in extant vegetation differ according to land-use history. We also asked whether functional traits of Australian species that confer tolerance to grazing and re-colonisation potential differ from those in the Northern Hemisphere. Location: Delatite Peninsula, NE Victoria, Australia. Methods: The vegetation of primary and secondary forests was surveyed using a paired-plot design. Eight traits were measured for all species recorded. ANOSIM tests and Non-metric Multi-dimensional Scaling were used to test differences in the abundance of plant attributes between land-use types. Results: Land-use history had a significant effect on vegetation composition. Specific leaf area (SLA) proved to be the best predictor of response to land-use change. Primary forest species were typically myrmecochorous phanerophytes with low SLA. In the secondary forest, species were typically therophytes with epizoochorous dispersal and high SLA. Conclusions: The attributes of species in secondary forests provide tolerance to grazing suggesting that disturbance caused by past grazing activity determined the composition of these forests. Myrmecochores were rare in secondary forests, suggesting that species had failed to re-colonise due to dispersal limitations. Functional traits that resulted in species loss through disturbance and prevented re-colonisation were different to those in the Northern Hemisphere and were attributable to the sclerophyllous nature of the primary forest.
23012499|Questions: Bush encroachment is a major problem when African savanna ecosystems are used for cattle ranching. How do secondary woodlands develop after ranching is abandoned? What are the patterns and rates of tree mortality and regeneration? Location: Mkwaja Ranch (now part of Saadani National Park) in coastal Tanzania. Methods: Ninety-seven circular plots (4-m radius) were set in secondary Acacia zanzibarica woodland along a gradient of tree density. Variables relating to tree and grass layers and soil characteristics of plots were recorded. Seedlings were counted twice in the wet seasons, and resprouts once. Tree flowering and pod production were assessed during the fruiting season, while survival of trees initially present was recorded after 12 and 32 months. Interrelationships among variables were investigated using multiple linear regression, binary logistic regression and mixed effects models. Results: After 32 months, over one-third of trees in plots had died. Most died after fire, especially on heavy soils, and mortality was significantly related to the tree live biomass ratio and soil conditions. Seed production was very low, especially in denser stands. Numbers of seedlings correlated with soil and grass variables but not with seed rain. Half of trees killed above-ground produced coppice shoots from the base; in contrast, root suckering was independent of topkill. By the end of the study, no seedlings survived and no resprouts emerged above the grass layer. Conclusions: A. zanzibarica woodlands at Mkwaja Ranch were able to develop because of ranching, and can only persist under intensive grazing. The woodlands do not represent a successional stage towards forest and will probably revert to predominantly grassland vegetation within 1020 years unless grazing pressure from wild ungulates increases considerably and/or fire regimes change.
4499174|Question: Predicting the future abundance and distribution of invasive plants requires knowing how they respond to environmental conditions. In arid and semi-arid ecosystems where water is a limiting resource, environmental conditions and disturbance patterns influence invasions by altering acquisition and utilization of water over space and time. We ask: 1. How do variations in climatic and soil properties influence temporal soil water dynamics? 2. How does this variation affect the establishment of Bromus tectorum (cheatgrass), a cool-season annual grass that has successfully colonized much of the U.S. Great Basin? Location: Short-grass Steppe in northeastern Colorado, USA; Arid Lands Ecology reserve in southeastern Washington, USA; and the Patagonian steppe of the Chubut province in Argentina. Methods: We utilized a soil water model to simulate seasonal soil water dynamics in multiple combinations of climatic and soil properties. In addition, we utilized a gap dynamics model to simulate the impact of disturbance regime and seed availability on competition between B. tectorum and native plants. Results: Our results suggest that climate is very important, but that soil properties do not significantly influence the probability of observing conditions suitable for B. tectorum establishment. Results of the plant competition model indicate that frequent disturbance causes more Bromus tectorum in invaded areas and higher seed availability causes faster invasion. Conclusions: These results imply a general framework for understanding Bromus tectorum invasion in which climatic conditions dictate which areas are susceptible to invasion, disturbance regime dictates the severity of invasion and seed availability dictates the speed of invasion.
40295821|Question: Does the proximity of shrubs affect seasonal water stress of young Austrocedrus chilensis trees (a native conifer of the Austral Temperate Forest of South America) in xeric sites? Location: A. chilensis xeric forest in northwest Patagonia, Argentina. Methods: We examined the dependence of predawn twig water potential on tree development (seedling to adult) and proximity to nurse shrubs during spring and summer. We analysed spatial associations of seedlings, saplings and adult trees with nurse shrubs, and also evaluated if trees affected shrub canopy vitality. Results: Water stress in Austrocedrus trees was affected by shrub presence. Small trees (i. e. < 0.5 m in height) growing in the open were most stressed, particularly in summer. Small trees growing within a shrub canopy had low water stress and little change between spring and summer. The opposite trend, however, was true for the medium-height category (i. e. 0.5-1.5 m in height); trees in this size category were more stressed when growing within the shrub canopy than in the open. Larger Austrocedrus trees (i. e.> 2m in height) were not affected by shrub presence. Austrocedrus trees were spatially associated with shrubs in all height classes; however, the percentage of living shrub canopy decreased with tree height. Conclusions: In xeric areas of northwest Patagonia, the strength and direction of interactions between A. chilensis and shrubs, in terms of tree water stress, are dynamic and modulated by tree size and environmental conditions. Overall, positive effects of shrubs on early developmental stages appear to be more important than subsequent negative interactions, since nursing effects could generate a spatial association of shrubs and Austrocedrus trees that persists through later successional stages. These findings shed light on mechanisms behind successional changes, and have important conservation and management implications.
3237162|The contribution of resprouts and seedling recruitment to post-fire regeneration of the South African fynbos conifer Widdringtonia nodiflora was compared eight months after wildfires in 1990. Stems on all trees were killed by fire but resprouting success was > 90 % at all but one site. A demographic study of burned skeletons revealed that prior to these fires, nearly all plants were multi-stemmed (4 - 9 stems/plant) and multi-aged, indicating continuous sprout production between fires. All stems were killed by these 1990 fires and at most sites > 90 % of the stems were burned to ground level. All diameter stems were susceptible to such incineration as, at most sites, there was no difference in average diameter of stems burned to ground level and those left standing. Individual genets usually had all ramets incinerated to ground level or all ramets charred, but intact, suggesting certain micro-sites burned hotter, whereas other sites were somewhat protected. Although not true of the 1990 fires, there was evidence that occasionally Widdringtonia stems may survive fire. At one site, four of the 16 plants sampled had a burned stem twice as old as the oldest burned stem on the other 12 plants at the site, suggesting some stems had survived the previous fire (ca. 1970) and this conclusion was supported by fire-scars on these four stems that dated to ca. 1970. Based on the highly significant correlation between stem diameter and cone density left standing after the 1990 fires, we calculated that for most sites > 80 % of the initial cone crop was incinerated by fire. This is important because we observed a strong relationship between size of the canopy cone crop surviving fire and post-fire seedling recruitment. Under these conditions we hypothesize that sprouting confers a selective advantage to genets when fires cause heavy losses of seed. The infrequent occurrence of sprouting in the Cupressaceae suggests the hypothesis that resprouting is an apomorphic or derived trait in Widdringtonia. Data from this study suggests resprouting provides a selective advantage under severe fynbos fires, which are not only 'stand-replacing fires,' but also are intense enough to incinerate cone-bearing stems.
3237189|Competition is considered an important force in structuring plant communities and in governing niche relations, but communities recovering from disturbance, may be less governed by species interactions and less orderly organized. To address this issue, we studied species richness, abundance and patterns of association between plant species at three spatial scales ( 1 m<sup>2</sup>, 1/25 m<sup>2</sup>, 1/625 m<sup>2</sup>) in two ombrotrophic mires in east-central Sweden. One was at a secondary successional stage following peat extraction 50 yr ago and the other was undisturbed. Peat extraction leads to a change in hydrology which is slowly restored by the formation of new peat. Niche breadth and niche overlap along the gradient of height above the water table were calculated for the five common Sphagnum species occurring at both mires in an attempt to better understand differences in species co-occurrence at each mire. Species cover differed between the mires, and the number of species per plot was higher in the undisturbed community at all scales, suggesting that the degree of species intermingling was greater than at the harvested site. At all scales, the number of non-random associations was higher, and niche overlap lower among ecologically similar species (e.g. hollow Sphagnum species) in the undisturbed mire. These differences indicate that random events are important in colonization, and that biotic interactions between neighbours later result in a higher degree of non-randomness. In addition, we surveyed a number of abandoned peat pit sites to test the effect of disturbance for species composition at a regional scale. Ombrotrophic peat pits contained several Sphagnum species normally associated with minerotrophic mires, and species of wooded mires occurred frequently in peat pits, making them more species-rich than undisturbed bogs. There were also Sphagnum species new to, or rare in, this part of Sweden which indicates effective long-distance dispersal. Even 50 yr after peat extraction had ceased, the vegetation had not recovered to its original composition.
3236233|The dynamics of Vaccinium myrtillus (bilberry) patches were studied in spruce (Picea abies) forest at the higher montane and lower subalpine level in the Tarentaise valley (Savoy, France). Although aerial parts of the shrub may give some indication of age and density of the patches, the annual growth and death of rhizomes are better indicators of patch dynamics. In some cases, dead and young rhizomes may occur simultaneously in the same patch, indicating that growth and death proceed continuously on the inside of dense patches. At mountain sites, slope position of plants significantly influences rhizome growth. A theoretical model of growth of bilberry patches is proposed which takes into account the anisotropic influence of slope and the postulated independence of different rhizome units belonging to the same individual.
3236294|Previous studies on secondary succession in abandoned agricultural land in the Mediterranean area were carried out by the chronosequence method, including data from different sites. A unique opportunity to study secondary succession arose from a situation in which different parts of one homogeneous East-Mediterranean vineyard were abandoned for 5, 8, 15 and 35 yr, and did not suffer from any disturbance subsequently. Most of the perennial species that colonized the abandoned vineyard were fleshy fruited species, which apparently were dispersed by birds from the surrounding maquis into the vineyard. These bird-dispersed species were the first to be established, and were the dominant plant group according to dispersal modes. The abandoned vine plants and their supporting columns provided the birds with perching and feeding sites, enhancing the arrival of bird-dispersed species regardless of their life forms. Under these conditions the most important attribute that affected vegetation dynamics was seed dispersal mode. Trees were among the first to colonize in the vineyard, implying that no facilitation was needed for their establishment. Annual plant species were the only species to disappear during succession. Almost all perennial species which had arrived persisted in the vineyard, and no replacement of perennial species was found. The rate of succession was rapid, as expressed by the short time (8 - 15 yr) needed for the stabilization of species composition, for growth to average height of late succession trees, and for reaching high cover of the invading perennial species in the abandoned vineyard. The secondary succession described above differs from that in the western Mediterranean by the absence of perennial species replacement and its rapid rate. The possible causes are discussed.
23012417|Question: How many vegetation plot observations (relevs) are available in electronic databases, how are they geographically distributed, what are their properties and how might they be discovered and located for research and application? Location: Global. Methods: We compiled the Global Index of Vegetation-Plot Databases (GIVD; http://www.givd.info), an Internet resource aimed at registering metadata on existing vegetation databases. For inclusion, databases need to (i) contain temporally and spatially explicit species co-occurrence data and (ii) be accessible to the scientific public. This paper summarizes structure and data quality of databases registered in GIVD as of 30 December 2010. Results: On the given date, 132 databases containing more than 2.4 million non-overlapping plots had been registered in GIVD. The majority of these data were in European databases (83 databases, 1.6 million plots), whereas other continents were represented by substantially less (North America 15, Asia 13, Africa nine, South America seven, Australasia two, multi-continental three). The oldest plot observation was 1864, but most plots were recorded after 1970. Most plots reported vegetation on areas of 1 to 1000 m2; some also stored time-series and nested-plot data. Apart from geographic reference (required for inclusion), most frequent information was on altitude (71%), slope aspect and inclination (58%) and land use (38%), but rarely soil properties ( < 7%). Conclusions: The vegetation plot data in GIVD constitute a major resource for biodiversity research, both through the large number of species occurrence records and storage of species co-occurrence information at a small scale, combined with structural and plot-based environmental data. We identify shortcomings in available data that need to be addressed through sampling under-represented geographic regions, providing better incentives for data collection and sharing, developing user-friendly database exchange standards, as well as tools to analyse and remove confounding effects of sampling biases. The increased availability of data sets conferred by registration in GIVD offers significant opportunities for large-scale studies in community ecology, macroecology and global change research.
40925489|Question: What plant properties might define plant functional types (PFTs) for the analysis of global vegetation responses to climate change, and what aspects of the physical environment might be expected to predict the distributions of PFTs? Methods: We review principles to explain the distribution of key plant traits as a function of bioclimatic variables. We focus on those wholeplant and leaf traits that are commonly used to define biomes and PFTs in global maps and models. Results: Raunkiaer's plant life forms (underlying most later classifications) describe different adaptive strategies for surviving low temperature or drought, while satisfying requirements for reproduction and growth. Simple conceptual models and published observations are used to quantify the adaptive significance of leaf size for temperature regulation, leaf consistency for maintaining transpiration under drought, and phenology for the optimization of annual carbon balance. A new compilation of experimental data supports the functional definition of tropical, warm-temperate, temperate and boreal phanerophytes based on mechanisms for withstanding low temperature extremes. Chilling requirements are less well quantified, but are a necessary adjunct to cold tolerance. Functional traits generally confer both advantages and restrictions; the existence of trade-offs contributes to the diversity of plants along bioclimatic gradients. Conclusions: Quantitative analysis of plant trait distributions against bioclimatic variables is becoming possible; this opens up new opportunities for PFT classification. A PFT classification based on bioclimatic responses will need to be enhanced by information on traits related to competition, successional dynamics and disturbance.
3236711|Fagus grandifolia var. mexicana seedling dynamics were studied in a relict forest inside the crater of a volcano where it is the only canopy tree species. The objectives of the study were (1) to determine changes in seedling density before and after a mast year, as well as to monitor seedling recruitment, mortality and growth rate in relation to the micro-environment, and (2) to discuss the impact of masting on seedling dynamics of the population. Before masting, seedling density was 8.8 seedlings m<sup>-2</sup>, afterwards seedling density peaked at 51.5 seedlings m<sup>-2</sup>, then decreased by 50% in 3 months and by 85% after 8 months, down to levels of before the mast year (9.9 seedlings m<sup>-2</sup>) after 16 months. Seedlings in the forest floor before the mast-seeding event showed a low relative growth rate - 0.14 mm mm<sup>-1</sup> mo<sup>-1</sup> against 1.27 mm mm<sup>-1</sup> mo<sup>-1</sup> for seedlings that emerged immediately after masting. Seed germination was high (83%) and rapid (L<sub>50</sub> = 7 days) following masting. Seedling growth was positively correlated with soil water content but not with temperatures and relative humidity. Data suggested that seed production in mast years is important in maintaining the seedling bank, and thus the viability of relict Fagus populations.
3236906| Tiller demography of Carex aquatilis ssp. stans, Carex membranacea, and Eriophorum angustifolium ssp. triste was investigated in ungrazed and grazed high arctic vegetation on central Ellesmere Island, Canada. Tiller birth, growth, flowering and death were studied from excavated clonal fragments, and tiller density and biomass were studied from excavated turfs. Five life-cycle stages were determined: dormant buds, juvenile, mature, flowering and dead tillers. A stage-based transition matrix model was developed to estimate the long-term dynamics of the sedge populations and to compare life-history strategies between ungrazed and grazed populations. Short-term and retrospective models, based on the growth during the sampling year and during the lifetime of the clonal fragments, respectively, were compared to see how well the short-term model can describe demography of long-lived plants. According to the short-term model, tiller populations were decreasing ( < 1 except for C. membranacea), whereas the retrospective model indicated that the tiller populations were increasing. Tiller population growth rates did not differ between ungrazed and grazed habitats. Nevertheless, the similar growth rates may be obtained by balanced differences in the vital rates between plants of the two habitats. The plants in the ungrazed habitat tended to remain in their current life-cycle stage, whereas plants in the grazed habitat moved quickly to the next stage and died earlier. C. aquatilis ssp. stans appears to gain a competitive advantage over the other species under intensive grazing, as indicated by the higher tiller density and greater below-ground biomass in grazed vegetation. The greater amount of below-ground biomass apparently buffers C. aquatilis ssp. stans against grazing better than the other species. 
23012731|Question: The effect of overstorey composition on above-ground dynamics of understorey vegetation is poorly understood. This study examines the understorey biomass, production and turnover rates of vascular and non-vascular plants along a coniferbroadleaf gradient of resource availability and heterogeneity. Location: Canadian boreal forests of northwest Quebec and Ontario. Methods: We sampled mature stands containing various proportions of black spruce (Picea mariana (Mill.) BSP), trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides Michx.) and jack pine (Pinus banksiana Lamb.). Above-ground biomass of the understorey vegetation was assessed through harvesting; annual growth rates were calculated as the differences between biomass in 2007 and 2008, as estimated by allometric relationships, and turnover rates were estimated as net primary production divided by the biomass in 2007. Results: Higher aspen presence, linked to greater nutrient availability in the forest floor, was generally associated with higher vascular biomass and production in the understorey. This effect was less pronounced in sites of high intrinsic fertility. In contrast, bryophyte biomass was positively associated with conifer abundance, particularly in wet sites of the Quebec study area. Non-linear responses resulted in total understorey biomass being lower under mixed canopies than under pure aspen or pure conifer canopies. Turnover rates did not differ with overstorey composition. Conclusions: While resource availability is a main driver of understorey productivity, resources as drivers appear to differ with differences in understorey strata components, i.e. vascular versus non-vascular plants. Resource heterogeneity induced by a mixed canopy had overall negative effects on understorey above-ground productivity, as this productivity seemed to rely on species adapted to the specific conditions induced by a pure canopy.
23012724|Questions: (i) How do large proportions of seeds pass through the guts of goats without damage? (ii) What is the temporal pattern of seed defecation? (iii) Does ingestion by goats enhance or depress seed germination? Location: Doana Natural Park, SW Spain. Methods: Six female goats of similar size and age were fed with 1000 seeds of four common Mediterranean shrub species (Cistus salvifolius, Halimium halimifolium, Myrtus communis, Pistacia lentiscus), which were retrieved from the goat's dung 96 h after ingestion. The seeds retrieved were tested for germination and viability, along with seeds not eaten by the goats. Results: Less than 30% of the seeds eaten were retrieved from the dung, with significant differences between species. No seeds of P. lentiscus were retrieved. The major part of the seeds was retrieved between 48 and 72 h after ingestion in all other species. The passage through the goat gut significantly increased seed germination in C. salvifolius and H. halimifolium, and depressed it in M. communis. Viability was significantly lower in the eaten seeds of M. communis than in the uneaten ones, while there were no differences in C. salvifolius and H. halimifolium. Conclusions: Goats can potentially disperse seeds of the plants that they eat. This should be taken into account when designing management plans in order to prevent shrub invasion in undesired areas. It could also be used as a management tool for spreading populations of desireable shrub species.
4096752|Question: Do rectangular sample plots record more plant species than square plots as suggested by both empirical and theoretical studies? Location: Grasslands, shrublands and forests in the Mediterranean-climate region of California, USA. Methods: We compared three 0.1-ha sampling designs that differed in the shape and dispersion of 1-m
3237323|Changes in landscape pattern are analyzed through sampling plots of different size taken along a time series of aerial photographs at three scales of observation. The results indicate that variation in the landscape pattern shows a less pronounced change at the local scale than at larger scales and that appreciation of the structure of this landscape and description of its temporal variation are scale-dependent. Analysis of the spatial complexity on different scales, measured by the C(s) index (Rescia et al. 1994), shows that the number of types of boundary between patches is the most important landscape component on all scales. Spatial complexity and the number of boundary types are related to woody plant diversity at a local scale. In the studied landscape, human activities on a local scale strongly influence the spatial configuration on a regional scale. This concerns territorial planning, the main problem of which is not found in selecting a correct observation scale, but in recognizing that the change under study occurs at various scales at the same time. This underlines the importance of analysing the landscape pattern at different scales with the design of plans and conservation programs in mind.
3236519|In the mountains of northern Spain, patches dominated by Calluna vulgaris are scarce and they may disappear or change as a result of continued lack of management and possibly increasing nutrient availability through atmospheric deposition. The effects in the soil properties and in the composition of Calluna vulgaris and Erica tetralix shoots on heathlands dominated by Calluna and Erica subjected to fertilization and experimental cutting were studied in three mountain passes in northern Spain. A total of 90 1-m<sup>2</sup> plots received different combinations of cutting and twice the estimated atmospheric deposition of nitrogen (5.6 g.m<sup>-2</sup>.yr<sup>-1</sup>) as ammonium nitrate. One of the dominant ericaceous species (Calluna and Erica) was selectively cut by hand at ground level and their nitrogen shoot content were compared in the presence or absence of the other. Treatments were carried out in April 1998. In each plot one soil sample was taken in the original situation and 12, 24 and 36 months after the treatments. Soil properties such as organic matter, total nitrogen, available phosphorus and pH were determined. In every plot five shoots of Calluna and Erica were also taken to analyse total nitrogen content in the original situation and 12, 24 and 36 mo after the treatments. Nitrogen addition does not necessarily lead to increased levels in the soil, and a clear pattern was not found in the three areas. A gradual decrease in available phosphorus content was detected in the three areas until two years after treatment, although values tend to recover in two of the areas in the third study year. An increase in organic matter content was observed in all areas. It is concluded that increased nutrients alone, at twice the rate of the estimated current atmospheric deposition for the area, which is relatively low, will not alter significantly the soil characteristics of the mountain heathland stands. A clear increase in plant N-content is observed in the fertilized plots in comparison with the non-fertilized ones and Calluna always has higher nitrogen content than Erica. This increase is most pronounced one year after the treatments started in one of the areas and after two years in the other two areas. In some cases the elimination of one species is seen to favour nitrogen increase in the other.
3236968|In southern Mediterranean Pinus sylvestris forests there are grassy meadows that resist invasion of trees despite the proximity to seed sources. In this study, we investigate the mechanisms blocking colonization by Pinus sylvestris of the meadows. Two experiments were conducted in which seeds were sown either at 1 cm depth or on the surface to simulate dispersal, and three treatments of vegetation removal were applied: Disturbed (where the herbaceous layer was eliminated, exposing the mineral soil), Clipped (vegetation cut at ground level) and Control (no disturbance of the herbaceous layer). In addition, the effect of seed predators was controlled by using wire cages in the case of the surface sown experiment. When seeds were sown at 1 cm depth, seedling emergence was not reduced by the herbaceous layer. In contrast, when seeds were surface sown and predators were excluded, the rate of emergence was low in the Control treatment, intermediate in Clipped and high in Disturbed. Seedling emergence was, however, minimal when predators were not excluded, irrespective of the disturbance level. Seedling survival and growth after three years of study were similar among treatments. The results show that the seed predation and the physical barrier created by the herbaceous layer are the two mechanisms blocking the encroachment of Pinus sylvestris onto these Mediterranean mountain meadows, limiting the regeneration and potential expansion of the forest.
41059626|Questions: Do small rocky outcrops favor forest plant colonization and establishment in grasslands? If so, what are the potential mechanisms involved in this process? Location: Araucaria forest and Campos grassland mosaic in southern Brazilian highlands (2929'S, 5012'W). Methods: We collected data on the density of forest woody species in plots located on rocky outcrops and in open fields subject to different management regimes. We evaluated the influence of outcrops on the density of forest plants  60-cm tall, and the effects of other environmental variables and of site on plant density; we also used information on diaspore traits of the species to discuss the way in which plants disperse to the outcrops. Results: Rocky outcrops harbored a significantly higher density of forest plants than open fields, irrespective of site effect, and rock height was the best predictor for plant density on outcrops. Diaspores of all recorded species possess characteristics associated with dispersal by birds or mammals or by both. Conclusions: Small rocky outcrops markedly influence forest expansion by acting as perches for vertebrate dispersers and as nurse objects and safe sites for plants. Forest expansion starting in small outcrops possibly occurs as follows: perching of dispersers and increase of seed rain on rocks, promotion of better conditions of establishment for forest plants by nurse rocks, protection of plants sensitive to grazing and fire, and nucleation of forest vegetation.
3235953|Carr vegetation was once extensive in New Zealand. It can be divided into Cordyline australis / Carex secta carr, comprising an open wood with scattered large herbs and an abundance of Carex species, and podocarp carr, dominated by tall conifers. Both have been almost eliminated by agricultural development. We studied a remnant of Cordyline australis / Carex secta carr in South Island, which graded at one end into salt marsh. Eight communities were recognized, including one pure salt marsh and two more with saline influence. Near the stream that provided moisture and alluvium for the area were herbaceous communities. In the poorly-drained area away from the stream were communities dominated by shrubs and small trees. The soil environment is similar to that of many European carrs, though generally less organic. A number of the exotic species are also found in European carrs.
4499303|Question: Is the response of plant traits to environment at the community level similar when considering species abundance and when considering species presence only? Location: Mountain grasslands, central Argentina. Methods: We used data from 57 floristic samples, ordinated through DCCA along moisture and grazing gradients combined with trait values from 85 species (plant height, leaf area, leaf thickness leaf toughness and SLA). For each sample, we calculated the weighted average (considering species abundance) and the simple average (considering only species presence). Through multiple regressions we analysed how each average (dependent variable) responded to moisture and grazing (DCCA scores along Axes 1 and 2, respectively, as independent variables). Results: Weighted averages of all traits were significantly associated to both gradients, while simple averages did not always respond. In some cases the responses followed similar but weaker trends than the responses of weighted averages, but in other cases these responses were qualitatively different. Traits more associated with size (plant height, leaf area, leaf thickness) responded more consistently (similar trends for both averages) to grazing than to moisture, while traits more associated with plant resource acquisition (SLA, leaf toughness) responded more consistently to moisture than to grazing. Conclusion: The trait values and combinations which determine the probability of species presence are not necessary the same as those which determine their probability of becoming abundant. To understand community assembly rules, both species presence and species abundance should be taken into account as the result of different, although closely linked, filtering processes.
4499284|Question: Can non-parametric multiplicative regression (NPMR) improve estimates of potential direct incident radiation (PDIR) and heat load based on topographic variables, as compared to least-squares multiple regression against trigonometric transforms of the predictors? Methods: We used a multiplicative kernel smoothing technique to interpolate between tabulated values of PDIR, using a locally linear model and a Gaussian kernel, with slope, aspect, and latitude as predictors. Heat load was calculated as a 45 degree rotation of the PDIR response surface. Results: This method yielded a fit to a complex response surface with $R^2 > 0.99$ and eliminated the areas of poor fit given by a previously published method based on least squares multiple regression with trigonometric functions of the predictors. Conclusions: Improved estimates of PDIR and heat load based on topographic variables can be obtained by using non-parametric multiplicative regression (NPMR). The main drawback to the method is that it requires reference to the data tables, since those data are part of the model.
3236548|In order to describe and compare the post-fire succession patterns of the two ecological regions (mixed-wood and coniferous ecoregions) of northwestern Quebec, 260 forest stands were sampled with the point-centred plot method. The mixed-wood ecological region belongs to the Abies balsamea-Betula papyrifera bioclimatic domain whereas the coniferous ecological region belongs to the Picea mariana-moss bioclimatic domain. In each plot, tree composition was described, surficial deposits and drainage were recorded, and fire history was reconstructed using standard dendro-ecological methods. Ordination techniques (Correspondence Analysis and Canonical Correspondence Analysis) were used to describe the successional patterns of forest vegetation and to correlate them with the explanatory variables. The results showed the importance of surficial deposits, the time since fire and the ecoregion in explaining the variation of stand composition. Abies balsamea tends to increase in importance with an increase in time since fire, and this trend is more pronounced in the mixed-wood region. Even when controlling both for surficial deposits and time since fire, differences in successional trends were observed between the two ecoregions. As all the species are present in both ecoregions and as they are all observed further north, our results suggest that both the landscape configuration and fire regime parameters such as fire size and fire intensity are important factors involved in these differences.
3236881|A regional vegetation survey of the temperate grassy woodlands (temperate savanna) in Australia was designed to assess the effects of clearing and grazing on the composition of vegetation remnants and the adjacent pasture matrix. Vegetation was sampled across a range of habitats using 77 0.1024-ha quadrats; the relative abundance of species was recorded. Classification analysis clustered the sites into three main groups that corresponded to intensity of grazing/clearing followed by groups based on underlying lithology (basalt, metasediment, granites). Using Canonical Correspondence Analysis, exogenous disturbance and environmental variables were related to the relative abundance of species; grazing intensity had the highest eigenvalue (0.27) followed by tree canopy cover (0.25), lithology (0.18), altitude (0.17) and slope (0.10). Based on two-dimensional ordination scores, six species response groups were defined relating to intensity of pastoralism and nutrient status of the landscape. Abundance and dominance of native shrubs, sub-shrubs, twiners and geophytes were strongly associated with areas of less-intense pastoralism on low-nutrient soils. The strongest effects on species richness were grazing followed by canopy cover. Continuously grazed sites had lower native species richness across all growth forms except native grasses. There was no indication that intermediate grazing intensities enhanced forb richness as a result of competitive release. Species richness for all native plants was lowest where trees were absent especially under grazed conditions. Canopy cover in ungrazed sites appeared to promote the co-existence of shrubs with the herbaceous layer. Predicted declines in forb richness in treeless, ungrazed, sites were not detected. The lack of a disturbance-mediated enhancement of the herbaceous layer was attributed to habitat heterogeneity at 0.1 ha sampling scale.
3236941|We documented the occurrence of a 1934 blowdown in a subalpine forest in northwestern Colorado, USA. Prior to the blowdown, the stand was dominated by old-growth Picea engelmannii - Abies lasiocarpa forests. Although blowdowns are believed to trigger outbreaks of Dendroctonus rufipennis (spruce beetle), we found no detectable increase in beetle caused mortality. Forest recovery was by both release of the previously suppressed regeneration and by new seedling establishment. Both recovery pathways were dominated by Abies. The blowdown thus caused a shift in species dominance from Picea to Abies; 65 yr after the blowdown, the fallen logs and tip up mounds continue to provide favourable habitat for seedling establishment of both species. The present study shows that the legacy of blowdowns can influence forest dynamics for decades following the disturbance event.
3236802|Ellenberg indicator values for moisture, nitrogen and soil reaction were correlated with measured soil and vegetation parameters. Relationships were studied through between-species and between-site comparisons, using data from 74 roadside plots in 14 different plant communities in The Netherlands forming a wide range. Ellenberg moisture values correlated best with the average lowest moisture contents in summer. Correlations with the annual average groundwater level and the average spring level were also good. Ellenberg N-values appeared to be only weakly correlated with soil parameters, including N-mineralization and available mineral N. Instead, there was a strong relation with biomass production. We therefore endorse Hill & Carcy's (1997) suggestion that the term N-values be replaced by 'productivity values'. For soil reaction, many species values appeared to need regional adjustment. The relationship with soil pH was unsatisfactory; mean indicator values were similar for all sites at pH > 4.75 because of wide species tolerances for intermediate pH levels. Site mean reaction values correlated best (r up to 0.92) with the total amount of calcium (exchangeable Ca<sup>2+</sup> plus Ca from carbonates). It is therefore suggested that reaction values are better referred to as 'calcium values'. Using abundance values as weights when calculating mean indicator values generally improved the results, but, over the wide range of conditions studied, differences were small. Indicator values for bryophytes appeared well in line with those for vascular plants. It was noted that the frequency distributions of indicator values are quite uneven. This creates a tendency for site mean values to converge to the value most common in the regional species pool. Although the effect on overall correlations is small, relationships tended to be less linear. Uneven distributions also cause the site mean indicator values at which species have their optimum to deviate from the actual Ellenberg values of these species. Suggestions for improvements are made. It is concluded that the Ellenberg indicator system provides a very valuable tool for habitat calibration, provided the appropriate parameters are considered.
3236821|Potential effects of herbivores on plant species diversity depend on herbivore size, species and density. In this study we examine the effect of different-sized herbivores (cattle and rabbits) on recruitment of subordinate herbs in grasslands. We show that in a grazed floodplain, grassland plant species richness is mainly determined by the presence of many species of subordinate herbs. These herbs experience high colonization and extinction rates. We conclude that the creation of colonization opportunities for subordinate herbs plays a crucial role in maintaining plant species richness in productive grasslands. We found that cattle disperse large amounts of seeds via their dung, over ten times more than rabbits. Rabbits create more and on average larger bare soil patches than cattle. In a field experiment artificial disturbances improved germination success tremendously for four tested herb species. We found that bare soil is the best regeneration site, while cattle dung gave a too strong nutrient stimulus, resulting in tall vegetation and therefore light limitation. These results can be confirmed with results from field monitoring plots where plant species richness was positively related to the occurrence of bare soil patches. Therefore both large and small herbivores have a major impact on dispersal and colonization, but for different reasons. Cattle are identified as most important for seed dispersal whereas rabbits have a main effect as creators of disturbances. These results emphasize the importance of distinguishing between herbivore species in assessing their (potential) effects.
3237047| The similarity in species composition between seed bank and vegetation was analysed in Mediterranean grasslands in relation to altitude, topography and grazing. Soil samples were collected in permanent plots in autumn at the end of the summer drought period and in spring, before the new seed fall and after the natural winter seed stratification. The seed bank composition was determined by greenhouse germination over a nine-month period. Presence/absence of species in the standing vegetation throughout the complete annual cycle, and the percentage area of bare ground in October, were recorded in the same plots. The species composition of the standing vegetation is clearly determined by altitude, topography and grazing, while the floristic composition of the seed banks is only related to altitude and topography in the case of autumn seed bank and with any of the three factors in the spring seed bank. Relative abundances of grasses, legumes and forbs also show different patterns in vegetation and seed bank data. Srensen similarity between the autumn seed bank and the vegetation declines as altitude rises, but there are no significant differences for topography and grazing. This similarity decreases in the case of the spring seed bank and does not show any significant relationship with any of the factors. The perennial/ annual ratio and the proportion of bare soil in October are proposed as explanatory variables in a predictive model of similarity between the seed composition of the seed bank and vegetation. 
4096619|Question: Are leaf dry matter content, specific leaf area and leaf life span relevant plant traits to discriminate the fertility gradient in species-rich natural grasslands? In other words, is species ranking conserved when nitrogen availability or growing periods change? Location: Toulouse Research Centre, France; 150 m a.s.l. Methods: Fifteen grasses and nine dicotyledons were sown in pure stands in a random block design with three replicates. Each species was cultivated at two levels of nitrogen supply, limiting and non-limiting for growth, with three replications per nitrogen level. Leaf traits were measured across both levels of nitrogen supply and growing periods over the year. Results: Leaf dry matter content values separated the species into three life-form classes (grasses, rosette forbs and upright forbs, P < 0.001). This was not the case for specific leaf area and leaf life span. The three leaf traits were variable across growing periods and nitrogen levels, but the ranking of species was conserved over N-levels and growth periods. Furthermore leaf dry matter content was always less variable than the other leaf traits. Conclusion: We conclude that leaf dry matter content measured only on grasses could be used as an indicator to describe the N-richness of the habitat where native herbaceous vegetation develops.
4499297| Questions: In a natural grassland-forest mosaic: What is the influence of phylogeny and diaspore traits related to disperser attraction (DAT) on (1) seed size/number trade-off (SSNT) in woody species colonizing forest patches; (2) on the frequency of the species? 3. What is the influence of forest patch area on mean seed size and number. 4. Do phylogeny and DAT expressed at the species level affect this relationship? Location: Campos grassland and Araucaria forest in So Francisco de Paula, RS, Brazil, at ca. 2928' S; 5013' W. Methods: Forest patches of different sizes in a grassland site recovering for ten years since human disturbances were surveyed by the relative abundance of vertebrate-dispersed woody saplings. We described colonizer species according to taxonomic phylogenetic relationships and diaspore type, size and color. We analyzed with a variation partitioning method their influence on SSNT and on species frequency in the patches. At the community level we regressed mean seed size and number on forest patch area and evaluated how these relationships were affected by phylogeny and DAT at the species level. Results: 1. Phylogeny and DAT mostly explained seed size and seed number per diaspore variation. 2. By controlling phylogeny and DAT influence the frequency of species in forest patches was positively associated with their seed number in the diaspores, and negatively associated with their seed size. 3. Mean seed size and seed number at the community level were positively associated with patch area. 4. When phylogeny and DAT influences on seed size were removed this relationship was stronger for seed size and weaker for seed number. Conclusions: 1. Energy allocation to dispersal in detriment of offspring survival increased the successful establishment of colonizer species in forest patches, despite phylogenetic relationships and DAT variation in their diaspores. 2. Although patch area exerted a selective pressure on seed size, habitat preferences of dispersers may also influence patch colonization. 
23012424|Question: How can nearest-neighbour (NN) imputation be used to develop maps of multiple species and plant communities? Location: Western and central Oregon, USA, but methods are applicable anywhere. Methods: We demonstrate NN imputation by mapping woody plant communities for > 100 000 km2 of diverse forests and woodlands. Species abundances on 25 000 plots were related to spatial predictors (rasters) describing climate, topography, soil and geographic location using constrained ordination (CCA). Species data from the nearest plot in multi-dimensional CCA space were imputed to each map pixel. Maps of multiple individual species and community types were constructed from the single imputed surface. We computed a variety of diagnostics to characterize different qualities of the imputed (mapped) community data. Results: Community composition gradients were strongly associated with climate and elevation, and less so with topography and soil. Accuracy of the imputation model for presence/absence of 150 species varied widely (kappa 0.00 to 0.80). Omission error rates were higher than commission rates due to low species prevalence, and areal representation of species was only slightly inflated. A map of 78 community types was 41% correct and 78% fuzzy correct. Errors of omission and commission were balanced, and areal representation of both rare and abundant communities was accurate. Map accuracy may be lower for some species than with other methods, but areal representation of species and communities across large landscapes is preserved. Because imputed vegetation surfaces are developed for all species simultaneously, map units contain suites of species known to co-occur in nature. Maps of individual species, and of community types derived from them, will be internally consistent at map locations. Conclusions: NN imputation is a useful modelling approach where maps of multiple species and plant communities are needed, such as in natural resource management and conservation planning or models that project landscape change under alternative disturbance or climate scenarios. More research is needed to evaluate other ordination methods for NN imputation of plant communities.
3237031|A new, transect-based patch size detection method for species pattern is proposed which improves results obtained with methods described earlier. The method was tested on an extensive artificial data set together with three of the existing methods considered best: Two and Three Term Local Quadrat Variance (T2LQV and T3LQV) and New Local Variance (NLV). The TLQV methods recovered only some of the existing patterns and were heavily dependent on inter-patch distances, whereas NLV almost always produced curves with oscillations. In addition a significance test is proposed, while such a test is seldom found in the earlier methods. Our method, PASFRAN, determines the frequencies of runs with 1, 2, 3, etc. quadrats containing a certain species and compares those with frequencies based on Monte Carlo simulated random configurations. The comparison is performed for each run length and the significance of the deviation between observed and expected frequencies can be calculated on the basis of a large number of simulations. Because this approach may be considered a case of multiple testing, a Bonferroni correction on the significance level was applied. The method can also be used for the detection of inter-patch distances. In addition, run lengths can be grouped and the test can be applied to the frequencies of combinations of run lengths. The method can detect dominance patches when quantitative data on the occurrence of plant species are available. In the same way, it can detect multi-species patterns using sample scores from an ordination analysis such as correspondence analysis. An extension towards composite, higher-order patterns is under investigation. The new method appeared to be effective in recovering artificial patterns, while it is not influenced by the relative values of patch size and inter-patch distance. When applied to the distribution of cow dung patches and certain plant species along a transect of 500 quadrats of 10 cm x 10 cm in an alvar limestone grassland, it produced straightforward and realistic results as compared with other methods and field impressions.
3236705|Personal computers of ever-increasing speed have motivated programmers of multivariate software to adapt their programs to be run in Microsoft Windows and Macintosh platforms. Updated versions of these multivariate programs appear more and more frequently and are marketed intensively. In this review we provide a comparative analysis of the most recent versions of three analytical software packages - Canoco for Windows 4.5, PC-ORD version 4 and SYN-TAX 2000. The three packages share two characteristics. First, the most recent versions are now compatible with the most recent Windows platforms and should therefore be accessible for use by virtually all vegetation scientists. Second, they have capabilities for numerous multivariate techniques, although each package has some unique techniques. Thus, any one of the packages will have much to offer the user.
25549242|Question: Are direct and indirect trait-based approaches similar in their usefulness to synthesize species responses to successional stages? Location: Northern hardwood forests, Qubec, Canada (4501'-4508'N; 7358'-7421'W). Methods: Two different trait-based approaches were used to relate plant functional traits to succession on an old-field - deciduous forest chronosequence: (i) a frequently used approach based on co-occurrence of traits (emergent groups), and (ii) a new version of a direct functional approach at the trait level (the fourth-corner method). Additionally, we selected two different cut-off levels for the herb subset of the emergent group classification in order to test its robustness and ecological relevance. Results: Clear patterns of trait associations with stand developmental stages emerged from both the emergent group and the direct approach at the trait level. However, the emergent group classification was found to hide some trait-level differences such as a shift in seed size, light requirement and plant form along the chronosequence. Contrasting results were obtained for the seven or nine group classification of the herbaceous subset, illustrating how critical is the number of groups for emergent group classification. Conclusion: The simultaneous use of two different trait-based approaches provided a robust and comprehensive characterization of vegetation responses in the old-field - deciduous forest chronosequence. It also underlines the different goals as well as the limitations and benefits of these two approaches. Both approaches indicated that abandoned pastures of the northern hardwood biome have good potential for natural recovery. Conversion of these lands to other functions may lead to irremediable loss of biodiversity.
3237121|In a rural landscape, scale vegetation patterns of woody species are controlled by both abiotic and land use factors. The woody species composition in 126 sample plots was analysed and land use factors and some abiotic parameters were quantified using land register data. The relative importance of land use and abiotic factors was differentiated using a partial Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA); the influence of land use in neighbouring areas was explored by changing the scale of land use sampling. The woody species composition appears to be controlled equally by land use and abiotic factors. The fraction of floristic variation in tree species composition explained by land use variables was 33.2 % in 1980 and 30.8 % in 1992, while abiotic variables accounted for 31.2 %. Part of the 17 % of the floristic variance explained is related to the surrounding land use. Thus, when the land use of the sampled plots and the surrounding land use are considered simultaneously, up to 36.9 % of the species variation may be explained. Partial CCA enabled us to quantify the respective proportion of floristic variance which could be explained by land use (36.9 %), abiotic variables alone (20.2 %), shared variance (12.0 %) and unexplained variance (31.2 %). Our results indicated that a delayed effect of variation in land use on plant populations may exist. This delay may result either from population characteristics or from inadequate land use assessment. This study indicates the need for simultaneously examining land use and abiotic patterns in ecological studies, as many Mediterranean-type ecosystems have been shaped by these patterns.
3237102|Fallopia (Polygonum) sachalinensis (Polygonaceae) is native to the Far East from where it was introduced into Europe and Northern America. It has only recently appeared on the large alluvial plains of alpine rivers, while it has formed monospecific stands in many habitats. In this study, we investigated some of the biological characteristics of this species in order to predict its invasiveness under the specific environmental conditions of alpine alluvia. When compared to other plants which tend to monopolize space, F. sachalinensis appears to have a life cycle characterized by an early seasonal development. It exhibits a high growth rate - ca. 4 to 5 cm/day, and its productivity is associated with intrinsic characteristics of the species: abundant leaf cover, the appearance of branches when the leaves reach an optimal size on the main stem, and favourable leaf orientation to capture high light intensity. Another morphological characteristic is the presence of a large medullary air cell containing a liquid rich in mineral salts which can be used by the plant when the demand for evaporation increases. Clonal spread associated with extraordinarily high rate of proliferation of below-ground organs, and mechanisms for adaptation to adverse conditions are biological traits rendering F. sachalinensis an invader in alluvial plains along alpine rivers. There is a risk that such species experience a demographic explosion in the geographical region under study.
3237228|Hawaiian ecosystems are prone to invasion by alien plant species. I compared the seed rain, seed bank, and vegetation of a native Hawaiian forest to examine the potential role that seed ecology plays in allowing alien species to invade native forest. Absolute cover of seed plants in the forest was 126 %, annual seed rain was 5 713 seeds m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>, and the mean density of seedlings emerging from the seed bank averaged across four seasons was 1 020/m<sup>2</sup>. The endemic tree Metrosideros polymorpha was the most abundant species in the vegetation, seed rain and winter seed bank. Overall, native seed plants comprised 95 % of the relative cover in the vegetation and 99 % of the seeds in the seed rain, but alien species comprised 67 % of the seeds in the seed bank. Alien species tended to form persistent seed banks while native species formed transient or pseudo-persistent seed banks. Dominance of the seed bank by alien species with persistent seed banks suggests that aliens are favorably placed to increase in abundance in the vegetation if the forest is disturbed.
3246589|In Mediterranean shrublands, post-fire accumulation of above-ground biomass of resprouters is faster than that of seeders. This suggests that resprouters may have a competitive advantage. To test this hypothesis, we used a removal experiment to study the effect of the presence of the dominant tussock-grass Ampelodesmos mauritanica on the resprouting shrubs Erica multiflora and Globularia alypum and on the seeders Rosmarinus officinalis and Pinus halepensis three and four years after a wildfire. Water potential of target plants was also measured to see if Ampelodesmos removal increased water availability. Ampelodesmos marginally reduced growth of all target species but did not influence survival or water potential of any target species. Our results suggest that the effect of climatically influenced water stress was stronger than the effect of Ampelodesmos neighbours. Plant-plant interactions in this Mediterranean community are weak after fire and the magnitude of the Ampelodesmos effect does not differ between seeders and resprouters.
3236902|A 1-ha plot was established in a Betula platyphylla-Picea ajanensis mixed boreal forest in the central Kamchatka peninsula in Russia to investigate stand structure and regeneration. This forest was relatively sparse; total density and stand basal area were 1071/ha and 25.8 m<sup>2</sup>/ha, respectively, for trees > 2.0 cm in trunk diameter at breast height (DBH). 25% of Betula regenerated by sprouting, and its frequency distribution of DBH had a reverse J-shaped pattern. In contrast, Picea had a bimodal distribution. The growth rates of both species were high, reaching 20 m in ca. 120 yr. The two species had clumped distributions, especially for saplings. Betula saplings were not distributed in canopy gaps. Small Picea saplings were distributed irrespective of the presence/ absence of gaps, while larger saplings aggregated in gaps. At the examined spatial scales (6.25 - 400 m<sup>2</sup>) the spatial distribution of Betula saplings was positively correlated with living Betula canopy trees and negatively with dead Picea canopy trees. This suggests that Betula saplings regenerated under the crowns of Betula canopy trees and did not invade the gaps created by Picea canopy trees. The spatial distribution of Picea saplings was negatively correlated with living and dead Betula canopy trees and positively with dead Picea canopy trees. Most small Picea seedlings were distributed under the crowns of Picea trees but not under the crowns of Betula trees or in gaps. This suggests that Picea seedlings establish under the crowns of Picea canopy trees and can grow to large sizes after the death of overhead Picea canopy trees. Evidence of competitive exclusion between the two species was not found. At a 20 m x 20 m scale both skewness and the coefficient of variation of DBH frequency distribution of Picea decreased with an increase in total basal area of Picea while those of Betula were unchanged irrespective of the increase in total basal area of Betula. This indicates that the size structure of Picea is more variable with stand development than that of Betula on a small scale. This study suggests that Betula regenerates continuously by sprouting and Picea regenerates discontinuously after gap formation and that the species do not exclude each other.
3236420|Quaternary palaeoecology has traditionally been associated with the reconstruction of past biota and past environments over long time periods such as the Holocene period. Recent methodological developments and conceptual advances have resulted in an 'applied palaeoecology' that can address specific ecological and environmental questions over the last 100-200 yr, the time span of primary interest to nature conservationists. The contributions of palaeoecology to the assessment of naturalness of ecosystems, to the assessment of the fragility of ecosystems, to the assessment of the conservation status of rare species, and to the development of a factual basis for attempts at ecosystem enhancement and restoration are discussed, with reference to palaeoecological studies in Scotland, England, southwest Ireland, and Sweden. Palaeoecological results indicate that few, if any, vegetation types in western Europe are natural. Palaeoecology can provide unique insights into the fragility of ecosystems in response to human activity and other biotic factors such as grazing and to acidification. Palaeoecology can contribute basic information required for understanding the causes of recent decline of taxa such as the natterjack toad, aquatic macrophytes, and arcticalpine plants. Palaeoecology is often the only source of baseline data about past ecosystem composition and function that are essential for any realistic attempts at ecosystem restoration or enhancement.
3236077| Using empirical data (ca. 7500 phytosociological relevs), a simple, probabilistic 'vegetation-site' model was developed, to simulate geographical distribution of 71 forest community types, representing the potential natural vegetation (PNV) of Switzerland. The model was interfaced to a geographic information system (GIS) and used to generate a numerical vegetation map, on the basis of digital maps of 12 environmental variables including climatic conditions (temperature and precipitation), topography (elevation, slope, aspect), and soil parameters (soil pH and physical soil parameters). The predicted distribution of forest communities was compared with several vegetation maps, prepared for some subregions of Switzerland by means of traditional field methods. Similarity ranged from 50 to 80 %, depending on the community type, level of vegetational hierarchy and the geographical region. The current resolution and accuracy of the simulated vegetation map allows us to study the vegetational patterns on the level of the entire country or its major geographical and climatic regions. The simulated vegetation map is potentially an important tool in ecological risk assessment studies concerning the possible impacts of climate change on the ecological potential of forest sites and biological diversity of forest communities. 
3236717|The only trees in most of the Negev desert are 3 native Acacia species. We tested the hypothesis that they act as keystone species as a result of the improved soil conditions under their canopies. Furthermore, because many Acacia populations suffer high levels of mortality due to water stress, we tested whether trees in high mortality populations had diminished effects on plant species and soil quality under their canopies. We show that plant species diversity beneath the tree canopies is higher than in the surrounding areas. There was also a clearly identifiable suite of species with higher occurrence under the trees. Plant species composition differed significantly between high and low mortality sites. However, there was higher species diversity in high mortality sites and under trees with higher water stress. Soil nutrient content was higher under the trees than in the open areas, especially under larger trees and trees with higher water status. The results indicate that there is a combination of positive and negative effects of Acacia trees on the under-canopy environment, which may include positive effects of higher soil nutrients and a negative influence of higher soil salinity.
3237247|Anthropogenic influences on recent tree mortality in mid-montane mixed conifer forests of southern California, USA, and northern Baja California, Mexico, were investigated. The Pinus jeffreyi-Abies concolor phase of the mixed-conifer montane community was sampled at three sites, characterized by: (1) low levels of air pollution and long-term fire suppression (Holcomb Valley in the San Bernardino Mountains, California); (2) chronic, severe air pollution and long-term fire suppression (Barton Flats in the San Bernardino Mountains, California); and (3) little air pollution and no fire suppression (La Corona Arriba in the Sierra San Pedro Martir in Baja California, Mexico). Similar percentages of dead standing trees, around 14 %, were found at both San Bernardino sites, but a comparatively low level, 4 %, was found in the Mexican forest. Anthropogenic effects, in particular fire suppression, may play an important role in enhancing the impact of natural stresses on the dynamics of mixed conifer forests.
4096766| Question: In non-linear physical, or chemical, systems dynamic instability limits predictability and external fluctuations cause interesting, and sometimes counter intuitive, effects. We ask how these generic properties of complex systems are seen in vegetation change. Methods: An interacting particle system is used to simulate possible developments of a plant community that was observed for 30 years on a test area in the L neburger Heide (Germany). We investigate simulated trajectories for five plant types over several decades. The internal updating rule, simulating the interactions between the five plant types, is completely deterministic, the only sources of stochasticity being the initial conditions and the external climatic variations. Results: Though the results of our simulation model share many aspects with those of stochastic models with probabilistic transition matrices, the solution manifold of our non-linear model goes beyond the possibilities of stochastic models. Among many stable developments, chaotic trajectories were also found. Climatic fluctuations increased the frequency of certain plant types. These properties of vegetation dynamics match the long-term field observations. They reflect generic features of complex systems. Conclusions: The presented non-linear model can provide insights into the dynamics of vegetation change, even though the mechanisms observed in the real world are modelled only in a rather general way. The rich behavioural repertoire, resulting from deterministic internal dynamics, can simulate observed properties that are beyond the possibilities of models with probabilistic internal dynamics. 
3237209|Patterns of species richness in a managed forest were related to ecological factors at two spatial scales. Local variables within a plot (5 m x 5 m) included 13 soil classes and nine stand classes. Neighbourhood variables were defined within a 25 m radius from the focal plot and were measured using a Neighbourhood Diversity Index (NDI - total diversity of different stand classes) and nine Neighbourhood Scores (NS - relative dominance of a given stand class). 224 species were registered in the survey of which 138 were true forest species. Local parameters (stand and soil class) were weak predictors of total and forest species richness. High total and forest species richness were significantly related to high values of NDI (i.e. heterogeneous neighbourhoods). Regression trees showed that total species richness was best predicted by the amount of roadside habitat in the neighbourhood and NDI. Forest species richness was positively related to NDI and negatively related to the amount of coniferous stands in the neighbourhood.
3237374|In contrast to populations of most dioecious Silene species (which usually are female-biased), populations of Silene otites have been frequently reported to be male-biased. We describe sex ratio variation in 34 natural S. otites populations in Central Germany in relation to vegetation cover, population size and fungal infection. The overall sex ratio was unbiased in 1994 and only slightly male-biased in 1995. Sex ratio varied among the populations from 26.6 % to 72.6 % females. The sex ratio of small populations varied strongly due to stochastic processes. Furthermore, we found that populations in habitats with high vegetation cover contained a higher percentage of females. Hermaphroditic plants, theoretically, could increase male bias as they only produce male or hermaphroditic offspring. Their frequency in the populations, however, was far too low to affect sex ratio. In 1994 12.1 % and in 1995 17.0 % of the plants were infected by the smut fungus Ustilago major. Disease incidence in the population was not related to sex ratio, suggesting equal susceptibility of males and females. The sex ratio of partially infected plants did not deviate from the population sex ratio, both under field conditions and in a greenhouse laboratory experiment. The results suggest that the frequently reported male bias in Silene otites populations is not a general pattern, but is mainly caused by environmental conditions.
3236039|The spatial distribution of woody plants was studied in an arid savanna in Botswana. The study included stands of mixed species and sizes as well as monospecific even-sized stands of different size classes of the tree Acacia erioloba and the shrub Acacia mellifera. In the case of A. mellifera both dense stands on overgrazed land and more open stands were included. The analysis used all plant-to-plant distances, and individuals were represented with a realistic canopy extension. The mixed stands showed aggregated distribution of individuals, mainly caused by strong clumping of small shrubs. In A. erioloba saplings were aggregated, small trees were randomly or regularly distributed and large trees were randomly spaced. In open stands of A. mellifera aggregation increased with size of the shrubs, while in dense stands with overgrazing aggregation decreased with increasing size. The different patterns are discussed in relation to the relative importance of inter- and intraspecific competition for water and of disturbance by fire as regulatory mechanisms for total amount and spatial distribution of woody plants in this savanna.
3237243|Spatial and temporal soil partitioning between roots of the two savanna plant components, i.e. trees and grasses, were investigated in a West African humid savanna. Vertical root phytomass distribution was described for grass roots, large (> 2 mm) and fine (< 2 mm) tree roots, in open sites and beneath tree canopies. These profiles were established monthly over one year of vegetation growth. Natural <sup>13</sup>C abundance measurement was used to determine the woody/herbaceous phytomass ratio in root samples. Tree and grass root distributions widely overlapped and both were mostly located in the top 20 cm of the soil. Grass root phytomass decreased with depth whereas woody root phytomass peaked at about 10 cm depth. No time partitioning was detected. These structural results do not support the hypothesis of soil resource partitioning between trees and grasses and are thus consistent with functional results previously reported.
25173247|Question: The drivers of spatial patterning among plant species and the implications of those patterns for the structure and function of plant communities are of ongoing interest and debate. Here we explore the spatial patterning shown by individual species in species-rich plant communities. We (1) compare the levels of aggregation in these communities to those observed in other species-rich communities, in particular tropical rain forests, and (2) consider how abiotic conditions might influence the levels of aggregation observed. Location: We describe the spatial structure of four species-rich Mediterranean-type shrubland communities near Eneabba, Western Australia. The four sites each contain &gt; 10 000 plants and up to 113 species, and differ in substrate-type, species richness and composition. Methods: We analysed the spatial patterning of all species with more than 20 individuals (233 species patterns), and used point process models for aggregated patterns to separate first-order gradient effects from second-order clustering. Results: Aggregated distributions were most common at all sites, but especially at the site with the highest resource availability and heterogeneity and lowest species richness. A Poisson cluster process best described the majority of aggregated species, suggesting that local interactions drive fine-scale patterns in these communities. Conclusions: As with many previous studies, we found that most species showed strong local aggregation. The proportion of species showing aggregation was less than has been described in species-rich tropical rainforests but was higher than observed in many temperate plant communities. The highest proportion of aggregated species was seen at the most resource-abundant site; this is in direct contrast to conceptual models that suggest that competition should be weakest, and aggregation most prevalent, in the most resource-limited sites.
4096636|Question: How may sampling time affect exhaustiveness of vegetation censuses in interaction with observer effect and quadrat species richness? Location: French lowland forests. Methods: Two data sets comprised of 75 timed, one-hour censuses of vascular plants carried out by five observers on 24 400-m
3236325|Many theories of forest succession imply that terrestrial plant community composition within a region tends to converge toward a climax community. That is, given similar climatic and edaphic conditions, succession at different sites within an area will lead to comparable species compositions, a pattern referred to as successional convergence. In this study, we examine changes in plant composition within forest canopy gaps over a 17-yr period to identify potential patterns of successional convergence and to ascertain the factors controlling the successional pathway. To do so, we: (1) sampled 36 forest canopy gaps in Hueston Woods Nature Preserve in 1977, 1981, 1985, 1989 and 1993, (2) evaluated changes in the similarity of gap composition over this period, and (3) examined gap composition in each year as a function of variables describing gap habitat, seed source proximity, and disturbance history. Results indicated an initial pattern of successional divergence, with gaps exhibiting increased dissimilarity over the first 10-12 years of succession. We attribute this initial period of divergence to the effects of differential seed inputs from edge individuals and heterogeneity of available light due to differences in gap size. Recent surveys, however, indicated that gap composition has become more similar as competition within gaps has become more intense. In these samples, gap composition is closely linked to site conditions, including slope, soil conditions, and site exposure. Finally, while these patterns may suggest equilibrium-oriented dynamics, non-equilibrium processes such as repeat disturbances are also evident at Hueston Woods and will likely play an important role in determining future successional pathways.
3236025|A general iterative algorithm is proposed for the arrangement of data matrices by optimizing <sup>2</sup>, sum of squares or pooled entropy for blocks determined by clusters of variables and objects. The method includes k-means clustering and constrained block clustering as special cases. Possibilities for evaluating the resulting matrix include calculation of relative contributions to measures of block sharpness, comparison of partitions and construction of consensus tables. A new measure for comparing rearranged data matrices is suggested. The distributional properties of final results produced under different starting conditions are examined. The performance of the algorithm is tested on binary vegetation data from the Italian Alps.
3235617|The demography of Picea mariana (black spruce) and Pinus banksiana (jack pine) seedlings was monitored through five censuses over 13 months in four different seed bed types after fire of four severity levels in lichen woodland. Most seeds germinated just before early frost in late summer 1990 or immediately after snow thaw in early spring 1991; the germination rate subsequently decreased. For both species, germination rate decreased along a gradient of fire severity. The proportion of Pinus seeds that produced a seedling surviving 13 months after sowing was 4.3 % and 0.4 % respectively in the intact lichen mat and in the mineral soil seed bed type. For Picea these values are 3.2 % and 0.2 % respectively. The low germination rate in a severely burned seed bed type appeared to be associated with the formation of a water-repellent crust at the soil surface following the fire. Seedlings were contagiously distributed and were more frequent in flat and hollow microsites, where there is probably more water available than on bumps or among pebbles. Properties of experimentally burned seed bed types may differ from those under natural fires where regeneration by seed generally occurs following dispersal. However, the high germination rate observed in the intact lichen mat suggests that scattered lichen woodland patches may respond to increased seed input by a higher frequency of seedling establishment.
3237248|Spatial patterns of tree species were studied in a 50-ha tropical rain forest plot in the Pasoh forest, Malaysia. This forest is characterized by a high diversity and very high number of rare species. Out of the 745 species occurring with > five individuals, 80.4 % had an aggregated distribution, 19.5% were randomly distributed and one species had a regular distribution. The spatial patterns of rare vs. common species, juvenile vs. adult trees, and coarse vs. fine scales were compared. Rare species are generally less aggregated than common ones and most of the randomly distributed species are rare. Spatial patterns shift from high clumping to looser intensity or random distribution when moving from juveniles to adults for the same species. No adult tree species display a regular pattern, however. Regular distributions were rarely found; this is probably due to intraspecific competition at a local scale. There is a negative correlation between per capita death rate and population density. This study suggests that the Pasoh forest and its high diversity are subjected to multiple controlling factors, e.g., topography, spacing effect, density-dependent processes and species rarity. The importance of any factor changes across spatial and temporal scales.
3236920|We studied the vegetation distribution in eight landscape types distinguished along an altitudinal gradient in the Trans-Himalayan region of Ladakh, India. The point-intercept method was used for vegetation sampling. Six plant communities were distinguished by cluster analysis. Of these 6 communities, three communities were dominated by shrub species. Table lands are the landscape type with the highest species diversity followed by undulating areas and river beds. Most plant species were restricted to one landscape type.
3236076| Comparisons of observed variance in species diversity (exp H) and in species richness with expectation assuming a random and independent distribution of species are used to assess the relative importance during succession of niche limitation (Wilson, Gitay & Agnew 1987; limitation of the abundance or occurrence of species by competitive interactions) and nucleation (Yarranton & Morrison 1974; the development of a community through chance establishment or persistence followed by vegetative expansion from those nuclei). Wilson, Gitay & Agnew (1987) and Palmer (1987) suggest a deficit (i.e. lower than expected) in variance of richness is consistent with a 'niche limitation' process where competitive sorting makes patches more similar in species number than would be expected. In contrast, variance that is greater than expected is consistent with and could result from underlying environmental heterogeneity (i.e. 'waterhole effect'). We extend these ideas to suggest that, in addition, a deficit in variance of diversity (exp H) can be interpreted as indicating niche limitation. Further, we suggest that a deficit of variance in richness need not be interpreted as resulting from niche limitation, but could result from limited dispersal and establishment followed by localized spread that causes quadrats to have less compositional overlap than might be expected if species were distributed at random. However, there is little reason to expect that such nucleation would cause a similar reduction in the variance of diversity. First, exp H is relatively insensitive to the presence or absence of rare species, and second, if local competitive processes do restrict the values of exp H through some form of niche limitation, this could well be independent of the specific species involved. Thus, a combination of lower than expected variance in richness and high variance in diversity suggests nucleation to be important, particularly if the mean pairwise similarity between samples is lower than expected. We first examine a secondary successional sere with stands representing post-logging and mature forest. The variance of diversity is low in the establishment phase, but not in subsequent phases where the tree canopy is well developed. Significantly low variance of species richness is observed in a young forest just entering the thinning phase. Thus, nucleation may be taking place in the establishment phase of forest development, and is almost certainly important in the early thinning phase. Second, we examine communities in the process of equilibration following fertilization, logging, and paludification. All these communities have a low variance in diversity (exp H) suggesting niche limitation. 
25549266|Question: Do tree and shrub species in an evergreen broadleaf forest show similar habitat associations across different life stages? Location: A 24-ha evergreen broadleaf forest plot in a heterogeneous landscape in Gutianshan National Nature Reserve, Zhejiang Province, Eastern China. Methods: Species having positive associations with four habitat types (low valley, low ridge, upper valley, and upper ridge) at three life stages (sapling, juvenile, and mature stages) were compared for 60 tree and shrub species using torus-translation tests. Results: A total of 117 significant positive associations with the four habitats were observed at the three life stages (43, 41, and 33 at the sapling, juvenile, and mature stages, respectively). For the 52 species significantly associated with habitats, only 16 were associated with the same habitat across all three stages. The majority of associated species at the juvenile stage (34 out of 40) were associated with the same habitat at their sapling stage, whereas half of species at the mature stage had consistent associations with the same habitat at their sapling stage. More species were associated with the upper ridge at the sapling and juvenile stages compared to the mature stage. Conversely, more species were associated with the low valley at the mature stage compared to the sapling and juvenile stages. Conclusions: Our results indicate that species ecological habitat associations can differ between developmental stages beyond 1 cm DBH, as most species habitat preferences were consistent from the sapling stage to the juvenile stage but changed at the mature stage.
3236923|Seed bank spatial pattern was studied in a secondary forest dominated by Fagus sylvatica and Betula celtiberica in the Urkiola Natural Park (N Spain). Soil samples were taken every 2 m in a regular grid (196 points) and divided into two fractions (0-3 cm and 3-10 cm deep). The viable seed bank was studied by monitoring seedling emergence for ten months. The effect of different factors on seed bank composition and patterning was analysed using constrained ordination as a hypothesis testing tool. Furthermore, the existence of spatial autocorrelation was evaluated by geostatistical analysis. Seed density was high, 7057 seed.m<sup>2</sup>, with a few species dominating. Species composition in the various layers were significantly correlated. The seed bank showed significant spatial structure, which was partially explainable by the spatial structure of the canopy and understorey vegetation. Spatial clumping from 0-8 m was observed in seed bank density and composition, mainly due to the pattern of two abundant taxa Juncus effusus and Ericaceae. The Ericaceae seed bank was related to the spatial distribution of dead stumps of Erica arborea. J. effusus was not present in the above-ground vegetation, which indicates that its seed bank was formed in the past. As expected, the seed bank of this forest reflects its history, which is characterized by complex man-induced perturbations. The seed bank appears to be structured as a consequence of contrasting driving forces such as canopy structure, understorey composition and structural and microhabitat features.
3235809|Earlier studies have described how moist, on-shore winds cause meso-scale vegetation patterns on arid mountains near the sea. However, all protruding objects such as trees, micro-relief, and hill slopes influence the distribution of seamist. The influence of the tree-canopy, aspect, and distance to the sea on the field-layer vegetation in montane savanna was investigated on 16 hills in the Red Sea Hills, at 34 - 38 km from the sea. At 32 sites, total field-layer cover, species cover, and species number were estimated in a sub-canopy plot and in a nearby open plot on seaward and leeward slopes. Cover and species number in the understorey are significantly higher than in the open. The difference is highest on seaward slopes. Detrended correspondence analysis reveals short species-axes of ca. 2 SD-units. Differences between plots are mainly in species cover. This fits a principal components ordination model. PCA and its constrained version RDA give concordant results. The explanatory variables, Tree-cover and Relative Radiation Index (aspect), have similar indirect influences on plants, and are significantly correlated with axis 1, which is interpreted as a moisture and temperature gradient. The moist seaward plots show an independent trend in species composition along axis 2, which correlates with distance to the sea. On a presence basis the variables, all representing different spatial separation, correlate on the first axis. Presumably, the species composition, at all spatial scales, is directly or indirectly related to the variation in temperature and moisture.
25173242|Questions: How do tree age, microhabitat characteristics and epiphytic competitors affect the occurrence of crustose lichens associated with old oaks? How do microhabitat characteristics and microclimate affect the cover of competitors (bryophytes and macrolichens)? How do microhabitat characteristics correlate with microclimatic variables? Location: Southeast Sweden. Methods: Eight crustose lichen species were surveyed on 165 Quercus robur trees, 17-478 years old, at three study sites. The occurrence patterns of these species were examined at two spatial scales: among trees and within trees. Occurrence patterns within trees were examined in 10 cm  10 cm plots at all four cardinal aspects at different heights from 0.5 to 4.5 m above the ground. Results: At the tree level, age-related factors were the most important predictors of species occurrence. All species were more frequent on trees &gt; 100 years than on younger trees. At the plot level, the frequency of occurrence increased with increasing bark crevice depth. The frequencies of all study species decreased with increasing cover of bryophytes. Bryophytes were in turn more frequent in plots that were exposed to rainwater and showed a low evaporation rate. Patches most exposed to rainwater were directed upwards, and the lowest evaporation rates occurred on the northern side of the trunks. Conclusions: For many crustose lichens the association with old oak trees seems at least partly to depend on their preference for the deep bark crevices that only occur on old trees. Trees represent epiphyte habitat patches that differ in size due to within-tree variability in habitat quality, such as bark crevice depth and microclimate. This study shows that variability at a finer scale, within habitat patches, contribute to explain species occurrence patterns at habitat patch level.
3236573| Descriptions of individual species responses to temperature are required in order to assess the impact of future global warming. The response of Rhododendron arboreum to estimated mean annual temperature was investigated in the Himalayas using General Additive Models (GAM) and Generalized Linear Models (GLM). The aim was to evaluate the consistency between the response in population density along elevation gradients versus response curves based on elevation data from herbarium specimens and vegetation surveys. The comparison was made with respect to (1) estimated temperature at the point of maximum response and (2) the shape of the response curves i.e. symmetric vs skewed. All data indicate a single optimum between 12.3 and 10.8C. The difference is only 0.4C between the optimum estimated from localities of herbarium specimens (frequency) and the population density data. The difference is larger (0.7C) when the vegetation survey data are combined with the data from the herbarium specimens. However, the differences are small when the uncertainties in temperature estimation are taken into consideration. The response curves based on herbarium specimens and vegetation survey data (frequencies) are symmetric. A sigmoid response curve was estimated from herbarium specimens (binomial data). The population density along the elevation gradients was, to some extent, asymmetric. This may reflect the underlying biological structure, but sampling bias and the numerical analyses may also influence the results. 
41059548|Aim: Vegetation plots collected since the early 20th century and stored in large vegetation databases are an important source of ecological information. These databases are used for analyses of vegetation diversity and estimation of vegetation parameters, however such analyses can be biased due to preferential sampling of the original data. In contrast, modern vegetation survey increasingly uses stratified-random instead of preferential sampling. To explore how these two sampling schemes affect vegetation analyses, we compare parameters of vegetation diversity based on preferentially sampled plots from a large vegetation database with those based on stratified-random sampling. Location: Moravian Karst and Silesia, Czech Republic. Methods: We compared two parallel analyses of forest vegetation, one based on preferentially sampled plots taken from a national vegetation database and the other on plots sampled in the field according to a stratified-random design. We repeated this comparison for two different regions in the Czech Republic. We focussed on vegetation properties commonly analysed using data from large vegetation databases, including alpha (within-plot) diversity, cover and participation of different species groups, such as endangered and alien species within plots, total species richness of data sets, beta diversity and ordination patterns. Results: The preferentially sampled data sets obtained from the database contained more endangered species and had higher beta diversity, whereas estimates of alpha diversity and representation of alien species were not consistently different between preferentially and stratified-randomly sampled data sets. In ordinations, plots from the preferential samples tended to be more common at margins of plot scatters. Conclusions: Vegetation data stored in large databases are influenced by researcher subjectivity in plot positioning, but we demonstrated that not all of their properties necessarily differ from data sets obtained by stratified-random sampling. This indicates the value of vegetation databases for use in biodiversity studies; however, some analyses based on these databases are clearly biased and their results must be interpreted with caution.
3236833|Several properties have been suggested to be characteristic of ecotones, but their prevalence has rarely been tested. We sampled five ecotones to seek evidence on seven generalizations that are commonly made about ecotones: vegetational sharpness, physiognomic change, occurrence of a spatial community mosaic, many exotic species, ecotonal species, spatial mass effect, and species richness higher or lower than either side of the ecotone. The ecotones were in a sequence from scattered mangroves, through salt marsh, rush-marsh, scrub, woodland, to pasture. We developed a method to objectively define, by rapid vegetational change, the position and depth of an ecotone, identifying five ecotones. Their positions were consistent across three sampling schemes and two spatial grain sizes. One ecotone is a switch ecotone, produced by positive feedback between community and environment. Another is anthropogenic, due to clearing for agriculture. Two others are probably environmental in cause, and one may be largely a relict environmental ecotone. Sharp changes in species composition occurred. Three ecotones were associated with a change in plant physiognomy. In two, the ecotone was located just outside a woodland canopy, in the zone influenced by the canopy. Community mosaicity was evident at only one ecotone. There were few strictly ecotonal species; many species occurred more frequently within ecotones than in adjacent vegetation, but there were never significantly more ecotonal species than expected at random. There was little evidence for the spatial mass effect reducing ecotonal sharpness, or leading to higher species richness within ecotones. Species richness was higher than in the adjacent habitat in only one ecotone. It seems that supposedly characteristic ecotone features depend on the particular ecological situation, and the ecology of the species present, rather than being intrinsic properties of ecotones.
3236969|A semi-natural grassland in Sweden was exposed to an elevated CO<sub>2</sub> concentration during a six-year open-top chamber experiment. Vegetation composition was assessed twice a year using the point-intercept method. The field had been grazed previously, but when the experiment started this was replaced with a cutting regime with one cut (down to ground level) each year in early August. From the third to the sixth year of the study the harvested material was divided into legumes, non-leguminous forbs and grasses, dried and weighed. Elevated CO<sub>2</sub> had an effect on species composition (as analysed by Principal Component Analysis) that increased over time. It also tended to increase diversity (Shannon index) in summer, but reduce it in spring. However, the effects of the weather and/or time on species composition and diversity were much more prominent than CO<sub>2</sub> effects. Since the weather was largely directional over time (from dry to wet), with the exception of the fifth year, it was difficult to distinguish between weather effects and changes caused by a changed management regime. In all treatments, grasses increased over time in both mass and point-intercept measurements, whereas non-leguminous forbs decreased in mass, but not in point-intercept measurements. Legumes increased in the point-intercept measurements, but not in biomass, at elevated CO<sub>2</sub>, but not in the other treatments. Overall, we found that elevated CO<sub>2</sub> affected species composition; however, it was only one of many factors and a rather weak one.
3235591|Vegetation and its correlation with environment has been traditionally studied at a single scale of observation. If different ecological processes are dominant at different spatial and temporal scales, the results obtained from such observations will be specific to the single scale of observation employed and will lack generality. Consequently, it is important to assess whether the processes that determine community structure and function are similar at different scales, or whether, how rapidly, and under what circumstances the dominant processes change with scale of observation. Indeed, early work by Greig-Smith and associates (Greig-Smith 1952; Austin & Greig-Smith 1968; see Greig-Smith 1979; Kershaw & Looney 1985; Austin & Nicholls 1988) suggested that plant-plant interactions are typically important at small scales, but that the physical environment dominates at large scales. Using a gridded and mapped 6.6 ha portion of the Duke Forest on the North Carolina piedmont for a case study, we examined the importance of scale in vegetation studies by testing four hypotheses. First, we hypothesized that the correlation between vegetation composition and environment should increase with increasing grain (quadrat) size. Our results support this hypothesis. Second, we hypothesized that the environmental factors most highly correlated with species composition should be similar at all grain sizes within the 6.6-ha study area, and should be among the environmental factors strongly correlated with species composition over the much larger extent of the ca. 3500 ha Duke Forest. Our data are not consistent with either portion of this hypothesis. Third, we hypothesized that at the smaller grain sizes employed in this study ( 256 m
3236436|Spatial distribution patterns of alien plant species were compared with those of native species on a windward slope of Mt. Haleakala (3055 m). Oceanic islands are considered susceptible to biological invasion, and this study numerically tested this circumstantial evidence with the following questions: Are all habitats equally susceptible; and, do successful invaders have wider realized niches than natives? The mountain slope consists of three distinct altitudinal bioclimatic zones (hot moist lowland, wet montane cloud, and cool arid high-altitude zones). Ordination indicated that alien species' ranges and population expansions were clustered in the lowland and high-altitude zones. The lowland zone had been subjected to natural canopy dieback, and the high-altitude zone to grazing by domestic and feral ungulates. By contrast, the montane cloud forest was relatively intact in terms of number and cover of native species. Thus, susceptibility to alien invasion clearly differed among zones, and the primary causes seemed to be the obvious disturbance factors. The mean ecological range along the altitude-rainfall gradient was significantly (P < 0.05) greater for native than for alien species in most life-form groups. The reasons for the greater number of climate generalists among the natives vs. the range-restricted aliens appear to be related to: (1) the pre-alien condition with a depauperate flora which allowed for 'ecological release' of successful native colonizers, and (2) the climatic pre-adaptation of alien invaders which restricts them from penetrating over a broader spectrum of climatic zones in a floristic matrix subjected to increasing interspecific competition.
3237268| Stand mapping and vertical and oblique tree crown projections were used to study gap characteristics and gap effects on the regeneration and stand development of Larix gmelini. The hypothesis is that waves of advance Larix regeneration are recruited into the canopy layer following the creation of canopy openings. In old-growth Larix forests of the northern Da Xingan Ling Mts., at 52 N, obliquely projected gaps (OPG) begin at a distance of 60 - 80 % of the canopy tree height from the southernmost stems bordering the gap and thus the OPGs may extend beyond the northern boundaries of the vertically projected gaps (VPG). Changes in the environment and resource availability in the OPG result in increased Larix sapling survival. Due to a greater incidence of light, 10 - 30 yr old OPG saplings were more abundant than saplings in either a near-oblique projected gap (NOPG) or in the shadow of obliquely projected crowns (SOPC). The survival of saplings more than 30-yr old was highest when they were found in the OPG of one canopy opening and the VPG of another. This means that, following recruitment into an OPG, saplings then require the space found in a VPG to permit growth into the canopy. Thus, various-sized gaps contribute to the survival of different aged saplings by increasing the complexity of stand structure. Although individuals may regenerate in an OPG, successful recruitment into the canopy requires the available growing space of a VPG. This research suggests that shade intolerant Larix gmelini can maintain its canopy dominance without fire via gap regeneration. 
3237118|Fuzzy set ordination was used to examine relationships between tree species and site factors on Mt. Ascutney, Vermont, USA. Prism plots were established at four elevations (455, 610, 760 and 915 m) along contour lines that encircled the mountain. In addition to elevation, which was the most important factor affecting tree species composition, slope, aspect and exposure to solar radiation all affected composition; however, these latter three factors were important only at 455 m. Topographic position was important at higher elevations as well. The responses of tree species to any of these factors were highly individualistic. Plots of the upper bounds of relative basal area of each species against the apparent elevation of sites where that species was found were useful in predicting how important an individual species could become over the course of forest succession. For example, northern hardwoods, which comprise the most common forest type of this region, are not very common on this mountain. This approach shows, however, that they are currently at levels well below their potential maximum; this is probably due to past disturbance.
3235593|The Sierra de La Laguna, Baja California Sur harbors the only tropical dry forest of the Peninsula. An inventory of the perennial plants was carried out at the eastern part of this mountain range. Plant spatial distribution was analyzed considering the species composition and vertical stratification of plant clusters in a study plot of 2 500 m
25173249|Questions: Is the area of influence of individual trees determined by tree size? Does competition, inferred from spatial pattern between neighbouring trees, affect adult tree spacing patterns in an tropical forest? At what size-class or stage is competition between neighbours most likely to affect adult tree spacing patterns? Location: Kibale National Park, western Uganda. Methods: Relationships between focal tree size and nearest neighbour distance, size, density, and species in a 4-ha permanent plot, using point pattern analyses. Results: We found non-random patterns of distribution of nearest tree neighbours (stems &gt; 10 cm DBH). Independent of identity, tree density was highest and neighbours were regularly spaced within 3-5m of an individual. Tree densities were lower and relatively constant at distances &gt;5m and neighbours were typically randomly spaced. In general, conspecific patterns conformed to the latter trends. Thus, individual area of influence was small (within a radius of 3-5 m). Rarer species were more clumped than common species. Weak competitive thinning occurred among more densely packed small trees (&lt;20 cm DBH), and rapidly disappeared with increasing tree size and distance from an individual. The clumping and density of individuals was not significantly affected by tree size. Conclusions: Negative effects of competition among trees are weak, occur within the crown radius of most individuals, and are independent of adult tree size and identity. The density of neighbouring trees (aggregation) did not decline with increasing focal tree size at either the conspecific or the community level and tree diameter (tree size) was not a good estimator of the implied competitive influence of a tree. Mechanisms operating at the recruitment stage may be important determinants of adult tree community diversity and spacing patterns.
3236558|Forest species composition was recorded in 82 forests in the Himmerland and Hornsherred regions in Denmark and analysed with respect to isolation (distance to other forests and areas of forest), forest continuity (older or younger than 200 yr), soil pH, tree species composition and seed dispersal groups. Continuity and isolation measures were correlated with forest species richness in Hornsherred. Myrmecochorous, autochorous, anemoballistic and endozoochorous species were markedly fewer in recent than in ancient forests. In Himmerland, patterns were much weaker and few significant correlations were found between forest species richness or different seed dispersal groups and continuity or isolation of the forests. Differences between the two regions may result from less intensive land use, a more humid climate and a smaller species pool with less species with short distance dispersal in Himmerland. Landscape fragmentation therefore appears to limit forest species' recolonization more in Hornsherred than in Himmerland.
3236216| The primary-successional sere of a Hawaiian montane rain forest was inferred from an age sequence of eight closely located 'a' flows (clinker type lava); 8, 50, 140, ca. 300, ca. 400, ca. 1400, ca. 3000 and ca. 9000 yr, on a windward slope of Mauna Loa, Hawaii. All study sites (0.2 ha each) were at 1120 - 1250 m a.s.l. with 4000 mm mean annual rainfall. The 400-yr, 1400-yr, and 9000-yr flows had younger volcanic ash deposits, while the others were pure lava. Comparisons of tree size and foliar nutrients suggested that ash increased the availability of nitrogen, and subsequently standing biomass. An Unweighted Pair Group Cluster Analysis on the samples (flows) using quantitative vascular species composition revealed that clusters were correlated with age regardless of the substrate types (pure lava vs. ash), and an indirect ordination on the samples suggested that the sequence of sample scores along axis 1 was perfectly correlated with the age sequence. Although ash deposits increased biomass, they did not affect the sequence of the successional sere. Both pubescent and glabrous varieties of Metrosideros polymorpha (Myrtaceae) dominated upper canopy layers on all flows  50 yr and  1400 yr, but the pubescent variety was replaced by the glabrous on the flows  3000 yr. Lower layers were dominated initially by a matted fern, Dicranopteris linearis, up to 300 yr, and subsequently by tree ferns, Cibotium spp., to 9000 yr. The cover of Cibotium declined slightly after 3000 yr, while other native herb and shrub species increased. A 'climax' stage in the conventional sense was apparently not reached on the observed age gradient, because the sere changed continuously in biomass and species; this divergent successional phenomenon may be unique to Hawaii where the flora is naturally impoverished and disharmonic due to its geographic isolation in contrast to more diverse and harmonic floras in continents. 
41059553|Question: Abrupt increments in tree radial growth chronology are associated with gap formations derived from disturbances. If a forest has been primarily controlled by fine-scale disturbances such as single tree-fall, do these release events spatio-temporally synchronize at a fine scale such as 10 m and 5 years? Is it possible to quantify spatio-temporal patterns of synchronicity from tree rings and long-term inventories, and associate them with spatial forest patch dynamics? How and to what extent can we reconstruct the fine-scale synchronized growth and spatio-temporal forest patch dynamics from currently available information? Location: Cores were taken from Abies sachalinensis trees in a coniferous/deciduous mixed forest in the Shiretoko Peninsula, Hokkaido, northern Japan. Methods: We first eliminated short-term fluctuations and highlighted growth trends over the mid-term using a time-series smoothing technique. This helped identify release events, we then conducted fine-scale spatial analyses on released A. sachalinensis primarily with cluster analysis. Results: We specified the unit scale of synchronicity at 10 m, and classified released A. sachalinensis trees into spatially separated regions. Only once during the recent 50 years was extensive synchronicity over 40 m found. Most of the released A. sachalinensis were isolated, with non-released A. sachalinensis present in nearby, implying imperfect synchronization. The ambiguous 20-30 m A. sachalinensis patches present in the current forest were the result of connected and overlapping patches smaller than 10 m associated with different disturbances and different responses of understorey trees. Conclusion: Tree-ring series, long-term census and fine-scale spatio-temporal analyses revealed that this forest community has been controlled by two types of disturbance: frequent small disturbances such as single tree-fall and less frequent multiple tree-falls.
3235622| The launching of international phytosociological projects requires a re-evaluation of vegetation units (syntaxa) of different phytosociological schools and their integration into one global classification system. Despite many difficulties, this possibility is offered by the floristic-phytosociological system - a hierarchical system of syntaxa defined by floristic-sociological criteria. Associations (and lower syntaxa) of the Zrich Montpellier School as well as associations (later called sociations) of the Uppsala School are defined by means of the floristic composition of plant communities and fit this postulate; their syntaxonomic identity can be checked by tabular comparison of vegetation relevs. Not only the presence of diagnostic species but also the specific combination of sociological groups of species, dominance of species or even the absence of certain species or species groups can be used as syntaxonomic criteria. The syntaxonomic identification of an association of the Uppsala School with one of the Zrich-Montpellier School means uniting syntaxa of the same rank in the sense of the Code of Phytosociological Nomenclature. If a sociation is found to fit the criteria of an association delimited by the Zrich-Montpellier methods, the rank of an association can be attributed to this sociation and its name can thus be validated in the sense of the Code. 
4499265|Question: Is ombrotrophic bog vegetation in an oceanic region of southwestern Sweden changing in the same direction over a five year period (1999 - 2004) as northwest European bogs in the last 50 years, i.e. towards drier and more eutrophic vegetation? Location: The province of Halland, southwestern Sweden. Methods: Changes in species composition were monitored in 750 permanently marked plots in 25 ombrotrophic bogs from 1999 to 2004. Changes in species occurrences and richness were analysed and a multivariate statistical method (DCA) was used to analyse vegetation changes. Results: The species composition changed towards wetter rather than drier conditions, which is unlike the general pattern of vegetation change on bogs in northwestern Europe. Species typical of wetter site conditions including most Sphagnum species increased in abundance on the bogs until 2004. The total number of species per plot increased, mostly due to the increased species richness of Sphagnum species. Nitrogen-demanding (eutrophic) species increased in occurrence. Conclusions: Ombrotrophic bog vegetation in an oceanic region in Sweden became wetter and was resilient to short-term climatic shifts, after three years of below normal precipitation followed by several years with normal precipitation levels. Shifts towards more nitrogen demanding species were rapid in this region where the deposition levels have been high for several decades.
25173189|Questions: Two hypotheses were tested: (1) physical features, such as wetland surface area and habitat diversity, together with water chemistry, are important determinants of species richness anc composition of macrophyte assemblages and (2) species richness and composition of macrophyte assemblages differ between wetlands of different types (i.e., palustrine versus lacustrine) and between wetlands of different hydrologies (i.e. permanent versus intermittent). Location: A subtropical coastal plain segment (2500 km) of southern Brazil. Methods: Quarterly collections were carried out in 15 wetlands (2004-2005) in southern Brazil. Differences in richness over time were tested using repeated measures ANOVA. Stepwise multiple regression was performed to investigate relationships between total richness and environmental variables. Significance of differences between wetland types and hydroperiods on species composition was verified by MRPP (Multi-Response Permutation Procedure). The influence of the environmental variables on species composition was assessed using CCA (Canonical Correspondence Analysis). Results: Macrophyte species richness changed with time, was not significantly different between wetland types, but was higher in permanent wetlands than in intermittent ones. Area, habitat diversity and soluble reactive phosphorus concentration explained 76% of the variation in species richness. Species composition was different between permanent and intermittent wetlands, although it was not significantly different between wetland types. Area, habitat diversity and water chemistry explained 50.1% of species composition. Conclusions: Species richness and composition of wetland macrophytes were mainly determined by area, habitat diversity and hydroperiod. These results can be used for the development of conservation and management programs in southern Brazil.
4499254|Questions: 1. Which plant traits and habitat characteristics best explain local above-ground persistence of vascular plant species and 2. Is there a trade-off between local above-ground persistence and the ability for seed dispersal and below-ground persistence in the soil seed bank? Locations: 845 long-term permanent plots in terrestrial habitats across the Netherlands. Methods: We analysed the local above-ground persistence of vascular plants in permanent plots (monitored once a year for ca. 16 year) with respect to functional traits and habitat preferences using survival statistics (Kaplan-Meier analysis and Cox' regression). These methods account for censored data and are rarely used in vegetation ecology. Results: Local above-ground persistence is determined by both functional traits (especially the ability to form long-lived clonal connections) and habitat preferences (especially nutrient requirements). Above-ground persistence is negatively related to the ability for dispersal by wind and to the ability to accumulate a long-term persistent soil seed bank ('dispersal through time') and is positively related to the ability for dispersal by water. Conclusions: Most species have a half-life expectation over 15 years, which may contribute to time lags after changes in habitat quality or -configuration ('extinction debt'). There is evidence for a trade-off relationship between local above-ground persistence and below-ground seed persistence, while the relationship with dispersal in space is vector specific. The rate of species turnover increases with productivity.
3236138| A dense population of Salix viminalis L. showed a high mortality of shoots and stools (stubs which have resprouted after having been coppiced). Previous investigations indicated that the population underwent self-thinning and consisted of two genotypes which differed in susceptibility to leaf rust, Melampsora epitea Thm. Biomass production after a rust infection was lower for the susceptible individuals. In the present study we investigated the effects of Melampsora on the development of intraspecific competition and concurring mortality. The length of time that shoots remained alive during three years after the infection was positively correlated with living shoot height directly after the infection. The relation between living shoot height and survival time did not differ between infected and uninfected shoots. This suggests that shoot mortality was caused not directly by the Melampsora infection, but by intraspecific competition. Both final survival and weight of stools after three years were positively correlated with living stool height directly after the infection, but not with stool weight and height before the infection. The competitive hierarchy between stools was changed by Melampsora, which lowered the canopy height of infected individuals and thereby decreased their ability to compete for light. About 87 % of the stools died within three years after having been infected, while all non-infected stools survived. 
3236586|Question: What are the changes associated with the recent invasion by the non-native legume, Cytisus scoparius? Location: Subalpine vegetation (1500 m a.s.l.) in Australia. Methods: We used multivariate techniques and regression analyses to assess vegetation and environmental changes across six study sites. Vegetation and environmental variables were investigated at three different stages of invasion: (1) recent invasion (8-10 yr), (2) mature invasion (15-16 yr) and (3) long-term invasion (25 yr). Results: Substantial changes in floristic composition and species richness were evident after 15 yr and these changes became more pronounced after 15 yr. Changes due to invasion were associated with a dramatic loss of native species or a reduction in their abundance. No 'new species' were evident under invaded stands. Forbs were most affected by the establishment of C. scoparius, although all growth forms responded negatively. Dense canopy shading and an increasingly dense, homogeneous litter layer in the understorey as a result of C. scoparius were strong environmental drivers of vegetation change. Greenhouse studies confirmed the importance of these processes on the germination and growth of two native species. Conclusions: This study highlights the potential for C. scoparius to alter both vegetation and environmental processes in the subalpine region.
3236238|Using artificial data, techniques that have been proposed for analyzing multiple species pattern in vegetation, are compared. No single method was capable of detecting, clearly and unambiguously, all scales of pattern in all cases, and the effectiveness of the different methods was found to depend on the scales of pattern of the component species and on how the patterns of individual species are combined. Some improvements for the application of the popular multi-scale ordination method are suggested. Several sets of field data are analyzed and the results used to illustrate a discussion of the existence and nature of multi-species pattern in vegetation and how it is to be evaluated.
3235833|Large isolated trees are a common feature of the agricultural landscape in humid tropical regions originally covered by rain forest. These isolated trees are primarily used as a source of shade for cattle and people. 13 pastures (totalling ca. 80 ha) currently used as cattle pasture were studied. In them, we registered 265 isolated trees belonging to 57 species. 50 trees of the most frequent species (Ficus spp. n = 30 and Nectandra ambigens n = 20) were selected to examine the influence of isolated trees on floristic composition and vegetation structure in the pastures. At each tree, three 4-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats were sampled: under the canopy, directly under the canopy perimeter, and beyond the canopy in the open pasture. Undercanopy vegetation was structurally and floristically different from the other two sampling sites. Mean species richness per quadrat was significantly higher under the canopy (17.8  4.3 SD) than at the canopy perimeter (11.2  3.4) and in the open pasture (10.6  3.6) sites. Stem density was higher at undercanopy sites, where greater proportions of endozoochorous and rain-forest species were found. Isolated trees function as nursery plants for rain-forest species by facilitating the establishment of zoochorous species whose seeds are deposited under the tree canopies by frugivorous birds or bats. Our results imply that isolated trees may play a major role in seed dispersal and establishment of native species, which is of consequence for the preservation of rain-forest species in these fragmented landscapes.
4096678|Questions: How does the time interval between subsequent stand-replacing fire events affect post-fire understorey cover and composition following the recent event? How important is fire interval relative to broad- or local-scale environmental variability in structuring post-fire understorey communities? Location: Subalpine plateaus of Yellowstone National Park (USA) that burned in 1988. Methods: In 2000, we sampled understorey cover and Pinus contorta density in pairs of 12-yr old stands at 25 locations. In each pair, the previous fire interval was either short (7-100 yr) or long (100-395 yr). We analysed variation in understorey species richness, total cover, and cover of functional groups both between site pairs (using paired t-tests) and across sites that experienced the short fire intervals (using regression and ordination). We regressed three principal components to assess the relative importance of disturbance and broad or local environmental variability on post-fire understorey cover and richness. Results: Between paired plots, annuals were less abundant and fire-intolerant species (mostly slow-growing shrubs) were more abundant following long intervals between prior fires. However, mean total cover and richness did not vary between paired interval classes. Across a gradient of fire intervals ranging from 7-100 yr, total cover, species richness, and the cover of annuals and nitrogen-fixing species all declined while the abundance of shrubs and fire-intolerant species increased. The few exotics showed no response to fire interval. Across all sites, broad-scale variability related to elevation influenced total cover and richness more than fire interval. Conclusions: Significant variation in fire intervals had only minor effects on post-fire understorey communities following the 1988 fires in Yellowstone National Park.
3235838|Ten years (1979-1989) of growth and mortality were determined in a 130-yr old stand on the Oregon coast based on periodic remeasurements in 44 1000 m<sup>2</sup> plots. Western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla) constituted 90 % of the individuals and 57 % of the biomass. Wind is a major form of disturbance in this area, creating both small discrete and large diffuse disturbance patches; wind therefore has a direct effect on the location and extent of regeneration. Rates of tree mortality were high for this coastal stand (2.8 %/yr), especially compared to similar-aged stands in the western and eastern Cascade Ranges. Though low in absolute density, Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis) persisted in competition with the more tolerant western hemlock. Net production of bole biomass (4.9 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) did not equal mortality (8.7 Mg ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>), and total biomass declined over the 10-yr measurement period from 499 to 460 Mg/ha; this trend may have begun as early as the mid-1950's at a peak biomass of about 600 Mg/ha. The decline may have been due to a positive feedback in which new gaps and enlarging gap perimeters exposed more and more trees to potential wind damage.
3236559|The regeneration after fire of the dominant east Mediterranean dwarf-shrub Sarcopoterium spinosum was studied under various habitat and geographic conditions in northern Israel, Northern Crete and the Aegean coast of Turkey. Age structures of regenerating stands were determined 3 - 9 yr after fire on 13 1 m x 1 m sample stands by analysis of growth rings in the taproot crown of 874 plants. S. spinosum regenerated either by massive seedling recruitment in some habitats or by resprouting from surviving meristems in others. This versatility facilitates adaptation of the species to widely different environmental conditions and is a factor in the maintenance of its dominance after fire at occupied sites. In the years after fire, the growth of younger plants within the stand at all sites was severely suppressed by the older shrubs. Consequently, the age structure of the stands was dominated by one or two older cohorts that became established soon after fire. In addition, on most habitats, older shrubs (usually older than 6 yr) were often composed of clusters of plants that suggested clonal proliferation of ramets. The strongly peaked age structure, together with the appearance of clonal regeneration on the older plants, suggests that subsequent maintenance of the stand was not dependent on recurrent seedling recruitment. This can explain the persistence of S. spinosum in stands of herbaceous vegetation despite the extreme sensitivity of the seedlings to competition under such conditions.
4096758|Questions: Which demographic and life-history differences are found among 95 sympatric tree species? Are there correlations among demographic parameters within this assemblage? Location: Central Amazonian rain forest. Methods: Using long-term data from 24 1-ha permanent plots, eight characteristics were estimated for each species: wood density, annual mortality rate, annual recruitment rate, mean stem diameter, maximum stem diameter, mean stem-growth rate, maximum stem-growth rate, population density. Results: An ordination analysis revealed that tree characteristics varied along two major axes of variation, the major gradient expressing light requirements and successional status, and the second gradient related to tree size. Along these gradients, four relatively discrete tree guilds could be distinguished: fast-growing pioneer species, shade-tolerant sub-canopy species, canopy trees, and emergent species. Pioneers were uncommon and most trees were canopy or emergent species, which frequently had low mortality and recruitment. Wood density was negatively associated with tree mortality, recruitment, and growth rates when all species were considered. Growth rates varied markedly among and within species, with pioneers exhibiting far faster and less variable growth rates than did the other species. Slow growth in subcanopy species relative to canopy and emergent trees was not a simple consequence of mean tree size, but apparently resulted from physiological constraints imposed by low-light and other conditions in the forest understorey. Conclusions: Trees of Amazonian rain forests could be classified with some success into four relatively distinctive guilds. However, several demographic and life-history traits, such as those that distinguish early and late successional species, probably vary along a continuum, rather than being naturally grouped into relatively discrete categories.
3237220|This study attempts to show a differentiation into strategy types among plant species of four alpine communities in the northwestern Caucasus, Russia. Four groups of population characteristics (traits) were examined: above-ground biomass, seed size, seed yield and occurrence of a persistent seed bank. In addition, values for relative growth rate and a morphology index were estimated. Agglomerative Cluster Analysis and Principal Component Analysis were applied to a data set with 42 species from these communities and six species characteristics. In the Geranium gymnocaulon meadow, the most productive community, large gaps occur created by wild boars and bears. Here, the response of 13 species to disturbance was also analysed. Strategy types were approached both according to Grime: 'competitive', 'ruderal', 'stress-tolerating' and according to Ramensky, Rabotnov and Romanovsky: 'violent' dominant (V), 'explerent' explorative (E) and 'patient' endurant (P). Differentiation into strategy types was more obvious in productive alpine grasslands than in lichen heaths and snowbed communities. The grassland dominants Festuca varia, Geranium gymnocaulon and Hedysarum caucasicum showed a more or less 'violent' strategy. Species approaching an E-strategy, e.g. Matricaria caucasica, Sibbaldia procumbens and Gnaphalium supinum, were also found in the grasslands but prevailed in the snowbed communities. Species with a 'patient' strategy prevailed in the lichen heaths. We conclude that plant strategy types are well-differentiated, this is also seen in plant communities occurring under severe high-mountain conditions. We also suggest that the approaches by Grime and Ramensky/Rabotnov/Romanovsky are not so similar as has been assumed earlier and that the R/R/R types are better differentiated and ecologically better interpretable. We emphasize the gradient character of strategy 'types' and would characterize plant species by the degree of adaptation to conditions: (1) from small seed size and large persistent seed bank to large seed size and absence of a seed bank; (2) from high to low biomass and seed production, with relative growth rate as a less important partially correlated trait.
40295851|Question: Can cation analyses of water samples within a peatland site be used to infer solute sources to the samples, and so provide an objective criterion of ombrotrophy? Location: Mire complexes within native Pinus sylvestris forest, in Abernethy Forest, north of the Cairngorm Mountains, Scotland, UK. Methods: Chemical analyses of major cations in 200 water samples, and x 2 analysis of contingency tables relating species occurrence in the corresponding quadrat samples to the ombrotrophic-telluric division. Results and conclusions: The chemical data (especially the ratios Ca /Mg and Na /Mg) indicated a separation of about 140 essentially ombrotrophic samples from about 60 showing clear telluric influence; these conclusions are consistent with published rainwater analyses. For hydrological and meteorological reasons, a sharp separation cannot be expected, so the limit adopted here (Ca/Mg = 1.0) is to some extent arbitrary, but the methods described provide a more objective criterion of ombrotrophy than any other. Contingency tables showed highly significant associations between species occurrence and the ombrotrophic-telluric division. The strongest associations included: (ombrotrophic) Eriophorum vaginatum, Odontoschisma sphagni and Sphagnum cuspidatum; (telluric) Carex panicea, Potentilla erecta, Carex echinata, Narthecium ossifragum, Sphagnum auriculatum s.1., Agrostis canina, Molinia caerulea, Eriophorum angustifolium, and Sphagnum recurvum s.1. The Abernethy mires are arguably more comparable with mire complexes on base-poor rocks in southern Scandinavia than with most ombrotrophic sites further south and west in Britain. As in Sweden, Narthecium ossifragum and Eriophorum angustifolium, generally ubiquitous on British and Irish ombrotrophic bogs, are "fen" plants at Abernethy.
3235683|Interpretation of aerial photographs (1962-1965) revealed vegetation asymmetry on opposite valley slopes in the semi-arid to semi-humid zones of the island of Oahu. Field studies after 5 and 10 yr showed that this asymmetry is a transitional feature during recovery from disturbance (fire). The types of asymmetry ranged from difference in vigour of shrub canopies to total difference in floristic composition. Slopes exposed to the trade winds are typically characterized by grassy vegetation and landslides, whereas on the protected part of the upper west-facing slope immediately behind a ridge, vigorous shrubs and trees grow without any mechanical damage or deformation of crowns. This part of the slope is richer in species, including rare ones, than other parts. It is also characterized by the invasion of grasses from more exposed sites and the elongation of shrub canopies above the crest line. Different levels of exposure to exceptionally strong trade winds and salt spray at different parts of slopes seem to allow different speeds of recovery and thus contrasting vegetation structure and species composition. The existence of many shrub seedlings on the exposed upper slope suggests that succession is taking place and the vegetation asymmetry seems at least structurally to be a transitional feature.
3236083|The environmental factors correlating with community structure of vegetation on talus slopes of the 785 km long Niagara Escarpment, southern Ontario, Canada, were studied using canonical correspondence and regression analysis. The bryophytes and higher vascular plants were analysed separately to see if their responses were similar or different. Both vascular plants and bryophytes responded similarly to the environmental variables that were measured. For both vegetation components, location from north to south explained most of the variance. When species richness was plotted against location for the complete vegetation and for the two components separately, the results showed that vascular plant species richness decreased with increasing latitude, while bryophyte richness increased. The magnitude of both of these trends was slight but consistent with the hypothesis that available environmental energy governs a significant amount of the variance in species richness. Since separate components of the talus vegetation were shown to respond differently to the same environmental variable, groups of taxa should not be excluded from community level studies without a consideration of the possible consequences of this bias.
3236004|This paper describes the effect of artificial plant cover on plant colonization of a bare peat surface, resulting from peat harvesting. Plant species colonization was compared on plots supplied with plastic models simulating Vaccinium vitis-idaea plants and plots without this artificial cover. After two growing seasons, species composition and total biomass of the established plant cover were similar in the two plot types. However, the number of established seedlings in the plots with artificial cover was significantly higher than that in the plots without cover. Out of 13 species observed four differed significantly in their performance on the two plot types. Betula spec. had both higher seedling numbers and higher biomass on the test plots; Deschampsia cespitosa had a higher biomass, whereas the seedlings were too numerous to be counted; Salix phylicifolia had higher seedling numbers. On the contrary, the number of seedlings of Epilobium angustifolium was lower on plots with artificial cover. It is suggested that colonization by Betula, D. cespitosa and S. phylicifolia was facilitated mainly by the improved microclimatic and soil moisture conditions under the artificial plant cover. On the other hand, germination of E. angustifolium may be negatively influenced by the increased shade on the test plots.
3236427|Previous work has shown that below-ground biomass is more concentrated in surface soil layers in intensively grazed mesic grasslands than in moderately grazed grasslands. However, since the mesic grasslands previously studied shared similar compositional traits, the question remained whether grasslands with differing species composition, and intensive defoliation, showed similar biomass distribution patterns. Eight grasslands at four sites distributed along an elevational gradient were investigated. The upper and lower zones of a slope were sampled at each site. Four of these grasslands were grazed by livestock and the other four were grazed and mown. Biomass was divided into above-ground, root crown and three root layers. Species composition varied according to management and topography. Annuals and perennial forbs had relatively more above-ground biomass at the upper part of the slopes, while perennial grasses dominated the lower parts. The above-ground biomass and root biomass at 4 - 7 cm depth attained maximum values in the lower, potentially more fertile, parts of the slopes. Crown biomass increased with altitude at the upper part of the slopes. Despite their differences in composition and structure, seven out of the eight stands showed a remarkable concentration of the below-ground biomass near the soil surface, which decreased drastically with soil depth. This pattern is similar to that observed in the intensively grazed mesic communities studied earlier. This similarity was more evident in the more mesic-like grasslands, since it increased from the upper, potentially drier parts of the slopes, to the lower parts, and, when each topographic position was considered separately, from low to high elevation.
25173154|Question: Is tree regeneration in canopy gaps characterized by chance or predictable establishment. Location: Coastal scarp forests, Umzimvubu district, Eastern Cape Province, South Africa. Methods: Estimation of richness of gap-filling species across canopy gaps of different size. Data are compared with regeneration under the canopy. Probability of self-replacement of gap forming species is calculated. Results: Forest area under natural gap phase was 7.8%, caused mostly by windthrow (54%). The abundance and average size of gaps (87.8 m) suggests that species diversity may be maintained by gap dynamics. However, only four of 53 gap-filler species displayed gap size specialization and these were pioneer species. An additional 13 species were more common in larger gaps but there was no gradient in composition of gap-filler species across gap size (p = 0.61). Probabilities of self-replacement in a gap were low (&lt; 0.3) and common canopy species were equally abundant in gaps and the understorey. Species composition in gaps showed no pattern of variation, i.e. was unpredictable, which suggests absence of a successional sequence within tree-fall gaps. There was also only a slight increase in species richness in gaps at intermediate levels of disturbance. Conclusions: Coastal scarp forest appears not to comprise tightly co-evolved, niche-differentiated tree species. Unpredictable species composition in gaps may be a chance effect of recruitment limitation of species from the species pool. Chance establishment slows competitive exclusion and may maintain tree diversity in these forests. These data suggest that current levels (3 gaps per ha) of selective tree harvesting may not cause a reduction in species richness in this forest.
25173248|Questions: Do lianas alter the relative success of tree species during regeneration? Are the effects of lianas on tree seedlings moderated by canopy openness? How are patterns of biomass allocation in tree seedlings affected by liana competition? Location: Tropical moist semi-deciduous forest in Ghana. Methods: Seedlings of the trees Nauclea diderrichii (pioneer), Khaya anthotheca (non-pioneer light demander) and Garcinia kola (non-pioneer shade bearer) were planted with the lianas Acacia kamerunensis (fast growing) and Loeseneriella rowlandii (slow growing) in large and small gaps (ca. 15% and 8% PAR respectively) and in the forest understorey (ca. 4% PAR). Seedling survival, growth and biomass allocation were measured. Results: Canopy openness moderated the interaction between liana and tree seedlings. The nature of the interaction was both liana and tree species specific and displayed temporal variation. Acacia competition effects were stronger in sites with greater canopy openness. In big gaps, Acacia reduced significantly the biomass of Nauclea by 32% and Khaya by about 50%. Khaya growth in leaf area was five times greater without Acacia, while Nauclea and Garcinia were not affected. Acacia was more plastic than Loeseneriella in response to the environment and the tree species. Our results show that while Loeseneriella, with lower rates of growth, did not affect seedling growth of the three species evaluated, Acacia could alter the relative success of tree species during regeneration. Conclusions: There is evidence that competitive effects by Acacia on tree regeneration through competition could modify tree species capacity to establish. Effects by lianas at the regeneration phase may have important implications for forest management.
3235899| Sand dune vegetation along the coast of the Mexican states of Tabasco and Campeche was sampled by means of 1501 relevs and the data were analyzed with classification and ordination programs. 36 community types were distinguished, which were grouped into 10 higher-order groups. The communities are described in a sequence reflecting the main vegetation zonation. Beach, embryo dune and foredune community groups include 12 community types, the sheltered zone includes 16 types and the fixed dunes 8 types. The ordination results reveal one main vegetation gradient corresponding to the increase in mean distance from the shoreline and elevation, and being covariant with species richness, mean vegetation cover and mean vegetation height. Additional differences are related to the geographical transition between the Gulf and Caribbean coastal vegetation and environmental conditions, mainly type of sand, occurring in the study area. Siliceous sand and a Gulf climate are characteristic for most of Tabasco, and calcareous sand and a Caribbean-type climate are characteristic for Campeche. Disturbance caused by coconut plantations, cattle grazing and tourism favours the invasion of ruderal species from waste places behind the dunes, which attain local dominance in the dunes described here. Consequently some separate community types had to be distinguished. The distribution of community types is analyzed in the context of the transitions between calcareous and siliceous substrates in the study area. 
4499302|Question: What is the role of dispersal, persistent soil seed banks and seedling recruitment in population persistence of fleshy-fruited obligate seeding plant species in fire-prone habitats? Location: Southeastern Australia. Methods: We used a long-term study of a shrubby, fleshy-fruited Persoonia species (Proteaceae) to examine (1) seed removal from beneath the canopy of adult plants; (2) seedling recruitment after fire; (3) the magnitude and location of the residual soil seed bank; and (4) the implications for fire management of obligate seeding species. We used demographic sampling techniques combined with Generalised Linear Modelling and regression to quantify population changes over time. Results: Most of the mature fruits (90%) on the ground below the canopy of plants were removed by Wallabia bicolor (Swamp wallaby) with 88% of seeds extracted from W. bicolor scats viable and dormant. Wallabies play an important role in moving seeds away from parent plants. Their role in occasional long distance dispersal events remains unknown. We detected almost no seed predation in situ under canopies (< 1%). Seedling recruitment was cued to fire, with post-fire seedling densities 6-7 times pre-fire adult densities. After fire, a residual soil seed bank was present, as many seeds (77-100%) remained dormant and viable at a soil depth where successful future seedling emergence is possible (0-5 cm). Seedling survival was high (> 80%) with most mortality within 2 years of emergence. Plant growth averaged 17 cm per year. The primary juvenile period of plants was 7-8 years, within the period of likely return fire intervals in the study area. We predicted that the study population increased some five-fold after the wildfire at the site. Conclusions: Residual soil seed banks are important, especially in species with long primary juvenile periods, to buffer the populations against the impact of a second fire occurring before the seed bank is replenished.
25173178|Questions: Which environmental and management factors determine plant species composition in semi-natural grasslands within a local study area? Are vegetation and explanatory factors scale-dependent? Location: Semi-natural grasslands in Lrdal, Sogn og Fjordane County, western Norway. Methods: We recorded plant species composition and explanatory variables in six grassland sites using a hierarchically nested sampling design with three levels: plots randomly placed within blocks selected within sites. We evaluated vegetation-environment relationships at all three levels by means of DCA ordination and split-plot GLM analyses. Results: The most important complex gradient determining variation in grassland species composition showed a broad-scale relationship with management. Soil moisture conditions were related to vegetation variation on block scale, whereas element concentrations in the soil were significantly related to variation in species composition on all spatial scales. Our results show that vegetation-environment relationships are dependent on the scale of observation. We suggest that scale-related (and therefore methodological) issues may explain the wide range of vegetation-environment relationships reported in the literature, for semi-natural grassland in particular but also for other ecosystems. Conclusions: Interpretation of the variation in species composition of semi-natural grasslands requires consideration of the spatial scales on which important environmental variables vary.
3236457| Changes in horizontal structure and the influence of neighbours on tree vitality were studied in a spruce forest under air pollution stress. Five permanent plots along an altitudinal gradient in the Krkonoe Mts., Czech Republic, were monitored for 18 years. Digitized maps of each plot were used for the analysis: the health of each tree, expressed by the defoliation degree was recorded each year, the biometrical characteristics were measured at five-year intervals. Various indices of neighbourhood competition were used to evaluate the interference with neighbours. The results show that the suppressed trees are most susceptible to other environmental stresses, particularly to the air pollution stress. Similarly, tree damage is more severe in plots near the natural timberline, where the trees are close to their natural environmental limits. The spatial pattern of surviving trees changes towards regularity at a scale of 2 - 5 m (K-function analysis) when the suppressed trees, usually those with close neighbours, die. 
3236390|Species number, turnover and early successional patterns were examined over the first five years of old-field succession in a former bottomland hardwood forest. Number of species, measured by walk-through surveys, increased up to Year 3, but decreased in Years 4 and 5. Species turnover in 20 quadrats indicated that species' invasions remained high throughout the study, while losses of species were initially high but declined. Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) on species cover in each year showed the existence of a compositional gradient that could be significantly related to relative elevation, an indirect measure of hydrology, in Years 2, 3, 4, and 5. DCA of the pooled five-year species cover data showed greater compositional changes in lower elevation quadrats, and those higher elevation quadrats dominated by the woody vine, Campsis radicans, remained similar over time.
3236001|Demographic structure of 12 chaparral sites unburned for 56 to 120 years was investigated. All sites were dominated by vigorous shrub populations and, although there was colonization by seedlings of woodland tree species in several stands, successional replacement of chaparral was not imminent. Although successional changes in community composition were evident, there was no indication of a decline in species diversity. Non-sprouting species of Ceanothus suffered the greatest mortality at most, but not all, sites. Sprouting shrubs, such as Quercus and Heteromeles had very little mortality, even in stands more than a century old. All postfire resprouting species had multiple stems of different ages indicating these shrubs were capable of continuously regenerating their canopy from basal sprouts. Ceanothus populations were highly clumped and there was a significant correlation across all sites between variance/mean ratio and percentage mortality. As Ceanothus populations thinned, they became less clumped. In mixed chaparral stands, Quercus and Heteromeles were significantly taller than associated Ceanothus shrubs and overtopped the Ceanothus; at two sites, the density of live Quercus per plot was correlated with the density of dead Ceanothus. Thus, mortality of Ceanothus stems is likely related to both intra and interspecific interations. Seedling recruitment was observed for most shrub species that regenerate after fire by resprouting; seedling and sapling densities ranging from 1000-36 500 ha<sup>-1</sup> were recorded for Quercus dumosa, Rhamnus crocea, Prunus ilicifolia, Heteromeles arbutifolia and Cercocarpus betuloides. For all but the last species, seedlings and saplings were most abundant beneath the canopy cover and not in gaps. Across all sites, recruitment was significantly correlated with depth and biomass of the litter layer. Cercocarpus betuloides was present in several stands, but seedling establishment was found only in one very open, disturbed stand. Regardless of stand age, taxa such as Adenostoma, Arctostaphylos and Ceanothus, which recruit seedlings after fire, had no significant seedling production.
4096695|Question: Following a volcanic eruption of ca. 232 AD, known as the Taupo eruption, the emergent conifer Libocedrus bidwillii expanded on Mt. Hauhungatahi, upwards above the current tree-line, and downwards into the mixed montane forest. We ask: (1) if current age-structures at different altitudes support the patterns predicted by the temporal stand replacement model, with cohort senescence and progressively depleting recruitment at ca. 600 year intervals (average cohort age) since the eruption: and (2) if the case history of the population sheds light on the persistence of mixed conifer-hardwood forests in general. Location: Mt. Hauhungatahi, Tongariro National Park, New Zealand. Methods: The species composition and structure of seven stands covering the altitudinal range of Libocedrus bidwillii, were quantified. Libocedrus trees were cored, and regression equations used to predict ages. Cohorts were identified. Results: Libocedrus densities and basal areas, and the abundance of seedlings and saplings, peaked at different altitudes. At the species' lower limits there has been no recruitment for ca. 550 years, and the angiosperm Weinmannia racemosa has gained dominance. In the tree line and sub-alpine forest stands, a low level of continuous regeneration has been boosted by periodic cohort recruitment following exogenous disturbances. Conclusions: In the montane zone, the Libocedrus age structure, and its replacement by Weinmannia, are consistent with a model of depleting cohorts separated by ca. 600 years since the Taupo eruption. At higher altitudes more frequent disturbances and reduced competition have allowed Libocedrus persistence. Comparison with other studies suggests longterm relationships between gymnosperms and angiosperms are mediated by the scale and frequency of disturbance.
3236785|The study of vegetation dynamics in tallgrass prairie in response to fire has focused on dormant season fire in late successional prairies. Our objective was to determine if late season fire of varying frequency results in divergent successional patterns in an early successional tallgrass prairie disturbed by grazing and cultivation. Specifically, we evaluated the influence of late-summer fires of varying frequency on community composition and species richness. We collected vegetation and environmental data on two sites burned in the late growing-season at varying frequencies. These communities differed in composition depending primarily on edaphic factors, time since the last burn, and year-to-year variation. We interpret the time effect as related to changes in species composition accompanying plant succession that followed disturbance either from cropping and heavy grazing on the loamy site or heavy grazing on the shallow site. Other unidentified factors also have a role in vegetation dynamics on this prairie. Community composition and species richness were not consistently responsive to frequency of growing-season fires.
3236844|Current interest in small-scale species dynamics has led to a proliferation of mobility indices. We advocate the use of direct measures of mobility such as immigration rate, extinction rate, residence time, and carousel time. We also demonstrate that the null expectation of cumulative frequency under different null models can be calculated explicitly. Species can depart from the commonly-used 'random reassignment' model simply because of longevity, and not mobility per se. We therefore prefer a random immigration null model, which assumes that immigration locations are randomized. We examined mobility patterns of selected plant species, studied in 256 quadrats of each of four grains (ranging from 1/64 m<sup>2</sup> to 1 m<sup>2</sup>) in an Oklahoma grassland. Residence times and carousel times can be centuries or even millennia for some species. We explore the numerical and biological reasons for relationships between mobility statistics. Mobility statistics are fairly consistent among grains and years, although the residence times of species exhibit some subtle scale dependence. Species depart from a random immigration model very slightly - but the departure is consistent: species tend to re-occupy previously vacated space more often than expected due to chance. We believe that the use of direct indices will facilitate the study of how species characteristics influence mobility.
3236494|In this paper we present a new approach to the simultaneous analysis of a species composition data set, an environmental gradient data set and a functional attribute data set. We demonstrate its advantages in terms of statistical modelling including model development and assessment as well as subsequent prediction. Our method is applied to a set of case data deriving from experimental wetland microcosms including 20 species, 12 treatment combinations and a classification of species into functional groups. Acknowledging that lack of independence between samples and over-interpretation of data may lead to overly optimistic assessment of model performance, we use cross-validation with different subsets of data to obtain realistic model performance measures. It is shown that although the outcome of the wetland experiment is predictable in terms of experimental treatments and taxonomic species, the functional groups cannot be used to explain the variation in species frequencies in the experiment. We compare the method with recently published approaches to the functional analysis of vegetation data, and discuss its applied perspectives.
3236541|The Amazon basin is likely to be increasingly affected by environmental changes: higher temperatures, changes in precipitation, CO<sub>2</sub> fertilization and habitat fragmentation. To examine the important ecological and biogeochemical consequences of these changes, we are developing an international network, RAINFOR, which aims to monitor forest biomass and dynamics across Amazonia in a co-ordinated fashion in order to understand their relationship to soil and climate. The network will focus on sample plots established by independent researchers, some providing data extending back several decades. We will also conduct rapid transect studies of poorly monitored regions. Field expeditions analysed local soil and plant properties in the first phase (2001-2002). Initial results suggest that the network has the potential to reveal much information on the continental-scale relations between forest and environment. The network will also serve as a forum for discussion between researchers, with the aim of standardising sampling techniques and methodologies that will enable Amazonian forests to be monitored in a coherent manner in the coming decades.
40925509|Question: We investigated colonisation filters in early plant community development on a glacial outwash plain. We asked if these were related to seed limitation or to a lack of safe sites, if topographical heterogeneity affected species patchiness and how species life cycles influence successional trajectories. Location: An outwash plain (Skeiararsandur) in southeast Iceland. Methods: We identified surface heterogeneity at two different scales, ca. 10-15 cm (larger stones and established plants) and ca. 50 m (shallow depressions representing dry river beds) at two study sites. We quantified species cover, flowering plant density, seed production, seed rain, seed bank density, seedling emergence and seedling survival from June 2005 to June 2007 for the whole plant community, and measured seed production for five species. Results: Mean vegetation cover was <2.5% at the sites. Low emergence rates and high seedling mortality were the two main recruitment filters. Only 1.4% of seedlings emerging in 2005 survived into the 2007 growing season. Topographical heterogeneity had little effect on plant colonisation. High annual variation was recorded, and the two study sites (ca. 2 km apart) differed in their colonisation success. Of the five species, establishment of Cerastium alpinum and Suene uniflora was most limited by lack of seeds, whereas establishment of Luzula spicata, Poa glauca and Rumex acetosella was most limited by safe sites. Conclusions: We conclude that colonisation processes and patterns in early primary succession on Skeiarrsandur were largely influenced by stochastic factors.
3235958| Vegetation zones in dune slacks on the  eba Bar on the Polish Baltic Sea coast are described. Plant colonization starts on moist sand in eastern ends of slacks, in the wake of receding mobile dunes. Communities on deflation ribs, dominated by psammophytic grasses, sedges and lichens, are structurally simple. Communities in troughs, dominated by species of fresh habitats, become structurally more complex in a western direction and they culminate with the Pinus silvestris forest. The main lines of vegetation variation correlate with groundwater depth, microtopography, soil profile build-up and substrate acidification. 
3236657|Evidence is presented for the occurrence of alternative stable states in a wet calcareous dune slack on the Frisian island of Texel, The Netherlands. An early pioneer stage (0.5 kg m<sup>-2</sup> total standing crop) and a more productive later successional stage (2.9 kg m<sub>-2</sub>) occur side by side, with sharp boundaries between them. The pioneer vegetation has been recorded at the site for more than 62 yr. These features indicate the occurrence of a positive-feedback mechanism that has led to alternative stable states. Analyses of ground and surface water composition, and decalcification depths, indicated that hydrologically the study site can be characterized as a flow-through slack, with exfiltration of calcareous groundwater on one side and infiltration of surface water on the other side of the slack. These differences in hydrological conditions have led to distinct differences in environmental conditions within the dune slack. The occurrence of the two successional stages can, however, not be explained by differences in hydrological conditions since both stages occur side by side in the centre of the dune slack. It is, therefore, more likely that biotic interactions are the cause of the vegetation pattern. Three possible mechanisms for feedback processes are discussed: (1) enhanced nitrogen loss; (2) sulfide toxicity and (3) nutrient accumulation in internal cycle.
3236853| Shrubs persist in the understorey layer of forests throughout their lives, while tall trees remain there only during the juvenile stage and then grow into the canopy layer. Thus demographic parameters (recruitment-, mortality-, and growth-rates) of shrub species are expected to differ from those of tall tree species. We investigated aspects of the demography of four dominant deciduous-shrub species (Viburnum furcatum, Lindera umbellata var. membranacea, Magnolia salicifolia, and Hydrangea paniculata) in Fagus crenata forests at the beginning and at the end of a 7-yr period in a 1-ha permanent plot. For each species, the number of stems changed little (within  10%) during the study period, while total basal area increased markedly (11.7 - 33.8%), because (1) new stems continuously recruited by vegetative growth replaced the substantial number of dead stems, and (2) vegetative stems grew vigorously, probably due to nutrient support from parents. The results indicate that these four understorey shrub species have high ability to maintain their population size in the shaded forest understorey. While in each species more than half of the dead stems were standing dead, a substantial proportion of the dead stems (9.0 - 38.5%) showed signs of mechanical damage, such as stem breakage and suppression by fallen branches or trees. Snow pressure that resulted in decumbent stems was also an important mortality agent for V. furcatum (20.7%) and L. umbellata var. membranacea (5.6%). Probability of damage was constant across all DBH-classes for all study species. In each species, newly recruited stems and dead stems were spatially aggregated, largely due to habits of vegetative growth and mechanical damage, respectively. This study revealed that several demographic traits, resulting from recruitment by vegetative growth and death by mechanical damage, were shrub-species specific and markedly different from those of tall tree species. 
4499266| Question: Is it possible to mathematically classify relevs into vegetation types on the basis of their average indicator values, including the uncertainty of the classification? Location: The Netherlands. Method: A large relev database was used to develop a method for predicting vegetation types based on indicator values. First, each relev was classified into a phytosociological association on the basis of its species composition. Additionally, mean indicator values for moisture, nutrients and acidity were computed for each relev. Thus, the position of each classified relev was obtained in a three-dimensional space of indicator values. Fitting the data to so called Gaussian Mixture Models yielded densities of associations as a function of indicator values. Finally, these density functions were used to predict the Bayesian occurrence probabilities of associations for known indicator values. Validation of predictions was performed by using a randomly chosen half of the database for the calibration of densities and the other half for the validation of predicted associations. Results and Conclusions: With indicator values, most relevs were classified correctly into vegetation types at the association level. This was shown using confusion matrices that relate (1) the number of relevs classified into associations based on species composition to (2) those based on indicator values. Misclassified relevs belonged to ecologically similar associations. The method seems very suitable for predictive vegetation models. 
4499283| Question: Which are the gradients of floristic differentiation in Greek beech (Fagus sylvatica) forests? Which is the role of geographical and ecological factors in this differentiation? Location: Beech forests of the plant geographical regions Northeast, North Central and East Central Greece. Methods: A total of 1404 published and unpublished phytosociological relevs were used in the analyses. TWINSPAN and DCA were applied to classify and ordinate the relevs. Altitude, Indicator Values of relevs and their X and Y coordinates were used in a posteriori interpretation of the ordination axes. Kendall's correlation coefficients were calculated between DCA relev scores and explanatory variables. Multiple linear regression was used to partition the variation explained by the first two DCA axes, between the geographical and the ecological variables. Results: Classification resulted in 14 vegetation units defined by species composition. Two types of gradients, ecological and geographical, were revealed by the DCA of all relevs. The partition of the variation accounted for by the first and second DCA axis was attributed mainly to ecological and geographical variables, respectively. Conclusions: Beech forests of northeast and Central Greece show phytogeographical differences, while ecologically similar vegetation units occur in both regions. A west-east gradient is revealed in Greek beech forest vegetation. The extent of the study area, its position along regional gradients and the comprehensiveness of the data set that is analysed determine the types of the gradients which can be revealed in a vegetation study. 
4096792|Questions: The 1990s were the warmest decade since the beginning of climate measurements. Based on almost 100 years of monitoring in the Swiss Alps, we asked (1) whether the extraordinary warm climatic conditions of the 1990s are reflected in the floristic composition of Alpine summit vegetation and, if so, (2) what the magnitude and rate of species change has been over the last few decades compared to the documented increase in species richness within the first 80 years of the 20th century. Location: Ten high mountain summits of the Bernina area in the southeastern Swiss Alps. Methods: Resurvey of the floristic composition of the uppermost altitudinal 10 m of these summits, applying the same methodology of former two surveys (1905 and 1985) and recording the presence of all vascular plant species. Results: Whereas the continued increase in plant species richness of high alpine summit vegetation is confirmed, our results also suggest an acceleration of the trend in the upward shift of alpine plants. Conclusion: Vegetation change in the southeastern Swiss Alps has accelerated since 1985, consistent with a climate change explanation.
23012749|Questions: What is the spectrum of variability of chemical elements in a Mediterranean forest ecosystem across the different compartments? Do coexisting tree species with different leaf chemical composition and nutrient cycling distinctly modify soil conditions? Could these species-specific, tree-generated soil changes create a potential positive feedback by affecting longterm species distribution? Location: Mixed oak forests of southern Spain, Los Alcornocales Natural Park. Methods: We sampled and chemically analysed five different ecosystem components: leaves, leaf fall, litter and superficial (025 cm) and sub-superficial (2550 cm) soil beneath the canopies of evergreen Quercus suber and deciduous Q. canariensis trees. We used multiple co-inertia analysis (MCoA) to conjointly analyse the patterns of variability and covariation of eight macro- and micronutrients determined in each of the sampled ecological materials. We implemented a path analysis to investigate alternative causal models of relationships among the chemical properties of the different ecosystem components. Results: Variability in the concentration of chemical elements was related to the nature of their biogeochemical cycles. However, the rank of element concentration was consistent across ecosystem components. Analysis of co-inertia (MCoA) revealed that there was a common underlying multivariate pattern of nutrient enrichment in the ecosystem, which supported the hypothesis of a separation in biogeochemical niches between the two co-existing oak species, with Q. canariensis having richer plant tissues and more fertile soil directly under each tree than Q. suber. The feasibility of a potential tree-soil positive feedback model was the only statistically validated among several alternative (non-feedback) models tested. Conclusions: In the studied Mediterranean forests, oak species distinctly modify soil fertility conditions through different nutrient return pathways. Further investigation is needed to address whether these tree-generated soil changes could affect seedling establishment and ultimately influence species distribution.
3235828|We studied vegetation structure and soil seed bank composition in different successional stages of secondary lowland tropical deciduous forest in Yucatan, Mexico. The series of study sites includes: slashed (S), slashed-and-burned (SB), and regenerating for 1, 6, 10, 15, 30, 40 and 100 yr. Species richness (S = 42 - 65), evenness (E = 0.32 - 0.38), and diversity (H' = 1.2 - 1.6) do not vary much as the forest grows older. 20 species of shrubs and trees were present in at least six of the seven regrowth years studied; 10 of these account for more than 50 % of the total density values per regrowth year. These species dominate the vegetation due to their capacity to withstand repeated fire and felling. One third of the individuals sampled had regenerated from coppiced shoots. Species composition little resembles that in earlier accounts. The area is now largely covered by young regrowth stages (1 - 20 yr). Species constituting the original woody structure of the mature forest are rare or absent due to the lack of seed sources and failure of dispersal (which is due to limited dispersal capacities), lack of dispersal agents, or long distances. Herbs were the most important life form in the soil seed banks; only one tree species was found. The number of viable seeds varied between sampled areas: 70/m<sup>2</sup> in the 40 yr-old, to 1 815/m<sup>2</sup> in the slashed-and-burned (SB). The vegetation of S- and SBareas was the same, but the number of viable seeds germinating in SB was twice the number in S; the number of species in the seed bank is the same for both areas. We speculate that fire modifies species dominance early in succession, allowing seeds of some species to germinate in great numbers.
3235880|The relationships between four vegetation types and variables representing topography and biophysical disturbance gradients were modeled for a study area in east-central Glacier National Park, Montana. Four treeline transition vegetation types including closed-canopy forest, open-canopy forest, meadow, and unvegetated surfaces (e.g. rock, snow, and ice) were identified and mapped through classification of satellite data and subsequent field verification. Topographic characteristics were represented using a digital elevation model and three variables derived from topoclimatic potential models (solar radiation potential, snow accumulation potential, and soil saturation potential). A combination of generalized additive and generalized linear modeling (GAM and GLM, respectively) techniques was used to construct logistic regression models representing the distributions of the four vegetation types. The variables explained significant amounts of variation in the vegetation types, but high levels of variation remained unexplained. A comparison of 'expected' and 'observed' vegetation patterns suggested that some unexplained variation may have occurred at the basin scale. A suite of tools and techniques is presented that facilitates predicting landscape-scale vegetation patterns and testing hypotheses about the spatial controls on those patterns.
40295798|Question: How does the intensity of species interactions affect species and functional group composition of an annual plant community? Location: Sede Boqer, Negev Desert, Israel. Methods: The potential for competitive interactions in two annual plant communities (desert and coastal) from semistabilized sand dunes was manipulated by varying seed bank density and therefore the number of potentially interacting individuals. Communities were exposed to three different irrigation regimes, mimicking precipitation at the desert site, the coastal site, and an intermediate precipitation level. Plots were maintained for 3 years, and percentage cover of each species in the plots was recorded at the end of each growing season. We used redundancy analysis to test for effects of initial density, irrigation, and year on the species and functional group composition of the communities. Results: Initial density had significant effects on species composition, and these effects remained significant over 3 years, even as total community percentage cover became more similar among treatments over time. Density effects did not depend on resource availability (irrigation level). Functional group identity or individual plant size did not predict which species would be good competitors, and a species' competitive ability did not predict its abundance in the field. Conclusions: Species interactions strongly affect community composition, and those effects carry over into subsequent years such that competition does not lead to convergence in community structure over time. However, the particular changes in composition observed were not predictable by some of the traits that have been found important in individual-level experiments. We speculate that the outcome of competition in diverse communities will depend on multiple traits, in contrast to the outcome of individual-level pairwise experiments. We also speculate that the shift in composition with density could mean that local variation in density may contribute to maintenance of diversity in this system.
40925526|Question: What is the effect of a gradient in moose density on reproduction, growth and functional composition of the field layer vegetation in a boreal forest, and how is this effect modified by habitat productivity? Location: Northwest of Ume, Vsterbotten, northern Sweden. Methods: Field layer vegetation was surveyed in an experimental setup with simulation of three different moose densities and a control in eight study sites along a gradient of habitat productivity. Results: We found that increased moose density led to decreased cover and reproductive effort of a browsed dwarf shrub (bilberry, Vaccinium myrtillus L.) and increased cover and reproductive effort of a non-browsed graminoid (wavy hair-grass, Avenella flexuosa (L.) Drejer). Increased moose density led to increased light availability and probably reduced competition from V. myrtillus. Total reproductive effort in the field layer vegetation increased, height decreased and cover of light-demanding species and graminoids increased with increasing moose density.The effects of moose density were modified by the productivity gradient, leading to a higher relative increase in light availability and reproductive effort in highly productive areas than in low productive areas. Conclusions: Increased light availability was an important indirect effect of moose density, leading to less competition for light and a shift towards early successional species. The effect of moose density on light availability was modified by habitat productivity, leading to stronger relative effects in highly productive areas than in low productive areas.
4096732|Question: The significance of disturbances caused by periodical inundation was investigated with respect to its effects on vegetation dynamics, species richness and fluctuations, and to the relevance of certain plant properties. Location and Method: At a sod-cut stand within nutrient-poor inland sand dunes, permanent plots along a transect were surveyed over a period of up to nine years after sod cutting. Results: In contrast to never inundated plots, periodically inundated plots were characterized by low vegetation cover and by high numbers of species belonging to many different communities, each of them with a low cover. Periodical inundations favoured the presence of pioneers, species tolerant of disturbances, species adapted to wet conditions and stoloniferous species. Furthermore, annual fluctuations of species within each plot were higher and most species occurred only sporadically. Discussion: A comprehensive model is presented describing the relevant processes identified in the littoral zone. Changing water tables result in the creation of gaps. The re-colonization of these gaps follows mainly from vegetative regeneration and less to the dispersion of diaspores. Highest species numbers in the zone of moderate disturbances result from a high rate of recolonization in spite of local extinctions following each disturbance event. It is suggested that colonization abilities are among the most important features for species occurrence at a site rich in disturbances (more important than competitive abilities and more important than a slow rate of displacement). For nature conservation such sites are very important, because they allow (rare) pioneer species to survive for longer periods of time.
25173184|Question: The mosaic-cycle concept of forest dynamics dominates in Central Europe. According to this concept intermediate-scale disturbances only accelerate the forest break-up under existing cycles of forest development. Is such an approach correct, or should new developmental cycles be elaborated for intermediate-scale disturbances? Location: Near-natural Abies alba - Fagus sylvatica forests in the witokrzyski National Park in Central Poland. In these forests intermediate-scale disturbances occurred between 1970 and 1990. Methods: Data were collected twice in areas surrounding 212 permanent sample points (in 1994 and 2004). Two increment cores were taken from 259 sample Abies trees. The effect of intermediate-scale disturbances on radial increment of Abies was assessed. Probabilities of stand transition during a 10-year period between individual stages and phases of development of the mixed forest were calculated. The development stages and phases were arranged into hypothetical succession series of successive changes. Results: In 1994 70 stands and in 2004, 47 stands representing stages and phases containing the older generation formed by trees &gt; 100-150 years were found. Also, in 1994 142 and in 2004, 165 stands representing stages and phases containing the younger generations only, formed by trees &lt; 100-150 years, were recorded. Stages and phases containing only younger generations do not occur in the existing forest development cycle which does not consider the influence of intermediate-scale disturbances separately. Two developmental cycles, which take into account the presence of the older generation and the younger generations only (under conditions of the occurrence of intermediate-scale disturbances), are proposed. Conclusion: The mosaic-cycle concept of forest dynamics can be used to analyse the dynamics of Central European near-natural mixed-species forests, but new developmental cycles should be elaborated for intermediate-scale disturbances.
4096626|Questions: Does post-fire plant succession in boreal bogs vary microtopographically and are successional patterns reproducible among similar microtopographic features? Does succession preserve microtopography post-fire? Location: Boreal bog peatlands near Sinkhole Lake and Athabasca, Alberta, Canada. Methods: We assessed microtopographic variation in postfire plant community succession through stratigraphic macrofossil analysis of bog soil cores collected from high (hummock) and low (hollow) positions. We conducted vegetation surveys and collected soil cores from ten hummocks and hollows in each bog. Pre-fire microtopographic status was inferred based on floral composition and compared to current microtopography. Results: Hollow vegetation was more variable than hummocks, both in present composition and post-fire succession. The successional trajectory of current hummocks was relatively uniform, showing relatively rapid shifts to Sphagnum fuscum dominance, but varied greatly in hollows. Hollows, although compositionally variable, were typically perpetuated following fire, while hummocks had an approximately equal chance of being perpetuated or becoming hollows. Conclusions: Greater compositional variability at lower microtopographic positions, both spatially and temporally, is most likely due to the ability of hollows to support a wider range of species and greater susceptibility to severe disturbance. Likewise, spatial variability in fire severity appears to be responsible for perpetuation or change in microtopographic status, favouring the creation of hollows over maintenance of hummocks.
40295853|Question: Optimal partitioning and isometric allocation are two important hypotheses in plant biomass allocation. We tested these two hypotheses at the community level, using field observations from Tibetan grasslands. Location: Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, China. Methods: We investigated allocation between above-and belowground biomass in alpine grasslands and its relationship with environmental factors using data collected from 141 sites across the plateau during 2001-2005. We used reduced major axis (RMA) regression and general linear models (GLM) to perform data analysis. Results: The median values of aboveground biomass (
25173171|Question: What is the relative importance of environmental gradients and surface microtopography (variation in vertical level within sampling units) for fine-scale plant species richness in Picea abies swamp forests? Location: 11 swamp forests in SE Norway. Methods: We recorded species richness (number of species of vascular plants, mosses, Sphagnum and hepatics), depth to water table, soil base status and vertical range (microtopographic relief) in 2400 microplots, (each 1/16 m), in 150 1-m plots in the 11 swamp forests. Relationships between species richness and environmental predictors were modelled by GLMM. Results: Moss and hepatic species richness increased with increasing microtopographic relief, most strongly for wet acid sites, in which similar trends were also found for Sphagnum. Relief was a poor predictor of vascular plant species richness. Conclusions: Microtopographic relief is a good predictor of local species richness in Picea abies swamp forests, partly because larger vertical variability means higher within-plot habitat diversity with respect to the wet-dry gradient, and partly because qualitatively new microhabitats associated with steep slopes are added in drier sites. The relationship between species richness and microtopographic relief is context dependent, differing in complex ways among species groups and among sites with different environmental conditions.
25173173|Question: In stressful abiotic environments positive plant interaction is expected to be a frequent and an important process driving community composition and structure. In the high Andes in central Chile, the cushion plant Azorella madreporica dominates plant communities and appears to benefit the assemblage of species that grows within it. However, there are also many other species that grow outside this nurse cushion plant, which may or may not interact with this species. What is the prevailing type of spatial associations among the plant species that are not growing inside the nurse plant? What is the type of interactions between cushion plants and those species growing outside them? Location: Molina River basin (3320' S, 7016' W, 3600 m a.s.l.), in the Andes of central Chile, ca. 50 km east of Santiago. Methods: Two accurate mapping plots of individual plants of different species were located at two summits (Franciscano and Tres Puntas sites). The spatial distributions and associations between species growing outside cushions and within cushions at each site were estimated by point-pattern analyses using the univariate and bivariate transformations of Ripley's K-functions. Results: We found both positive and, especially, negative spatial associations (8 out of 12 species in Franciscano site) between A. madreporica cushions and plants growing outside them. However, most of the species showed positive spatial associations among them. The variation in spatial association was site-specific and also depended on the type of plants involved. Adesmia spp., the second most abundant non-cushion species, displayed negative associations with cushions and positive associations with other species growing outside cushions. Conclusions: Our study suggests very complex interactions among species, which ranged from positive to negative, and are also affected by abiotic environmental conditions.
3235676|Assembly rules provide one possible unifying framework for community ecology. Given a species pool, and measured traits for each species, the objective is to specify which traits (and therefore which subset of species) will occur in a particular environment. Because the problem primarily involves traits and environments, answers should be generalizable to systems with very different taxonomic composition. In this context, the environment functions like a filter (or sieve) removing all species lacking specified combinations of traits. In this way, assembly rules are a community level analogue of natural selection. Response rules follow a similar process except that they transform a vector of species abundances to a new vector using the same information. Examples already exist from a range of habitats, scales, and kinds of organisms.
4096761| Question: How does fire influence species richness and diversity in subtropical grassland in southern Brazil? Location: Recurrently burned grassland in Porto Alegre, Brazil (3003' S, 5107' W; max. altitude 311 m a.s.l.) and abandoned grassland near So Francisco de Paula, Brazil (2947' S, 5022' W; ca. 900 m a.s.l.). Methods: In the burned grassland, between-year changes in community composition and single-plot diversity, species number and vegetation structure were analysed in two consecutive years for plots with different time since last fire. Responses to fire of individual species were analysed. At the abandoned site, diversity, species number and vegetation structure were examined. Results: Species number and small-scale species turnover were highest ca. one year after the burn, and decreased as caespitose grasses increased in cover with time since fire until reaching a stable, but less diverse state three to four years after a fire. The abandoned grassland showed higher dominance of caespitose grasses and lower richness and diversity. Conclusions: Fire clearly leads to a short-term increase in species richness and diversity at the plot scale, as competitive interactions are being reduced and recruitment possibilities are high in early post-fire vegetation development. Overall community composition does not change after a fire. While small herbs seem to be slightly favoured in the early post-fire environment, no clear group of fire following species (absent in vegetation unburned for longer) was observed. The results indicate that the community is adapted to the current fire regime and is being maintained under the influence of fire. 
3236956|In southern humid Chaco forests dominated by Schinopsis balansae, woody plants are clumped and species composition varies spatially over short distances. We examined how these spatial patterns are associated with local environmental heterogeneity for three size classes of woody individuals: adults, saplings, and seedlings. Our study was based on the detailed description of two forest plots (3200 m<sup>2</sup> in total) in which we mapped all individuals of woody species, and delimited patches with different microrelief, soil moisture, and ground cover of terrestrial bromeliads. Our results showed that woody-individual distribution is related to local environmental heterogeneity. For all size classes, density of woody individuals was highest on convex patches. These convex patches were dominated by both tree (Acacia praecox and Achatocarpus praecox) and shrub species (Celtis pallida, Capparis retusa and Grabowskia duplicata), while level patches were dominated only by tree species (Schinopsis balansae, Prosopis spp. and Geoffroea decorticans). Drier patches contained all the woody species present in the forest, while wetter patches contained only a subset of them. Within convex patches, trees are likely to occur in places with bromeliad colonies and shrubs in patches without bromeliads. The results suggest forest structure is controlled by environmental heterogeneity associated with microrelief and soil moisture.
3236522|Across eastern North America, there is a temporal trend from open Quercus forests to closed forests with increased Acer rubrum in the understory. We used a series of Ripley's K(d) analyses to examine changes in the spatial pattern of Quercus and Acer rubrum stems greater than 2.5 cm DBH over 45 yr in a 2-ha mapped stand. Specifically, we asked whether changes over time were consistent with the hypothesis that Quercus is being competitively replaced by Acer rubrum. Both Acer rubrum and Quercus stems are spatially clumped, but have become less clumped over time. Stem mortality from Hurricane Fran (1996) was more clumped in all strata of the forest, at all spatial scales, than expected if damage had occurred to stems at random. Acer rubrum ingrowth occurred more often near established trees (all species) in the midstory, whereas Quercus ingrowth occurred less often near established trees in the midstory. The specific hypothesis that stems of Acer rubrum in the midstory of the forest are associated with a lack of Quercus regeneration was strongly supported. This effect occurred at all spatial scales tested, including scales larger than that at which direct competition for light can occur. Edaphic gradients in the plot are correlated with many of the observed trends at large spatial scales, and our results suggest that the presence of such gradients can generate complex spatial patterns over time.
3237281|Drift of aquatic macrophyte propagules was investigated in a wetland along the River Rhone, during the first flood after the growing season (i.e. in the winter of 1995-1996). Input and output drift were studied at the beginning, around the top, and at the end of the river overflow in the upper reach of a cut-off channel. The soil propagule bank was sampled along the study area before and after the flood. The amount and composition of viable propagule drift and bank were determined, analysed and compared. Drift densities and richness were on average higher at the outlet of the channel than at the inlet (respectively: 23.2 vs 13.1 viable propagules/ 100 m<sup>3</sup> of water and 8.7 vs 2.6 taxa per sample). Immigrating taxa were mostly in the form of helophyte seeds, whereas numerous resident hydrophyte species left the disturbed area rather as vegetative propagules. Temporal variability in propagule bank structure was weak, and mean bank densities did not change before and after the flood (respectively: 33 047  10 510 vs 35 653  15 070 viable propagules/m<sup>2</sup> of ground, including Chara). However, the density of Elodea canadensis significantly increased after the flood while that of Eleocharis acicularis decreased. This contrast suggests that flood responses vary among species. Despite a broad overlap in the taxa (18 out of 25 were common both to drift and bank collections), no significant relationship occurred in composition or structural changes between flood drift and propagule bank. Flood acted as a means of distribution of existing propagules and also as a provider of new vegetative dispersal units.
25173153|Question: Is there a difference in plant species and life form composition between two major patch types at a biome transition zone? Are subordinate species associated with different patch types at the shortgrass steppe - Chihuahuan desert grassland transition zone? Is this association related to differences in soil texture between patch types and the geographic range of associated species? Location: central New Mexico, USA. Methods: Patches dominated by either Bouteloua gracilis, the dominant species in the shortgrass steppe, or Bouteloua eriopoda, dominant species in the Chihuahuan desert grasslands, were sampled for the occurrence of subordinate species and soil texture within a 1500-ha transitional mosaic of patches. Results: Of the 52 subordinate species analysed, 16 species were associated with B. gracilis-dominated patches and 12 species with B. eriopoda-dominated patches. Patches dominated by B. gracilis were richer in annual grasses and forbs, whereas patches dominated by B. eriopoda contained more perennials forbs and shrubs. Soils of B. gracilis-dominated patches had higher clay and lower rock contents compared with soils of B. eriopoda-dominated patches. Differences in species characteristics of the dominant species as well as differences in soil texture between patch types contribute to patch-scale variation in composition. The association of species to patch types was not related to their geographic range and occurrence in the adjacent biomes. Conclusions: Patch types at this biome transition zone have characteristic life-form and species composition, but species are associated to patch types due to local constraints, independently from their affinity to the adjacent biomes.
3235905|This paper analyses the floristic variation in the southern segment of the Oriental Chaco, known as the Santa Fe Forest Wedge. Floristical variation in Chaco forests is described at three levels of scale. On the coarsest scale there is a gradient of increasing floristic richness towards the north, related to a geographic temperature gradient. At an intermediate scale different types of forests are arranged according to environmental gradients correlated with topographic elevation. At a fine scale many microsites can be discerned with different micro-environments colonized differentially by species. Microsites arise as the result of site-physiographic history, development of vegetation and the interaction of both and with animals. Several dimensions of regeneration niche variation are distinguished, including canopy and soil characteristics, and propagule dispersal.
3236438| In the Rhne delta, Juncus gerardi and Sci maritimus are often the dominant species in abandoned rice fields which are artificially flooded in early spring to improve forage production. Under these conditions they occur either in mixed communities, or form monospecific stands. Monitoring the vegetation dynamics in quadrats located in six abandoned rice fields artificially flooded from November to April confirmed the important role of grazing. In ungrazed plots, communities dominated by Scirpus maritimus mixed with Juncus gerardi developed fast. After 42 months of management Scirpus maritimus had established in nearly all quadrats and continued to expand, whereas Juncus gerardi had started to decline. In grazed plots Juncus gerardi alone dominated and continued to increase in cover up to the 42nd month. Scirpus maritimus established at low densities mainly in quadrats where Juncus gerardi was initially absent. Introduction of seeds of Scirpus maritimus in communities of Juncus gerardi under controlled conditions demonstrated the existence of the phenomenon of preemption. The increase in cover of Juncus gerardi suggests that the preemption of Juncus gerardi over Scirpus maritimus plays a more pronounced role in the field in the presence of grazing. 
3237310|It is not simple to predict how environmental changes may impact tropical forest species diversity. Published hypotheses are almost invariably too incomplete, too poorly specified and too dependent upon unrealistic assumptions to be useful. Ecologists have sought theoretical simplicity, and while this has provided many elegant abstract concepts, it has hindered the attainment of more practical goals. The problem is not how to judge the individual hypotheses and arguments, but rather how to build upon and combine the many hard-won facts and principles into an integrated science. Controversy is inevitable when the assumptions, definitions and applications of a given hypothesis are unclear. Elegance, as an end in itself, has too often been used to justify abstract simplification and a lack of operational definition. Clarifying and combining hypotheses while avoiding assumptions provides a potentially more useful, if less elegant, standpoint. An appraisal of Connell's intermediate disturbance hypothesis, and its application to long-term observations from a Ugandan forest illustrates these concerns. Current emphases encourage ecologists to exclude consideration of environmental instability and non-pristine ecosystems. In reality, many environmental changes and ecological processes contribute to both the accumulation and erosion of diversity, at all spatial and temporal scales. Site histories, contexts, long-term processes, species-pool dynamics, and the role of people require greater emphasis. These considerations reveal that many environmental changes, even those associated with degradation, can lead to a transient rise in species densities. Drawing on related studies, such as forest yield prediction, suggests that the formulation and calibration of simulation models provides the most tractable means to address the complexity of real vegetation. Simulation-based approaches will become increasingly useful both in unifying the study of vegetation dynamics and in providing improved predictive capacity. Quantification of the processes, scales and sensitivities of the dynamics of tropical forest communities remains a major challenge.
3236344|Quercus ilex (holm oak) coppice forests belong to the most representative communities in the western part of the Iberian Peninsula. Due to the high sprouting potential of holm oak after coppicing, the dynamics of recruitment of new individuals in existing populations has been largely overlooked. In these forests, the density of seedlings increases in old stands, as a result of the remarkable increase in the recruitment of 1-yr and 2-yr old seedlings, probably due to better environmental conditions for germination. Older seedlings show a tendency towards increasing survival under some degree of canopy closure, since their density appears to be higher just before complete canopy closure takes place. Nevertheless, the reduced growth of seedlings in older stands due to low light levels causes age distributions of holm oak seedlings to change drastically, with saplings older than 15 yr becoming very unusual in these stands. Therefore, a bottle-neck of recruitment appears at this sapling stage and prevents vigorous regeneration just before thinning. Present conditions of genet density and management tend to prevent population renewal. Dynamics of the seedling bank reinforce the role of gap formation through small or large scale perturbations in population turnover.
4096768|The invasion of a target community by a non-indigenous plant species includes the stages of arrival, establishment and spread, which tend to depend on different characteristics of the invasive species and its context. While the mechanisms behind the invasion of highly disturbed ecosystems are well known, our understanding of the invasion process in undisturbed or weakly disturbed ecosystems is much more limited. Here we propose that, once a non-indigenous species has arrived to a new ecosystem and become established, the likelihood that it spreads, and thus becomes invasive, may depend on just one or very few characteristics, called triggering attributes (TA). We propose that a TA is a vegetative or regenerative attribute discontinuously distributed in comparison to the resident community. This attribute allows the species to benefit from a resource that is permanently or temporarily unused by the resident community. We present an original study case and examples from the literature to illustrate our approach, and we also propose some ways to test it in different ecosystems.
3237353|The long-term population dynamics of a pure, naturally-established stand of Pinus banksiana (jack pine) in south-eastern Manitoba, Canada is described. The study was initiated at stand age 15, when all 468 trees in a plot were mapped and their trunk diameter at breast height (DBH) measured. The plot was remeasured eight times - every five years (six years in one case) - and mortality and DBH changes recorded. Total mortality over the 41-yr study period was ca. 84 %. Mortality was initially very low, increased once the stand entered the self-thinning stage from ages 25 - 46, and declined at ages 46 - 56. Mortality was restricted to the smallest size classes throughout. The stand reached the self-thinning line at ca. age 30. The self-thinning slope was significantly less steep than the theoretically expected value of - 0.5. The distribution of DBH values was initially symmetric, showed increasing positive skewness during the period of highest mortality, and became symmetric again at later stages. Size (DBH) inequality was highest just prior to the onset of density-dependent mortality, and subsequently declined. Tree DBH values were positively autocorrelated both initially and at later stages of stand development, but were spatially independent during the period of highest density-dependent mortality. The stand initially had a strongly clumped pattern at all spatial scales. Patterns of mortality were non-random during stand development, however, resulting in increased spatial regularity over time. Mortality was initially restricted to high density patches of the stand, but occurred throughout the plot once the self-thinning line was reached. Mortality during the self-thinning stage deviated from random expectation at local spatial scales (1 - 2 m radius), suggesting that individuals were competing with their immediate neighbours. It is argued that an integrated approach, incorporating both population size and spatial structures, is essential in improving our understanding of long-term plant population dynamics.
3236391|The soil seed bank was investigated in four dry Afromontane forests of Ethiopia. At least 167 plant species were identified in the 0 - 9 cm soil layer with total densities ranging between 12 300 and 24 000 seeds/m<sup>2</sup>. Herbs were represented with the largest numbers of species and seeds in the seed bank, while the contribution of tree species was generally low. The overall vertical distribution of seeds was similar at all sites with the highest densities occurring in the upper three cm of soil and gradually decreasing densities with increasing depth. Relatively high densities also occurred in the litter layer. There were large differences in depth distribution between species, suggesting differences in seed longevity. A large number of species in dry Afromontane forests evidently store quantities of seeds in the soil and this is in contrast to the situation in most tropical rain forests, dry lowland forests and savannas, where both the number of seeds and the number of species are relatively small. It is possible that the strongly seasonal and unpredictable climate of this region may have selected for high levels of dormancy, and that herb regeneration is associated with small scale disturbance. The fact that most of the dominant tree species do not accumulate seeds in the soil suggests that their regeneration from seed would be unlikely if mature individuals disappeared. Most tree species have relatively large seeds and poor long-distance dispersal; this implies that restoration of Afromontane forests after destruction would be difficult. Since there is a diverse seed bank of the ground flora, this component of the vegetation would have a better chance of re-establishing. However, because most cleared forest land is used for agricultural crop production, it is probable that the seed bank will be depleted in only a few years. Therefore, the future of the Afromontane forest flora seems to depend on the successful conservation of the few fragments of remaining natural forest.
3235690|The relation between the dry matter production and species density of 27 grasslands with different fertilization histories in the Netherlands was studied. The range in species density was 12-28 species on 150 m<sup>2</sup>, the average annual dry matter production in 1983-1985 varied between 3.3 and 12.8 ton/ha. The results show an optimum curve and confirm the hump-backed model proposed by other researchers for a great variety of vegetation types. It is concluded that a high species density can be expected when the annual dry matter production above a stubble height of 5 cm, is between 4 and 6 ton/ha (ca. 4.6 - 6.0 ton seasonal maximum standing biomass). Species density can be expected to decrease when the dry matter production exceeds values of 6 - 7 ton ha<sup>-1</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup> (ca. 6.0 - 6.7 ton seasonal maximum standing biomass). The implications of this relation for grassland restoration, aimed at an increase in species density, are discussed. The results agree with other grassland data based on the seasonal maximum standing biomass. The difference between annual production estimated by harvesting the biomass after mowing at 5 cm above the soil surface (mostly in two cuts), and the maximum seasonal standing biomass must be taken into account. It is proposed to compare data on the basis of the estimation that 62  5% of the annual yield is harvested at the first cut, and that there is a linear relation between the total standing biomass, y (g/m<sup>2</sup>), and the biomass harvested above a stubble height of 5 cm, x (g/m<sup>2</sup>) that could be described by the regression line y = 1.10 x + 189.6 (r = 0.89, p < 0.01, n = 34).
3236483| Question: What are the main broad-scale spatial and temporal gradients in species composition of arable weed communities and what are their underlying environmental variables? Location: Czech Republic and Slovakia. Methods: A selection of 2653 geographically stratified relevs sampled between 1954-2003 was analysed with direct and indirect ordination, regression analysis and analysis of beta diversity. Results: Major changes in weed species composition were associated with a complex gradient of increasing altitude and precipitation and decreasing temperature and base status of the soils. The proportion of hemicryptophytes increased, therophytes and alien species decreased, species richness increased and beta diversity decreased with increasing altitude. The second most important gradient of weed species composition was associated with seasonal changes, resulting in striking differences between weed communities developed in spring and summer. In summer, weed communities tended to have more neophytes, higher species richness and higher beta diversity. The third gradient reflected long-term changes in weed vegetation over past decades. The proportion of hemicryptophytes and neophytes increased, while therophytes and archaeophytes decreased, as did species richness over time. The fourth gradient was due to crop plants. Cultures whose management involves less disturbances, such as cereals, harboured less geophytes and neophytes, and had higher species richness but lower beta diversity than frequently disturbed cultures, such as root crops. Conclusions: Species composition of Central European weed vegetation is mainly influenced by broad-scale climatic and edaphic factors, but its variations due to seasonal dynamics and long-term changes in agricultural management are also striking. Crop plants and crop-specific management affect it to a lesser, but still significant extent. 
3236908|When management, in the form of cattle grazing and mowing, ceases the abundance of competitively superior plant species tends to increase in abandoned semi-natural meadows. Litter accumulation elevates the soil nutrient levels and hinders seedling recruitment. We surveyed changes in plant cover and species composition of a formerly grazed meadow in permanent plots for six years. Some plots were unmown, while others were mown and raked annually in August. The cover of grasses decreased and herb cover remained unchanged regardless of the treatment. Mowing and raking significantly reduced litter accumulation and increased the number of ground layer species. The expected long-term effects of abandonment and restorative mowing were studied by calculating the transition probabilities for unmown and mown plots and simulating the course of succession as projected by the transition matrices. During a simulation period of 30 yr, abandonment led to (1) a decrease in the cover of small herbs, (2) a slight increase in the cover of tall herbs and (3) a slight decrease in the cover of grasses. In contrast, the cover of small herbs on the mown plots remained unchanged or slightly increased during the course of simulation. These results suggest that mowing late in the season is primarily a management tool for the maintenance of the existing species diversity and composition. However, it may not be an effective restorative tool to induce overall changes in the resident vegetation of abandoned grass-dominated meadows. Grazing or mowing early in the season may be more effective in this respect. Consequently, mowing early or, alternatively, late in the season may provide management strategies for the maintenance and restoration of species diversity, respectively.
4499227|Questions: Is tree diversity higher in the southern hemisphere? Are latitudinal asymmetries in diversity sensitive to sampling effects? Location: 198 forested locales worldwide. Methods: I re-analysed the Gentry database, which I augmented with an additional survey from New Zealand. Data were used to test whether latitudinal declines in tree diversity differ between the northern and southern hemispheres. Data were also used to test whether hemispheric asymmetries in diversity are sensitive to sampling effects, or geographic variation in tree densities. Results: Area-based measurements of species diversity are higher in the southern hemisphere. However, southern forests house denser plant populations. After controlling for geographic variation in tree densities, diversity patterns reverse, indicating tree diversity is higher in the northern hemisphere. Conclusions: Latitudinal changes in tree diversity differ between hemispheres. However, the nature of hemispherical asymmetries in species diversity hinges on how diversity is defined, illustrating how different definitions of diversity can yield strikingly different solutions to common ecological problems.
3236380|Patterns of tree species replacement in a Picea-Abies forest, determined by several different methods, are compared and the methods are assessed. Methods are grouped as either understory-based or gap-based estimates of replacement. The understory-based methods characterize canopy-under story interactions with spatial statistics, sapling density measurement, sapling frequency measurement, and successor sapling identification beneath live canopy trees. The gap-based methods include sapling density measurement, sapling frequency measurement, and successor sapling identification in tree-fall gaps. Methods except those based on frequency indicate a strong trend of replacement of all canopy species by Abies. Understory-based methods may underestimate canopy recruitment of intolerant trees, while gap-based methods relying on sapling density or frequency may overestimate recruitment of intolerant trees. Estimates based on the selection of successor saplings in the understory or in gaps are reliable. Gap successor estimates consider the process of gap capture and are useful in analyses of forest dynamics.
3236593|Questions: How does the seed bank respond to different types of tree-fall gaps and seasonal variations? How does the soil seed bank influence recovery of the standing vegetation in the mature forest and tree-fall gaps? Location: 1800 - 2020 m a.s.l., Quercus-Pinus forest, Baja California Sur, Mexico. Methods: Seed size, species composition and germination were estimated under different environmental conditions during dry and rainy seasons: a mature forest plot and gaps created by dead standing trees, snapped-off trees and uprooted trees. The soil seed bank was investigated using direct propagule emergence under laboratory conditions, from soil cores obtained during both seasons. Results: 21 species, 20 genera and 14 families constitute the seed bank of this forest community. Fabaceae, Asteraceae, Euphorbiaceae and Lamiaceae were the most frequently represented families in the seed bank. Floristic composition and species richness varied according to the different modes of tree death. Species composition of seed banks and standing vegetation had very low similarity coefficients and were statistically different. Seed bank sizes varied between 164 and 362 ind.m<sup>-2</sup> in the mature forest plot for the dry and rainy seasons, respectively, while soil seed bank sizes for gaps ranged between 23-208 ind.m<sup>-2</sup> for the dry season and between 81-282 ind.m<sup>-2</sup> for the rainy season. Conclusions: Seed bank sizes and germination response were always higher in the rainy season under all the environmental conditions analysed. Results suggest that timing responses to gap formation of the soil seed bank could be more delayed in this temperate forest than expected.
3236396|The germinable soil seed bank is described from a coastal barrier island off the northwest coast of Florida, USA. Soil samples collected from seven vegetation types, recently deposited dredge spoil and unvegetated areas in autumn 1990 and spring 1991 were placed out in greenhouse trays. 110 taxa germinated from the samples with the largest number (41) being <tex-math>$\C_3$</tex-math> perennial dicots. The largest number of taxa germinated from dry (57) and wet (54) swales, the fewest (one species: Heterotheca subaxillaris) from strand. Similarity of seed bank densities to above-ground species cover was low (Jaccard's Index = 0.36), not different between vegetation types, but higher in the autumn than in the following spring, Compositional gradients in the seed bank and above-ground vegetation determined using DCA ordination were highly correlated and related to distance from mean high water, and plot elevation. At the landscape scale, the seed bank provided an equally clear delineation of vegetation types to that based upon the above-ground vegetation. The seed bank of low disturbance, late-succession vegetation types (wooded dunes, swales, marshes) was well developed (high species richness, emergent density, and percentage annual species) with the exception that the large-seeded woody species (i.e. Quercus spp.) were absent from the wooded dune seed bank. By contrast, a poorly developed and transient seed bank occurred in more frequently disturbed (extensive sand movement, salt spray), early successional dredge spoil, unvegetated areas and strand. These contrasts support a general pattern of increasing seed bank development and a persistent rather than transient seed bank with decreasing disturbance frequency, increasing time since disturbance and successional maturity.
3236605|We assessed the significance of flooding for the floristic composition of seed banks in flood-meadows of the northern valley of the Upper Rhine. We compared three hydrological compartments of the alluvial plain, consisting of the regularly flooded land between the river and low summer dykes (functional flood-plain), the occasionally flooded land between summer dykes and high winter dykes (hybrid flood-plain) and the land behind the winter dykes, which is now only submerged by ascending groundwater (fossil flood-plain). Due to their different flooding regime, the three compartments should differ with respect to the prevailing conditions of diaspore input. The seed density of soil samples increased with the duration of flooding in the three compartments, while species richness and the proportion of species not occurring in the vegetation was constant. The increase in seed density can be largely attributed to an increase of disturbance indicators, which are present in the above-ground vegetation and capable of forming a long-term persistent seed bank. No effects of flooding on the composition of seed banks in the three flood-plain compartments were found. The differences in seed bank composition can be largely explained by corresponding differences in above-ground vegetation and former and present-day meadow management. Seeds of species absent from above-ground vegetation can be attributed to the local species pool present in the immediate vicinity of the study plots. We discuss consequences of the results for the restoration of species-rich flood-plain meadows.
3235567| The vegetation of the Skoczanka Reserve, situated on a limestone hill near Krakw, was examined over a 30 year period, using the Braun-Blanquet method. With the help of a numerical classification eight types of grassland communities were distinguished, belonging to the classes Sedo-Scleranthetea, Nardo-Callunetea and Festuco-Brometea, and 11 types of woodland communities, both remnants of ancient woodlands from the classes Querco-Fagetea and Vaccinio-Piceetea and more recent woods. In the case of grasslands the results of detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) indicated that the largest variation was associated with the soil type. Woods on sandy soils are very different from those on calcareous soils, and the younger recent woods are very different from the ancient woodlands. An analysis of historical cartographic material and aerial photographs shows that in the last few decades the area of recent woods has increased considerably at the expense of grasslands. Changes in species diversity in the woods during secondary succession and their successional convergence were examined and discussed. It was found that young and mature woods on sandy soils are more similar to each other than young and mature woods on calcareous soils. These differences are mainly related to the fact that many woodland herb species growing in rich, broadleaved ancient woods are unable to colonize recent woods since they have a limited colonization capacity. 
3237019|This paper is a report on the past, status-quo and perspectives of vegetation classification, still a major occupation of many vegetation scientists. The history of vegetation classification is discussed against a background of several controversial issues such as the problem of continuum vs. discontinuum, naturalness vs. arbitrariness of the nature of plant communities, universality vs. ad hoc character of syntaxonomic schemes, as well as classical versus numerical approaches to data analysis for classification purposes. The development of the methodology of vegetation science and the present image of vegetation classification is documented by a bibliometric analysis of the publication record of four major journals: Journal of Vegetation Science, Vegetatio, Phytocoenologia and Tuexenia. This analysis revealed a persisting controversy between traditional and numerical approaches to vegetation classification. A series of important changes in vegetation science (foundation of new journals, change of editorial policy by the established, important meetings) punctuate a period called the 'Innovation period'. Several trends in the development of methods of vegetation systematics are summarized under the headings formalism, pluralism, functionalism, pragmatism and indeterminism. Some new features, such as the development and improvement of numerical tools, use of large data banks and attempts to summarize the theory of vegetation classification are discussed. The new growth-form system of Barkman initiated a revival of physiognomy-based vegetation classification. Within this framework the use of the character-type concept and the development of new numerical methods for studying the hierarchical structure of character-set types seems to be a promising approach. The achievements of population biology and ecophysiology have affected vegetation science by emphasizing the functionality of species within plant communities. The use of guilds and other functional groups has experienced an increasing interest from vegetation scientists. Applied in vegetation science, fuzzy-set theory has bridged the techniques of classification and ordination of plant communities.
3236423|Differences in genetic variability of several small, isolated populations of four fern species in a restricted area in the Swiss lowlands reflect differences in breeding system, population size, the degree of population fragmentation, and ecological requirements. The investigated populations of Asplenium septentrionale show only little genetic variability (isozyme variation) without gene flow among populations (based on the banding pattern of multi-locus phenotypes), and they persist for long periods despite the small population sizes. In Asplenium ruta-muraria, genetic variability is correlated with age. Young populations show no genetic variation, while old populations show some. All individuals of Polypodium vulgare investigated, either epiphytic or epilithic, share exactly the same enzyme phenotype. The results for these three species can be related to predominance of inbreeding, lack of inbreeding depression, polyploidy, long-distance dispersal, production of large amounts of diaspores, single-spore colonization, and perennial life cycles. Genetic variability in these three species does not seem to be absolutely necessary for the maintenance of their populations. Ecological and Demographic factors are considered to be more important. An isolated, glacial relict population of diploid Asplenium viride shows high variability in two out of eight enzyme systems, which may be due to prevailing outbreeding. We discuss aspects of the importance of genetics and life history for conservation biology.
3236315|This paper focuses on the persistence of seeds in the seed bank of a formerly fertilized flood-meadow into which seeds from an original Alopecurus pratensis-Sanguisorba officinalis community have been introduced. The longevity of seeds in the seed bank of the original community is also estimated. The established vegetation was compared with the seed bank, as divided into two layers (0 - 5 cm and 5 - 10 cm); this allowed a classification of species into three groups, with (1) transient, (2) short-term persistent and (3) long-term persistent seed bank. The majority of the species of the unfertilized flood-meadow community have a transient or short-term persistent seed bank with seeds showing a large variance in shape i.e. flattened or elongate. Because of this, the characteristic flood-meadow species will disappear soon after the beginning of fertilizer application and will not re-establish from the seed bank, once the fertilizer application is ceased. The formerly fertilized flood-meadow contains many ruderal and arable weed species, the seeds of which tend to be compact or round. Significantly more seeds were found in the seed bank of the formerly fertilized flood-meadow under cattle-grazing than under sheep-grazing and no grazing.
3237088|Previous studies have demonstrated relationships between spatial scale and spatial pattern and developed general hypotheses of scaling effects. Few studies, however, have examined the interactive relationship between scale and pattern-driving processes such as grazing. The goal of this study is to evaluate scale-dependent patterns across three spatial scales for three grazing intensities over 45 yr and to identify some mechanisms that may be associated with scale related differences. Correlation analysis and analysis of the coefficients of variation indicate that the relationships between units are dependent upon spatial scale and treatment. Across all grazing treatments, the relationship between units of the same scale becomes stronger as the spatial scale is increased. However, the rate of increase in the correlation coefficient is different for each treatment. The coefficient of variation responded inversely across scales with the greatest variation between small-scale units and little difference between the intermediate- and large scales. In addition to different relationships between units at each scale, differences in heterogeneity within treatments over time is illustrated by the relationship between small-scale units within each treatment and their associated larger scale units. The strongest relationship occurred in the heavily grazed treatments where correlation coefficients of small-scale units with intermediate- and large-scale units were ca. 0.60, indicating similar dynamics across scales. For the moderately grazed and ungrazed treatments this relationship varied from 0.40 to 0.47. Results from this study suggest that grazing alters scaling effects. Variability between small-scale units was greatest in the ungrazed treatment which had greater heterogeneity and less predictability than grazed treatments because of the influence of grazing on plant morphology, demography and composition. At the intermediate scale, relationships between units were fairly similar with the least variation occurring in the moderately grazed treatment. Alternatively, variation between large-scale units was greatest in the moderately grazed treatment because of the relationship between rest cycles, weather patterns, and patch grazing. Therefore, grazing can have a positive, a negative, or no influence on heterogeneity between units depending upon the scale of observation. Evaluation of long-term dynamics across these treatments at the same small spatial scale results in different variances within each treatment which may violate assumptions of some statistical and experimental designs. Therefore, evaluations of temporal dynamics should consider scale relative to the relationship between plant size, density and longevity (relative scale).
4499185| Aim: Concentration of species occurrences in groups of classified sites can be quantified with statistical measures of fidelity, which can be used for the determination of diagnostic species. However, for most available measures fidelity depends on the number of sites within individual groups. As the classified data sets typically contain site groups of unequal size, such measures do not enable a comparison of numerical fidelity values of species between different site groups. We therefore propose a new method of measuring fidelity with presence/absence data after equalization of the size of the site groups. We compare the properties of this new method with other measures of statistical fidelity, in particular with the Dufrne-Legendre Indicator Value (IndVal) index. Methods: The size of site groups in the data set is equalized, while relative frequencies of species occurrence within and outside of these groups are kept constant. Then fidelity is calculated using the phi coefficient of association. Results: Fidelity values after equalization are independent of site group size, but their numerical values vary independently of the statistical significance of fidelity. By changing the size of the target site group relative to the size of the entire data set, the fidelity measure can be made more sensitive to either common or rare species. We show that there are two modifications of the IndVal index for presence/absence data, one of which is also independent of the size of site groups. Conclusion: The phi coefficient applied to site groups of equalized size has advantages over other statistical measures of fidelity based on presence/absence data. Its properties are close to an intuitive understanding of fidelity and diagnostic species in vegetation science. Statistical significance can be checked by calculation of another fidelity measure that is a function of statistical significance, or by direct calculation of the probability of observed species concentrations by Fisher's exact test. An advantage of the new method over IndVal is its ability to distinguish between positive and negative fidelity. One can also weight the relative importance of common and rare species by changing the equalized size of the site groups. 
3236378| Patterns of species richness are described for 50 columnar, 109 globose and 50 opuntioid cacti species in 318 grid cells (1 x 1) covering Argentina. Biological richness hypotheses were tested by regressing 15 environmental descriptors against species richness in each group. We also included the collection effort (estimated as the logarithm of the number of herbarium specimens collected in each cell) to estimate the possible error induced by underrepresentation in certain cells. Log-linear regression models accounted for a large portion of the variation in richness of columnar species, opuntioid species, globose species and all forms combined. Opuntioid and globose species richness was associated with percentage summer rainfall. Columnar species richness was associated with the number of frost-free days. The distribution of columnar cacti seems to be limited by freezing temperatures. The results are consistent with the climate favourableness and climatic variation hypotheses, but do not support the hypothesis that energy flow limits regional species richness. Altitudinal range (a measure of habitat heterogeneity) was related to richness of globose cacti. A floristic affinity analysis between geographic provinces and the distribution of the different growth forms confirmed the high degree of endemism of globose cacti and the cosmopolitanism of the opuntioid ones. Two cells in the Prepuna and northern Monte Provinces showed species richness values that were significantly higher than those predicted by the log-linear model. This is interpreted in terms of Quaternary historical events having affected the main South American biomes. 
3236939|An intense lateral blast devastated Mount St. Helens in 1980, but forest understory species survived in some north-slope 'refugia'. We explored the effects of refugia on colonization of barren pumice in 1997 and 1998, 18 yr after the eruption. The seed rain of 23 colonizers came mostly from populations that had previously established in refugia. Parachutists had small, vagile seeds, parasailors had winged seeds, and tumblers were blown along the ground. The latter two groups are heavier and dispersed more slowly, but are more likely to survive. The proportion of the vegetation represented by wind-dispersed species increased with distance from refugia. Parachutist's density declined with time and proximity to refugia. As vegetation adjacent to refugia developed, populations of parasailors and tumblers expanded, foreshadowing their dominance in more remote pumice. Refugia played a critical role in determining the rate and course of succession by providing fertile islands that permitted pioneers and dry meadow species to establish near barren pumice. Species that survived in refugia played a negligible role in colonization. This study showed that when refugia contrast sharply with new substrates, they accelerate recovery by facilitating the invasion of pioneer species.
4499301|Question: How do we distinguish between concurrent allogenic and autogenic forcings behind changing patterns in plant community structures during mire development? Location: Lakkasuo raised bog, southern Finland. Methods: Two radiometrically dated peat profiles were studied using high resolution plant macrofossil analysis. A combination of partial direct and indirect gradient analyses (CCA and DCA) was applied to quantify the role of different drivers of vegetation changes. Results: Autogenic hydroseral succession explained 16% of the compositional variation in the vegetation. Disturbance successions initiated by fire explained 15% of the variation in the hummock, but only 9% in the wetter lawn. The early post-disturbance successional stages were characterized by Eriophorum vaginatum. After partialling out the effects of peat depth and time since fire, a moisture gradient explained 29% of variation in the hummock core and 26% in the lawn. The analyses also indicated alternation between species with a similar niche. This interaction gradient explained 26% and 31 % of the compositional variation in the hummock and lawn, respectively. The similar order of species replacement from both cores supported the existence of general directional succession in mire vegetation, both during the mire development and after fire events. The autogenic succession was slow and gradual while the disturbance successions were episodic and fast. Conclusion: Our results support the paradigm of the complex nature of mire vegetation dynamics where several interlinked agents have simultaneous effects. The approach of combining partial ordinations developed here appeared to be a useful tool to assess the role of different environmental factors in controlling the vegetation succession.
3235760|This paper reviews studies on seed banks in tropical dry vegetation and, for comparison, some wet tropical and dry subtropical vegetation. A first general conclusion is that tropical seed banks are smaller than those in temperate ecosystems. Many studies are devoted to only one species, among which are several Acacia species, both tropical and subtropical, some of which reach densities in the seed bank of up to 10 000 seeds/ m<sup>2</sup>. The lesser importance of the seed bank strategy in tropical species may be related to higher risks of seed loss through higher mortality (fire, predation, pathogens etc.), or to intermittent germination occasions in relation to ephemeral favourable conditions (e.g. rains during the dry season). Regarding vegetation dynamics, the importance of seed banks and regeneration from seeds is most pronounced in larger forest gaps. Examples are discussed of rapid succession to forest of savannas after protection from fire, which is partly due to regeneration from the seed bank. The significance of seed banks in vegetation restoration projects is outlined and the need for additional sowing of seeds of important species underlined.
3237120|Relative abundance distributions (RADs) are an important feature of community structure, but little is known of the factors affecting which type of RAD is observed in a particular community. We examined the influences of species richness and of spatial scale on the RAD of plant communities. The effect of species richness was examined by analysing simulated communities generated under the Broken stick model, the Sequential breakage model, and a randomized version of Niche pre-emption model. In all cases, when there were few species in the community the data only occasionally gave the best fit to the model that was used to generate it. With 40-65 species, a best fit was obtained for the correct model in about 75 % of cases, almost irrespective of the model. Effects of spatial scale were examined in data from four dune slacks and from two semi-arid grasslands, by analysing biomass values at a range of sample sizes. The model that best fitted the whole sample differed between the four slacks and between the slacks and the semi-arid grasslands. The change in which model of RAD fitted best, as sample size was reduced, varied between sites and between habitat types. At the smallest sample sizes, the Zipf-Mandelbrot model often fitted, and in the slack sites the Broken stick also, though neither fitted (in the vegetation examined) at larger spatial scales. It is concluded the RAD is affected by species richness and by spatial scale, in ways that currently do not enable simple prediction. RADs can theoretically give information on the processes such as resource partitioning, immigration and competition that have structured the community, but they are a blunt tool for this purpose.
3236386|Understorey vegetation changes in a South Norwegian old-growth coniferous forest were studied between 1988 and 1993 in 200 1-m<sup>2</sup> vegetation plots. Our aims were to quantify the amount of between-year compositional change, and to elaborate the environmental basis for long-term vegetation change, including the previously identified gradient structure with a major gradient related to topography (and soil nutrient status and soil depth) and a minor gradient reflecting paludification and canopy coverage. Species richness (yearly mean and cumulative species number) and change in species richness differed between vascular plants and cryptogams, and between forest types. The number of vascular plant species decreased in pine forest in dry years; bryophyte species number increased in spruce forest. Statistically significant vegetation change, as tested by constrained ordination (CCA) with time as the constraining variable, is demonstrated for most one-year periods and for the five-year period in most forest types. Vegetation change along identified gradients, measured as plot displacement along DCA ordination axes, also occurred. The magnitude of year-to-year vegetation change was related neither to forest type nor to one-year period; different responses to climatic and environmental change were observed in each forest type. The largest average displacement observed, from medium-rich spruce forest towards poor spruce forest, was interpreted as a long-term trend. Humus-layer pH decreased by ca. 0.25 units from 1988 to 1993, most strongly in medium-rich spruce forest where exchangeable Ca decreased and Al and Mn increased strongly. Our study supports the hypothesis that vascular plants show a long-term and broad-scale response to soil acidification. Change in bryophyte composition is linked to some very long growing-seasons. Detailed analysis of short-term vegetation dynamics enhances the interpretation of long-term changes and stresses the complementarity of univariate and multivariate methods in the analysis of vegetation change.
3235803|A fertilization experiment was set up in 1969 in a mature fir forest (Abies alba Mill.) in the Vosges Mountains in France, at an elevation of 800 m, on poor granites. It consists of 65 plots (250 m<sup>2</sup>), divided into 8 treatments: control, N, P, Ca, N+P, N+Ca, P+Ca, N+P+Ca. The quantities of fertilizers were: 200 kg.ha<sup>-1</sup> N, 150 kg.ha<sup>-1</sup> P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>, 1500 kg.ha<sup>-1</sup> CaO. The humus type and the ground vegetation were described in 1969, and descriptions were repeated in 1989. Statistical analyses show that: 1. Liming, and liming only, has led to considerable alterations of the flora; the control plots are now dominated by Vaccinium myrtillus, a very acidophilous species, while the limed plots are dominated by Festuca altissima and numerous nitrophilous species. 2. Similarly, the humus layer of limed plots has changed from a mor or moder type to an acid mull type. That process might reflect an improvement of the biological activity and of the mineral nutrient cycle. 3. During the past 20 years, the unfertilized ground vegetation has changed, almost as expected from a moderate liming. Two possible causes of such a phenomenon are suggested: (a) a change in the light and temperature microclimate at the ground level, as a consequence of needle losses during the recent 'forest decline', which in turn could have improved organic matter mineralization; and/or (b) the chronic nitrogen deposition.
3236251|Litter fall and decomposition in a Pinus halepensis forest was studied in order to help understand nutrient cycles in this ecosystem, threatened as it is by fire and tourism. The study was done over two years in an experimental forest stand at Cap des Pinar on Mallorca, Spain. The woodland area has not been disturbed for about 40 yr. Total litter fall amounted to 3.44 ton ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> and 2.52 ton ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> in the first and second year, and leaf fall to 2.00 ton ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> and 1.93 ton ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> respectively with a maximum in July. As to litter fall, there was a summer maximum for brown needles and kernels, a spring maximum for inflorescences and bud scales, and an autumn maximum for bark. Erratic maxima occurred for fall of green needles, cones and branches, linked to strong winds in winter. The total amount of litter mass on the forest soil reached 12.68 ton/ha: 5.75 ton/ha in the L organic horizon, 3.46 ton/ha needles, and 6.93 ton/ha in the F organic horizon. Weight loss from annual decomposition, measured using litter bags, was 18.1 % in year 1 and 26.8 % in year 2. Over 365 days, an Olson (1963) decomposition rate of 0.045 %/day was found in year 1 and of 0.084 %/day for year 2. Decomposition half-time was 1529 for year 1 and 827 days for year 2.
23012723|Questions: How do arbuscular mycorrhiza and earthworms affect the structure and diversity of a ruderal plant community? Is the establishment success of newcomer plants enhanced by these soil organisms and their interactions? Methods: We grew a native ruderal plant community composed of different functional groups (grasses, legumes and forbs) in the presence and absence of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and endogeic earthworms in mesocosms. We introduced seeds of five, mainly exotic, plant species from the same functional groups after a disturbance simulating mowing. The effects of the soil organisms on the native ruderal plant community and seedling establishment of the newcomer plants were assessed. Results: After disturbance, the total above-ground regrowth of the native plant community was not affected by the soil organisms. However, AMF increased plant diversity and shoot biomass of forbs, but decreased shoot biomass of grasses of the native plant community. Earthworms led to a reduction in total root biomass. Establishment of the introduced newcomer plants increased in the presence of AMF and earthworms. Especially, seedling establishment of the introduced non-native legume Lupinus polyphyllus and the native forb Plantago lanceolata was promoted in the presence of AMF and earthworms, respectively. The endogeic earthworms gained more weight in the presence of AMF and led to increased extraradical AMF hyphal length in soil. However, earthworms did not seem to modify the effect of AMF on the plant community. Conclusion: The present study shows the importance of mutualistic soil organisms in mediating the establishment success of newcomer plants in a native plant community. Mutualistic soil organisms lead to changes in the structure and diversity of the native plant community and might promote newcomer plants, including exotic species.
3237007| This study deals with the floristic composition of lowland tropical forest in the watershed of the Panama Canal. The floristic composition of large trees in 54 forest plots was analysed with respect to environmental factors, including precipitation, geologic parent material, stand age, topography, and soils. The plots contain 824 species of trees with a diameter at breast height  10 cm and represent a regional flora with exceptional -diversity. Plot data indicate that the Panamanian forest is strongly spatially structured at the landscape scale with floristic similarity decreasing rapidly as a function of inter-plot geographic distance, especially for distances < 5 km. The ordinations and patterns of endemism across the study area indicate broad floristic associations well correlated with Holdridge life zones. The results indicate the positive aspects of life zone classification at regional scales, while simultaneously highlighting its inadequacy for finer scales of analysis and resource management. Multivariate gradient analysis techniques (Non-metric Multidimensional Distance Scaling and Detrended Correspondence Analysis) show clear patterns of floristic variability correlated with regional precipitation trends, surficial geology, and local soil attributes. Geologic and edaphic conditions, such as acidic soils or excessively drained limestone substrates, appear to override the effects of precipitation and modify forest composition. We conclude that the Panamanian forest shows clear patterns of spatial organization along environmental gradients, predominantly precipitation. The rapid decline in floristic similarity with distance between stands also suggests a role for dispersal limitation and stochastic events. 
40295850|Objective: To identify the relative roles of climatic, edaphic and management factors in controlling the weighted mean traits of vegetation. Location: Eleven sites in Europe and one in Israel undergoing transitions in land use. Material and Methods: Standardised methods were used to collect information on species traits and attributes from plots covering a range of land uses at each site. This was combined with abundance data to create a plot x trait matrix. Variance partitioning was used to identify the relative roles of climate, soil and management on the weighted and unweighted mean traits of the vegetation in the full data set, and the data set divided into vegetative traits (including life-form, clonality, defence and a range of leaf traits) and traits linked to regeneration via seeds (including seed mass, dispersal and pollination mechanism). Results: Variance partitioning of the full data set showed that climate (18.7%), explained more variance in the weighted mean traits of the vegetation than climate and soil together (9.2), soil (6.9) and management (6.1). There was a similar distribution of variance explained for both vegetative and regeneration via seed traits, although more variance was explained for the latter. This restricted set of climatic, edaphic and management variables could explain 45-50% of the variance in the weighted mean traits of the vegetation between plots. There were only small differences between analyses of the weighted and unweighted data. Conclusions: Despite large variations in climate and soils between sites, there was still a separate and recognisable impact of management on the mean weighted traits of the vegetation. There was also a degree of shared variation between the three groups of factors, indicating that the response of plant traits to one group of factors may not be predictable because they may be modulated by their response to other groups.
23012496|Questions: How are plant species distributed along grazing gradients? What is the shape of species richness patterns? How can we test for the existence of potential discontinuities in species turnover pattern? Location: Semi-deserts in the eastern Caucasus, Azerbaijan, Gobustan district. Methods: We studied the distribution of vascular plant species along transects 900-m long, perpendicular to five farms, and estimated grazing intensity as current livestock units per distance. We modelled species response curves with HuismannOlffFresco (HOF) models and calculated species turnover by accumulating the first derivatives of all response curves. To test for potential discontinuities in changes of vegetation composition along the grazing gradient, we introduce a new null model based on the individualistic continuum concept that uses permutations of the observed pattern of species responses. Results: Most species show a sigmoidal negative response to grazing intensity, while a few species respond with a unimodal pattern. The monotonic decrease in species richness with increasing grazing intensity marks a process of overgrazing that leads to the complete extirpation of plant species. Although the species turnover pattern shows a clear peak, it does not deviate significantly from the null model of individualistic continuous changes. Conclusions: Our approach offers a method for differentiating between transition zones and continuous shifts in species composition along ecological gradients. It also provides a valuable tool for rangeland management to test state-and-transition concepts and gives deeper insights into ecological processes affected by grazing.
3235735|The relationship of desert vegetation to topographic and edaphic factors in Makhtesh Ramon, an erosional cirque in the Negev Desert of Israel, was analyzed using redundancy analysis ordination. Altitude and geological substrate had the most significant correlations with vegetation patterns. In particular, significant and monotonic increases in both total species richness and the percentage of annual species were found with increasing altitude. A comparison was made of the effectiveness of Whittaker's diversity sampling plots (Shmida 1984) versus the log-series survey method of McAuliffe (1990). We concluded that at small sample sizes, the McAuliffe plots were more likely to yield interpretable ordination results, even though they included only the perennial flora.
4096707| Questions: What is the variability of succession over a large geographical area? What is the relative importance of (1) local site factors and (2) landscape factors in determining spontaneous vegetation succession? Location: Various regions of the Czech Republic, Central Europe. The regions represent two categories characterized by agrarian lowlands, with a relatively warm and dry climate, and predominant woodland uplands with a relatively cold and wet climate. Methods: Gravel-sand pits ranged in age from 1-75 years since abandonment. Three types of sites were distinguished: dry, wet and hydric in shallow flooded sites. Vegetation relevs were recorded with species cover (%) visually estimated using the space-for-time substitution approach. Local site factors, such as water table and soil characteristics, and landscape characteristics, namely climatic parameters, presence of nearby (semi-) natural plant communities and main land cover categories in the wider surroundings, were evaluated. Results: Ordination analyses showed that water table was the most important local site factor influencing the course of spontaneous vegetation succession. Succession was further significantly influenced by soil texture, pH, macroclimate, the presence of some nearby (semi-) natural communities and some land cover categories in the wider surroundings. Spontaneous vegetation succession led to the formation of either shrubby grassland, deciduous woodland, Alnus and Salix carrs, and tall sedge or reed and Typha beds in later stages depending predominantly on the site moisture conditions. Conclusions: Although the water table was the most influential on the course of vegetation succession, the landscape factors together explained more vegetation variability (44%) than local site factors (23%). 
25173157|In his recent essay, Ch. Krner (2003) suggested that we need to clarify and narrow the meaning of limitation and stress. Current definitions and usage of these terms are not in any great need of revision. Limiting the use of 'stress' to only extreme situations is inappropriate because sometimes stress is indeed weak. What is needed is to use the terms within a comparative framework, a framework based on comparisons along gradients and among taxa. Recent studies on the factors controlling diversity have used such a comparative framework, and have increased our understanding of the relative roles of various types of stress. Redefining and narrowing general terms that relate to common processes would limit our ability to make comparisons and generalizations, and this should be avoided.
3236349|The coexistence of coniferous (mostly Abies homolepis) and broad-leaved tree species (mostly Fagus crenata) in a mixed temperate old-growth forest in Japan was simulated by a size-structure dynamics model incorporating the asymmetrical (one-sided) effect of shading between these two life-form guilds. The model assumes that the crowding effect due to one-sided competition for light on a tree of a given size regulates the rate of size growth and recruitment. The cumulative basal area of trees larger than a given tree in the forest is employed to express the intensity of one-sided competition on that tree. Cumulative basal areas of both guilds negatively affected the growth rate of any tree. The shading effect by conifers on the growth rate of either guild was stronger than that by broad-leaved species. Two types of model were tested for recruitment; an additive and a reciprocal model. A reciprocal model, where basal area density of conifers and broad-leaved species has a negative effect on the recruitment of its own guild but has a positive effect on that of the other guild, fit the observed data better than an additive model where total basal area of the two guilds suppresses recruitment rates. Simulations using these models showed that, within a particular range of the set of recruitment rates, the two guilds could coexist. The tendency for reciprocal replacement, incorporated in the reciprocal model, substantially widened the range of coexistence and shortened the time required for convergence.
3236447|Progress in the European Vegetation Survey is described. 25 countries are now represented in a network committed to common data standards in phytosociological survey, the development of compatible software for data analysis and mapping, the encouragement of national programmes and the development of an overview of European plant communities. Advances in each of these areas of activity is summarised and plans for the future are outlined, most notably the production of a book 'The Vegetation of Europe'.
4499285| Question: How do increases in soil nutrient and water availability alter the nutrient fluxes through the resorption and litter decomposition pathways and how do they affect litter nutrient pools in a low-productive alpine tundra ecosystem? Location: An alpine lichen-rich tundra on Mt. Malaya Khatipara in the NW Caucasus, Russia (4327' N, 4142' E; altitude 2800 m a.s.l.). Methods: We conducted a 4-year fertilisation (N, P, N+P, lime) and irrigation experiment, and analysed the responses of nutrient resorption from senescing leaves, leaf litter quality and decomposability of six pre-dominant vascular plant species, total plant community litter production and litter (nutrient) accumulation. Results: Vascular plant litter [N] and [P] increased 1.5 and 10 fold in response to N and P additions, due to increased concentrations of the nutrients in fresh leaves and unchanged or reduced resorption efficiency. Litter decomposability was not affected by nutrient amendments. Fertilisation enhanced litter production (180%; N+P treatment) and litter accumulation (80%; N+P), owing to tremendously increased production and low decomposability of graminoids. Together with increased litter [N] and [P] this led to great increases in total litter nutrient pools. Conclusions: Due to increased production of graminoids, nutrients added to the alpine tundra soil were mostly immobilised in recalcitrant, nutrient-rich litter. This suggests that changing species composition in low productive ecosystems may act as an internal buffer mechanism, which under increased soil nutrient availability prevents the community from rapidly acquiring features typical of a high productive ecosystem such as high decomposability and high nutrient availability. 
3236358|Populations of Carex curvula ssp. curvula, C. curvula ssp. rosae and their intermediate form were investigated in the Central Alps over a three-year period. The closely related taxa showed a different dominance behaviour in their respective communities. This may be caused by different growth strategies and a different reproduction biology. Therefore, the main aim of the study was to compare the demography of the three taxa. Shoot and leaf turnover, flower and seed production and population half-lives were determined. Differences in growth dynamics were less pronounced between the two species of Carex curvula than between these taxa and their intermediate form which showed the highest shoot turnover, highest number of fertile inflorescences and highest number of seeds per inflorescence. Carex curvula ssp. rosae showed a slightly higher shoot and leaf production but a lower reproduction capacity than Carex curvula ssp. curvula. Recruitment of populations of the three Carex-forms was only by vegetative shoots. Flowering had a striking effect on the shoot dynamics of the species grown in the grassland sites: up to about 70 % of all dead shoots could be identified as dead flowering shoots from the previous year. The different dominance behaviour of the three taxa could not be explained by their demographical features. Interspecific interactions and the occurrence of microniches might affect the growth and reproduction processes of the taxa.
3236610|Changes in disturbance due to fire regime in southwestern Pinus ponderosa forests over the last century have led to dense forests that are threatened by widespread fire. It has been shown in other studies that a pulse of native, early-seral opportunistic species typically follow such disturbance events. With the growing importance of exotic plants in local flora, however, these exotics often fill this opportunistic role in recovery. We report the effects of fire severity on exotic plant species following three widespread fires of 1996 in northern Arizona P. ponderosa forests. Species richness and abundance of all vascular plant species, including exotics, were higher in burned than nearby unburned areas. Exotic species were far more important, in terms of cover, where fire severity was highest. Species present after wildfires include those of the pre-disturbed forest and new species that could not be predicted from above-ground flora of nearby unburned forests.
40925572|We discuss the usefulness of the concept of Potential Natural Vegetation (PNV), which describes the expected state of mature vegetation in the absence of human intervention. We argue that it is impossible to model PNV because of (i) the methodological problems associated to its definition and (ii) the issues related to the ecosystems dynamics. We conclude that the approach to characterizing PNV is unrealistic and provides scenarios with limited predictive power. In places with a long-term human history, interpretations of PNV need to be very cautious, and explicit acknowledgement made of the limitations inherent in available data.
3236774|In the Festuca gracillima tussock steppe of northern Tierra del Fuego there is a physiognomic pattern at the community scale composed of a matrix of tussocks, scrub patches of Chiliotrichum diffusum and lawn patches. In this paper we compared floristic composition, soils, microclimate and sheep use of these three types. Species composition greatly differed among physiognomic types. Lawn patches showed the highest diversity and maximum cover of exotics, grazing escape growth forms and species of high-fertility habitats. Soil profiles of tussock steppe and lawn were similar but the Ahorizon of the latter contained more clay and cations. Radiation and temperature during daylight at the soil surface in summer were highest in the lawn patches. Soil impedance, a good indicator of trampling, was highest on the lawn patches. According to dung pellet density, lawn patches received much heavier use than the tussock matrix. Our results suggest that lawn patches supported the highest grazing impact and undergo a eutrophication process favoured by high mineral inputs, high mineralization rates in the soil during the warm season and restricted leaching through the profile. They also support the idea that a feedback mechanism between vegetation heterogeneity and sheep grazing behaviour maintains the patches. Although grazing behaviour suggests that the lawn patches favour animal production, their expansion would result in a system less protected against the impact of water deficits and temperature variations and more vulnerable to erosion and to the loss of important species.
4096791|Question: Is Rao's quadratic entropy a suitable measure of functional diversity if several traits are considered? Methods: It is checked whether Rao's quadratic entropy
3235974|We compared the responses of natural montane grasslands in central Argentina to two land-use patterns: cultivation - high intensity, low frequency, and short history of disturbance - and livestock raising - low intensity, high frequency and long history of disturbance. We analysed species composition, richness, and architectural traits in seven neighbouring sites under different land use. There were sharp floristic discontinuities between post-agricultural stages, whereas only minor shifts occurred among different grazing situations. Unlike cultivation, grazing did not produce significant differences in species richness and allowed very slight invasion by exotics. In post-cultivation situations, architectural differences were accounted for by species composition. In the case of different grazing intensities, they were mainly explained by morphological differences among populations of the same dominants. In view of the historical information and current ideas, we suggest that the differential responses to both land uses can be explained not only by the different frequencies and intensities of disturbance they represent, but also by their contrasting histories in the area. Accordingly, herbivory by ungulates should not be considered as a disturbance in these montane grasslands.
3236580| This is the 3rd edition of the Code of phytosociological nomenclature, prepared by the Nomenclature Commission of the International Association for Vegetation Science (IAVS) and the Fdration Internationale de Phytosociologie (FIP) on the basis of the 2nd edition. The Code consists of a series of definitions, principles, rules and recommendations which will facilitate the proper use of syntaxonomical names for the denomination of syntaxonomical units. 
3236598|Question: How can we derive baseline/reference situations to evaluate the impact of global change on terrestrial ecosystem functioning? Location: Main biomes (steppes to rain forests) of Argentina. Methods: We used AVHRR/NOAA satellite data to characterize vegetation functioning. We used the seasonal dynamics of the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), a linear estimator of the fraction of the photosynthetic active radiation intercepted by vegetation (f<sub>PAR</sub>), and the surface temperature (Ts), for the period 1981-1993. We extracted the following indices: NDVI integral (NDVI-I), NDVI relative range (R<sub>rel</sub>), NDVI maximum value (V<sub>max</sub>), date of maximum NDVI (D<sub>max</sub>) and actual evapotranspiration. Results: f<sub>PAR</sub> varied from 2 to 80%, in relation to changes in net primary production (NPP) from 83 to 1700 g.m<sup>-2</sup>.yr<sup>-1</sup>. NDVI-I, Vmax and f<sub>PAR</sub> had positive, curvilinear relationships to mean annual precipitation (MAP), NPP was linearly related to MAP. Tropical and subtropical biomes had a significantly lower seasonality (R<sub>rel</sub>) than temperate ones. D<sub>max</sub> was not correlated with the defined environmental gradients. Evapotranspiration ranged from 100 to 1100 mm.yr<sup>-1</sup>. Interannual variability of NDVI attributes varied across the temperature and precipitation gradients. Conclusions: Our results may be used to represent baseline conditions in evaluating the impact of land use changes across environmental gradients. The relationships between functional attributes and environmental variables provide a way to extrapolate ecological patterns from protected areas across modified habitats and to generate maps of ecosystem functioning.
3237098|Plant productivity is limited by mineral nutrient availability in many boreal forest ecosystems. This study is an analysis of the growth responses of components of a boreal plant community (cryptogams, herbaceous and woody perennials, the dominant shrubs Salix glauca (grey willow) and Betula glandulosa (bog birch) and the dominant tree Picea glauca (white spruce), to the addition of an NPK fertilizer over a nine-year period. The study was carried out in a low-nutrient boreal forest ecosystem in the Yukon territory in northwestern Canada. The following predictions were tested: (1) that there would be an overall increase in abundance (measured either as cover, density, or dry mass) of all components of the vegetation, (2) that vegetation composition would change as more competitive species increased in abundance and (3) that initial community changes in response to fertilization would be transient. In general, all predictions were found to be true. Species composition changed rapidly in response to fertilizer. Graminoids (e.g. Festuca altaica) and some dicots (e.g. Mertensia paniculata and Achillea millefolium) increased in cover, while other dicots (e.g. Anemone parviflora), dwarf shrubs (e.g. Arctostaphylos uvaursi), bryophytes and lichens declined. There was a significant increase in the growth rate of the two dominant shrubs and of Picea, but not in the cone crop or seed production by Picea. Surveys after 1 or 2 years showed responses by the vegetation but more stable patterns of response did not emerge until after 5 or 6 years. There were consistent and directional changes in the percent cover of some of the herbaceous species on control plots. Growth rates of Salix and Betula varied considerably from year to year, independently of treatment. Long-term studies are essential if we are to understand the role of nutrient limitation in this ecosystem.
3236575|The use of Generalized Linear Models (GLM) in vegetation analysis has been advocated to accommodate complex species response curves. This paper investigates the potential advantages of using classification and regression trees (CART), a recursive partitioning method that is free of distributional assumptions. We used multiple logistic regression (a form of GLM) and CART to predict the distribution of three major oak species in California. We compared two types of model: polynomial logistic regression models optimized to account for non-linearity and factor interactions, and simple CART-models. Each type of model was developed using learning data sets of 2085 and 410 sample cases, and assessed on test sets containing 2016 and 3691 cases respectively. The responses of the three species to environmental gradients were varied and often non-homogeneous or context dependent. We tested the methods for predictive accuracy: CART-models performed significantly better than our polynomial logistic regression models in four of the six cases considered, and as well in the two remaining cases. CART also showed a superior ability to detect factor interactions. Insight gained from CART-models then helped develop improved parametric models. Although the probabilistic form of logistic regression results is more adapted to test theories about species responses to environmental gradients, we found that CART-models are intuitive, easy to develop and interpret, and constitute a valuable tool for modeling species distributions.
3236834|We investigated germination responses and seed recruitment in the clonal grassland herb Knautia arvensis (Dipsacaceae) throughout its distributional range in Norway. Four predicted relationships between germination responses and field regeneration behaviour were tested using phytotron experiments and experimental and observational field studies. Seedlings appeared in all experimental microsites in the field, corroborating phytotron predictions that gap- or depth-sensing strategies should be absent in the species. Seasonal timing patterns were predicted from a cold stratification response in the phytotron, but these were not supported in the field. The relationship between dormancy, germinability during storage, and seed carry-over in the field largely conformed to expectations. Seeds from four different geographical regions responded differently to temperature and cold stratification and storage. Dormancy and seed carry-over was higher in seeds from a coastal population, where winters are relatively mild and the probability of repeated freeze-thaw events is high, than in populations from mountain and inland areas, where winters are colder. This is discussed against two alternative hypotheses about the relationship between climate and dormancy in seasonal climates.
23012752|Questions: Is vegetation composition of ombrotrophic bogs with an undisturbed water regime resistant or sensitive to ongoing high atmospheric deposition and climatic changes? Location: The Sudeten Mountains (Czech Republic). Methods: Species composition of bryophytes and vascular plants was sampled in 25 permanent plots in suboceanic bogs of the Jizersk hory Mountains and in 26 permanent plots in subcontinental bogs of the Hrub Jesenk Mountains. The permanent plots were established and first sampled in 1991. These plots were resampled after 14 and 17 years, respectively. We also used historical vegetation plots (19471949; 1980) from the same localities in order to reveal possible changes that might start earlier. Water chemistry was analysed annually, usually three times a year. Compositional changes were analysed by PERMANOVA, -diversity changes by PERMDISP and other changes by t-test and Fisher's exact test. Results: At the community level, no statistically significant changes were detected in permanent plots (PERMANOVA, PERMDISP), either in hollows or in hummocks, but the vegetation composition changed between the oldest (historical) and the newest data sets. At the level of functional groups, cover of Cyperaceae significantly decreased and cover of other herbs (excluding graminoids) and Sphagna increased in the Hrub Jesenk Mountains, whereas no changes were detected in the Jizersk hory Mountains. Cover of ericoid dwarf shrubs has not changed in either area. At the level of particular species, the frequency of Sphagnum magellanicum, Carex limosa, Scheuchzeria palustris and Vaccinium myrtillus decreased, while the frequency of Straminergon stramineum, Sphagnum recurvum agg., Eriophorum angustifolium and Luzula sylvatica increased. These changes were more evident when recent and historical data were compared. Conclusions: When water regime is not affected, the bog vegetation seems to be rather resistant to high atmospheric deposition and climate fluctuation. A significant change of the species composition occurs only in the long-term perspective. Particular species could, however, decrease or increase their frequencies more rapidly. For some of these species a positive or negative response to nitrogen availability was also found in other studies, whereas for other species further research is needed in order to separate the effects of atmospheric deposition and internal ecosystem dynamics.
3235778| Correspondence Analysis of species by environmental variables matrices is a relatively simple method for handling matrices which include many species and variables. If columns represent species and rows represent the states in which the environmental variables have been divided, each element of the matrix shows the number of relevs in which the simultaneous occurrence of that species and that environmental variable state have been recorded. In this paper the use of the method for presence-absence data is considered. The method is appropriate for studies whose main purpose is to look for broad correlations between groups of environmental variables and groups of species. It is particularly useful for handling heterogeneous data sets including rare species and species-poor relevs, a situation in which Correspondence Analysis and Canonical Correspondence Analysis are frequently complicated by the production of axes explaining the relationship between rare species and species-poor relevs. Examples are presented with artificial data as well as with real data collected in the Mexican portion of the Chihuahuan Desert (Bolson de Mapimi). It is shown for the Mapimi data that the method is robust to the partition of variables into different numbers of states. 
3236771|The hypothesis that mole burrowing activity alters soil nutrient fluxes and that, as a response to the new conditions, a specialized guild of species develops on the molehills, was tested in an area located in the southwestern Spanish Pyrenees, on a spectrum of montane grassland communities that varies from xeric to temporally waterlogged. Evidence for an association between disturbance and nutrient availability was reported for nitrogen. Mole-disturbed soils had elevated amounts of inorganic nitrogen compared to soils in surrounding pastures. At the first stages of mound revegetation, changes in nitrate flushes and in species competitive relationships following disturbance appeared to facilitate the establishment of ruderal and non-mycorrhizal species. The diversity of the whole grassland was enhanced by the existence of these sets of species, abundant on mounds and rarer in the pasture. However, the difference was mainly quantitative, as exclusive colonizers of molehills were not found.
3235587|Patches of herbaceous vegetation found at the boundary of the alpine and subnival belts in the Central Caucasus (3000 m) were analysed for species composition, interspecific associations, as well as for relations between age, size and diversity of the patches. 34 plant species were recorded. Positive and negative associations were found among the most frequent species. A model is presented that describes the cumulation of species in patches during succession. In the final and stable successional stage, the maximum number of species within a patch was nine. Species composition varies in patches of different age, typical alpine species being more frequent in older ones. The results are interpreted as evidence for niche differentiation and selection of species composition through the `sieve' of inter-specific relations, taking place during succession in the studied patches.
3235599|To document the relationship between a plant's position in the canopy and its leaf nutrient content, leaf nitrogen and phosphorus were determined for 30 species growing in mature evergreen lowland rain forest at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. Species that grow either in the understory, midstory, or the canopy were selected. Species were further separated into three life forms: self-supporting monocots, self-supporting dicots, and climbers. Mass-based nutrient concentrations were expected to decrease with stature, as has been reported in studies of other forests. In fact, mass-based nitrogen and phosphorus did not vary significantly among the three adult-stature classes, although area-based values differed greatly: canopy plants averaged 60% more nitrogen and 90% more phosphorus per unit leaf area than understory plants. Differences in leaf characteristics were evident among the three life forms. Most notably, area-based phosphorus and leaf specific mass were lowest in climbers, intermediate in self-supporting dicots, and highest in self-supporting monocots. These results support the characterization of climbers as investing in inexpensive structures, perhaps in order to gain competitive advantage in light capture by allocating resources to maximize elongation rates.
3235892| Pattern analysis and association analysis showed that recruitment of the giant columnar cactus Neobuxbaumia tetetzo in the semi-arid valley of Zapotitln is largely limited to areas beneath the canopies of perennial shrubs, acting as nurse plants. Chi-square and Haberman tests revealed that young cacti were more frequently found beneath canopies of leguminous shrubs, especially Mimosa luisana, than were older cacti. Segregation analysis indicated a positive association (= negative segregation) of young cacti and M. luisana canopies, but older cacti were randomly distributed with respect to M. luisana. This, and the height class distributions of cacti associated with M. luisana or not, suggested the replacement of M. luisana by N. tetetzo. Mimosa luisana plants in association with N. tetetzo had greater amounts of dead basal area than M. luisana lacking associated N. tetetzo. This suggested competition from N. tetetzo promotes the replacement process. The roots of N. tetetzo are  30 cm deep. Interception of soil water before penetration to deeper roots of M. luisana may be the mode of competition between the two species. 
3237227|Two neighbouring even-aged 130-yr old Picea abies trees in a homogeneous stand can differ substantially with respect to their epiphytic vegetation. Sampled branches from the canopy of one tree harboured 781 specimens of the old forest lichen Usnea longissima of which only 50 could be seen from the ground, whereas no U. longissima were found on its nearest neighbour. Usnea longissima was most abundant on branch tips in lower parts of the canopy on branch segments having the highest biomass of other alectorioid species. Trees with and without U. longissima showed a different pattern in their mineral composition, suggesting that a tree-specific difference in nutritional status might contribute to explain the patchy distribution of this lichen within seemingly homogeneous stands.
3235645|This study presents an alternative treatment of data from a comprehensive vegetation study in which the main gradient structure of boreal coniferous forest vegetation in southern Norway was investigated by ordination techniques. The data sets include vegetation samples of different plot sizes, supplied with measurements of 33 environmental explanatory variables (classified in four groups) and nine spatial explanatory variables derived from geographical coordinates. Partitioning the variation of the species-sample plot matrices on different sets of explanatory variables is performed by use of (partial) Canonical Correspondence Analysis. Several aspects of vegetation-environment relationships in the investigation area are discussed on the basis of results obtained by the new method. Generally, ca. 35 % of the variation in species abundances are explained by environmental and spatial variables. The results indicate support for the hypothesis of macro-scale topographic control over the differentiation of the vegetation, more strongly so in pine than in spruce forest where soil nutrients play a major role. Towards finer scales, the primary topographical and topographically dependent factors lose importance, and vegetational differentiation is more strongly affected by the accumulated effects of the vegetation (including the tree stand) on soils, shading, litter fall, etc. The fraction of variation in species abundance explained by significant environmental variables was found to be ca. twice as large as the fraction explained by spatial variables. The fraction of variation explained by the supplied variables differed between data sets; it was lower for cryptogams than for vascular plants, and lower for smaller than for larger sample plots. Possible reasons for these patterns are discussed. Some methodological aspects of CCA with variation partitioning are discussed: improvements, necessary precautions, and the advantages over alternative methods.
40925566|Question: Species can persist in landscapes with recurring disturbances either by migrating to places suitable for the moment or by enduring the threatening conditions. We investigated to what extent boreal forest bryophytes survived an intense forest fire in situ and whether bryophytes had started to recolonize the area 7-8 years later. Location: Tyresta National Park, eastern Sweden. Methods: We recorded bryophytes in 14 burnt and 12 forest reference plots (5050 m). In each plot we investigated 15 random 1-m micro-plots. In plots in the burnt area we also examined micro-plots at locations of all fire refugia, and in case of the forest references, of 10 potential refugia. Results: We found on average three small refugia per 5050-m plot; each containing on average 4.8 forest bryophytes, a level similar to that of micro-plots in the references, but significantly higher than in random micro-plots in the burnt plots (1.5 species). Many refugia were located in rocky areas, but few were in wet sites. The burnt area remained dominated by a few fire-favoured species, even if recolonization of forest bryophytes had begun. There was, however, no significant correlation between number of refugia and number of forest species in random micro-plots, leaving open the question of the importance of refugia as regulators of early succession. Conclusion: We conclude that small-scale refugia can also occur for sensitive species such as forest bryophytes, and that the refugia in our case were frequently found on rocky or mesic rather than wet sites. The role of such refugia in recolonization, however, warrants further investigation.
40925494|Questions: (1) How do extreme climatic events and climate variability influence radial growth of conifers (silver fir, Norway spruce, Scots pine)? (2) How do elevation and soil water capacity (SWC) modulate sensitivity to climate? Location: The sampled conifer stands are in France, in western lowland and mountain forests, at elevations from 400 to 1700 m, and an SWC from 50 to 190 mm. Methods: We established stand chronologies for total ring width, earlywood and latewood width for the 33 studied stands (985 trees in total). Responses to climate were analysed using pointer years and bootstrapped response functions. Principal component analysis was applied to pointer years and response function coefficients in order to elucidate the ecological structure of the studied stands. Results: Extreme winter frosts are responsible for greater growth reductions in silver fir than in Norway spruce, especially at the upper elevation, while Scots pine was the least sensitive species. Exceptional spring droughts caused a notable growth decrease, especially when local conditions were dry (altitude < 1000 m and SWC < 100 mm for silver fir, western lowlands for Scots pine). Earlywood of silver fir depended on previous September and November and current-year February temperature, after which current June and July water supply influenced latewood. Earlywood of Norway spruce was influenced by previous September temperature, after which current spring and summer droughts influenced both ring components. In Scots pine, earlywood and latewood depended on the current summer water balance. Local conditions mainly modulated latewood formation. Conclusions: If the climate becomes drier, low-elevation dry stands or trees growing in western lowlands may face problems, as their growth is highly dependent on soil moisture availbility.
4096616|Question: What is the relative importance of area- and edge-effects on woody seedling diversity in old Afromontane forest fragments? Location: Mistbelt Afromontane forests, KwaZulu-Natal midlands, South Africa. Methods: Woody seedling abundance and species richness in
3236463| The vegetation on a wet mountain slope on Haleakala (an oceanic island) is compared with that on Kinabalu (a continental island) to examine relationships between regional floristic richness and - and -diversities. The two mountains are similar in their constant tropical climate, generic and family-level floristic elements and geological age of the summit regions, but different in regional floristic richness (rich on Kinabalu vs. poor on Haleakala). -diversity of canopy and subcanopy tree species was much higher on Kinabalu than in comparable zones on Haleakala. Average turnover rate of species (as logarithmic community similarity) on the slope was one order of magnitude greater on Kinabalu than on Haleakala (0.127 vs. 0.017 per 100 m alt.). While there were genera with wide altitudinal ranges on both mountains, a large proportion of the genera was differentiated into parapatric altitudinal congeners on Kinabalu. By contrast, most genera are altitudinally monotypic on Haleakala. The number of sympatric congeners per genus, and the frequency of multi-specific genera per plot were high on lower slopes but decreased with increasing altitude on Kinabalu, whereas the values were low across all altitudes on Haleakala. These patterns suggest that sympatric and parapatric species radiation was less on Haleakala than on Kinabalu. This may be related to Haleakala's initially poor and disharmonic flora. 
3235639|Lantana camara shrubland is compared with the adjacent Quercus leucotrichophora and Pinus roxburghii forests to understand changes occurring in net primary productivity and nutrient cycling, as a consequence of degradation of these forests. The total net primary productivity of Lantana camara shrubland was 17 t ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>, which is similar to the values reported for forests: 16 - 21 t ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. Total nutrient content (N, P) in the soil in the L. camara shrubland: 2932 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> N and 111 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> P, was lower than that of the forest soils.
3237143|In many species-rich hay meadows in Central Europe, the traditional extensive (low input, low output) management is no longer economical and meadows are either fertilized or abandoned. Both these practices lead to changes in species composition and usually to a loss in species diversity. The response of a species-rich meadow plant community to fertilization, mowing and removal of dominant species was studied in a manipulative factorial experiment over four years. Both species richness and seedling recruitment were positively influenced by mowing and to a lesser extent by removal of the dominant species, Molinia caerulea, and were negatively influenced by fertilization. Fertilization caused an immediate increase in community biomass. Response to removal of the dominant species was delayed by one season, continued over the whole period, and by the fourth year the biomass reached a similar value as in the plots with Molinia present. Changes in species composition were evaluated by RDA for repeated measurements. The best and only significant predictor of species response to fertilization was plant height. This shows that with increased nutrient availability, nutrient limitation weakens and competition for light becomes the decisive factor. Competition for light appears to be more asymmetric than competition for nutrients, and consequently, it is more likely to drive inferior species to extinction. This is, together with seedling recruitment limitations, the most important cause of a decrease in species richness under high nutrient levels.
3236587|Question: How much is the probability distribution of Fagus crenata forests predicted to change under a climate change scenario by the 2090s, and what are the potential impacts on these forests? What are the main factors inducing such changes? Location: The major islands of Japan. Methods: A predictive distribution model was developed with four climatic factors (summer precipitation, PRS; winter precipitation, PRW; minimum temperature of the coldest month, TMC; and warmth index, WI) and five non-climatic factors (topography, surface geology, soil, slope aspect and inclination). A climate change scenario was applied to the model. Results: Areas with high probability (> 0.5) were predicted to decrease by 91 %, retreating from the southwest, shrinking in central regions, and expanding northeastwards beyond their current northern limits. A vulnerability index (the reciprocal of the predicted probability) suggests that Kyushu, Shikoku, the Pacific Ocean side of Honshu and southwest Hokkaido will have high numbers of many vulnerable F. crenata forests. The forests with high negative sensitivity indices (the difference between simulated probabilities of occurrence under current and predicted climates) mainly occur in southwest Hokkaido and the Sea of Japan side of northern Honshu. Conclusion: F. crenata forest distributions may retreat from some islands due to a high W1. The predicted northeastward shift in northern Hokkaido is associated with increased TMC and PRS. High vulnerability and negative sensitivity of the forests in southern Hokkaido are due to increased W1.
3236491|Many grasslands and arable fields have been abandoned in Europe in the last decades. So far, however, ecologists have not been able to establish one general, unifying theory for successionally induced changes in species composition following abandonment. In fact, the course of succession seems to be unique for each site and year. Here we focused on the analysis of plant functional traits in order to detect general trends in trait responses to succession which would prove independent of site characteristics. We studied permanent plot series of 14 grassland sites in SW Germany that had been abandoned for 25 yr. Species composition as well as the course of succession varied significantly among the grasslands. Response to succession was analysed for the following traits: 'plant height', 'canopy structure', 'specific leaf area' (SLA), 'storage organ', 'vegetative spread', 'plant persistence', 'seed bank longevity', 'start of flowering', 'duration of flowering' and 'seed mass'. We compared a univariate with a multivariate approach. In the univariate approach, attributes of each trait were analysed separately employing GLM whereas in the multivariate approach all traits were handled together in NMS. Both analyses indicated similar trait responses to succession. There was a significant increase in the proportion of species characterized by the following attributes: plant height > 0.6 m, leaves distributed regularly along the stem, vegetative spread > 100 mm, start of flowering later than May, duration of flowering 1-2 months and seeds of either low or high mass.
25173206|Question: Relevs in large phytosociological databases used for analysing long-term changes in plant communities are biased towards easily accessible places and species-rich stands. How does this bias influence trend analysis of floristic composition within a priori determined vegetation types and how can this bias be reduced by resampling methods? Location: The Netherlands. Methods: Basis for the analysis was the Dutch national phytosociological database, consisting of more than 460 000 relevs. For the Cirsio dissecti-Molinietum, Genisto anglicae-Callunetum and the Stellario-Carpinetum betuli, we analysed differences in floristic composition (species frequencies) before and after 1970, using -statistics. We resampled the original dataset, using different types of stratification. The results of the trend analysis with the resampled datasets were compared with the results using the original dataset. Results: In the resampled datasets a much smaller number of plant species showed a significant trend over both periods, compared to the results form the original dataset. Differences could be related to the smaller size of datasets after resampling, but also to avoiding over-representation of certain geographical localities in the datasets. The influence of stratification was different for the three plant communities, due to the different distribution of relevs in time and space. Conclusions: Analysis of long-term changes in plant communities is strongly affected by the uneven spatio-temporal distribution of relevs in different research periods. These effects are reduced by geographical stratified resampling. The results of the trend analysis after stratified resampling are expected to give a more reliable representation of true changes, than the results after using the original data. The scale of stratification is dependent on the structure of the data.
3236634|This study examines the capacity of establishment of a rare aquatic macrophyte, Luronium natans, within plant communities and habitat types in which it does not occur spontaneously. The species, generally limited to disturbed or nutrient-poor habitats, was transplanted into a series of sites situated along natural gradients of disturbance (flush-floods and intermittent sediment exposure) and sediment nutrientrichness. The transplanted colonies were given a competitionfree establishment period. Colony dynamics of Luronium as well as size structure of the recolonizing macrophyte communities were monitored over three growing seasons. At the end of this period, transplanted colonies still persisted in five out of 12 transplantation sites. Apparently successful integration into the community occurred at both ends of the nutrient gradient, in periodically disturbed habitats. At intermediate to high nutrient richness Luronium maintained one of the highest cover values within the recolonizing community. The study supports previous presumptions that long-term persistence of Luronium depends on processes limiting community biomass through occurrence of disturbance. But it also reveals the existence of suitable, yet not occupied habitats in which the species can persist as successfully as species from the local species pool. This finding modulates the presumption that Luronium's rarity is mainly caused by a weak competitive ability in the established phase. It thus rises questions about the species' performance at other stages of its life cycle and on its dispersability.
3235975|A method of characterizing the geometry and statistical nature of vegetation patterns and for studying their fractal dimension is proposed. The method utilizes the concept of multifractals, and is especially suited to the description of complex patterns. The properties of multifractals and their role in detecting the scale of vegetation patterns are explained. We suggest an extension of the term multifractal for use in landscape ecology and coenology connected with patterns of many different kinds of points. Relationships between information-statistical functions and the fractal dimensions introduced are shown. A computer-simulated example demonstrates the use of statistical functions and illustrates its applicability in vegetation science.
40925553|Question: What is the mechanism that underlies long-term maintenance of high herbaceous productivity after a single application of phosphorus (4.5gPm and 9gPm) in a hilly Mediterranean environment in a phosphorus-deficient ecosystem? Location: Inland, 15 km E of the Mediterranean coast, W Galilee, Israel (3515'E, 3301'N; 500m asl). Methods: The experiment was established in 1988. Multi-year data on above-ground biomass, botanical composition, P content of vegetation and soil, and the grazing management context of the experiment were integrated to construct a feasible account of the P dynamics of the ecosystem. Results: The productivity of the herbaceous component already responded to P application in the first year. The effect on the shrubby component of the ecosystem was marginal. The available (bicarbonate extractable) P in the upper soil layer peaked in the year after application of P and then declined to the original level within 7 years. Despite the decline in available soil P, a high, fluctuating level of herbaceous biomass production was maintained for 20 years. Legume species (Fabaceae) became a prominent constituent of the herbaceous vegetation after the P pulse. Conclusions: The long-term shift in productivity of the herbaceous component of the grazed ecosystem was triggered by a nutritional pulse that induced a feedback loop based on changes in botanical composition of the herbaceous vegetation, the animalvegetation interaction, grazing and supplementary feeding regimen of the cattle.
3236628|In temperate grasslands, the relative importance of above-ground competition for light compared to below-ground competition for water and nutrients is hypothesized to increase with increasing precipitation. Thus, competition for light is likely to exert an increasing influence on canopy structure and species composition as precipitation increases. We quantified canopy structure, light availability and changes in species composition at seven sites across the central grassland region of the United States to determine how these properties change across a precipitation gradient. Across the region, there was a disproportionate increase in leaf area and canopy height with increasing precipitation, indicating that plants become taller and leafier across the gradient. Leaf area index increased by a factor of 12 across the gradient while above-ground net primary productivity increased by a factor of only 5.5. As precipitation increased, there was decreased light availability at the soil surface, increased seasonal variability in light transmission, increased biomass and leaf area at higher canopy layers and an increased proportion of tall-statured species. These observed changes in canopy structure support the prediction that competition for light increases in importance with increasing precipitation.
3235592|We compare three common types of clustering algorithms for use with community data. TWINSPAN is divisive hierarchical, flexible-UPGMA is agglomerative and hierarchical, and ALOC is non-hierarchical. A balanced design six-factor model was used to generate 480 data sets of known characteristics. Recovery of the embedded clusters suggests that both flexible UPGMA and ALOC are significantly better than TWINSPAN. No significant difference existed between flexible UPGMA and ALOC.
41059546|Questions: What are the effects of repeated disturbance and N-fertilization on plant community structure in a mountain birch forest? What is the role of enhanced nutrient availability in recovery of understorey vegetation after repeated disturbance? How are responses of soil micro-organisms to disturbance and N-fertilization reflected in nutrient allocation patterns and recovery of understorey vegetation after disturbance? Location: Subarctic mountain birch forest, Finland. Methods: We conducted a fully factorial experiment with annual treatments of disturbance (two levels) and N-fertilization (four levels) during 1998-2002. We monitored treatment effects on above-ground plant biomass, plant community structure and plant and soil nutrient concentrations. Results: Both disturbance and N-fertilization increased the relative biomass of graminoids. The increase of relative biomass of graminoids in the disturbance treatment was over twice that of the highest N-fertilization level, and Nfertilization further increased their relative biomass after disturbance. As repeated disturbance broke the dominance of evergreen dwarf shrubs, it resulted in a situation where deciduous species, graminoids and herbs dominated the plant community. Although relative biomass of deciduous dwarf shrubs declined with N-fertilization, it did not cause a shift in plant community structure, as evergreen dwarf shrubs remained dominant. Both disturbance and N-fertilization increased the N concentration in vascular plants, whereas microbial biomass N and C were not affected by the treatments. Concentrations of $NH_4^ + $ , dissolved organic  (DON) and dissolved organic C (DOC) increased in the soil after N-fertilization, whereas concentrations of NH4 and DON decreased after disturbance. Conclusions: Disturbances caused by e.g. humans or herbivores contribute more to changes in the understorey vegetation structure than increased levels of N in subarctic vegetation. Fertilization accelerated the recovery potential after repeated disturbance in graminoids. Microbial activities did not limit plant growth.
3236485|Question: Does increasing Festuca canopy cover reduce plant species richness and, therefore, alter plant community composition and the relationship of litter to species richness in old-field grassland? Location: Southeastern Oklahoma, USA. Methods: Canopy cover by species, species richness, and litter mass were collected within an old-field grassland site on 16, 40 m x 40 m plots. Our study was conducted during the first three years of a long-term study that investigated the effects of low-level nitrogen enrichment and small mammal herbivory manipulations. Results: Succession was altered by an increase in abundance of Festuca over the 3-yr study period. Species richness did not decline with litter accumulation. Instead, Festuca increased most on species-poor plots, and Festuca abundance remained low on species-rich plots. Conclusions: Festuca may act as an invasive transformer-species in warm-season dominated old-field grasslands, a phenomenon associated more with invasions of cool-season grasses at higher latitudes in North America.
3246585| Our main objective was to use comparative floristic and structural criteria in order to understand the differences in assemblages brought about by the meeting of arid and dry-tropical environments. We sampled 33 vegetation plots and recorded all perennial species. The data were subjected to multivariate analysis, including Principal Component Analysis (PCA). The floristic variation detected by the PCA was strongly related to altitude and rainfall. The gradient detected by the ordination procedure had Tropical deciduous forest (TDF) and Sonoran Desert (SD) at opposite extremes and Cape sarcocaulescent shrubland (CSCS) in an intermediate position. The numerical classification algorithm detected six distinct groups of species with clearly identifiable field distributions. Vegetation structure also differed significantly between the regions. SD had the lowest species-richness (-diversity) and inter-site similarity in the CSCS was highest, indicating that this environment is relatively uniform and has low species turnover (-diversity). It is concluded that the CSCS is distinctly different from the sarcocaulescent shrublands of the more northern plant communities of the peninsula, where Sonoran Desert floristic affinities prevail. The floristic composition of the CSCS is rich in dry-tropical affinities, its species richness is higher, it is homogeneous in its species content and turnover and is more dense with a taller canopy than the northern desert scrubs. It is proposed that the boundary line separating the Cape sediments of granitic origin from the basalt-derived sediments of the northern-lying Sierra de la Giganta should be used as an easily identifiable landscape trait to delimitate this unique community. 
3236172|Modern pollen assemblages from 16 small lakes (<2.5 ha) and 11 moderate-sized lakes (4.5-19.3 ha) arrayed along an elevational gradient (300 to 1320 m) in the east-central Adirondack Mountains were studied to determine how well the pollen assemblages recorded patterns of forest composition along the gradient. Forest composition ranges from Pinus strobus/Tsuga/hardwoods forests at low elevations through Tsuga/hardwoods, hardwoods, and Picea /Abies forests to Abies-dominated forests at high elevations. Modern pollen percentages for 10 tree taxa were compared with lake elevation using scatter plots and correlation and regression analysis. Differential smoothing of vegetational patterns along the elevational gradient occurred among the 10 taxa owing to differences in pollen dispersibility, pollen production, and spatial pattern of taxon abundance in forests of the region. No differences were observed in pollen-elevation patterns between small and moderate-sized lakes. Pollen-elevation patterns were obscured for most taxa when the gradient was shortened (e.g. to 600-1320 m) owing to increased spatial smoothing by pollen dispersal. Design and interpretation of paleoecological studies of spatial gradients can be improved by careful attention to site spacing, gradient length, and gradient steepness in the context of pollen dispersal and representation models.
3236257|40 sites, representing different pasture types in Northwest Spain, were sampled in respect of their floristic composition, distribution of above and below-ground biomass and environmental and physical variables. Five plant community types were identified by classification techniques of plant species composition. These communities were then characterized in terms of the percentage of ground covered by herbaceous and shrub vegetation, stones, rocks and gaps as well as their topographic location and characteristics of the shallow soil (pH, organic matter, nitrogen and calcium content). Biomass was assessed in terms of above-ground structures, surface crowns and three below-ground layers to a depth of 10 cm. Three types of grazing regime were distinguished: Concentrated Intense Grazing in early spring (CIG), Extended Intense Grazing throughout the spring (EIG), and Non-Intense Grazing (NIG). Grazing regime showed the highest association with plant community type and three broad categories were identified: xeric stressed pastures, which nevertheless received CIG, mesic pastures with EIG, and three kinds of NIG mesic pastures. The xeric communities had the highest proportion of above-ground biomass, as a consequence of their greater proportion of woody perennials. These xeric communities displayed a more gradual reduction in below-ground biomass with depth than mesic pastures, a likely consequence of the low water content in the upper soil layers. The mesic communities had a high concentration of below-ground biomass in the upper layers when they were intensely grazed. However, when grazing was low (i.e. NIG situations), these communities had greater variability in biomass profiles than any of the other pasture types. Possible causes of the patterns in biomass distribution of the intensely grazed pastures are discussed.
40925469|Question: How do soils and topography influence Amazonian tree diversity, a region with generally nutrient-starved soils but some of the biologically richest tree communities on Earth? Location: Central Amazonia, near Manaus, Brazil. Methods: We evaluated the influence of 14 soil and topographic features on species diversity of rain forest trees ( 10 cm diameter at breast height), using data from 63 1-ha plots scattered over an area of ~400 km. Results: An ordination analysis identified three major edaphic gradients: (1) flatter areas had generally higher nutrient soils (higher clay content, carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, pH and exchangeable bases, and lower aluminium saturation) than did slopes and gullies; (2) sandier soils had lower water storage (plant available water capacity), phosphorus and nitrogen; and (3) soil pH varied among sites. Gradient 2 was the strongest predictor of tree diversity (species richness and Fisher's  values), with diversity increasing with higher soil fertility and water availability. Gradient 2 was also the best predictor of the number of rare (singleton) species, which accounted on average for over half (56%) of all species in each plot. Conclusions: Although our plots invariably supported diverse tree communities ( 225 species ha), the most species-rich sites (up to 310 species ha ) were least constrained by soil water and phosphorus availability. Intriguingly, the numbers of rare and common species were not significantly correlated in our plots, and they responded differently to major soil and topographic gradients. For unknown reasons rare species were significantly more frequent in plots with many large trees.
25173152|Questions: Are species richness and species abundances higher in the presence of tidal creeks? Do species richness and species abundances vary with plot size? Location: Intertidal plain of Volcano Marsh, Bahia de San Quintin, Mexico. Methods: We analysed vegetation patterns in large areas (cells) with tidal creeks (+creek) and without (-creek). We surveyed vegetation cover, microtopography, habitat type, and distance to creeks in nested plots of five sizes, 0.1, 0.25, 1, 2.5, and 10 m. Results: Species richness, frequency, cover, and assemblages differed between creek cells. Richness tended to be higher in +creek cells, and cover and frequency of individual species differed significantly between creek cells. We found consistent patterns in vegetation structure across plot sizes. We encountered 13 species that occurred in 188 unique assemblages. The most common assemblage had six species: Batis maritima, Frnkenia salina, Salicornia bigelovii, S. virginica, Salicornia spec. and Triglochin concinna. This assemblage occurred in creek cells and at all spatial scales. Of the most common assemblages all but one were composed of multiple species (3-9 species/plot). Conclusions: The persistence of vegetation patterns across a 100-fold range in spatial scale suggests that similar environmental factors operate broadly to determine species establishment and persistence. Differences in assemblage composition result from variation of frequency and cover of marsh plain species, particularly Suaeda esteroa and Monanthochloe littoralis. The recommendation for restoration of Californian salt marshes is to target (and plant) multi-species assemblages, not monocultures.
3235576|A general conceptual model of vegetation based on hierarchy theory is presented. The model emphasizes that prediction of vegetation requires consideration of both mechanisms of vegetation change and the constraints within which it occurs. The mechanisms of vegetation change are the responses to and effects upon their surroundings of individual plants. The most general constraints upon vegetation are aspects of the environment not affected by vegetation over successional time, and the pool of species within dispersal range. Examples of such environmental factors include macroclimate and soil parent material. In some cases, vegetation may alter important labile environmental factors such as soil nutrient and water availability. Some vegetation compositions appear to be resistant to changes in the general constraints. Due to both sources, there are multiple possible vegetation compositions given the same general constraints. Disturbance is defined as an abrupt change in the constraints on the vegetation resulting in a change in the vegetation's state or dynamics. Both the recognition of disturbance and the distinction between independent and labile environmental factors depend on the spatial and temporal scale of observation. For example, a particular wildfire at a given stand may be a disturbance, whereas at a larger scale of observation the same event may contribute to the wildfire regime, part of the constraints at that scale. Similarly, levels of soil organic matter may constrain vegetation over short time scales, due to influencing availability of water and nutrients. Over long time scales, the vegetation itself is a primary determinant of soil organic matter content. This model contains elements of both the initial, holistic theory of vegetation and recent, reductionistic approaches. It reiterates the need to consider both mechanisms and constraints, stressed by contemporary and earlier workers. Hierarchy theory provides new insights concerning sufficient conditions for prediction, possible limits on predictability, and appropriate research strategy.
4499278|Questions: (1) What are the most important abiotic environmental variables influencing succession in central European man-made habitats? (2) How do these variables interact with one another and with variation in community properties? Location: Central, western and southern parts of the Czech Republic. Habitats included old fields, urban sites, spoil heaps after coal mining, sites at water reservoirs, extracted sand pit and peatland and reclaimed sites in areas deforested by air pollution. Methods: We investigated vegetation patterns on 15 successional seres, sampled by the same methods. Time of succession over which the data were available ranged from 12 to 76 years. The cover of vascular plant species (in %) was estimated in 5 m x 5 m plots. The relationships between vegetation characteristics (species composition, total cover, cover of woody species, species number and rate of dominant species turnover) and 13 abiotic site factors, including climatic and soil variables, were tested using CCA ordination and regression models. Results: Substratum pH, the only substratum characteristic, and climate were the environmental variables significantly affecting the vegetation patterns in the course of succession. The rate of succession, measured as the turnover of dominant species, was significantly more rapid in lowland than in mountain climates. On alkaline soils, species numbers in succession increased towards warmer climates. However, acid soils prevented any increase in species numbers, regardless of the climate. Surprisingly, forms of nitrogen and contents of C, P and cations did not exhibit any significant effect on the vegetation characteristics studied. Conclusions: Our approach, to compare a number of seres, can contribute not only to our understanding of succession, but also to help restoration projects to predict vegetation change because the crucial environmental variables, as identified by this study, are easy to measure.
3236496|Large-scale disturbances, notably fire and grazing, structure grass and shrubland dynamics in semi-arid environments. We studied early post-fire succession in two burned grasslands, one unburned grassland, and one shrubland near the burned area. We observed three processes: (1) establishment of a 'phantom' community comprised of fugitive species. Although transient, these species increase diversity and recharge the seed bank before the next disturbance; (2) regeneration of the original community by persistence of resprouter species and by auto-replacement; (3) early stages of invasion by seedlings of the shrub Fabiana imbricata, which germinate next to shrubland and create new F. imbricata patches. Weed invasion was principally due to the ruderal exotic species Verbascum thapsus from the nearby road verge and by rapid increase of Rumex acetosella cover, another exotic species present before the fire. Although post-fire climatic conditions are particularly important in semi-arid environments, succession depends greatly on the regeneration strategies and dispersal abilities of the species present in the burned area. The phantom community occurs only at the first stage of succession when there is little competition for resources. We could call this process 'the race for occupation of the area'. The second stage, when competition for resources becomes progressively more important, could be called 'the effort to maintain space'.
40925465|Question: How important are habitat configuration, quality, history and anthropic disturbance in determining nemoral plant species richness and distribution of fragmented forest patches in a Mediterranean region? Location: Agricultural landscape north of Rome, Italy. Methods: Sixty-nine woodland patches, identified through a stratified random sampling, were sampled for nemoral plant species. The homogeneity of woodlands was tested through a hierarchical classification of the floristic data and a Mann-Whitney test of dependent and independent variables. The importance of habitat configuration (area, isolation, shape), quality (soil properties, forest structure, anthropic disturbance) and history (age of woodland) in determining species richness was estimated through a Poisson regression model. Presence-absence of each species was analysed by logistic regression. Differences among plant life-trait types (life span, dispersal mode, habitat preference) were analysed by comparing their median -values through ANOVA models. Results: Through hierarchical classification, two woodland types were identified that differed in species composition, habitat quality and spatial configuration. Poisson regression showed that habitat configuration and history influenced species richness. Multiple logistic regression resulted in significant fits for 88 species/variable combinations: 38 are habitat quality variables, 25 are habitat configuration variables, and 13 are anthropic factors. Dispersal strategies varied significantly with respect to area, isolation and age, while generalist and specialist species differed according to age of the woodland. Conclusion: Our results show that habitat history and configuration are the key factors determining species richness of woodland. Together with habitat configuration, habitat quality (mainly soil acidity) appeared to influence species composition.
3236458|Weed communities, comprising 12 introduced species at constant starting densities and three species already present in the seed bank, were followed through three years of continuous winter wheat. The wheat and weeds were subjected to two treatments in a split-plot factorial design, organic contrasting with conventional fertilizer, and ploughing plus hand-roguing contrasting with minimum tillage plus herbicide. The minimum tilled plots developed in a uniform manner, and became dominated by very high densities of Anisantha sterilis. Agrostemma githago and Galium aparine also persisted in these plots at lower densities. The ploughed plots had a lower total density but a greater range of species. Stellaria media, Veronica persica and Avena fatua were the most common; other species occurred at lower densities. The major effect of fertilizer treatment was a greater initial increase by G. aparine on the organic, minimum tilled plots compared with the conventionally fertilized, minimum tilled plots. Species associated with minimum tillage were annuals with either no or a short term seed bank and autumn germination and rather predictable dynamics, whereas species that did well under ploughing were either spring germinating or had a persistent seed bank, implying greater annual variation in population size associated with weather conditions. There seemed no clear way to distinguish between those species which were abundant on the ploughed plots and those which were scarce under all conditions using readily accessible data.
3235859|Variation in species composition and community structure in nine Greek phrygana (dwarf-shrub) sites was related to soil and climate variables by using Canonical Correspondence Analysis. The distribution of the Greek phrygana communities appeared to be related to soil rather than to climate. It is postulated that human action has eliminated the original variability related to climate factors in western Greek ecosystems; as a result, phrygana communities in this part of Greece are the result of human impact.
3235801|On the Vecht river plain (western Netherlands), small fens, remnants of a large mesotrophic wetland bordering a moraine, of 1 to 5 ha are found in a man-made matrix of lakes and pastures. The regional position of the fens, local position of sampling sites, composition of the vegetation and local hydrological variables were measured. Polders in the river plain produce a complex hydrology obscuring the regional zonation between moraine and river. Water supply and species composition are determined more by a site's regional than local position. High-productivity reedlands are abundant close to the river. Carex paniculata reedlands receive large amounts of river water, which gives their fen water a high K<sup>+</sup> concentration. Low-productivity C. diandra fens and litter fens have their optimum closer to the moraine. C. diandra fens are fed mainly by inflowing nutrient-poor ground- or surface water; litter fens receive primarily rainwater. Nutrients in fen water and in peat are lowest in C. diandra and C. lasiocarpa fens, but do not differ significantly between the communities. In both, iron seems to be more important than calcium in reducing phosphate solubility. Iron richness in the C. diandra fens is caused by present inflows of ground- or surface water, while in C. lasiocarpa fens, which succeed the former, iron richness is the result of historical inflows.
3235835|It is important to know how increasing levels of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> will affect native vegetation. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of elevated CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations on species composition in a tallgrass prairie kept at a high water level (730 mm of water in a 2000 mm soil profile) and a low water level (660 mm of water in 2000 mm). 16 cylindrical plastic chambers were placed on the prairie to maintain two levels of CO<sub>2</sub> (ambient or twice ambient) during two growing seasons in 1989 and 1990. Frequency of species was determined on 25 July 1989 and on 5 and 10 October 1990. At the beginning of the study, Poa pratensis (Kentucky bluegrass), the dominant C<sub>3</sub> species, had the highest frequency of 43.3 %, but decreased with time. However, at the end of the experiment and under the high soil-water level, there were more P. pratensis plants in the elevated CO<sub>2</sub> treatment (frequency: 13.5%) than in the ambient CO<sub>2</sub> treatment (1.0 %). Under the low soil water regime, the reverse occurred (frequencies: 3.6 % and 11.0 % for high and low CO<sub>2</sub>, respectively). The frequency of major C<sub>4</sub> plants, Andropogon gerardii (big bluestem), A. scoparius (little bluestem) and Sorghastrum nutans (Indian grass) was not affected by CO<sub>2</sub>. However, water did affect their frequency. Under low water, the frequency of A. gerardii decreased between 1989 and 1990. Under both soil moisture levels, the frequencies of S. nutans and A. scoparius increased. At the end of the study, Indian grass grown with high water had the highest frequency of all species on the prairie (frequency at the end of the study in October, 1990, of 44.4 % and 47.4 % for the high and low CO<sub>2</sub> levels, respectively). Unlike Indian grass, little bluestem grew better under low water conditions than under high water conditions. These results suggest that, if the climate becomes drier, A. scoparius will flourish more than S. nutans or A. gerardii, and P. pratensis may die out. Elevated CO<sub>2</sub> might not increase survival of C<sub>3</sub> plants under dry conditions, if temperatures are too high for them.
3236734| The focus of this study is the response of species to time of snowmelt and altitude in alpine areas and an examination of changes in species response to snowmelt as altitude increases and temperature decreases. Transects (n = 43) were placed evenly along an altitudinal gradient at Finse, Hardanger-vidda, western Norway, from ridges to late snowbeds. These gradients were systematically sampled ('Repeated Gradient Analysis, RGA') and an adjusted F-test was used to determine repeated trends in species distribution along the transects. Of the 41 taxa analysed 22 showed a significant change in expected occurrence in response to time of snowmelt (when a site becomes free of snow) as altitude increased. Three types of response were observed: (1) no change in response: (2) increased occurrence as altitude increases, i.e. the taxon invades snow-free sites as altitude increases, and (3) decreased occurrence as altitude increases, i.e. the taxon retreats from snow covered areas. It is suggested that the changes in response are due to both environmental factors (temperature related) and biological interactions. Decreases in expected occurrence are probably due to increased environmental severity as altitude increases (temperature related decreases). These species are represented by taxa preferring intermediate cover of snow. The invasion of earlier snow-free sites is probably due to reduced competition from lee-side taxa as altitude increases. A predictive model based on the species-environmental relationships suggests that a 1 K temperature increase changes the limits of occurrence in response to time of snowmelt from 3 to 20 days for the different taxa. 
4096703|Terrestrial ecosystems originate when particular plant species attain dominance at specific locations under specific environmental regimes. Ecosystems terminate, gradually or abruptly, when the dominant species or functional types are replaced by others, usually owing to environmental change or severe and irreversible disturbance. Assessing whether current ecosystems are sustainable in the face of future environmental change can be aided by examining the range of environmental variation those ecosystems have experienced in the past, and by determining the environmental conditions under which those ecosystems arose. The range of environmental variation depends on the time scale at which it is assessed. A narrow time span (e.g. 200-300 years) may underestimate the range of variation within which an ecosystem is sustainable, and it may also underestimate the risk of major transformation or disruption of that ecosystem by environmental change. Longer time spans (e.g. 1000-2000 years) increase the range of variation, by encompassing a larger sample of natural variability as well as non-stationary variability in the earth system. Most modern ecosystems disappear when the time span is expanded to 10000-15 000 years owing to secular changes in earth's climate system. Paleo-ecological records can pinpoint the time of origination of specific ecosystems, and paleo-environmental records can reveal the specific environmental changes that led to development of those ecosystems and the range of environmental variation under which those ecosystems have maintained themselves in the past. This information can help identify critical environmental thresholds beyond which specific modern ecosystems can no longer be sustained.
3236893|Diversity-biomass relationships are frequently reported to be hump-shaped over space at a given time. However, it is not yet clear how diversity and biomass change simultaneously and how they are related to each other over time (e.g. in succession) at one locality. This study develops a temporal model based on the projected changes of various community variables in a generalized terrestrial environment after fire and uses post-fire succession data on Santa Monica Mountains of southern California and other published succession data to examine the temporal diversity-biomass relationships. The results indicate that in the early stages of succession, both diversity and biomass increase and a positive relationship appears, while in the late stages of succession, biomass continued to increase but diversity usually declines; thus a negative relationship may be observed. When the scales of measurement become sufficiently large so that the measured diversity and biomass cross various stages of succession, a 'hump-shaped' relationship can emerge. The diversity-biomass relationship appears to be concordant in space and time when appropriate scales are used. Formerly proposed explanations for spatial patterns may well apply to the temporal patterns (particularly colonization, facilitation and competitive exclusion).
3237099|Vegetation subjected to two long-term burning regimes (annual or biennial burning) was studied in permanent plots, at two spatial scales: 0.01 m<sup>2</sup> and 1 m<sup>2</sup>, to determine the small-scale dynamics of plants in temperate Themeda triandra grasslands of southeastern Australia. Species turnover rates were estimated by presence/absence data while species mobility was assessed using cumulative frequency data. While mean species richness did not fluctuate greatly between years, the vegetation was internally dynamic rather than static. Cumulative species richness increased by 50 % at both spatial scales and sites over the 4-yr study period. However, few species became cumulatively frequent (i.e. occurred in 80 % of plots in the first and/or subsequent years), suggesting that cumulative species richness increases were due to small-or local-scale movements of plants, rather than 'shifting clouds' of species moving across the entire site. The vegetation's dynamics did not differ greatly at sites subject to different (frequent) fire intervals. Species turnover and mobility were individualistic, but the dynamics of many species was greater at the smaller spatial scale: 31 - 48 % of the species present at both spatial scales at the two sites had higher turnover rates at the 0.01 m<sup>2</sup> scale. Similarly, some 'non-mobile' species at the 1-m<sup>2</sup> scale (i.e. 'constant' or 'local' mobility types), were more mobile at the smaller-scale. Turnover rate and mobility type were strongly associated with life form in some cases, particularly at the annually-burnt site. In general, therophytes (and to a lesser degree, geophytes) were positively associated with high turnover and mobility in most years, while hemicryptophytes were negatively associated with high turnover in many instances. Hemicryptophytes included many species with a range of mobility types and hence, few significant associations between mobility and this life form were found. The previously unrecognized internal dynamics of this community under 'stable' management regimes contributes to species coexistence by allowing plants with different dynamics properties to persist in a spatially and temporally unpredictable manner. Frequent burning is presumably the important component driving much of the non-directional, small-scale dynamics because it regularly destroys individual plants and aerial plant parts and creates opportunities for seedling regeneration, whilst permitting the vegetative persistence and spread of established plants in non-light-limited microsites.
3236075| The Stirling Range is a mountain system of Proterozoic origin in the southern part of Western Australia, reaching an altitude of 1000 m; it consists of acid rocks and has a mediterranean climate with a rainfall of 500-550 mm/yr. It is the only extensive mountain system of this portion of the continent and presents a rich endemic flora. The vegetation of the area was investigated from 1984 to 1992; 68 phytosociological relevs, ecological observations and extensive floristic collections were made. On the basis of multivariate analysis eight communities have been distinguished: Eucalyptus woodland, mallee, evergreen shrubland (plain, mountain and slope), and herbaceous communities of wet sands, springs and rocks. The Stirling Range is the only area in the south of Western Australia where vegetation belts can be recognised. 
3236180| Floristic and climate data from 150 plots in 25 sites in Galicia, Spain, were analysed to test the hypothesis that climate is the major factor governing the distribution of woody plant species. TWINSPAN classification, Detrended Correspondence Analysis and Canonical Correspondence Analysis were applied in successive stages of the data analysis to describe vegetational variation in relation to climatic gradients. Six groups of species were defined, two clearly oceanic (Maritime and Cool Maritime), one mediterranean maritime, and three mediterranean (Cold Mediterranean, Cool Mediterranean and Temperate Mediterranean). An aridity gradient was revealed as the primary factor regulating the distribution of the species considered. This main gradient reflects the transition between the Eurosiberian and Mediterranean biogeographic regions. The gradient can be characterized by means of the Vernet bioclimatic index. A value  4 for this index can be taken to define the mediterranean zone in our study area. The mean minimum temperature in the coldest month was the second most influential climatic variable. Partial ordination analysis revealed that the residual variation was insignificant and that the observed variation in vegetation can be fully accounted for by climatic variables. 
3236953|The flora of the deciduous forests at the base of the north Estonian limestone escarpment is species rich, with an exceptionally high number of rare bryophyte species. Relationships between species richness of bryophyte and herb layers and biotic and environmental conditions were studied, using General Linear Mixed Models. Human disturbance (waste deposit, tree damage etc) was significantly negatively correlated with species richness of both plant layers. Soil nitrogen content was negatively and soil water retention positively correlated with bryophyte species richness, while herb richness was unrelated to soil factors. After eliminating the effects of environment, negative correlations in species richness and cover between the bryophyte and herb layers were discovered on finer scales (1 m<sup>2</sup>), referring to biotic interactions. This relationship was obscured with the simple correlation analysis. On the other hand, the positive correlation in species pools between the bryophyte and herb layers (0.1 ha) was insignificant. The species pools of both bryophyte and herb layers were significantly positively correlated with the species richness of the tree layer. In summary, bryophyte and herb layer richness responded differently to environmental conditions, but human disturbance significantly decreased the richness of both layers. Due to the uniqueness and small area of these forests we recommend protection and restoration of disturbed sites.
3235886|A map of burn severity resulting from the 1988 fires that occurred in Yellowstone National Park (YNP) was derived from Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) imagery and used to assess the isolation of burned areas, the heterogeneity that resulted from fires burning under moderate and severe burning conditions, and the relationship between heterogeneity and fire size. The majority of severely burned areas were within close proximity (50 to 200 m) to unburned or lightly burned areas, suggesting that few burned sites are very far from potential sources of propagules for plant reestablishment. Fires that occurred under moderate burning conditions early during the 1988 fire season resulted in a lower proportion of crown fire than fires that occurred under severe burning conditions later in the season. Increased dominance and contagion of burn severity classes and a decrease in the edge: area ratio for later fires indicated a slightly more aggregated burn pattern compared to early fires. The proportion of burned area in different burn severity classes varied as a function of daily fire size. When daily area burned was relatively low, the proportion of burned area in each burn severity class varied widely. When daily burned area exceeded 1250 ha, the burned area contained about 50 % crown fire, 30 % severe surface burn, and 20 % light surface burn. Understanding the effect of fire on landscape heterogeneity is important because the kinds, amounts, and spatial distribution of burned and unburned areas may influence the reestablishment of plant species on burned sites.
40925561|Question: When multiple observers record the same spatial units of alpine vegetation, how much variation is there in the records and what are the consequences of this variation for monitoring schemes to detect changes? Location: One test summit in Switzerland (Alps) and one test summit in Scotland (Cairngorm Mountains). Method: Eight observers used the GLORIA protocols for species composition and visual cover estimates in percentages on large summit sections (>100m) and species composition and frequency in nested quadrats (1m). Results: The multiple records from the same spatial unit for species composition and species cover showed considerable variation in the two countries.Estimates of pseudo-turnover of composition and coefficients of variation of cover estimates for vascular plant species in 1m x 1-m quadrats showed less variation than in previously published reports, whereas our results in larger sections were broadly in line with previous reports. In Scotland, estimates for bryophytes and lichens were more variable than for vascular plants. Conclusions: Statistical power calculations indicated that unless large numbers of plots were used, changes in cover or frequency were only likely to be detected for abundant species (exceeding 10% cover) or if relative changes were large (50% or more).Lower variation could be reached with the point method and with larger numbers of small plots.However, as summits often strongly differ from each other, supplementary summits cannot be considered as a way of increasing statistical power without introducing a supplementary component of variance into the analysis and hence into the power calculations.
3236124|In this paper we review the search for guilds in plant communities, and provide a summary of the process, emphasizing five steps: (1) defining function, (2) selecting traits which reflect function, (3) screening for those traits, (4) constructing trait matrices, and (5) grouping species according to these traits. We illustrate this process for wetland plant species based upon a matrix of 27 traits and 43 species from across eastern North America. The 43 species were selected to represent the widest range of life history types possible as well as both common species and nationally rare or endangered species. We found three main functional groups: ruderals, matrix and interstitial species, which we subdivide into a total of seven guilds. The growing number of such studies in the literature suggest that this may be an expedient measure for conservation biology and a promising one for predictions.
3235861|A distinctive feature of Australian vegetational history is the abruptness of change since European settlement, involving the influx of exotic species and the imposition of exogenous disturbances which are novel in both intensity and character. This can produce two sources of habitat variability: the natural patterns arising from environmental variation, as well as an overlying effect of disturbance. The relative importance of these two types of variables were compared in temperate herbaceous vegetation. Canonical Correspondence Analysis showed that environment and disturbance had similar contributions to floristic variability. Individually, lithology, altitude and soil disturbance were the strongest variables while slope position, grazing and water enrichment were slightly less important. Despite generally low levels of site specificity, groups of species associated with lithology, slope position, altitude and different disturbance regimes were identified. Exotic species were associated with higher levels of disturbance, but showed levels of environmental specialization similar to the native component. Through combination of this analysis with a previous analysis of species richness for the same data set, it became evident that environmental variation mostly resulted in species substitutions while disturbances led to losses of species, with partial replacement by exotics. Synthesizing these results, we identified three broad groups in relation to tolerance of levels of exogenous disturbance: (1) intolerant species-native taxa intolerant of severe disturbances and constituting the species-rich component of the vegetation; (2) tolerant species - exotic and native taxa occurring at both disturbed and undisturbed habitats and (3) disturbance specialists - predominantly exotic species, correlated with high levels of disturbance.
40925562|Question: Does the facultative effect of cushion plants increase with elevation as a result of increases in environmental harshness? Does this hypothesis apply in the Sino-Himalayan Mountains? Location: Lakaka Pass on the Baima Snow Mountains (2820'N,9905'E),SW China. Methods: We evaluated the spatial association of several plant species with the cushion plan Arenaria polytrichoides (Caryophyllaceae) at two elevations (4500 m and 4700 m) in the study site and monitored temperature, moisture and nutritional status of soil beneath and outside the cushions. Results: While 14 species grow more frequently associated with the cushions at the higher elevation, at the lower site only three species were positively associated with cushions. Eleven of the species that occurred at both elevations changed their spatial association from neutral or negative with cushions at the lower site to positive at the higher elevation site. Substrate temperatures were rather similar between the cushions and areas of bare ground.Cushions maintained higher moisture than areas of bare ground at both elevations. Soils beneath cushions contained significantly more available nitrogen and potassium compared to open areas at the higher elevation. Conclusions: Our results show that facilitation by A.polytrichoides cushions increases with elevation in the Sino-Himalayan region. This facilitation effect of A. polytrichoides cushions is probably due to the improved nutrient availability provided by cushion plants in the higher elevation, and these conditions probably permit increased plant recruitment, growth and survival.
3236103|This study reports on small-scale changes in the distribution of plant species in a 2.5 m<sup>2</sup> plot of grazed, species-rich Veronica spicata - Avenula pratensis grassland on shallow, dry, nutrient-poor soil in the Great Alvar area (Stora Alvaret) of southern Oland, southeastern Sweden. Multivariate analysis of 0.001 m<sup>2</sup> and 0.25 m<sup>2</sup> quadrats within the plot showed that there is little floristic variation without any trend in the plot. Average species richness varied little throughout the study period from 1986 to 1991 with 1986 averages of 7.0 on 0.001m<sup>2</sup>, 16.3 on 0.01 m<sup>2</sup> , and 26.1 on 0.25 m<sup>2</sup>. On 0.001 m<sup>2</sup> the highest species number found was 12, on 0.01 m<sup>2</sup>, 27. However, cumulative species richness, i.e. species number in the first year plus new species appearing in later years (averaged over 40 quadrats) increased over the same period, on 0.001 m<sup>2</sup> from 7.0 in 1986 to 14.9 in 1991, and on 0.01 m<sup>2</sup> from 16.3 to 24.1. Cumulative frequency, i.e. number of quadrats out of 40 where a species occurred in the first year or/ and in later years, increased as well; the number of cumulatively highly frequent (> 80%) species increased from 5 in 1986 to 18 in 1991. Species mobility on the scale of the small quadrats used implies both appearance and disappearance from these quadrats. Using six examples, species mobility is shown to vary individualistically, both in rate and degree. We postulate that in homogeneous, grazed, nutrient- and water-deficient environments many species can reach virtually all microsites within the plot, which we express through the idea of the 'carousel model'. We also question the usefullness of the niche concept and re-interpret it by stating that all species of this plant community have the same habitat niche, while most of them are short-lived and have the same regeneration niche. The essential variation amongst the species is their individual ability to establish or re-establish by making use of favourable conditions appearing in microsites in an unknown, complex spatio-temporal pattern.
4499286|Two alternatives are offered to Podani's proposals, based on the claim that Braun-Blanquet cover-abundance estimates cannot be properly analysed by conventional multivariate methods. 1. The ordinal transform scale, based on an extended Braun-Blanquet cover-abundance scale, comes close to a metric cover percentage scale after (1) the abundance values r (very few individuals), + (few ind.), 1 (abundant) and 2m (very abundant, cover < 5%) are replaced by cover percentage estimates and (2) the higher Braun-Blanquet values, notably 4 and 5, with cover intervals 50-75% and 75-100%, respectively, are interpreted as estimates of considerably higher cover values than the usual visual projection on the ground (because of the position of stems and leaves in several layers). I propose the equation ln C = (OTV - 2)/a, where C = Cover%, OTV is the 1 to 9 Ordinal Transfer Value and a is a factor weighting the cover values. With this equation cover values in a geometric series are achieved for the nine values in the extended Braun-Blanquet scale from 0.5 % (OTV 1) to 140% (OTV 9) for a = 1.415, and for a = 1.380 from 0.6 % to 160%. 2. This makes use of an earlier developed 'optimumtransformation' of cover-abundance values. For each species a frequency distribution of cover-abundance values is determined for a large data set, i.e. of dune slack vegetation. Tiny species have low values (OTVs 1-3) with high frequencies and hardly occur with higher OTV values; here all scores are considered 'optimal'. In dominant species OTVs 7 to 9 have the highest frequencies and only these values are considered optimal. Species with intermediate OTV ranges have optimum ranges with low-bound OTV = 2, 3, 4 and 5, respectively. No species were found in the dune slack data set with a frequency distribution justifying an optimum range with low-bound OTV = 6. For mathematically correct numerical treatments 'optimum scores' can be converted to 1 and sub-optimal scores to 0 in order to approach a presence/absence situation. Both alternatives are suggested to be acceptable approximations to a metric basis for numerical analyses.
3237200|A competitive effect hierarchy for 15 Namaqualand pioneer plant species was established by using the mean mass of the phytometer (Dimorphotheca sinuata) when grown in combination with itself and 14 other species. There were no clear groupings of species in the hierarchy. This competitive hierarchy (gradient) indicated which species are strong competitors (resulting in a low phytometer mass) with D. sinuata and which species are weak competitors (resulting in a high phytometer mass). Each plant species has a certain combination of plant traits which determines its life history strategy and competitive ability. Regressions of various plant traits (measured on plants grown singly) against phytometer biomass indicated which traits were significantly correlated. The traits, most being sizerelated, were: maximum shoot mass, total mass, stem mass, reproductive mass, leaf area, stem allocation, specific leaf area (SLA), vegetative height x diameter, leaf area ratio (LAR); and mean number of days to flower initiation. A forward stepwise multiple regression of the significant traits was used to determine an equation to predict competitive effect.
3237122| This paper presents results of a long-term study on natural forest dynamics in the Biaowiea National Park (BNP), northeastern Poland. Five permanent sample areas were used, each consisting of a transect of varying width (40 - 60 m) and length (200 - 1380 m). The total sample area is 14.9 ha. The study covers the period 1936 - 1992. During this period measurements were made on five occasions at approximately 10-yr intervals. On each measurement date all trees with DBH > 5 cm were identified and their spatial location, diameter, crown condition and position in the canopy determined. During the study period the stands underwent noticeable changes, mainly in terms of tree species composition. The major change was a quantitative increase of the late-successional species: Tilia cordata and Carpinus betulus, also to a lesser degree Fraxinus excelsior and, in the last period, of the early successional Alnus glutinosa. Declining species included both early- and late-succession species. Among the latter group, Picea abies ranked first. This species lost much of its importance during the last few decades. P. abies was followed by Pinus sylvestris which is an important component of the climax vegetation under the conditions prevailing in Biaowiea, at least on more oligotrophic sites. Still, this species has not been able to regenerate during the whole study period. Some other late-succession species. Acer platanoides and Quercus robur, were also amongst the declining species. Although the basal area of Q. robur increased, its population was getting older and the process of natural regeneration was markedly impeded. All typical pioneer, short-lived species: Betula pendula and B. pubescens, Salix caprea and Populus tremula also decreased, which was probably caused by a lack of major disturbances during the study period. In general, the results obtained for the semi-natural conditions of Biaowiea during the 56-yr observation period suggest a rather high compositional instability of the forest stands there. A more precise identification of the role of particular factors in the observed stand dynamics is difficult because of the paucity of appropriate historical and environmental data which refer directly to the study plots; moreover, the data are generally incompatible and of different resolution. 
3236198|We present the first vegetation analysis from the Arctic Foothills of northern Alaska according to the Braun-Blanquet approach. The data are from the Imnavait Creek and Toolik Lake regions. We focus on associations of dry and mesic upland surfaces and moderate snow accumulation sites; other upland plant communities, i.e. those of blockfields, non-sorted circles, and water tracks, are briefly described. Summary floristic information is presented in a synoptic table. Five associations and 15 community types are tentatively placed into seven existing syntaxonomical classes. The community descriptions are arranged according to habitat: dry exposed acidic sites, moist acidic shallow snowbeds, moist non-acidic snowbeds, moist acidic uplands, and moist non-acidic uplands. Many of the communities are Beringian vicariants of associations previously described from Greenland and the European Arctic. The described communities have a widespread distribution in northern Alaska. The relationship of the associations to complex environmental gradients are analyzed using Detrended Correspondence Analysis. Community composition is controlled primarily by mesotopographic relationships (slope position and soil moisture), microscale disturbances, and factors related to long-term landscape evolution.
4096618| Question: Do, in a semi-arid gypsum environment, neighbours condition the spatial patterns of emergence, survival and height of Helianthemum squamatum seedlings ? Location: Vicinity of Chinchn, province of Madrid, Spain (4011'N, 3 35'W, 550 m a.s.l.) Methods: We evaluated the effects of neighbours on the survival and growth of naturally emerging Helianthemum seedlings in a semi-arid area during a two-year period. We followed a two-fold approach based on the use of neighbour models for seedling survival and growth and spatial point pattern analyses for seedling emergence, taking into account the germination date. Results: Seedlings appeared clumped in the vicinity of mature Helianthemum individuals. The neighbour models fitted showed that interactions with neighbours were extremely important for the survival and growth of Helianthemum seedlings. These models also suggest that the effects of neighbours on these variables vary with changes in spatial scale and in the abiotic conditions. Some species exerted negative or positive effects on Helianthemum seedlings only at certain spatial scales, and others exerted negative or positive effects at earlier stages of seedling development, but none later and vice versa. Conclusions: We suggest that the observed patterns are mainly influenced by small-scale modifications in soil conditions and microclimate created by neighbours, which change in time and space. 
4096629| Question: The heterogeneous origin of the data in large phytosociological databases may seriously influence the results of their analysis. Therefore we propose some strategies for stratified resampling of such databases, which may improve the representativeness of the data. We also explore the effects of different resampling options on vegetation classification. Methods: We used 6050 plot samples (relevs) of mesic grasslands from the Czech Republic. We stratified this data-base using (1) geographical stratification in a grid; (2) habitat stratification created by an overlay of digital maps in GIS; (3) habitat stratification with strata defined by traditional phytosociological associations; (4) habitat stratification by numerical classification and (5) habitat stratification by Ellenberg indicator values. Each time we resampled the database, taking equal numbers of relevs per stratum. We then carried out cluster analyses for the resampled data sets and compared the resulting classifications using a newly developed procedure. Results: Random resampling of the initial data set and geo-graphically stratified resampling resulted in similar classifications. By contrast, classifications of the resampled data sets that were based on habitat stratifications (2-5) differed from each other and from the initial data set. Stratification 2 resulted in classifications that strongly reflected environmental factors with a coarse grain of spatial heterogeneity (e.g. macroclimate), whereas stratification 5 resulted in classifications emphasizing fine-grained factors (e.g. soil nutrient status). Stratification 3 led to the most deviating results, possibly due to the subjective nature of the traditional phytosociological classifications. Conclusions: Stratified resampling may increase the representativeness of phytosociological data sets, but different types of stratification may result in different classifications. No single resampling strategy is optimal or superior: the appropriate stratification method must be selected according to the objectives of specific studies. 
3237127|Epiphytic and epixylic lichens were surveyed on 15 1-ha plots in mature Picea abies-dominated boreal forests in southern Finland. The sample plots were classified into three groups according to the age of the dominant tree stand and recent signs of cutting: (1) early mature managed, 'EM' (95 109 yr), (2) late mature managed, 'LM' (126 - 145 yr) and (3) old-growth, 'OG' (129 - 198 yr). Two data sets on epiphytic and epixylic lichens were recorded from each plot: (1) species on basal trunks and branches of Picea abies and (2) species on all available woody substrates, including basal parts of all tree species, saplings, snags, logs and stumps. 142 epiphytic and epixylic lichen species were found, of which 83 (58 %) occurred on P. abies. Mean total numbers of species per sample plot were 69 in EM, 78 in LM and 88 in OG plots, species number on P. abies were 47, 56, and 54 respectively. The LM plots had lower species numbers than OG plots, mainly due to the lack of old Populus tremula trees, but they had higher species number than the EM plots mainly due to the higher age of Picea abies. Differences in species composition, both within and between the three groups, were small. The results suggest that the epiphytic and epixylic lichen diversity in a managed stand can be increased by prolonging the rotation of the stand to > 120 yr and by increasing the diversity of habitats in the stand.
41059622|Question: We investigated how cattle and European hares, the two most widespread exotic herbivores in Patagonia, affect species composition, life-form composition and community structure during the first 6 years of vegetation recovery following severe burning of fire-resistant subalpine forests and fire-prone tall shrublands. We asked how the effects of introduced herbivores on post-fire plant community attributes affect flammability of the vegetation. Location: Nahuel Huapi National Park, northwest Patagonia, Argentina Methods: We installed fenced plots to exclude livestock and European hares from severely burned subalpine forests of Nothofagus pumilio and adjacent tall shrublands of N. antarctica. The former is an obligate seed reproducer, whereas the latter and all other woody dominants of the shrubland vigorously resprout after burning. Results: Repeated measures ANOVA of annual measurements over the 2001-2006 period indicate that cattle and hare exclusion had significant but complex effects on the cover of graminoids, forbs, climber species and woody species in the two burned community types. Significant interactions between the effects of cattle and hares varied by plant life forms between the two communities, which implies that their synergistic effects are community dependent. Conclusions: Following severe fires, the combined effects of cattle and hares inhibit forest recovery and favour transition to shrublands dominated by resprouting woody species. This herbivore-induced trend in vegetation structure is consistent with the hypothesis that the effects of exotic herbivores at recently burned sites contribute to an increase in the overall flammability of the Patagonian landscape.
4096760|Questions: How do biological invasion patterns of Larix kaempferi seedlings change with different microhabitats along an elevational gradient on a volcano? How are seedling attributes such as establishment, competitive ability and morphological plasticity, advantageous to the invasion of stressful disturbed areas? Location: Mount Koma, Hokkaido, Japan. Methods: Seed sowing experiments and natural seedling censuses were conducted with L. kaempferi and the dominant native tree Betula ermanii. Seed germination, seedling survival and allocation were investigated on three microhabitats (bare ground, Salix reinii patch and Larix understorey) in three elevational zones for three years. Results: Seed germination was higher in Larix understorey than in bare ground and Salix patches, but did not differ between elevations. Survival rates were not different between elevations and microhabitats. Larix had a higher survival rate than Betula. Larix showed the highest natural seedling density in Salix patches, independent of elevational differences, while Betula density was nearly zero. Larix seedlings changed allocations between microhabitats, while the ratio of leaf to total biomass was constant. In bare ground Larix was more stunted and branched and increased its allocation to the roots. This form is adaptive to windy, nutrient-poor environments. Larix seedlings were taller and more slender in Salix patches, indicating that the priority was light acquisition in shaded habitats. Little change in Betula allocation was detected. Conclusion: Invasive species establish themselves more efficiently than native species in every microhabitat investigated, especially at higher elevations, by having higher survival and growth rates derived from superior seedling performance. Plant communities on and above the tree line are modified by the biological invasion.
3235716|The species composition of stands of submerged macrophytes was studied in relation to the main environmental factors in oligohaline wetlands of the Camargue, southern France. Correlations were sought between the environmental factors and the abundance of the different species using canonical analysis. 24 species of submerged macrophytes, including 10 species of Charophyta, were recorded in the 60 sites studied. The hydrological regime and the salinity appeared to be the main factors controlling the abundance of the different species. This is related to the management of the marshes in the Camargue, which is carried out using these two controlling factors, particularly the hydrological regime, and also includes the destruction of emergent vegetation, mechanically or by grazing. The bivariate ecological amplitude of the individual species was calculated from field data along the gradients of flooding duration and conductivity of the water. Myriophyllum spicatum, Potamogeton pectinatus and Ruppia cirrhosa dominate permanent marshes along the conductivity gradient. In temporary marshes, all having a low conductivity, Zannichellia pedunculata, Ranunculus baudotii, Chara aspera and Callitriche truncata dominate.
3237180|In a native grassland in Uruguay subjected to continuous grazing by cattle, four permanent plots of 40 x 40 cm were established. Plots were divided into 16 x 16 cells and the presence of species was recorded seasonally during two years. The spatial dynamic of the dominant species was defined through three parameters: persistence, short-distance spread and long-distance spread. The association between the spatial strategies and certain morphological attributes that were presumed to be important to the spatial behaviour of the species, was examined using Correspondence Analysis. Four types of spatial strategies were observed: (1) persisting over the year in the same cell without showing any type of mobility; (2) continuously growing due to the solid advancing front of ramets, persisting or not persisting (3) in the same cells; and (4) multi-strategy with high persistence and both high short- and long-distance spread. Among the selected attributes, the erect/prostrate habit, the capacity of vegetative propagation by means of bulbs, rhizomes or stolons, the ratio length/width of leaves and the season of active growth were the characteristics most closely associated with the spatial strategies.
3236500|The shrub Buxus sempervirens and the trees Abies alba and Fagus sylvatica have recently recolonized old-pastures in the Central Pyrenees. We mapped all live and dead individuals (> 1.3 m tall) in a large forest plot in Ordesa Valley to examine the importance of density-dependent processes during recolonization. Biotic interactions were inferred from changes in horizontal structure and the influences of neighbours on tree survival. Buxus differentially influenced establishment and survival of tree species, thereby controlling future canopy composition and spatial structure. The rapidly invading Abies formed denser patches on elevated sites less occupied by Buxus, whereas Fagus preferentially established within shrubs. Abies reached densities which led to intense intraspecific competition and high mortality rates among saplings. Self-thinning in Abies led to smaller numbers of regularly spaced survivors, and greater relative dominance of Fagus. Disregarding intraspecific effects and abiotic environment, Abies survival was significantly lower under Buxus shrubs, which suggests that the spatial location and abundance of Abies was constrained by the location of Buxus. Fagus survival was not related to Buxus density, but remained significantly lower in denser Abies patches. The higher mortality of Fagus in denser Abies patches, and the resulting spatial segregation of the species, reflects asymmetric interspecific competition. Inhibition from Buxus shrubs and intraspecific competition prevent invading Abies from dominating and may therefore help in maintaining a mixed Abies-Fagus stand.
3236327|The ericaceous shrub Rhododendron ferrugineum occupies large areas at the subalpine level (1600-2200 m) of the northwestern French Alps. It frequently reaches 90 - 100 % cover, accumulates 60-70t/ha (dry weight) above-ground biomass and is able to dominate many subalpine landscapes by outcompeting other species. We formulated the hypothesis that the species shows a rapid and invasive seedling establishment and a fast population development. We investigated the age structure and development of two populations. Although classic colonization stages can be identified, and variation did occur depending on the site, R. ferrugineum populations showed a surprisingly slow development compared with other ericaceous species. Curves obtained from polynomial regression equations of cover on age allowed us to predict the future development of populations. Thus, depending on the site, it would take 150 to 250 yr to achieve total cover. We discuss the factors involved that could explain this slow development and discuss which biotic and abiotic factors may be responsible for the large extension of this species in the subalpine belt.
3236201|The vegetation of anthropogenically disturbed sites on the Chukotka Peninsula was investigated in 1986 and 1990. 102 sites had been bulldozed free of vegetation and soil between 2 and 20 yr ago and revegetated. Anthropogenic vegetation differs considerably from natural tundra. The total plant cover decreases, lichens are absent, moss composition changes, and graminoids predominate. A floristic classification was developed in order to describe the diversity of anthropogenic communities formed on these sites. Four associations were distinguished, all belonging to the alliance Poion glaucomalacanthae. An additional alliance characterized by Alopecurus alpinus is suggested for colder sites, but it has not yet been described. There is a correspondence of associations to substrate types. The association Phippsietum algidae was found only on loam substrate. The Artemisietum glomeratae and Saxifragetum punctatae are connected with rubble or gravel. The graminoid association Arctagrostietum arundinaceae is generally widespread in disturbed habitats and occurs on a variety of substrate types.
3236571|We followed plant cover and soil seed density of shrubs and herbs in two markedly contrasting years with regard to annual rainfall in two opposite-facing slopes (mesic vs xeric) and an intervening, relatively wet, ravine of a typical creek in semi-arid Chile. During the ENSO year 1997 cover of ephemerals increased in all three sites; 43% vs 8% on the xeric slope 75% vs 26% on the mesic slope and 57% vs 32% in the ravine. The number of species was almost three times higher on the xeric slope (27 vs 10 species), increased by 47% on the mesic slope (28 vs 19) and by 14% in the ravine (24 vs 21). Cover of shrubs plus perennial grasses increased from 52% in 1996 to 59% in 1997 on the xeric slope, but no significant cover changes were found on the mesic slope or the ravine. On the xeric slope peak density of seeds was 4500/m<sup>2</sup> in 1996, while during the ENSO year it was 24000/m<sup>2</sup>. On the mesic slope equivalent values were 3000 and 17000 seeds/m<sup>2</sup> while in the ravine figures were 8500 and 27000 seeds/m<sup>2</sup>. The strong responses of ephemerals and seed bank to the ENSO-driven wet year of 1997 demonstrate the importance of this phenomenon in replenishing, recovering and probably maintaining ephemeral vegetation in this region.
23012501|Questions: What are the most likely environmental drivers for compositional herb layer changes as indicated by trait differences between winner and loser species? Location: Weser-Elbe region (NW Germany). Methods: We resurveyed the herb layer communities of ancient forest patches on base-rich sites of 175 semi-permanent plots. Species traits were tested for their ability to discriminate between winner and loser species using logistic regression analyses and deviance partitioning. Results: Of 115 species tested, 31 were identified as winner species and 30 as loser species. Winner species had higher seed longevity, flowered later in the season and more often had an oceanic distribution compared to loser species. Loser species tended to have a higher specific leaf area, were more susceptible to deer browsing and had a performance optimum at higher soil pH compared to winner species. The loser species also represented several ancient forest and threatened species. Deviance partitioning indicated that local drivers (i.e. disturbance due to forest management) were primarily responsible for the species shifts, while regional drivers (i.e. browsing pressure and acidification from atmospheric deposition) and global drivers (i.e. climate warming) had moderate effects. There was no evidence that canopy closure, drainage or eutrophication contributed to herb layer changes. Conclusions: The relative importance of the different drivers as indicated by the winner and loser species differs from that found in previous long-term studies. Relating species traits to species performance is a valuable tool that provides insight into the environmental drivers that are most likely responsible for herb layer changes.
41059630|Questions: What are the water economy strategies of the dominant subarctic bryophytes in terms of colony and shoot traits? Can colony water retention capacity be predicted from morphological traits of both colonies and separate shoots? Are suites of water retention traits consistently related to bryophyte habitat and phylogenetic position? Location: Abisko Research Station, North Sweden. Methods: We screened 22 abundant subarctic bryophyte species from diverse habitats for water economy traits of shoots and colonies, including desiccation rates, water content at field capacity, volume and density (rngcm -3 ) of water-saturated and oven-dried patches, evaporation rate (g.m -2 .s -1 ) and cell wall thickness. The relationships between these traits and shoot and colony desiccation rates were analysed with Spearman rank correlations. Subsequent multivariate (cluster followed by PCA) analyses were based on turf density, turf and shoot desiccation rate, cell wall thickness and amount of external and internal water. Results: Individual shoot properties, i.e. leaf cell wall properties, water retention capacity and desiccation rate, did not correspond with colony water retention capacity. Colony desiccation rate depended on density of water-saturated colonies, and was marginally significantly negatively correlated with species individual shoot desiccation rate but not related to any other shoot or colony trait. Multivariate analyses based on traits assumed to determine colony desiccation rate revealed six distinct species groups reflecting habitat choice and phylogenetic relationships. Conclusions: General relationships between shoot and colony traits as determinants of water economy will help to predict and upscale changes in hydrological function of bryophyte-dominated peatlands undergoing climateinduced shifts in species abundance, and feedbacks of such species shifts on permafrost insulation and carbon sequestration functions.
4096717| Because of their isolation and geographical position, and in contrast to the multi-species tree canopies of tropical rain forests on the continents, the Hawaiian Islands have only two native dominant canopy species in their rain forests. Acacia koa and Metrosideros polymorpha. The wetter forest ecosystems are dominated by only the latter. In 1905, a dieback of lowland tropical Metrosideros rain forest was observed over a 35 km stretch on the lower east slope of Haleakal Mountain on Maui Island. This was dubbed 'The Maui Forest Trouble.' Although the synchronous decline of so many trees was initially believed to be caused by an epidemic disease, a decade of research yielded no pathogen. The conclusion was that the Hawaiian flora consisted primarily of colonizer species that were unable to continue growing on aging soils. Although this made ecological sense at that time, it was a rather limited and thereby unfortunate conclusion. Further research has shown that the Maui Forest Trouble was a 'bog-formation dieback', a process of vegetation dynamics not only related to soil aging but more broadly to geomorphic aging and fundamental landscape change. This process is clearly a marginal-site syndrome, but a natural process of profound consequence for biological conservation. This will be further explained as a paradigm for vegetation ecology. 
4096676| Question: What was the change in diversity of urban synantropic vegetation in a medium-sized Central European city during the period of increasing urbanization (1960s-1990s)? Location: The city of Plze, an industrial centre of the western part of the Czech Republic. Methods: Sampling of various types of synanthropic vegetation, conducted in the 1960s, was repeated by using the same methods in the 1990s. This yielded 959 relevs, of which 623 were made in the 1960s and 336 in the 1990s. The relevs were assigned to the following phytosociological classes: Chenopodietea, Artemisietea vulgaris, Galio-Urticetea, Agropyretea repentis and Plantaginetea majoris. Total number of vascular plant species, evenness index J, number of alien species (classified into archaeophytes and neophytes), and mean Ellenberg indicator values for light, temperature, continentality, moisture, soil reaction, and nutrients were obtained for each relev. Results: From 1960s to 1990s, there was a significant decrease of species richness and diversity in synanthropic vegetation. The proportion of archaeophytes decreased in most vegetation types, indicating the contribution of this group of species, often confined to specific rural-like habitats, to the observed impoverishment of ruderal vegetation. The proportion of neophytes did not change between the two periods. Comparison between 1960s and 1990s indicated a decrease in light, temperature, moisture, soil reaction and nutrient indicator values in some vegetation types. In both periods, Artemisieta, Galio-Urticetea and Chenopodietea formed a distinct group harbouring more species than Agropyretea and Plantaginetea. Neophytes, i.e. recently introduced species, were most represented in the early successional annual vegetation of Chenopodietea, rather than in perennial vegetation of the other classes. Conclusions: Synanthropic vegetation of Plze exhibited a general trend of decrease in species diversity. 
3236263|Grazing by domestic livestock in native woodlands can have major effects on ecosystem functioning by the removal of plant species that form important functional groups. This paper documents the changes in floristics in a large group of remnants of native woodland left after agricultural clearing in southwestern Australia. Species richness and diversity were significantly reduced in remnants and the proportion of exotic species increased. Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) was used to identify floristic and environmental patterns among plots and identified two distinct groups based on grazing intensity. This indicated that the significance of the relationship between grazing effects and DCA floristic axes was greater than edaphic characteristics that normally influence floristic patterns. Floristic characteristics of sites that were influencing the position of plots on the ordination diagram included proportion of exotic species and proportion of native perennial shrubs and herbs. Numbers of species of native shrubs and perennial herbs were significantly reduced in grazed plots and numbers of exotic annual grasses and herbs were significantly higher. Other life form groups such as native perennial grasses and geophytes were not significantly affected by grazing. Reproductive strategies of perennial species showed a significant decrease in numbers of resprouters and a significant increase in numbers of facultative seeder/ sprouters. Exclosure plots showed increases in number and cover of perennial shrubs and herbs after three years whereas number and cover of exotic species did not change. Time series DCA showed that the floristic composition of exclosure plots in grazed sites became closer to that of the ungrazed sites.
3237022|In the cool temperate zone in Japan Fagus crenata (beech) is a highly dominating climax species, especially in the snow-rich regions at higher altitudes. The explanation for this dominance was studied with special reference to the tolerance of tree trunks to snow pressure. Traits of six tree species: trunk bend, trunk height decrease, trunk damage and basal sprouting rate were measured in Fagus forest in the Echigo Mountains, central Japan along a snow pressure gradient. The following general trends were recognized: (1) trunk bend and trunk height decrease; (2) snow pressure caused trunk injury: (3) when the trunk bend exceeded a critical angle, the number of sprouts increased remarkably. Although the tolerances were different among the six species, most of them were seriously damaged by snow pressure, and many trunks were reduced in size. On the other hand, many sprouts emerged from deformed trunks and contributed to the maintenance of the population under heavy snow pressure. F. crenata was the only species whose trunk form and maximum size were hardly influenced by snow pressure.
3235596|Rates and directions of change over a 20-yr interval in five long-unburned (> 60 yr) plant communities were studied using multivariate analyses and compositional vectors. The study sites were located in fire and summer-drought adapted, xerophytic vegetation with many endemics on acidic, nutrient-poor, sandy soils in south-central peninsular Florida. Sizes of individual stems from 72 sets of nested permanent quadrats were measured in 1969, 1979, and 1989. Patterns of vegetation change differed by community. Flatwood and bayhead quadrats showed rapid increases in densities and basal areas of Persea borbonia (red bay). In the southern ridge sandhill community, evergreen clonal Quercus species (oaks) and Pinus clausa (sand pine) increased in dominance and grasses declined. Oaks (especially Q. geminata) also increased in importance in scrubby flatwoods. Sand pine scrub was relatively stable in composition, but experienced marked structural changes due to substantial sand pine mortality (18 % during 1969-1979, 39 % during 1979-1989). Compositional changes in the absence of fire were greatest whereas structural changes were least in southern ridge sandhill and scrubby flatwoods, both communities which normally receive frequent, recurrent fire. Compositional changes were lowest in sand pine scrub, which is normally infrequently burned. Classic successional patterns such as species replacement, decreases in density, and increases in basal area were generally lacking. Tree densities increased in two of four community types (southern ridge sandhill, scrubby flatwoods); while basal area declined in the flatwoods/bayhead and sand pine scrub sites. Directions of compositional vectors included divergent, opposing, and complex patterns, suggesting vegetation change in the absence of fire has a strong stochastic component.
40295838|Question: How can vegetation gradients be described in riparian zones located in a species-rich mountain range and how do these gradients explain the variation found in the vegetation? Location: Hottentots Holland Mountains, Western Cape, South Africa. Methods: Three gradients (geographic, longitudinal, lateral) were defined to describe the complex vegetation patterns found here. The gradients are related as follows: (1) the geographic gradient: related to the climatic and topographical changes across the entire mountain range; (2) the longitudinal gradient related to the changes along the different river reaches; (3) the lateral gradient related to the processes along the profile of the riverbed. These three gradients operated on three different hierarchical levels. Partial Canonical Correspondence Analysis (pCC A) was used to determine the amount of variation that is explained on each of the hierarchical levels. Results: The geographical gradient explained the highest fraction (more than 50%) of the total variation explained. This can be ascribed to the high species turnover across landscapes in the Fynbos Biome; this is most likely an outcome that is specific for this region. The second most important gradient was the lateral gradient, which reflects stream power and inundation frequencies of the river. This gradient is represented by ca. 48% of the explained variation and this gradient explains the major disturbances occurring in a riverine ecosystem. The longitudinal gradient was the least important of the gradients and shows overlap with the geographical gradient. Conclusions: In the species-rich environment of the Fynbos Biome geographical factors do not only account for variation in zonal vegetation but also for variation within azonal vegetation, like riparian corridors.
3236701|Plant population biology considers the dynamics of plant modules within stands. However, stands themselves may have considerable regional turnover in space and time. These changes in the number, distribution and size of plant stands generate a dynamic spatial pattern with important implications for the spatial and temporal dynamics of phytophagous insects using these plants as a host. During five successive years we studied the regional distribution and patch dynamics of the creeping thistle Cirsium arvense and the distribution of associated populations of the herbivore Urophora cardui (Diptera: Tephritidae), a specialist stem gall former. The study conducted was in a 15 km<sup>2</sup> heterogeneous, agricultural area in northeastern Bavaria. The distribution of the number of plants per patch was skewed with many more small C. arvense patches than large ones. During the five years of study, there was a 50% increase in the number of C. arvense patches, and a decrease in the mean number of plants per patch (= patch size) to less than half the patch size of the first year. Whilst patch size was randomly distributed in space, patch density showed a consistent, non-random spatial pattern. Patch density was spatially auto-correlated, with areas of high or low patch density having a characteristic dimension of ca. 1 km. Patch size was predictable in time and appeared to be regulated by size dependent processes, with the extinction probability of a patch being negatively correlated with its size. Correlated with the decline of C. arvense patch size during the study, the occupancy and total numbers of the herbivore U. cardui had a marked decrease, suggesting that the regional distribution of the stem gall former is not only influenced by patch number but more importantly by the mean patch size. With decreasing patch sizes, U. cardui was faced with an increasingly dynamic landscape due to higher extinction rates of small patches, although the mean distance between host plant patches decreased.
40925467|Questions: Do the number, duration and magnitude of growth releases following formation of natural, finescale canopy gaps differ among shade-tolerant Thuja plicata, Tsuga heterophylla and Abies amabilis? What is the relative importance of tree-level and gap-level variables in predicting the magnitude and duration of releases? What does this tell us about mechanisms of tree species coexistence in such old-growth forests? Location: Coastal British Columbia, Canada. Methods: We estimated the timing of formation of 20 gaps using dendroecological techniques and extracted increment cores from all three species growing around or within gaps. Using a species-and ecosystem-specific release-detection method, we determined the number of trees experiencing a release following gap formation. We quantified the duration and magnitude of individual releases and estimated the influence of tree-level and gap-level variables on these release attributes. Results: Eighty-seven per cent (304 of 348) of all trees experienced a release following gap formation. T. heterophylla and A. amabilis experienced higher magnitude and longer duration releases than T. plicata. The effect of diameter on the duration of releases varied among species, with T. heterophylla and A. amabilis experiencing decreasing, and T. plicata experiencing increasing, duration of releases with increasing diameter. The effect of growth rate prior to a release on the magnitude of releases varied among trees of different diameters, with the slowest growing and smallest individuals of all species experiencing the most intensive releases. Conclusions: Our results provide detailed information on the number, duration and magnitude of growth releases of the above three species following gap formation. Differences in response to canopy gaps suggest differences in how these species ascend to the canopy strata. T. plicata may be less dependent on gaps to reach the canopy. Differing strategies for ascending to the canopy strata may be important in facilitating coexistence of these three species in old-growth forests of coastal British Columbia.
3236128|The vegetation ecology of a paramo cushion mire was studied along four transects. Six local vegetation types were distinguished. Two types are called cushion bogs; one is dominated by Oreobolus cleefii and the other by Plantago rigida. Types 3 and 4 are mire vegetation dominated by bryophytes; one is characterised by Sphagnum sparsum, Breutelia sp. and Campylopus cucullatifolius, the other one is dominated by Lophozia subinflata with Cortaderia sericantha. Vegetation type 5 is dominated by submerged Sphagnum cyclophyllum; type 6 refers to aquatic vegetation with only Equisetum bogotense and algae. The relation between the first four vegetation types and edaphical and hydrological gradients is analysed by means of Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA). From the results of CCA it can be concluded that the occurrence of the Oreobolus cleefii type is restricted to areas with a thinner peat layer, a wider distance surface-anaerobic zone and water table-anaerobic zone, a higher NO<sub>2</sub> concentration and a lower pH. The occurrence of the Plantago rigida type is restricted to a situation with a lower electrical conductivity of the ground water, a lower NO<sub>3</sub> and PO<sub>4</sub> concentration, and a higher Fe concentration. The occurrence of the Sphagnum type is restricted to places with a higher conductivity of the ground water, a higher NO<sub>3</sub> and PO<sub>4</sub> concentration, and a lower Fe concentration. The occurrence of the Lophozia subinflata with Cortaderia sericantha type is restricted to a situation with a lower K and Al concentration.
3235642|This paper describes an analysis of the floristic composition and ecological relationships of the Jibat forest, a large remnant humid forest in western Shewa, Ethiopia. The description was based on cover-abundance data for both woody and understorey species. The environmental analysis included altitude, slope, aspect, and physical and chemical soil properties. The application of classification and ordination methods resulted in the recognition of eight community types, which could be arranged along an altitudinal gradient. Organic matter, cation exchange capacity, phosphorus, and silt are positively correlated, while clay, electrical conductance and magnesium are negatively correlated with altitude. A clearer result was obtained when Canonical Correspondence Analysis was applied only to the woody species composition.
3236222|The relationship between present climate and the distribution in Europe of the aggressively invasive exotic Fallopia japonica is described by fitting a response surface based on three bioclimatic variables: mean temperature of the coldest month, the annual temperature sum > 5 C, and the ratio of actual to potential evapotranspiration. The close fit between the observed and simulated distributions suggests that the species' European distribution is climatically determined. The response surface also provides a simulation of the extent of the area of native distribution of F. japonica in Southeast Asia that is generally accurate, confirming the robustness of the static correlative model upon which it is based. Simulations of the potential distribution of F. japonica under two alternative 2 x CO<sub>2</sub> climate change scenarios indicate the likelihood of considerable spread into higher latitudes and possible eventual exclusion of the species from central Europe. However, despite the robustness of the response surface with present-day climate, the reliability of these simulations as forecasts is likely to be limited because no account is taken of the direct effects of CO<sub>2</sub> and their interaction with the species' physiological responses to climate. Similarly, no account is taken of the potential impact of interactions with 'new' species as ecosystems change in composition in response to climate change. Nevertheless, the simulations indicate both the possible magnitude of the impacts of forecast climate changes and the regions that may be susceptible to invasion by F. japonica.
4096634| Questions: Do the population dynamics of trees differ among topographic positions and, if so, how does topographic position affect the population dynamics of species that are distributed in a topography-specific manner? Which is the most important life stage in determining vegetation patterns? Location: Primary and secondary warm temperate evergreen broad-leaved forest (40 - 280 m a.s.l.) on the western part of Yakushima Island, Japan. Methods: Mortality, recruitment, DBH growth and distribution of stems ( 5 cm DBH) in a 2.62-ha plot were surveyed in 1992 and 2002 to determine the relationships between population parameters and (1) topography and (2) distribution patterns of 17 common tree species. Results: Common species (n = 17) were classified into three distribution pattern groups: group A, distributed mainly on convex slopes; group B, on concave slopes, and group C, not aggregated with respect to topographic position. Stem mortality, recruitment and DBH growth were greater in group A than in group B within each topographic class. The hierarchy of stem mortality among topographic classes for groups A and B was convex > planar > concave. Stem recruitment density was relatively high on the convex and concave slopes, respectively, for groups A and B. Conclusions: The topographical positions of adult trees were not always most suited for adult survival and growth. For group A, the distribution pattern of adults was determined in the juvenile stage, while this was not the case for group B. Studies of juvenile stages are important for understanding the demographic basis of vegetation distribution patterns. 
40925477|Question: The role edges play in mediating the effects of disturbance is unclear. Bayhead tree islands, which experience above- and belowground fire, contain trees that recover from disturbance by seed (Pinus elliottii var. densa) and by sprouting (Gordonia lasianthus). How does distance-to-edge affect survival and post-fire response of trees with these contrasting life-history strategies? Location: Two bayhead tree islands at Archbold Biological Station, central Florida, North America. Methods: Stem diameter, depth of peat smoldering, char height, resprouting status, and location were recorded for all Pinus and Gordonia stems  8 cm. Distance to the edge of the tree island was quantified using GIS. Results: The focal species showed contrasting patterns of survival across the edge-to-interior gradient that reflected gradients of fire severity. Survival of Gordonia was lowest in the bayhead interior where peat smolder was deepest. Conversely, survival of Pinus was lowest near the edges where char heights were greatest. The distinct types of Gordonia resprouting (crown versus basal) also showed spatially contrasting patterns. Basal resprouting dominated near the edges and was positively influenced by char height, while crown resprouting was nearly constant across the edge-to-interior gradient and was negatively influenced by char height. Conclusions: The spatial patterns of tree survival and resprouting observed are likely due to gradients in intensity of peat smoldering and aboveground burning, coupled with differential susceptibility to these two types of fire. Despite the rarity of fire in wetland tree islands (compared to uplands) it may play an important role in structuring the spatial distribution of trees.
4096621| Questions: Are artificial neural networks useful for the automatic assignment of species composition records from vegetation plots to a priori established classes (vegetation units)? Is the assignment more accurate (1) if the classes are defined by numerical classification rather than by expert-based classification; (2) if the training data set is selected to include plots that are richer in diagnostic species of particular classes? Material: Species composition records (relevs) from 4186 plots of Czech grasslands. Methods: Plots were classified into 11 phytosociological alliances (expert classification) and into 11 clusters derived from numerical cluster analysis. Some plots were used for training the classifiers, which were the multi-layer perceptrons (MLP; a type of artificial neural network). Other plots were used for testing the performance of these classifiers. Plots used for training were selected (1) randomly; (2) according to higher representation of diagnostic species of particular classes. Results: Different MLP classifiers correctly classified 77-83% of plots to the classes of the expert classification and 70-78% to the classes of the numerical classification. The better result in the former case was mainly due to two classes in the expert classification, which were well recognized by the classifiers and at the same time contained a large proportion of the plots of the entire data set. Correct classification of the plots belonging to these large classes resulted in a good overall performance of the classifiers. After training with randomly chosen plots, the classifiers produced better results than after training with plots that contained more diagnostic species. This indicates that the biased selection of the training plots disables the classifiers to recognize the entire variation within the classes and results in errors when new plots are to be classified. Conclusions: MLP is suitable for assigning vegetation plots to already established classes. Unlike some other methods of supervised classification, it performs well even in communities that are poor in diagnostic species. However, the method does not provide clear assignment keys that could be used for class identification in field surveys. It is therefore more appropriate in applications that aim at a reliable class assignment rather than understanding the assignment rules. 
25549249|Question: How do trees die in high-mortality and low-mortality Amazonian forest regions? Why do trees die in different ways? Location: Humid, lowland forests in Amazonian Peru and Venezuela. Methods: Patterns of multiple treefall and mode of death (standing, broken or uprooted) were recorded for trees  10 cm in diameter in permanent plots. Logistic regression was used to relate mode of death to tree diameter, relative growth rate and wood density. Results: Frequency of multiple death events was higher in high-mortality northwestern (NW) than in low-mortality northeastern (NE) Amazonia, but these events were small, averaging two trees killed per multiple death event. Breakage was the dominant known mode of death (51  8%) in the NW, with half of fatal breakages caused by other treefalls or breakages. Small and slow-growing trees were more prone to breaking than uprooting. In NE Amazonia, the dominant known mode of death was standing (48  10%); these trees tended to be relatively large and slow growing. Broken trees in NE forests have a lower wood density than uprooted trees. Conclusions: The major mortality mechanisms differ in the two regions. In the NW it involves an interaction between physiological failure and mechanical failure (small size, slow growth and broken mode). In the NE it is mainly driven by physiological failure (large size, slow growth and standing mode). We propose that by creating different-sized gaps the different dominant modes of death would favour species from different functional groups and so help to maintain the contrasting functional composition and mortality rates of the two regions.
3237314|A method is described to determine the number of significant dimensions in metric ordination of a sample. The method is probabilistic, based on bootstrap resampling. An iterative algorithm takes bootstrap samples with replacement from the sample. It finds in each bootstrap sample ordination coordinates and computes, after Procrustean adjustments, the correlation between observed and bootstrap ordination scores. It compares this correlation to the same parameter generated in a parallel bootstrapped ordination of randomly permuted data, which upon many iterations will generate a probability. The method is assessed in principal coordinates analysis of simulated data sets that have varying number of variables and correlation levels, uniform or patterned correlation structure. The results suggest the method is more reliable than other available methods in recovering the true intrinsic dimensionality. Examples with grassland data illustrate utility.
40295807|Question: How does typhoon-related disturbance (more specifically, disturbance in the understorey due to tree-fall and branch-fall) affect different species mortality rates in a vertically well-structured forest community? Location: Cool-temperate, old-growth forest in the Daisen Forest Reserve, Japan. Methods: We investigated the canopy dynamics and mortality rate trends of trees > 5 cm diameter at breast height in a 4-ha study plot, and analysed the effects of tree diameter and spatial structure on the mortality risks for major tree species in the understorey. Results: Significant differences were found in the mortality rates and proportions of injured dead stems between census periods, which were more pronounced in the understorey than in the canopy. Acer micranthum, which showed increased mortality during typhoon disturbance periods, had a clumped distribution. In contrast, Acer japonicum and Viburnum furcatum, which showed similar mortality rates between census periods, had a loosely clumped spatial distribution and a negative association with canopy trees, respectively. In the understorey stems of Acanthopanax sciadophylloides and Fagus crenata, whose spatial distribution patterns depended on canopy gaps, significant increases in mortality rates were observed only during severe typhoon-related disturbance periods. Conclusions: The sensitivity of trees to typhoon-related canopy disturbance is more pronounced in the lower layers of vertically structured forest communities. Differences in mortality patterns generated through the combined effects of spatial variation in disturbance regime and species-specific spatial distribution patterns (spatial aggregation, association with canopy trees, and canopy gap dependency) contribute to the co-existence of understorey species in forest communities that are subject to typhoon-related disturbance.
4096798|Questions: 1. What are the spatial patterns of all trees, individual tree species, trees within particular height classes, all gaps and gaps with specific properties across the study site in broad-leaved deciduous forest at a range of scales? 2. Are patterns of the above features spatially associated? 3. Are these patterns indicative of gap creation mechanisms and phases of regeneration? Location: Frame Wood, New Forest, UK. Methods: Ripley's K-function analysis was applied to spatial information derived from airborne remotely sensed imagery to characterize the patterns of trees and gaps and to test for spatial interactions between these patterns. The patterns of trees and gaps with specific physical and spatial properties were analysed. Results: The pattern of all tree species combined was random for most scales; Quercus robur followed the same random pattern, while Fagus sylvatica and Betula pendula were clustered over most spatial scales. Large gaps
3236720|The Mediterranean Basin harbours paleo-endemic species with a highly restricted and fragmented distribution. Many of them might also be of the remnant type, for which the regional dynamics depends on the persistence of extant populations. Therefore, a key issue for the long-term persistence of these species is to assess the variability and effects of ecological factors determining plant performance. We investigated the spatio-temporal variability in plant traits and ecological factors of Ramonda myconi, a preglacial relict species with remnant dynamics, in 5 populations over 4-7 yr. Ecological factors contributing to fecundity showed a high degree of between-year variability. Pre-dispersal fruit predation had a minor influence on total reproductive output, and most of the variability was found among individuals within populations and years. Spatio-temporal variability in growth and survival was rather low but significant, whereas recruitment showed important between-population variability. Among-year variability in fecundity and growth was related to climatic fluctuations on a regional scale, notably rainfall and temperature in a particular period, while the spatial variability in survival and recruitment was explained by within-population (patch) habitat quality. Although R. myconi is able to withstand repeated periods of drought, water availability seems to be the most important factor affecting plant performance in all the study populations. These findings suggest that the long-term persistence of species showing remnant population dynamics in habitats under the influence of Mediterranean climate might be threatened by increased aridity as a result of climate change.
3236314|This paper presents a survey of vegetation studies on permanent plots, with an emphasis on the long-term character of these studies. It makes remarks on the external and internal causes of succession, pays attention to the pathways of succession, links up permanent plots studies and chronosequences, discusses internal causes and mechanisms of succession, and finally mentions the significance of long-term vegetation dynamics for nature conservation.
41059551|Questions: Has fire suppression relaxed barriers to the exchange of species between savanna and forest? Do all species or a subset of species participate in this exchange? Would current vegetation structure persist if fire suppression were to cease? Location: A gallery forest edge in the Cerrado region of central Brazil that burned only once in the past 35 years. Methods: Density of tree seedlings, saplings and adults, leaf area index (LAI), tree basal area and diameter were surveyed in 12, 10 m  70 m transects centred on and perpendicular to the forest-savanna boundary. Community composition was assessed using non-metric multi-dimensional scaling (NMDS). Results: Basal area and LAI declined substantially from forest to savanna, with an associated shift in species composition. Savanna tree species were nearly absent in the forest, but accounted for the majority of stems in the savanna. In contrast, forest species comprised 14% of adults and more than one-third of juveniles in the savanna. Despite the high diversity of trees (85 species) in the forest, five species play a particularly large role in this initial phase of forest expansion. Reintroduction of fire, however, would result in widespread topkill of juveniles and the majority of adult forest trees, thereby interrupting the succession towards forest. Conclusions: After 35 years during which the site burned only once, the savanna still remains dominated by savanna species. Nevertheless, the dominance of forest juveniles in border and savanna tree communities suggests that with a continued policy of fire suppression, the forest will continue to expand.
3236433|Patterns of understory colonization by native and naturalized trees and shrubs were evaluated in 4.5-year-old plantations of three exotic tree species, Casuarina equisetifolia, Eucalyptus robusta, and Leucaena leucocephala, on a degraded coastal grassland site with reference to overstory composition and understory environmental conditions. 19 secondary forest species were established in the plantation understories (with a total area of 0.52 ha ), while no natural regeneration occurred in unplanted, though protected, control areas. The majority of these species (90 %) and the total seedling population (97 %) were zoochorous, indicating the importance of frugivorous bats and particularly birds as facilitators of secondary forest species colonization. Understory species richness and seedling densities were affected significantly by overstory composition, the most abundant regeneration occurring beneath Leucaena and least under Casuarina. Understory colonization rates within mixed-species stands were intermediate between those of single-species stands of the trees comprising their overstories. Significant negative correlations were found between understory species richness and seedling density, and forest floor depth and dry mass, especially for small-seeded ornithochorous species. Higher colonization rates near the peripheries of plantation plots relative to plot interiors were due in part to roosting site preferences by frugivores, particularly bats. The study results indicate that overstory species selection can exert a significant influence on subsequent patterns of colonization by secondary forest species and is an important consideration in the design of plantations for 'catalyzing' succession on deforested, degraded sites.
40295797|Question: How is the diversity of woody species in a seasonally dry savanna related to plant available water (PAW)? Location: Savannas in central Brazil. Methods: Two-dimensional soil resistivity profiles to 10-m depth previously measured along three 10m275 m replicate transects revealed differences in belowground water resources among and within transects: (1) driest/most heterogeneous; (2) wettest/least heterogeneous; and (3) PAW-intermediate. All woody plants along these transects were identified to species, and height and basal circumference measured. Species diversity was evaluated for the whole transect (total diversity), 100-m plots (alpha-diversity) and dissimilarity among 100-m plots within transects (beta-diversity). Correlation analyses were conducted between PAW and vegetation variables at the 100-m scale. Results: The driest/most heterogeneous transect had the lowest total species diversity, while the wettest/least heterogeneous transect showed the lowest beta-diversity. Floristic variation was correlated with PAW in all transects. In the most heterogeneous transect, species density was positively correlated with PAW in the 0-400 cm soil layer. Evenness and Simpson's diversity were negatively correlated with PAW in the 700-1000 cm soil layer. Conclusion: Woody species diversity was related to PAW at a fine spatial scale. Abundant PAW in the top 4 m of soil may favour many species and increase species total diversity. Conversely, abundant PAW at depth may result in lower evenness and total diversity, probably because the few species adapted to obtaining deep soil water can become dominant. Environmental changes altering soil water availability and partitioning in soil layers could affect the diversity of woody plants in this savanna.
3236561|Four sites were sampled to determine spatial autocorrelation in vegetation at the community level. All were in western New Zealand, but on different substrates and of different physiognomy: a terrace forest, a floodplain forest, a mire and the middle of a logging road. In 'dissimograms' the four communities all showed steady increases in dissimilarity with distance, but with shoulders in the curve for some sites, which could be related to plant morphology. Most of the increase in dissimilarity occurred over very short distances: less than 0.5 m in the forests, less than 1 m in the mire and less than 2 m in the road. Separate analyses of the woody and herbaceous guilds in the floodplain forest showed that herbaceous dissimilaritics remained low at distances up to 20m, probably because of clonal structure in some species. The mire showed low overall dissimilarity, which is attributed to the uniform substrate and the small species pool. Simulations showed that the approach is capable of indicating structure when it is present. Although the dissimogram was clearest when analysing a simulated grid of patches, other types of simulated patchiness showed dissimograms that were clearly distinguishable from those obtained from the vegetation studied. The almost continuous rise in dissimilarity with distance found in the four sites offers no support to the Hierarchy theory, fitting much more closely the alternative Continuum theory.
25173236|Questions: How do gap aspect, openness, age and gap density in the surroundings affect diversity and composition of lianas within treefall gaps? Are the variation patterns in liana communities within treefall gaps associated with their climbing mechanisms? Location: Subtropical montane forests in northwestern Argentina. Methods: We used ordination analyses (NMDS) and multiple regressions to describe liana communities (species and climbing groups, stems  1 cm) in 35 gaps located in a 6-ha plot and to assess relationships with aspect, canopy and subcanopy openness, age and density of recent (three to eight years old) and old (&gt; 8 years old) gaps. Results: Treefall gaps segregated in the ordination diagrams based on their liana species and climbing mechanisms composition: gaps surrounded by a higher density of recent gaps showed higher densities of lianas species using tendrils, spines / hooks and voluble stems. Liana density and richness (independent of stem density) were also positively associated with the density of recent gaps in the surroundings, and negatively associated to gap age. The number of liana species corrected per area was negatively associated to gap aspect and subcanopy openness, and absolute number of liana species was positively associated to gap canopy openness. Conclusions: This study integrates the analysis of different factors influencing liana communities within treefall gaps, and shows that spatial context of gap density (a variable largely neglected in previous studies) is particularly important on lianas composition and diversity, probably by increasing propagule input and the availability of small trellises for support.
3236351|Data on floristic composition and environmental variables were collected in floristically homogeneous oligotrophic pine (Pinus sylvestris) forests with heath-like under-storey vegetation in eastern Fennoscandia, and ordinated by non-linear multidimensional scaling (NMDS) in order to study the effect of lichen grazing by reindeer on the understorey vegetation. The study sites included areas with varying grazing pressure, as well as 50-yr old grazing exclosures. Sites rich in respectively bryophytes and lichens were placed at opposite ends of the ordination axes, and heavily grazed sites were placed in between them. Reindeer grazing increased the abundance of bryophytes, especially Dicranum spp. and Pleurozium schreberi. Grazing changed the vegetation to the extent that it resembled more mesotrophic sites, but this did not show any relationship with tree volume or other site productivity indicators. This was observed both in the ordination and, in a more compelling way, when exclosures with adjacent grazed areas were compared. No such signs were evident at ungrazed sites, where especially Cladina spp. spatially replace Cladonia spp. and tiny bryophytes like Barbilophozia spp., Polytrichum spp. and Pohlia mutans during succession. Cladina stellaris had almost disappeared from the most intensively grazed sites. The soil at ungrazed sites was characterized by high Al and Fe concentrations and bryophyte-rich sites by high Mn concentrations. Shannon's diversity index, depth of humus layer and proportion of bare ground also increased in sites getting richer in bryophytes.
40925464|Question: Although the restinga vegetation lies adjacent to the species-rich Atlantic Rainforest, fewer species thrive due to low available resources of the sandy substrate. We asked whether there is a specific set of functional traits related to the ability to attain high dominance in a restinga dominated by a CAM photosynthesis tree. Location: Restinga of Jurubatiba National Park, north of the state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Methods: We chose traits that are commonly used in large screenings, leaf mass per area (LMA), leaf longevity (LL) and leaf nitrogen concentration (LNC). We also measured the functional traits, midday leaf water potential ( min ), pressure-volume curves, nitrogen isotope discrimination (N) and chlorophyll fluorescence. We compared species using ANOVA and ordination analysis. Results: The two most dominant species differed from subordinate species in terms of leaf succulence (SUC) and  min . However, they were also significantly different from each other in LMA, SUC, leaf thickness and LNC.  min and N had the strongest loadings on the third ordination axis, which, despite explaining only 18.2% of total variance, was the only axis reflecting variation in species dominance. Conclusions: Despite high interspecific variation, the most common traits of the leaf economic spectrum were not directly associated with variation in species dominance. In contrast, the bulk modulus of elasticity,  min and N were important not only to track the connection between plant traits and environmental factors, but also between plant traits and community structure.
40925540|Question: How do two shrubs with contrasting lifehistory characteristics influence abundance of dominant plant taxa, species richness and aboveground biomass of grasses and forbs, litter accumulation, nitrogen pools and mineralization rates? How are these shrubs -and thus their effects on populations, communities and ecosystems -distributed spatially across the landscape? Location: Coastal hind-dune system, Bodega Head, northern California. Methods: In each of 4 years, we compared vegetation, leaf litter and soil nitrogen under canopies of two native shrubs -Ericameria ericoides and the nitrogen-fixing Lupinus chamissonis -with those in adjacent open dunes. Results: At the population level, density and cover of the native forb Claytonia perfoliata and the exotic grass Bromus diandrus were higher under shrubs than in shrub-free areas, whereas they were lower under shrubs for the exotic grass Vulpia bromoides.In contrast, cover of three native moss species was highest under Ericameria and equally low under Lupinus and shrub-free areas. At community level, species richness and aboveground biomass of herbaceous dicots was lower beneath shrubs, whereas no pattern emerged for grasses. At ecosystem level, areas beneath shrubs accumulated more leaf litter and had larger pools of soil ammonium and nitrate.Rates of nitrate mineralization were higher under Lupinus, followed by Ericameria and then open dune. At landscapelevel, the two shrubs -and their distinctive vegetation and soils -frequently had uniform spatial distributions, and the distance separating neighbouring shrubs increased as their combined sizes increased. Conclusions: Collectively, these data suggest that both shrubs serve as ecosystem engineers in this coastal dune, having influences at multiple levels of biological organization. Our data also suggest that intraspecific competition influenced the spatial distributions of these shrubs and thus altered the distribution of their effects throughout the landscape.
3236053|The observed distribution of a species along an environmental gradient is strongly affected by environmental variability within a quadrat. Because a quadrat does not represent a point along an environmental gradient, but rather a range of conditions, it is likely to contain species not typically associated with the mean conditions in the quadrat. Systematic relationships exist between a species' true distribution, the observed distribution as a function of mean quadrat environment, and the frequency distribution of the environment within that quadrat. The observed species habitat breadth increases and the observed maximum abundance decreases as within-quadrat environmental heterogeneity increases. If species distributions or beta diversities are to be compared among species or coenoclines, they should be corrected for intra-quadrat heterogeneity. We derive simple corrections for environmental heterogeneity. The distributions of hardwood forest understory species along a soil acidity gradient in the North Carolina piedmont are presented as an example.
3236576|A vegetation survey of semi-permanent plots was performed in 1977-1980 and in 1997-1998 to study the floristic changes in a mixed deciduous forest situated in a region of intensive livestock breeding. Our aim was to test the hypothesis of allogenic succession in the forest ground vegetation caused by the emissions of the surrounding agricultural activities. During the last 20 years, a significant increase of nitrogen indicators and a decline of moisture indicators were observed. Results were consistent at the community, the plot and the species level. Nitrogen deposition and the lowering of the groundwater table are suggested as the driving forces behind the changes. The results are discussed in the context of current ecological theory concerning resource competition and community diversity.
3236437|The sequences of macrofossils in 17 cores from two Tasmanian valley Sphagnum peatlands reveal a wide variety of successional pathways. The most common sequence is from restiad mires to Sphagnum mires to heath. While it is impossible to conclusively separate allogenic and autogenic influences, it seems likely that the rapid rate of change recorded in the upper levels of the cores may, in part, reflect recent climatic change. Most other changes recorded in the core are likely to be predominantly autogenic.
3237078|The study of vegetation response to environmental change on a global scale cannot rely on species because most plant species have geographically limited distributions. To allow ecological predictions beyond the scale of the floristic region, models have to rely on vegetation descriptions using plant types other than the species. The crucial problem is how to define the types. Since types are described by traits, the problem translates into one of optimal trait selection. The best plant traits are those that when used to define plant types optimize the perception of association between vegetation and environmental (e.g., climate, disturbance) variation. I consider trait selection as a two-step procedure. The first step is the selection of a larger trait set based on past experience and known practicality, which is used for community description. The second step, for which the paper describes new methods, is accomplished on the data analytically by suitable computer algorithms that can find the optimal subset among the preselected traits. This subset defines optimal plant functional types (PFTs). The methods involve a fuzzy set approach and community description by plant types. The optimization algorithms described are tested with data from plant communities in South and North America. The utility of the approach in the evaluation of convergence of phylogenetically distant plant communities is discussed.
3235779|The chemical composition of the groundwater and the distribution of phreatophytic vegetation in a relatively homogeneous aquifer in the Douro basin appear to depend primarily on groundwater flow patterns within the aquifer. The concentration of major ions in the water is correlated with flow path length, which indicates that the chemical composition of the groundwater changes with the ageing of the water. The distribution of phreatophytic plant species is closely related to both the chemical composition of groundwater discharging in seepage areas, and length of the groundwater flow path. Factors such as heterogeneity in lithology, human influences and local climate are of secondary importance.
3236798|Zonation of above-ground vegetation often occurs in salt marshes along salinity and moisture gradients. The above-ground vegetation and seed bank in four physiognomically different vegetation zones in a salt marsh were compared to determine their level of similarity using percent similarity as a distance measure. 10-m transects were established along a salinity gradient through four different vegetation zones; a Salicornia zone, a Salicornia-Atriplex zone, an Atriplex zone and an Atriplex-Hordeum zone. A UPGMA cluster analysis demonstrated that the above-ground vegetation was not usually highly correlated with the seed bank composition of zonal communities. Since seeds of these annual salt marsh species occurred in all zones, the levels of salt stress may be the main factor determining which species were found in the above-ground vegetation.
3236398|We examined spatial distributions and plant sizes along a transect through a natural population of a winter annual, Myosotis micrantha. A size hierarchy existed, as indicated by high values of Gini coefficients of inequality for plant mass and correlated measures. Plants with no immediate conspecific neighbors were larger than plants with one or more near neighbors, suggesting that competition from near neighbors depressed plant size. However, there was strong positive spatial autocorrelation in plant size: large plants were associated with large neighbors and small ones with small neighbors. Plant size was also positively correlated with the combined biomass of near neighbors. The population formed a two-phase mosaic of patches of relatively large plants alternating with patches of smaller plants. The data suggest that individual plants compete with conspecifics, but the effects of competition are symmetrical. The most likely explanations for this spatially structured size hierarchy are variation in plant density, patchy distribution of resources, or a combination of the two.
23012727|Question: Is epiphytic lichen community structure significantly affected by isolation from source community? Location: Foothills of the Southern Alps, South Island, New Zealand. Methods: Epiphytic lichen richness and environmental variables were measured on 382, young Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides (Hook. f.) Poole (mountain beech) trees that had recently colonized grassland adjacent to a forest remnant. Richness and the presence of individual lichen taxa were modelled as a function of isolation from the forest fragment, tree size and other habitat conditions. Results: Richness of epiphytic lichen communities was negatively related to tree isolation, although this effect was much smaller than the effects of tree size and other local (tree-scale) habitat conditions. Different lichen taxa responded in different ways to isolation, area effects and local habitat conditions. Conclusions: This study shows that many epiphytic lichens on mountain beech are limited in their ability to colonize new substrate, even over distances of less than 1 km, which may be due to limitation in dispersal and/or establishment. Lichens are greatly influenced by local habitat conditions, such as tree size, and in this particular environment their negative interaction with sooty moulds is an important driver of community structure.
25549252|Question: What role does air humidity play as an environmental factor for the abundance and distribution of temperate woodland herbs? Location: Beech forests on calcareous soils in southern lower Saxony, central Germany. Methods: The abundance of woodland herb species and total herb cover were investigated in 60 plots with contrasting exposure, slope angle and relief type. On all plots, air humidity, air temperature, soil moisture, photosynthetically active radiation, pH (HO) and concentration of salt-exchangeable Ca, Mg and K were measured. Species-environment relationships were analysed with multiple regression analysis and CCA. Results: Air humidity (RH), soil moisture and the concentration of exchangeable Ca and K, but not light, C/N ratio and the concentration of exchangeable Mg were identified as the most important abiotic factors influencing the cover of the most abundant plant species and total herb cover. RH varied substantially across the different forest floor site types and influenced species abundance independent of soil moisture. In several species (including Mercurialis perennis and Impatiens noli-tangere), RH was found to be a key environmental factor. Other species such as Aegopodium podagraria and Lamiastrum galeobdolon depended more on elevated soil moisture, while RH was less important. Conclusions: This study showed that the distribution of widespread temperate woodland herb species depends on high air humidity, and that certain sensitive species do not occur at sites with reduced air humidity even though soil moisture is high. Thus, high air humidity and ample soil moisture are key abiotic factors in beech forests on calcareous soils. Shade level (PAR) was found to be of secondary importance.
3236676|The cessation of coppicing and grazing in Quercus woodlands, with its subsequent changes in the structure, composition and functioning of vegetation communities, is becoming more frequent throughout the Mediterranean Basin. In southern France, we have studied successional changes in Quercus pubescens woodlands by visiting previously studied sites 18 yr later. Changes in vertical structure, species richness, floristic composition, life form and dispersal type were analysed and compared between woodlands that had previously been grazed or ungrazed. Both successions showed a decline in vegetation cover in the 0-25 cm height class and in the height class immediately under the canopy layer, due to oak litter accumulation and tree ageing. In post-grazing succession, the abandonment of grazing and associated burning has allowed the vegetation cover to increase in the 0.25-2 m height class. In both successions, grassland species decreased in frequency and forest species increased, a trend which was stronger in undisturbed succession. Species richness decreased with time in the undisturbed succession, but remained stable in the post-grazing succession mainly because of the slow decline of plants linked to grazing. In undisturbed succession, therophytes and hemicryptophytes decreased. In contrast, therophytes and hemicryptophytes remained stable in post-grazing succession. In both successions, endozoochorous species (notably Ruscus aculeatus) increased. Plants dispersed by non-animal vectors decreased in undisturbed succession, but stability was observed in most of the dispersal types in post-grazing succession. These results showed that a time-lag existed between undisturbed succession and post-grazing succession, the latter remaining at a younger stage of successional development due to more recent impact of grazing. However, both successions have converged suggesting that most of the traces of grazing on vegetation will disappear within a few years. The vegetation of these coppices, regardless of the previous grazing regime, will become increasingly similar to the vegetation of undisturbed woodlands. However, their floristic composition will probably never be identical to that of undisturbed woodlands, mainly because of the rarity of these undisturbed woodlands and of the short-distance dispersal of many forest plant species.
3235767|This paper focuses on the management potential of natural forests in the tropical dry zones of Central America, particularly Nicaragua. Distribution and status of dry forest formations are reviewed. Two case studies from the Pacific coast of Nicaragua are presented to illustrate the disturbance created by traditional utilization, and to show the relatively high potential for natural forest management, with many of the tree species having economic value. Natural forest management, together with conservation and reforestation, is viewed as the main management option for the tropical dry forest areas. In spite of its importance, this option has received little attention or promotion from the governmental forestry sector. Four complementary options which can be devised for silvicultural work in production forests are: encouragement of advanced growth of desirable tree species, inducement of natural regeneration, coppice management, and compensatory planting. These options form different strategies for rehabilitation of the prosuction and conservation functions of the forest and may well be combined in the same area. Research applied to better utilization of the forest resources should form an intrinsic part of rural development programs. Research work in tropical dry forest areas should focus on ecological, as well as socio-cultural and economical aspects related to the management options. Experimental sites are important enabling and securing long-term basic and applied biological research. They may also serve as units for demonstration, training and extension.
3236556|The main objectives of this study were to investigate sheep foraging behaviour in mixed Atlantic woodland and to assess its impact on the forest understorey. We established 89 plots along four forest types: Fagus woodland, Quercus woodland, riparian gallery forest and conifer plantations. The presence of plant species in the forest understorey and their foraging damage was surveyed bimonthly from July 1996 to June 1997. In addition, we estimated the selection of woodland types by sheep through the pellet-group count technique. The intensity of foraging by sheep was negligible for most of the plant species, however several species showed substantial damage in some woodland types. Among the species that were abundant and widespread in the entire study area, Rubus ulmifolius, graminoids and Ilex aquifolium were consumed most. Sheep selected only larch plantations, where grasses and Rubus were very abundant. This grazing behaviour reduced browsing damage of the understorey of woodland stands with higher conservation value, such as Quercus and Fagus woodlands.
40295826|Questions: Plant invasions are considered one of the top threats to the biodiversity of native taxa, but clearly documenting the causal links between invasions and the decline of native species remains a major challenge of invasion biology. Most studies have focused on impacts of invaders' living biomass, rather than on mechanisms mediated by litter. However, invasive plant litter, which is often of a very different type and quantity than a system's native plant litter, can have multiple important effects on ecosystem processes - such as nitrogen cycling and soil microclimate - that may influence native plants. Location: We studied effects of litter of invasive grass species that are widespread throughout western North America on native shrubs in southern California's semiarid habitat of coastal sage scrub. Methods: We combined a 3-year field manipulation of non-native litter with structural equation modeling to understand interacting effects on non-native grasses, native shrubs, soil nitrogen (available and total), and soil moisture. Results: Litter addition facilitated non-native grass growth, revealing a positive feedback likely to enhance invasion success. Contrary to a major paradigm of invasion biology -that competition with invasive plant species causes declines of native plants -we found that litter also facilitated growth of the native dominant shrub, a result supported by observational trends. Structural equation models indicated that enhanced soil moisture mediated the positive effects of litter on shrub growth. Conclusions: We demonstrate that invasive plants, via their litter, can facilitate dominant native plants by altering soil moisture. Our results highlight that understanding the impacts and mechanisms of plant invasions may be enhanced by considering the role of invasive plant litter on native plants and ecosystem properties.
4096762|Question and Location: How does soil burn severity and early post-fire tree composition affect long-term understorey vegetation dynamics in the coniferous forests of eastern Canada? Method: Vegetation dynamics were assessed using paleoecological methods and a chronosequence analysis of extant stands. The relation between environmental factors and succession was evaluated using ordination techniques on the chronosequence data. Understorey succession was studied by regression analysis on the chronosequence data and through within-site Markovian transition probabilities between successive 1-cm layers of plant macroremains from soil organic matter profiles. Results: Initial tree composition (Picea mariana and Pinus banksiana) had little effect on understorey composition. Soil burn severity (measured as the thickness of the residual forest floor humus) significantly affected temporal changes in understorey species. Following fires of high severity, stands underwent a gradual paludification with a net increase in Sphagnum and ericaceous shrubs (Ledum groenlandicum), and a decrease in feathermosses. Paludification was accelerated after low severity fires, which led to the dominance of Sphagnum less than 200 years after fire, and of L. groenlandicum shortly after fire. In situ paleo-ecological work confirmed results obtained with the chronosequence analysis. Conclusions: One vegetation gradient related to time after disturbance is insufficient to account for the full complexity of longterm changes in understorey composition following fire. Current forestry practices that protect the forest floor humus may induce a premature paludification.
3236855|The behaviour of five statistics (extensions of Pielou's, Clark and Evans', Pollard's, Johnson & Zimmer's, and Eberhardt's statistics, which are denoted as P<sub>i</sub>, C<sub>e</sub>, P<sub>o</sub>, J<sub>z</sub> and E<sub>b</sub> respectively) that involve the distance from a random point to its jth nearest neighbour were examined against several alternative patterns (lattice-based regular, inhomogeneous random, and Poisson cluster patterns) through Monte Carlo simulation to test their powers to detect patterns. The powers of all the five statistics increase as distance order j increases against inhomogeneous random pattern. They decrease for P<sub>i</sub> and C<sub>e</sub> and increase for P<sub>o</sub>, J<sub>z</sub>, and E<sub>b</sub> against regular and Poisson cluster patterns. P<sub>o</sub>, J<sub>z</sub> and E<sub>b</sub> can reach high powers with the third or higher order distances in most cases. However, P<sub>o</sub> is recommended because no extra information is needed, it can reach a high power with the second or third distance even though the sample size is not large in most cases, and the test can be performed with an approximate <sup>2</sup> distribution associated with it. When a regular pattern is expected, J<sub>z</sub> is recommended because it is more sensitive to lattice-based regular pattern than P<sub>o</sub> and E<sub>b</sub>, especially for the first distance. However, simulation tests should be used because the speed of convergence of J<sub>z</sub> to normal distribution is very slow.
3236671| The tree species comprising Pinus-Juniperus woodlands are rapidly expanding into shrub-grasslands throughout their range. Observational studies indicate that establishment is facilitated by nurse plants, but little information exists on the mechanisms involved. I examined both abiotic and biotic factors influencing Pinus monophylla establishment in Artemisia tridentata steppe with expanding populations of P. monophylla and Juniperus osteosperma. I also examined the effects of seed burial and predation on seedling establishment. Microhabitats under trees and shrubs had higher extractable P and K, higher organic matter, total nitrogen and cation exchange capacity than interspace microhabitats. Soil water contents (0-15 cm) were lower in interspaces than under shrubs or trees due to dry surface (0-5 cm) soils. Soil temperatures (at 1 and 15 cm) were lowest under trees, intermediate under shrubs, and highest in interspaces. Timing and rate of seedling emergence were temperature dependent with the order of emergence paralleling mean growing season temperatures: tree interspace = shrub interspace > under shrub > under Juniperus  under Pinus. Seed burial was required for rooting and the highest emergence occurred from depths of 1 and 3 cm indicating that caching by birds and rodents is essential and that animals bury seeds at adequate if not optimal depths for emergence. Seedlings required micro-environmental modification for survival; all seedlings, including those that emerged from seeds and transplants, died within the first year in interspace microhabitats. Survival in under-tree or under-shrub microhabitats depended on soil water availability and corresponded closely to soil water contents over the 3-yr study. Under-shrub microhabitats had more favourable soil and micro-environmental characteristics than under-tree microhabitats and had the highest seedling life spans for the first-year seedling cohort. Predation of Pinus seedlings by rodents was a significant cause of mortality with caged transplants exhibiting life spans that were 74 % longer overall than uncaged transplants. Emergence and survival of P. monophylla within the expanding woodland were dependent upon a complex set of interacting factors including growing season conditions, microhabitat characteristics, and animal species. 
23012733|Question: Does the increase in Populus tremuloides cover within the Picea mariana-feathermoss domain enhance establishment and growth conditions for Abies balsamea regeneration? Location: Boreal forest of northwest Quebec, Canada. Method: To document the effect of Populus tremuloides on A. balsamea regeneration, mixed stands with a heterogeneous presence of P. tremuloides adjacent to Picea mariana-dominated stands were selected. Abies balsamea regeneration, understorey environment and canopy composition were characterized from 531 sampling units distributed along transects covering the mixedconiferous gradient. Abundance of understorey A. balsamea regeneration was described using three height groups: seedling (< 30 cm), small sapling (30 to < 100 cm) and tall sapling (100 to 300 cm). Growth characteristics were measured from 251 selected individuals of A. balsamea (< 3 m). Results: Results showed that A. balsamea regeneration was generally more abundant when P. tremuloides was present in the canopy. Differences between seedling and sapling abundance along the mixedconiferous gradient suggest that while establishment probably occurs over a wide range of substrates, the better growth conditions found under mixed stands ensure a higher survival rate for A. balsamea seedlings. Conclusions: The abundant A. balsamea regeneration observed within mixed stands of the Picea marianafeathermoss domain suggests that the increase in P. tremuloides cover, favoured by intensive management practices and climatic change, could contribute to acceleration of the northward expansion of the A. balsameaBetula papyrifera domain into the northern boreal forest dominated by Picea mariana.
3237155|Vegetation data from permanent plots were collected in 1931, 1961 and 1991 in a south boreal forest 20 km north of Oslo in southern Norway. Major changes were found in the vegetation composition during those 60 years. The main changes were a reduction in the frequency of species and the frequency of joint occurrences of vascular species such as Andromeda polifolia, Calluma vulgaris, Cornus suecica, Eriophorum vaginatum, Maianthemum bifolium, Melampyrum pratense, Trientalis europaea, Vaccinium uliginosum and V. oxycoccus, and mosses, e.g. Dicranum fuscescens, Hylocomium splendens, Pleurozium schreberi, Ptilidium ciliare and Ptilium crista-castrensis. The observed changes were interpreted as being induced by internal processes e.g. notably a long-term change from paludified forest to mesic forest. In particular the growth of Picea abies seems to be a main driving force. The dominance of Picea abies and Vaccinium myrtillus appears to have rendered the conditions more unfavourable for other species. A doubling of the living stem biomass of P. abies during the last 67 yr shows that this old-growth forest has not yet reached a steady state. It was demonstrated that species such as Deschampsia flexuosa and Molinia caerulea did not increase in frequency in response to nitrogen deposition, as has occurred elsewhere in northern Europe. pH in the humus layer increased with 0.2 unit from 1961 to 1991. The results of this study indicate that protection from logging has initiated the reduction of species in the field layer and bottom layer. This study questions if monitoring of forest vegetation should be restricted to protected forests as is the practice in Scandinavia today. We recommend that also areas with some kind of selective cutting will be used for monitoring of forest vegetation.
40925560|Questions: How do different resource and disturbance levels interact to affect competition? How do different indices of competition change the interpretation of how competition changes under different resource and disturbance conditions? Location: Greenhouse, Thompson Rivers University, Kamloops, British Columbia, Canada. Methods: Three pairs of indices that have been used to differentiate the predictions of Grime (CSR) and Tilman's (R*) theories were used to assess competition on two species of temperate bunchgrass, (Pseudorogeneria spicata and Festuca campestris) grown in a greenhouse on stress and disturbance gradients. Stress was created by manipulating the amount of water (high, low) and concentration of nutrient solution (high, low) added to pots, while disturbance was created by clipping (clipped, undipped) in a fully factorial design. Plants were grown individually or with a single neighbour. The three pairs of indices were: (1) absolute and relative competition; (2) competitive effect and response; and, (3) competitive importance and intensity. Results: Absolute competition and competitive importance were the only indices responsive to the resource gradient, which supports CSR theory, and also the only ones to record an effect of disturbance on the strength of competition -under high resource conditions. The other indices showed few responses along the gradients, which supports R* theory.Measures of competitive effect and response did not differentiate the two theories. Conclusion: We show that some indices of competition show a decline with increased stress and disturbance, while other indices do not. Therefore, it is necessary to choose a competition index appro-priate to the question being asked. Competitive importance and absolute competition were responsive to changes in stress and disturbance, while the other indices were not.
3236885|In order to test for cumulative effects of fire on Paspalum quadrifarium-dominated grasslands ('pajonal'), we analysed the impact of single and repeated fires on the community structure and post-fire recovery of canopy after a final, simultaneous fire event. Nine plots were defined within a homogeneous pajonal stand, and treatments of low (LF), medium (MF) and high frequency (HF) of fire were defined by the application of one, two or four cold-season burns, respectively, along a 6-yr period. Both burned and unburned plots were exposed to grazing by cattle during the summer following the first and the third years of that period. High cattle preference for burned sites conditioned fire temperature and vegetation responses to the following burning events. Cumulative effects between successive burning events were observed for the cover of basal area of the dominant and other sprouting species, the cover and thickness of the litter layer, the seed bank size of the principal recruiter species, and the floristic composition. While light interception by the canopy was positively related to fire frequency during the early growth season, further growth of P. quadrifarium determined a greater light interception in LF than in MF and HF. These patterns of light interception were associated with a faster occupation of the inter-tussock areas by opportunistic species in plots subjected to frequent fires (HF and MF) than in plots with low fire frequency (LF), and a more lasting regrowth of P. quadrifarium in the LF plot than in the HF ones. High fire frequencies reduced the dominance of P. quadrifarium. Percent of species classified as subordinated graminoids or forbs did not vary among treatments. However, the abundance of different forb species was differentially favoured by contrasting frequencies of fire, describing some coarse relationships between their specific responses and their dispersal strategies.
3237252| The beta-function (-function) has been suggested for testing the significance of the skewness of species responses along a gradient. However, the location of the optimum and skewness are correlated so that these parameters cannot be estimated independently. The only way for an independent estimation is to let the endpoints of the response curve vary. In that case they would no longer define the range of species occurrence. However, non-linear estimation of endpoints often leads to overwhelming problems in model fitting. Therefore, the beta-function is not suitable to test the shape of species response curves. Hierarchic models proposed by Huisman et al. (1993) seem to be superior to generalized additive models or third-degree polynomials and seem to be the best alternative to study the skewness of responses. 
4499231|Question: Can we recognize areas of high endemism and high endemic richness, using data from collections, and what are the ecological variables that best explain these areas? Location: Peninsula of Baja California, Mexico. Methods: We analysed the distribution of 723 endemic vascular plants species along the peninsula of Baja California and neighbouring islands distributed in 218 cartographic cells 15' x 20' in size. By means of a residual analysis, we identified areas of significantly high endemic species richness, and we calculated the degree of endemicity (or rarity) in each cell by giving to each species a weight factor inversely proportional to the land area it covers. Results: Nine regions of high-endemicity and/or high endemic species richness were found. Discussion and conclusions: The analyses of rarity and endemic species richness showed two contrasting scenarios: High endemicity values in oceanic and sky islands accounts for a high number of species with a restricted distribution, promoted most likely by genetic isolation and high environmental heterogeneity. High endemic richness along the peninsular coast is related to ecotonal transition along vegetation types. After correcting for collection effort (i.e. the number of specimens collected within a cell), we found the phytogeographic region and altitudinal heterogeneity to be the variables that best predicted endemic richness. Both high endemism and high endemic richness have distinct geographic patterns within our study region. The nine endemic regions provide elements for priority definitions in future conservation programs.
3236959|The artificial seedling assay method has been used in several tropical and temperate forests to estimate seedling damage and subsequent mortality due to non-trophic micro-disturbances such as litterfall and trampling. However, there has been no evidence presented to support the assumption that artificial seedling damage correlates with natural seedling mortality. In this study we evaluated the use of artificial seedlings in five New Zealand forests by comparing damage rates of artificial seedlings with damage and mortality rates of an equal number of selected natural seedlings. A total of 1200 artificial, and 1200 natural seedlings were monitored monthly for two years. Litterfall damage rates of natural seedlings were correlated with those of artificial seedlings. However, there was no relationship found between artificial and natural seedling damage due to animals, or between artificial seedling damage and natural seedling mortality for either cause. Artificial seedlings should not therefore be used to estimate seedling mortality due to non-trophic microdisturbance. Monitoring natural seedlings enabled non-trophic animal damage to be readily detected and provided additional information on animal-plant interactions. The value of using artificial seedlings is that they provide a measure of the litterfall disturbance potential that is independent of the patchy distribution of natural seedlings within safe sites, and independent of species specific resistance to damage. They therefore provide an indication of the selective pressure on seedlings due to litterfall and are useful for comparing the relative 'safety' of different forests and microsites. Monitoring natural seedlings provides a measure of the damage and mortality due to litterfall for a specific seedling size class. Concurrently monitoring artificial and natural seedlings for litterfall disturbance provides more information than the same effort expended on either method alone.
3235718|Brackish riverbank marshes have been little studied. Therefore, a plant community sequence was sampled from saltmarsh to near-freshwater riverbank marsh on a number of disjunct marshes along the Taieri River, Otago, New Zealand, from near the mouth to 9 km inland. Salinity decreased steadily upstream, though the actual values were very different on two days sampled. Ten communities are recognised. The major vegetation zonation was upshore more than upstream, though there were several interactions between the upshore and upstream gradients. Few species, if any, were restricted to the mid reaches of the length of river sampled. There was only a very slight upshore increase in species richness, and no trend upstream. Sequences of communities occurred upshore on all marshes, but the sequence differed, even within a marsh. Species were assorted into communities in different ways from those of marine marshes in the area. Some species, native and exotic, occupied different beta-niches from those they occupied in other countries. Individualistic community structure is inferred.
3235608|The concept of disturbance is related to the concepts of stability and diversity. Some definitions of disturbance are reviewed and three dimensions of disturbance are recommended to be included in any treatment of disturbance: spatial extent, time involved, and magnitude. The distinction between patch disturbance and community disturbance is emphasised and it is recommended that the study of regeneration after disturbance be studied through patch dynamics. The small-scale turnover of species is discussed and the concept of species turnaround time introduced by means of the carousel model. As an answer to a possible multiple choice question on the relation between the three concepts, 'Disturbance for Stability' and 'Disturbance for Diversity' are suggested.
3236482|Question: Are species-specific regeneration strategies and competition the dominant processes facilitating species coexistence in a Quercus liaotungensis dominated temperate deciduous forest? Location: Dongling Mountains, North China, 1300 m a.s.l. Methods: Ripley's K-function was used to characterize the spatial patterns and spatial associations of two dominant tree species, Quercus liaotungensis and Betula dahurica, and a common subcanopy species, Acer mono, at different growth stages (adult, sapling, seedling). Results: Seedlings, saplings and adults of all three species exhibited clumped distributions at most spatial scales. Quercus seedlings and saplings were positively associated with conspecific adult trees and spatially independent of dead trees suggesting that seed dispersal and vegetative regeneration influenced the spatial patterning of Quercus trees. Betula seedlings and saplings were positively associated with both live and dead trees of conspecific adults at small scales (<5 m) but negatively associated with live and dead trees of other species indicating sprouting as an important mechanism of reproduction. Saplings of Acer had a strong spatial dependence on the distribution of conspecific adult trees indicating its limited seed dispersal range. Negative associations between adult trees of Betula and Quercus demonstrated interspecific competition at local scales (<5 m). Conclusions: Different regeneration strategies among the three species play an important role in regulating their spatial distribution patterns, while competition between individuals of Betula and Quercus at the adult stage also contributes to spatial patterning of these communities. The recruitment limitations of Betula and Quercus may affect the persistence of these species and the long-term dynamics of the forest.
40295849|Question: Do contrasting biotic contexts in nutrient-poor grasslands affect the predictability of invasion by exploitative species following fertilization? Location: French Alps. Methods: We examined community responses after 2 years of nutrient addition for two nutrient-poor European calcareous grasslands, a mesoxeric community dominated by the short bunchgrass Bromus erectus and a mesic community dominated by the tall rhizomatous grass Brachypodium rupestre. We also performed reciprocal transplantations of these two dominant slow-growing species and Arrhenatherum elatius, a tall fast-growing grass that dominates nutrient-rich communities and is likely to invade nutrientpoor communities after fertilization. Transplants were grown with or without neighbors, in order to measure their individual responses (without neighbors) and competition intensity (by comparing performances with and without neighbors using the Relative Neighbor Effect index-RNE) during one growing season in all three communities. Results: In the Bromus community, fertilization induced a strong increase in fast-growing grasses (including A. elatius). Competition intensity was low for the three transplanted grasses, but strongly increased with resource addition, to reach values observed in the Arrhenatherum community. In the Brachypodium community, no change in competition intensity with fertilization was detected, because of the high mortality of the two "non-resident" species, irrespective of the presence of neighbors. Conclusions: Community responses to nutrient improvement are context-dependent and vary as a function of the biotic environment. Soil processes are proposed as the main drivers of community resistance to the invasion of fastgrowing species in the mesic, nutrient-poor grassland dominated by the large conservative competitor B. rupestre.
3236157|Exotic plants were surveyed in 208 plots within the Dungeness and Hoh river watersheds on the Olympic Peninsula, Washington, USA. Landscape patch types included uplands (clearcuts, young and mature forests) and riparian zones (cobble bars, shrub patches, riparian forests, and alder flats). Patterns of exotic plant invasions were assessed between watersheds, between riparian and upland areas, among patch types, and within clearcuts. 52 exotic plant species were encountered, accounting for 23 % of the flora in each watershed. In both watersheds, exotic species richness was approximately 33 % greater in riparian zones than in uplands, and mean number and cover of exotic species were > 50 % greater in riparian zones than in uplands. Among landscape patch types, richness and mean number and cover of exotics was highest in young riparian patches, intermediate in clearcuts and riparian forests, and lowest in young and mature forests. The exception to this was Hoh alder flats, which had the highest mean cover of exotic plants. Cover of exotic plants peaked in uplands 3 to 7 yr after clearcutting, then decreased with increased canopy closure. Disturbance type and time since disturbance were major factors influencing invasibility. Landscape patch size, position within watershed (distance from patch to human population centers, major highway, or river mouth), and environmental variables (slope, aspect, and elevation) were not important indicators of landscape patch invasibility. Riparian zones facilitated movement of exotic plants through landscapes, but did not appear to act as sources of exotic plants for undisturbed upland areas.
3235734|Following recent classifications of rain forest vegetation in northern Australia this paper examines the biogeographical status and condition of a rain forest type endemic to that region, dominated by the sclerophyll Allosyncarpia ternata (Myrtaceae). These forests are restricted to the Arnhem Land region of the Northern Territory, which includes Kakadu National Park. They cover an area of 1138 km<sup>2</sup>, or 41 % of all rain forest in northern and northwestern Australia. DCA of floristic data from 140 sites illustrates that Allosyncarpia forests occupy a range of sandstone-derived substrates, from moist valley sediments to steep, freely draining, rocky sites. DCA of floristic transect data illustrates that Allosyncarpia is by far the dominant canopy species over this topographic-moisture sequence, but especially on seasonally dry substrates where it provides over 80 % basal area and effectively the entire canopy. DCA of floristic quadrat data from a floristically singular site illustrates major death of the fire-sensitive gymnosperm Callitris intratropica, and, to a lesser extent, Allosyncarpia itself, on the forest-savanna boundary. Biogeographical implications arising from the gondwanic distributions of Allosyncarpia and its close relatives, Arillastrum (New Caledonia), Eucalyptopsis (eastern Malesia), and an as yet undescribed taxon (eastern Australia), suggest that taxa ancestral to this group were extensive in the late Cretaceous. Their current restriction is in marked contrast to the success of their near relatives, the eucalypts. Given the tolerance of Allosyncarpia to a wide range of substrate moisture conditions in the present day, it is argued that fire regulates patch margins of this forest type. Although tolerant of light fires, canopy trees at patch margins are susceptible under a regime of frequent, intense late dry-season fires, such as are prevalent in Arnhem Land today. For effective conservation of fire-sensitive communities in this floristically significant region, greater attention must be given to management and monitoring of the fire regime.
3236777|We document the potential for using carbon isotopes in both soil organic matter (SOM) and grass phytoliths in soil to increase the temporal and taxonomic resolutions of long term vegetation dynamics. Carbon isotope values from both SOM and phytoliths are expected to describe both the age of material through <sup>14</sup>C dating, and the photosynthetic pathway of the source plant material through ratios of <sup>12</sup>C/<sup>13</sup>C. Taxonomic resolution is increased because the phytoliths examined are specific to grasses, whereas the SOM reflects the contribution of all the vegetation. Temporal resolution is increased because phytoliths are less mobile in the soil profile than SOM, and can therefore provide older dates from the same soil depth. Our results, from a desert grassland site in southwestern North America, largely confirm these expectations, and show that C<sub>4</sub> species have dominated the grass composition for the last 8000 yr, C<sub>3</sub> non-grass vegetation increased about 100-350 yrBP, and no significant C<sub>3</sub> grass or non-grass vegetation existed between 350-2000 yr BP.
3235923|Constrained canonical correspondence analysis was used to compare the elevational distribution of conifer-broadleaved hardwood forests at nine localities on South Island, New Zealand. Elevations of individual species were compared using cover-weighted mean elevations and cover-weighted standard deviations of mean elevation. Mean elevations of floristically similar stands declined with latitude, but was also lower at a locality with a granite substrate than at an adjacent locality with a schist substrate. The mean elevation breadth of frequent species (those in >5% of stands) was greatest at a locality underlain by schist and least at a locality underlain by granite. This is consistent with wide habitat breadth for species in early successional stages, because forest underlain by schist is more frequently disturbed than forest underlain by granite. Elevation breadth of frequent species was less, and species' turnover greater, in South Island conifer-broadleaved hardwood forests than in conifer forests at similar latitudes in the Southern Rocky Mountains, USA.
3236836|An international group of scientists is building a 'trait base', an open internet database of life-history traits of the Northwest European flora (LEDA) that can be used as a tool in planning, in nature conservation and restoration, and in other applied research. The species-trait matrix will comprise referenced information under control of an editorial board, for species of the Northwest European flora, combining existing information and additional measurements. The focus will be on 26 plant traits that describe three key features of plant dynamics: persistence, regeneration, and dispersability. Currently 35% of the species-trait matrix has been filled; however, as the LEDA trait base consortium aims to deliver a database as complete as possible, all input from the scientific community is welcome.
23012502|Question: Following the framework of Suding et al. (2003), we examined whether morphological traits (organismal response), tolerance and competitive effect (specific process response) were associated with grass dominance (abundance response) on burning, mowing, fertilization and soil depth gradients in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN), South Africa. Location: University of KwaZulu-Natal, Pietermaritzburg, South Africa. Methods: Using several pot experiments involving 29 grass species in total, we determined the vegetative traits, competitive effect and response, and tolerance to shading for grasses common in closed, tufted mesic grassland in KZN. Results: The primary axis of grasstrait variation was most strongly related to a negative correlation (trade-off) between growth rate and specific leaf area (SLA), with broad-leaved, rapidly-growing grasses (high SLA) occupying one extreme and narrow-leaved, slow-growing grasses (low SLA) the other extreme of the first principal component. The low SLA, slow-growth strategy was found to be a relatively general strategy among grasses dominant in undisturbed, high litter grassland, as well as those adapted to moisture-stressed habitats. In contrast, grasses dominant in highly productive habitats with some form of disturbance, e.g. mowing, had a broad-leaved, rapid-growth strategy. Intermediate combinations of the SLAgrowth rate trade-off were common among grasses dominant under other combinations of disturbance and soil resource availability. Conclusions: Distinct patterns of organismal (SLA, growth rate) and specific process (competitive effect and response, as well as tolerance of shading) responses appeared to be associated with grasses dominant on gradients of burning, mowing, fertilization and soil depth. These organismal and specific process responses were similar to those for North American and European grasses dominant under the same environmental influences, suggesting that some general traitenvironment patterns exist at an inter-continental scale. This general traitenvironment relationship appears to be driven by functional adaptive selection along the SLAenvironment continuum and its unavoidable trade-off with growth rate.
3236459|The vegetation succession in a floating mire was studied in relation to management and hydrological conditions in a former peat cutting area in the northern part of the Netherlands. An existing map showed that in 1956 the vegetation consisted mainly of meadows, reedbeds and rich fen vegetation while a recent survey revealed that this picture had completely changed in 1989. The area had mainly become woodland but part had remained open, due to the continuation of a mowing regime. The timing of the mowing appears to be critical, especially during the earlier phases of the succession. Winter-mowing favours the development of eutrophic reedbeds, while summer-mowing promotes mesotrophic sedge communities. In the course of time these succession lines converge increasingly towards acidic vegetation types. The development from open water to embryonic bog differed greatly between sites with a similar management regime. Mostly this took only a few decades but in a few sites the vegetation had hardly changed since 1956. Whereas the former sites were acid throughout the profile, the latter showed a high pH from top to bottom. It is obvious that acidification does not occur as long as alkaline surface water can move freely underneath the floating mat. As soon as a given site becomes disconnected from the surface water the depletion of bases by infiltrating rainwater is no longer compensated. A rough estimate of the acidification rate shows that in an infiltration area three decades are sufficient for a floating mat of 40 cm to become completely decalcified. This corresponds well to the observed succession from rich fens to embryonic bogs in the same period. It is suggested that the best way to preserve rich fen vegetation is to start the succession anew by digging turf ponds.
3235902|Three term covariance analysis is used to investigate interspecific association at a range of spatial scales, using both density and presence/absence data to evaluate the strength of species interactions. This procedure also investigates the relationship between the spatial patterns of species. These methods are applied to the vegetation on a series of glacial moraines near Mt. Robson, British Columbia, Canada, in order to test whether the plants of different species and their patterns become more independent and more random during succession. Another hypothesis tested is that if a species exerts a positive influence on others by increasing soil nutrients, this effect decreases with surface age. The vegetation analysed supports both these hypotheses to the extent that most species pairs have maximum covariance intensity on medium aged surfaces. The covariance-blocksize graphs derived from density data and from presence/absence data were qualitatively similar in their trends; however, the results are sufficiently different to suggest that the relationships among species can be subtle, affecting density rather than presence. The results also show that the affect of scale on species associations is more complex than simple models predict.
4096693| Question: How do properties of different vegetation components vary along ecotones of semi-deciduous forest islands, and can the depth of edge influence (DEI) of the components be detected using a novel combination of analyses? Location: Como National Park (CNP), NE Ivory Coast. Methods: Along eight transects at semi-deciduous forest islands tree individuals > 20 cm DBH were mapped. At one transect, tree and shrub individuals down to 1 cm DBH were measured and cover of species was estimated. Split moving window dissimilarity analysis (SMWDA) and moving window regression analysis (MWRA) were combined to detect statistical significance of borders in multivariate vegetation data along continuous transects, to determine the width of associated ecotones, and, thus, the DEI towards the forest interior. Results: For trees > 20 cm DBH, a distinct boundary formation was detected, dominated by the semi-fire resistant tree species Anogeissus leiocarpus. The median of DEI towards the forest interior was 55 m. Ecotone detection with all species present revealed an interlocked sequence of ecotones for grasses, herbs, woody climbers, shrubs and trees, with each of these ecotones being narrower than the overall ecotone. DEI ranged from 10 m for grasses up to 120 m for trees and shrubs. Conclusions: The coherent set of analyses applied proved to be an objective method for detecting borders and the width of associated ecotones. The patterns found may be explained by successional processes at the forest-savanna border. The DEI measured for the forest islands in the nearly undisturbed seminatural system of the CNP is of relevance to concepts of core-area analysis and the protection of forest interior species in semi-deciduous forests in tropical West Africa. 
3236073|The effects of salinity on the reproduction of coastal submerged macrophyte species were studied on samples of communities from six seasonal marshes in two outdoor experiments performed in autumn and in spring. The submerged macrophyte communities were submitted to five different salinity levels (0, 1, 2, 4 and 6 g/l Cl<sup>-</sup>). In a companion paper (Grillas, van Wijck & Bonis 1993) three groups of species were distinguished on the basis of their biomass production over the salinity range 0 to 6 g/l Cl<sup>-</sup>: (1) glycophytes (non-salt-tolerant species), (2) salt-tolerant species and (3) halophytes. This part of the study describes the impact of salinity on the reproduction of the individual species during the two experiments. The species differ in their capacity to reproduce in the autumn; only Zannichellia pedunculata and Tolypella hispanica were able to produce fruits in that season. For all species reproduction was greater in spring and strongly correlated with biomass, except for Chara canescens. Differences in reproductive effort over the salinity range amplified the halophytic nature of Ruppia maritima and Chara canescens and the intolerance of Callitriche truncata and Chara contraria. For the other species, reproductive effort did not differ significantly over the salinity range. Regarding the effect of salinity on biomass and reproductive effort of individual species, there were large differences in the total weight of propagules produced at the community level and in the relative contribution of individual species. The resulting quantitative changes in the species composition of the seed bank could affect the structure of the communities by their effects on the establishment and survival of species populations.
41059543|Question: Woody plant and grass interactions in savannas have frequently been studied from the perspective of the response of one growth form on the other but seldom evaluated as two-way interactions. What causes woody plant encroachment in semi-arid savannas and what are the competitive responses of tree seedlings and grasses on rocky and sandy substrates? Methods: In this greenhouse study, we investigated the influence of substrate and grazing on responses to interspecific competition by tree seedlings and grasses. We measured competitive/facilitative responses on biomass and nutrient status of tree seedlings and grasses grown together. Results: Interspecific competition suppressed growth of trees and grasses. Tree seedlings and uncut grass accumulated double the biomass when grown without competition relative to when they competed. Competitive responses varied on different substrates. Grass biomass on rocky substrate showed no response to tree competition, but appeared to be facilitated by trees on sandy substrate. Grass clipping resulted in higher tree seedling biomass on rocky substrate, but not on sandy substrate. There was a positive response of grass nutrient status to competition from tree seedlings. Conclusion: Selective grass herbivory in the absence of browsing or suppression of shade-intolerant grasses by trees are commonly cited reasons behind bush encroachment in savannas. We show that grazing may confer a competitive advantage to tree seedlings and promote bush encroachment more readily on rocky substrates. This may be due to the imposed sharing of the soil depth niche on rocky substrates, whereas possible niche separation on sandy substrates minimizes the advantage conferred by reduced competition.
4096690|Question: What are the major vegetation units in the Arctic, what is their composition, and how are they distributed among major bioclimate subzones and countries? Location: The Arctic tundra region, north of the tree line. Methods: A photo-interpretive approach was used to delineate the vegetation onto an Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) base image. Mapping experts within nine Arctic regions prepared draft maps using geographic information technology (ArcInfo) of their portion of the Arctic, and these were later synthesized to make the final map. Area analysis of the map was done according to bioclimate subzones, and country. The integrated mapping procedures resulted in other maps of vegetation, topography, soils, landscapes, lake cover, substrate pH, and above-ground biomass. Results: The final map was published at 1:7 500 000 scale map. Within the Arctic
4096658|Question: What is the effect of gap size on the seedling emergence, growth and survival of four common tree species in wooded pastures? Location: A pasture in the Jura mountains, Switzerland. Methods: Seeds were sown in a complete three-way factorial design with eight blocks in May 2003. Each block consisted of a competition treatment (four gap sizes including zero) and a mowing treatment (mown and unmown). Emergence, survival and total biomass of tree seedlings of three species (Picea abies, Acer pseudoplatanus and Fagus sylvatica) were measured. A fourth species (Abies alba) failed to germinate. Results: Gaps had a positive influence on the early stages of tree development for all species. Larger gaps favoured growth and survival more than small gaps. Seedling growth was higher when vegetation around the openings was mown. Mowing the vegetation at gap size zero enhanced both growth and survival compared to unmown vegetation. Mown gaps larger than zero had increased seedling desiccation but decreased seedling predation. Species showed similar trends in their emergence and growth responses to gap size and mowing treatments but for Picea emergence rate was higher and survivorship was lower than for Acer and Fagus. Conclusions: Gap size does matter for tree seedling success but even in more favourable large gaps only a small percentage of seedlings emerged and survived. The effects of gaps on tree seedling establishment are complex as a result of interactions between biotic and abiotic changes caused by gaps.
3237355| On the basis of Ripley's combined count-distance method, Juhsz-Nagy's information theoretical functions and the proposition of Williams et al. for the study of small-scale community pattern, a new procedure is suggested for elucidating multi-species point patterns based on digitized field data. The method utilizes nested circular plots with increasing radii drawn around each individual and determines changes in floristic composition along this space series. The information provided by detecting the species composition around the sample plant is calculated, and its observed mean for all individuals is compared, for each radius, to the expectation under the null model, i.e. for complete spatial randomness of all points. The departure from randomness is illustrated by conventional profile diagrams and is tested for significance based on confidence envelopes simulated by Monte Carlo methods. One advantage of the individual-centered sampling strategy is that the role of each species in influencing its own neighbourhood can be analyzed separately, providing information for the assessment of guild structure and assembly rules in communities. The performance of the method is evaluated using artificial and simulated point patterns. 
4096757|Question: Is there evidence for limiting similarity in the timing of fruit production by a bird-dispersed plant community? Is the rate of fruit removal in each plant species inversely related to fruit availability in other species? Can simple measurements of fruit phenologies (i.e. temporal changes in fruit availability) obscure important fruit attributes that influence their removal by birds? Location: Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. Methods: Periods of fruit availability were measured in ten woody angiosperm species for two years. In the second year, the fate of individual fruits was quantified to disentangle dates of fruit maturation, removal and mortality from measurements of availability. Results: Null model analyses of fruit availability distributions showed no evidence for limiting similarity. However, fruit removal rates of most plant species were correlated with their relative abundance in the community, indicating fruits were removed more rapidly when other fruits were less abundant. Species with similar periods of fruit availability often had different dates of fruit maturation, rates of fruit removal and fruit persistence times, indicating fruit availability measurements can obscure important bird-fruit interactions. Conclusions: Competition for dispersers appears to occur. However, it has not resulted in limiting similarity in fruit availability distributions. A likely explanation for this discrepancy is that fruit availability distributions often confound several important fruit attributes that can independently influence fruit removal by birds.
4096756|The desire to stop the current dramatic loss of biodiversity has been a major stimulus for many vegetation ecologists to unravel the mechanisms responsible for the co-existence of species. After the Rio Janeiro Convention many ecologists were convinced that nature conservation would gain strong societal support if they could prove that the loss of species would have important negative effects on the ecosystem functions that are relevant to society. I conclude that in order to understand such possible effects, it is necessary to analyse the effects of individual species on those ecosystem processes that we consider to be relevant in the context of specific questions. The great challenge for the near future is to scale the effects of plant species on their local environment up to the level of the whole planet, so that we learn about possible feedbacks that might regulate or destabilize those characteristics of the globe that are essential to our society.
23012754|Questions: How are leaf attributes and relative growth rate (RGR) of the dominant tree species of tropical deciduous forest (TDF) affected by seasonal changes in soil moisture content (SMC)? What is the relationship of functional attributes with each other? Can leaf attributes singly or in combination predict the growth rate of tree species of TDF? Location: Sonebhadra district of Uttar Pradesh, India. Methods: Eight leaf attributes, specific leaf area (SLA); leaf carbon concentration (LCC); leaf nitrogen concentration (LNC); leaf phosphorus concentration (LPC); chlorophyll concentration (Chl), mass-based stomatal conductance (Gs mass ); mass based photosynthetic rate (A mass ); intrinsic water use efficiency (WUEi); and relative growth rate (RGR), of six dominant tree species of a dry tropical forest on four sites were analysed for species, site and season effects over a 2-year period. Step-wise multiple regression was performed for predicting RGR from mean values of SMC and leaf attributes. Path analysis was used to determine which leaf attributes influence RGR directly and which indirectly. Results: Species differed significantly in terms of all leaf attributes and RGR. The response of species varied across sites and seasons. The attributes were positively interrelated, except for WUEi, which was negatively related to all other attributes. The positive correlation was strongest between Gs mass and A mass and the negative correlation was strongest between Gs mass and WUEi. Differences in RGR due to site were not significant when soil moisture was controlled, but differences due to season remained significant. The attributes showed plasticity across moisture gradients, which differed among attributes and species. Gs mass was the most plastic attribute. Among the six species, Terminalia tomentosa exhibited the greatest plasticity in six functional attributes. In the stepwise multiple regression, A mass , SLA and Chl among leaf attributes and SMC among environmental factors influenced the RGR of tree species. Path analysis indicated the importance of SLA, LNC, Chl and A mass in determining RGR. Conclusion: A mass , SMC, SLA and Chl in combination can be used to predict RGR but could explain only three-quarters of the variability in RGR, indicating that other traits/factors, not studied here, are also important in modulating growth of tropical trees. RGR of tree species in the dry tropical environment is determined by soil moisture, whereas the response of mature trees of different species is modulated by alterations in key functional attributes such as SLA, LNC and Chl.
3236948|Structural and compositional changes were analysed over the course of 400+ yr of post-fire succession in the sub-boreal forests of west-central British Columbia. Using a chronosequence of 57 stands ranging from 11 to 438 yr in age, we examined changes in forest structure and composition with complementary PCA and DCA ordination techniques. To determine stand ages and timing of tree recruitment, approximately 1800 trees were aged. Most early successional forests were dominated by Pinus contorta, which established rapidly following fire. Abies lasiocarpa and Picea glauca x engelmannii were also able to establish quickly, but continued to establish throughout the sere. Few Pinus contorta survived beyond 200 yr, resulting in major changes in forest structure. In some stands P. contorta never established, which led to considerable variation among stands less than 200 yr old. The oldest forests converged on dominance by Abies lasiocarpa. Vascular plant diversity decreased during succession whereas canopy structure became more complex as gap dynamics developed. Although these sub-boreal forests contain few tree species, successional changes were pronounced, with structure changing more than composition across the chronosequence.
3236651|We investigated the effect of topography-related environmental factors (i.e., ground-surface stability and soil moisture) on seedling establishment of 8 deciduous tree species. A field experiment was carried out using canopy species, which were classified into 3 groups based on the spatial distribution of adult trees (ridge, slope and valley). Demographic parameters were compared among species during the early stage of seedling establishment among 3 topographic positions in combination with gap and canopy conditions. The percentage of emerging seedlings tended to be lower on the ridge irrespective of the adult topographical distribution patterns. There was no clear trend in seedling emergence among the species groups classified by their spatial distribution. Seedling survival during 2 growing seasons was significantly different among species, topographic positions and light conditions. On the ridge, seedlings of the species dominating ridge tops had greater survival than those of other species, probably due to differences in demand for soil moisture. On the slope, frequent physical damage caused by surface material movement was observed and some species showed greater adaptability to the disturbed slope habitat. Survival of all seedlings was highest in the valley plots. Light conditions were the critical factor for seedling survival in some species. The results of this study suggest that topography creates diverse habitats for the establishment of tree seedlings. In addition to soil moisture, surface material movement may be a significant factor affecting seedling establishment.
40925488|Question: Community ecologists are often confronted with multiple possible partitions of a single set of records of species composition and/or abundances from several sites. Different methods of numerical classification produce different results, and the question is which of them, and how many clusters, should be selected for interpretation. We demonstrate a new method for identifying the optimal partition from a series of partitions of the same set of sites, based on number of species with high fidelity to clusters in a partition (faithful species). Methods: The new method, OptimClass, has two variants. OptimClass 1 searches the partition with the maximum number of faithful species across all clusters, while OptimClass 2 searches the partition with the maximum number of clusters that contain at least a preselected minimum number of faithful species. Faithful species are determined based on the P value of the Fisher's exact test, as a measure of fidelity. OptimClass was tested on three vegetation datasets that varied in species richness and internal heterogeneity, using several classification algorithms, resemblance measures and cover transformations. Results: Results from both variants of OptimClass depended on the preselected threshold P value for faithful species: higher P gave higher probability that a partition with more clusters was selected as optimal. Good partitions, in terms of OptimClass criteria, involved flexible beta clustering, and also ordinal clustering. Good partitions were also obtained with TWINSPAN when the required number of clusters was small, or UPGMA when the required number of clusters was large. Poor partitions usually resulted from classifications that used resemblance measures and cover transformations emphasizing differences in species cover; this is not unexpected because Optim-Class uses a presence/absence-based fidelity measure. Conclusions: If the aim of a classification is to obtain clusters rich in faithful species, which can be subsequently used as diagnostic species for identification of community types, OptimClass is a suitable method for simultaneous choice of the optimal classification algorithm and optimal number of clusters. It can be computed in the JUICE program.
3236591| Question: How should species cover be weighted when calculating average indicator values of vegetation relevs? Location: The Netherlands. Method: Various weighting methods were statistically investigated with 188 relevs from The Netherlands for which accurate groundwater levels were available. For each method the correlation between average Ellenberg indicator value for moisture and mean spring groundwater level was calculated. A permutation test on correlation coefficients revealed whether differences between methods were significant or not. Results: Optimization of a general weighting function did not produce a significantly higher correlation than disregarding cover and calculating the average as the arithmetical mean of indicator values. Giving a higher weight to species at both ends of the indicator scale and using indifferent species as indicators of mediocre conditions did improve the correlation significantly. Weighting species proportionate to their cover yielded a significantly lower correlation than the correlation obtained with the method that disregards cover. A significantly lower correlation was also established when taking into account the fact that cover is related to the growth strategy of species. 
3237332|Species-environment data from Senegal, West Africa, are used to study the effects of partition of a large species data set into subsets corresponding to rare and common species respectively. The original data set contains 129 woody plant species from 909 plots and 60 explanatory variables. By applying Canonical Correspondence Analysis to data subsets, marked differences in the forward-selected variables were detected. The highest resemblance was found between the complete species set and the common species subset. Only one of eight selected variables was common to all species and the rare species groups. These findings were tested with partial ordination, applying the selected variables from the original species group (Vb), as variables and covariables to the analyses of common and rare species. For the common species this application resulted in a constrained ordination with higher eigenvalues as compared to the set of variables selected with reference to the common species group. Using the rare species group, the application of Vb gave a much lower sum of eigenvalues than did the ordination with selected variables based on the rare species group only. Evidently, the set of variables selected on the basis of the rare species data were more significant. Hence, the resulting gradients depend on the frequency of the species. Gradient analysis is apparently only valid for species groups with closely resembling characteristics. This implies that different functional types of species, with different distributions and abundances, respond individually to environmental variation. Extrapolating deduced gradients from one species group to another maybe risky, particularly when used in vegetation modelling.
3236787|Distribution patterns of coastal sand dune plant communities in the Circeo National Park (Central Italy) are quantified and compared by measuring spatial connectivity and richness of community boundaries along the dune profile. The purpose of this study is: (1) to evaluate patchiness and frequency of spatial links between communities; (2) to identify the communities most sensitive to disturbance; and (3) to predict probable changes due to modification of spatial zonation. Data were obtained using belt transects across the Holocene coastal dune zone. Vegetation zonation from the seashore to the foredune slacks is analysed in relation to chorological, phytosociological and life-form types. We found that under relatively undisturbed environmental conditions communities formed a sequence (communities 1 to 7), with the exception of a replacement community, which occupied gaps in the perennial vegetation. The spatial distribution of some communities was reduced as a consequence of disturbance; others became fragmented in small patches or even disappeared. In coastal environments with strong, complex gradients, the existence of certain communities depends on specific links (neighbourhood effects) and high connectivity values do not indicate better conservation conditions.
3236382|Species composition patterns and vegetation-environment relationships were quantified for high-elevation rock outcrops of the Southern Appalachian Mountains, an infrequent and insular habitat in a forested landscape. Outcrops occur over a wide geographic range encompassing extensive variation in both geology and climate. Geographic-scale factors interact with site-scale factors to produce variation in vegetation among outcrops. Similarly, site-scale factors interact with micro-scale factors to produce variation in vegetation within outcrops. To provide a quantitatively-based classification of outcrop vegetation we used a TWINSPAN analysis of 154 100-m<sup>2</sup> plots. We recognized nine communities that primarily correspond to different combinations of elevation, bedrock type, geography, and moisture. Within outcrops of a single bedrock type, vegetation composition of 100-m<sup>2</sup> plots was consistently correlated with elevation and solar radiation, but relationships to soil nutrients varied with bedrock type. Both site-scale (100 m<sup>2</sup>) factors (e.g. elevation, slope, aspect, and bedrock type) and plot-scale (1-m<sup>2</sup>) microsite factors (e.g. soil depth, vegetation height, soil nutrients) were strongly correlated with species composition at the 1-m<sup>2</sup> level. Environment can be used to predict composition more effectively for 100-m<sup>2</sup> plots on a single bedrock type than either across bedrock types or at a 1-m<sup>2</sup> scale. Composition-environment relationships resemble those described for outcrop systems from other regions with pronounced topographic relief more than they do those described for the nearby but flatter and lower-elevation outcrops of the Southeastern Piedmont. There is strong spatial autocorrelation in this community, perhaps owing to dispersal limitation. Consequently, a comprehensive conservation strategy must include reservation of both a range of geologic types and a range of geographic locations.
3236755|Many rare plant species occur in Dutch wet dune slacks, particularly in the Junco baltici-Schoenetum nigricantis. For nature management it is important to understand the processes controlling the presence of these basiphilous early successional communities, which is why we investigated vegetation and soil development during succession in coastal dune slacks. We compared 12 chronosequential stages of 0, 2, 4, 9, 10, 13, 25, 30, 43, 60, 70 and 85 yr in five different dune slack systems. In four of these locations turf had earlier been removed in order to restore the basiphilous pioneer stage. The main variation in the vegetation is related to the acidification/soil enrichment gradient and the salinity/maritime gradient. During succession, organic matter accumulates and acidification takes place. Maritime influence can buffer the soil and postpone the succession of basiphilous pioneer communities for many years. A significant correlation with age was found for 18 variables. Multiple regressions predicted changes in the vegetation (dependent variables: biomass, cover of Salix repens, Calamagrostis epigejos and Schoenus nigricans) as a function of acidification, organic matter accumulation, increase in available P and presence of Na in the soil. We conclude that natural ageing of the vegetation and the associated process of accumulation of biomass drive succession in this hydrosere. The underlying soil processes are acidification and organic matter accumulation. During succession dominance shifts from S. nigricans to S. repens or C. epigejos. Maintenance of the pioneer character of the habitat is only possible by local intervention or by natural or man-induced dune forming. The effect of sod-stripping depends on the environmental conditions and, in case of acidification, success is limited. Succession can be postponed by mowing.
3237145|Mechanical damage by floodwaters is frequently invoked to explain the distribution of riparian plant species, but data have been lacking to relate vegetation to specific estimates of flood damage potential. This research uses detailed estimates of unit stream power (an appropriate measure of the potential for mechanical damage) in conjunction with vegetation cover data to test this relationship at 37 valley-bottom sites in the Transverse Ranges of Southern California. A computer program, HEC-2, was used to model the slope and the variation in flow depth and velocity of the 20-yr flood across the sites. Regression models tested the influence of stream power (and of height above the water table) on the woody species composition of 393 4-m cross-section segments of the valley-bottom sites. Results indicate that unit stream power does have a significant effect on the riparian vegetation, but that the amount of that influence and its importance relative to the influence of height above the water table varies between watersheds. Some species are found primarily in locations of high stream power, while others are limited to portions of the valley bottom that experience only low stream power.
40295803|Question: Different plant growth forms may have distinctly different functioning in ecosystems. Association of phenological patterns with growth form will therefore help elucidate the role of phenology in an ecosystem. We ask whether growth forms of common vascular plants differ in terms of vegetative and flowering phenology, and if such phenological differences are consistent across environmental gradients caused by landscape-scale topography. Location: A high-latitude alpine landscape in Finnmark County, Norway (70N). Methods: We assessed vegetative and flowering phenology repeatedly in five growth forms represented by 11 common vascular plant species across an altitudinal gradient and among differing slope aspects. Results: Species phenology clustered well according to growth form, and growth form strongly explained variation in both flowering and vegetative phenology. Altitude and aspect were poor predictors of phenological variation. Vegetative phenology of the growth forms, ranked from slowest to fastest, was in the order evergreen shrubs < sedges-deciduous shrubs < grasses < forbs, while a reverse ranking was found for flowering phenology. Conclusion: Growth form-specific phenological patterns are associated with fundamentally different abilities for resource acquisition and resource conservation. The weak effect of landscape-scale topographic factors indicates that variation within growth forms is mainly influenced by local environmental factors not accounted for in this study. On the basis of these results, we argue that growth forms should be considered as predictors of phenology together with the customary use of topography and normalized difference vegetation index, especially when assessing the role of phenology in an ecosystem.
3236961| Large succulent leaf rosettes are a characteristic life form in many deserts. In certain areas they become the dominant life form, creating a vegetation type indicated as rosette scrub. The large number of rosette species suggests a close relationship between form and environment. Rosettes are excellent harvesters of low-intensity rains and fogs. We propose that some rosette-dominated formations of the Mexican mountains, namely the montane rosette scrub, occur in altitudinal belts around mountains where fog is abundant. We sampled four altitudinal gradients in mountains with different flora recording the abundance and richness of plants. At one site, the Tehuacn Valley, we also measured the quantity of fog along the gradient, below, above and in the rosette scrub for one year. We found that the abundance and richness of succulent rosette species are strongly associated with altitude, showing maximum values in the well-defined elevational belts where the montane rosette scrub occurs. Other life forms, such as stem succulent cacti or woody shrubs, do not show this mid-elevation pattern. The altitudinal ranges where the montane rosette scrub occurs usually coincide with areas where clouds and fog form. Our micrometeorological measurements indicate that rosette plants growing within a cloud belt can increase their water supply by 10-100% by harvesting fog. Outside these belts fog harvest is negligible. Desert rosettes constitute one of the most common fog-harvesting growth forms. 
40295777|Questions: The early phases of primary succession are governed by chance events and dispersal-related processes in an environment that is largely free of competition. Thus, the predictability of vegetation patterns using environmental site factors can be expected to be low and spatial autocorrelation to be high. We asked whether the match between vegetation and environment becomes better in the course of succession, and whether vegetation types shift their realized niche with time. Location: Lignite mining region in Central Germany, the post-mining landscape "Goitzsche" (Saxony-Anhalt). Methods: Vegetation types were mapped in a 10-m grid (total area 4.8 ha), starting in 1995, at 3-year intervals until 2007. We used a temporal comparison of habitat models. We applied: GLS regression to partition the variation in coverage of vegetation types into environmental (soil pH) and spatial components; logistic regression to model the presence/absence of vegetation types along a soil acidity gradient; and autologistic regression allowing for soil acidity and neighbourhood effects. Results: For most vegetation types, the proportion of variation explained by space was high but declined during succession. The outcome of autologistic models suggests that soil acidity often plays a minor role compared to neighbourhood effects in the earlier phase of succession than 12 years later. For four vegetation types, the pH range in which the type was expected to be dominant clearly became smaller with time. These trends support the view that the role of processes related to chance and dispersal decrease with time, while those related to environmental filtering mediated by biotic interactions increase. Conclusions: We conclude that temporal comparisons of spatially explicit habitat models provide insights into changing biotic community processes and their effects on habitat specificity of species or their communities. Thus, this approach may be particularly important for analysis of ecological systems that are not in equilibrium with their environmental drivers.
25173202|Questions: What are the long-term effects of climate change on the plant species composition and carbon sequestration in peat bogs? Methods: We developed a bog ecosystem model that includes vegetation, carbon, nitrogen and water dynamics. Two groups of vascular plant species and three groups of Sphagnum species compete with each other for light and nitrogen. The model was tested by comparing the outcome with long-term historic vegetation changes in peat cores from Denmark and England. A climate scenario was used to analyse the future effects of atmospheric CO, temperature and precipitation. Results: The main changes in the species composition since 1766 were simulated by the model. Simulations for a future warmer, and slightly wetter, climate with doubling CO concentration suggest that little will change in species composition, due to the contrasting effects of increasing temperatures (favouring vascular plants) and CO (favouring Sphagnum). Further analysis of the effects of temperature showed that simulated carbon sequestration is negatively related to vascular plant expansion. Model results show that increasing temperatures may still increase carbon accumulation at cool, low N deposition sites, but decrease carbon accumulation at high N deposition sites. Conclusions: Our results show that the effects of temperature, precipitation, N-deposition and atmospheric CO are not straightforward, but interactions between these components of global change exist. These interactions are the result of changes in vegetation composition. When analysing long-term effects of global change, vegetation changes should be taken into account and predictions should not be based on temperature increase alone.
25549235|Question: What is the relative contribution of geographic distance, soil and topographic variables in determining the community floristic patterns and individual tree species abundances in the nutrient-poor soils of central Amazonia? Location: Central Amazonia near Manaus, Brazil. Methods: Our analysis was based on data for 1105 tree species ( 10 cm dbh) within 40 1-ha plots over a ca. 1000-km area. Slope and 26 soil-surface parameters were measured for each plot. A main soil-fertility gradient (encompassing soil texture, cation content, nitrogen and carbon) and five other uncorrelated soil and topographic variables were used as potential predictors of plant-community composition. Mantel tests and multiple regressions on distance matrices were used to detect relationships at the community level, and ordinary least square (OLS) and conditional autoregressive (CAR) models were used to detect relationships for individual species abundances. Results: Floristic similarity declined rapidly with distance over small spatial scales (0-5 km), but remained constant (ca. 44%) over distances of 5 to 30 km, which indicates lower beta diversity than in western Amazonian forests. Distance explained 1/3 to 1/2 more variance in floristics measures than environmental variables. Community composition was most strongly related to the main soil-fertility gradient and C:N ratio. The main fertility gradient and pH had the greatest impact of species abundances. About 30% of individual tree species were significantly related to one or more soil/topographic parameters. Conclusions: Geographic distance and the main fertility gradient are the best predictors of community floristic composition, but other soil variables, particularly C:N ratio, pH, and slope, have strong relationships with a significant portion of the tree community.
3235930|By relating species presence, number and density to the perimeter and isolation of small (0.1 - 2.75 ha) homogeneous woodlots (n = 43), indications were obtained that some fleshy-fruited species are negatively affected by woodlot isolation. The number of fruit-bearing herbaceous perennial species increased with woodlot area, probably because of the increasing heterogeneity of the herb layer. The density of individuals of the investigated species were negatively correlated to woodlot area. There were also some indications that the presence/absence of species was related to the length of the forest edge (e.g. Hedera helix). Because woodlot area and shape index were strongly correlated, the effects of increased forest area and forest edge were hard to separate. The probability of occurrence of Lonicera periclymenum and the density of Ilex aquifolium decreased with an increasing degree of isolation of present forest islands. The chance of occurrence of L. periclymenum decreased also with the degree of isolation in the past, measured from topographical maps of about 60 yr ago. The total area of broad-leaved forest within a radius of 500 m, as well as the distance to the nearest connecting landscape element, seem to be good indicators of woodlot isolation.
25173238|Question: How does nutrient limitation vary along major environmental gradients in fens and wet meadows? Location: West Carpathians (Czech Republic, Slovakia). Methods: We recorded total plant species composition in 83 plots of 9 m. Living above-ground biomass of total vegetation was sampled. Concentrations of Ca, Fe, N, P, K were determined. Obtained data were analysed by various univariate and multivariate statistical techniques. Results: Major environmental gradients correspond to the poor-rich vegetation gradient, from poor Sphagnum-fens to calcareous fens, and the fen-meadow gradient from sedge-moss fens to forb-rich wet meadows. Ca-concentration in above-ground biomass was strongly positively correlated with the poor-rich gradient, while Fe- and N-concentrations had an opposite trend. Poor-fen vegetation contained little calcium and much iron. The lowest P-concentrations were found in calcareous tufa-forming fens. Variation in N:K ratio indicated a slight decrease of K-availability towards poor fens. Along the fen-meadow gradient, vegetation uptake of P, K and Ca increases and the uptake of Fe decreases. Conclusions: Our results suggest that variation in the type of nutrient limitation is not a dominant cause of the poor-rich gradient in fens due to the important role of calcium and iron. Nevertheless, species distribution along the poor-rich gradient is influenced by phosphorus shortage in tufa-forming fens and relatively high N-uptake and low K-availability in poor fens. Additional P- and K-supply to Ca-rich fens can alter species composition towards forb-rich meadows.
3235738|Vegetation and biomass in six plots, each with five quadrats, in Vitex shrubland in northern China were related to type and degree of human disturbance. Canonical correspondence analysis of the vegetation and environmental data showed two lines of variation, the first one highly correlated with the degree of disturbance, but the second one appearing within the disturbed plots cannot yet be fully explained. Changes in life-form spectrum were small, but the geographical spectrum changed under heavy disturbance towards a higher proportion of tropical, subtropical and cosmopolitan species. The number of shrub species also decreased noticeably. The above-ground biomass of both Vitex and the accompanying species and the total above-ground biomass of the shrubland was negatively correlated with the intensity of disturbance. The root/stem biomass ratio in Vitex reaches values of over 5 in disturbed plots, but only between 1 and 2 in the protected plots.
3237349|Winter annuals were mapped in a series of permanent plots located in gaps in an Austrian dry grassland over a period of 3 yr. Great differences in abundance were found among nine winter annuals - Arabis auriculata, Arenaria leptoclados, Cerastium glutinosum, Erophila spathulata, Holosteum umbellatum, Hornungia petraea, Saxifraga tridactylites, Thlaspi perfoliatum and Veronica praecox - occurring in the gaps. The absolute frequency of species varied considerably from year to year, while their relative proportions remained nearly constant in the plots over the study period. High spatial dissociation (low level of spatial coincidence) between populations was observed; this was ascribed to boleochory, known to generate monospecific patches. No trend in self-replacement of a species was found. This means that occupying a place in one year does not necessarily mean the same place will be occupied in following years. The probability of a species replacing another was found to be low. The space could be inhabited by any species or remain unoccupied. We suggest that the distribution patterns of species are controlled by dispersal and preference for microhabitats, at least at the scale of 20 cm x 20 cm. It was shown by a permutation method based on cumulative frequencies, that at smaller scales the habitat differentiation vanishes. We suggest that, up to a typical dispersal range of the winter annuals, the Carousel model can be applied due to the lack of coincidence (and presumably also interactions) of individuals. Nevertheless, time may eliminate the habitat differentiation at any scale. A design of an improved data-sampling and a handling procedure was developed.
40925558|Questions: Fire is a strong filter in fire-prone communities and is expected to assemble closely related species when functional traits are conserved in plant lineages. Do frequent fires assemble savannas with closely related species (phylogenetic clustering)? If so, what are the clades pruned by fire in the phylogenetic trees? Are species of semi-deciduous seasonal forests, where fires are not frequent, less related than expected by chance (phylogenetic overdispersion)? Are life forms conserved in the phylogeny of the species? Location: Central and SE Brazilian savannas (Emas National Park, 18  18'S, 5254'W; Braslia, 15 56'-1557'S, 4753'-4756'W and Corumbata-Itirapina, 2213'2215'S, 4737'4739'W); and close semi-deciduous seasonal forests (in Pirenpolis, 1545'S, 4904'W; Brasilia, 1533'S, 475'W; and So Carlos, 2155'S, 4748'W). Methods: We recorded woody species in savannas under different fire regimes and in semi-deciduous seasonal forests. We obtained data from the literature and from field sampling. We compared mean phylogenetic distance of species of savanna and of nearby semi-deciduous seasonal forest sites. We obtained significance by randomizing the species among the tips of phylogenetic trees. We also assessed whether life forms were evolutionary conserved across phylogeny of the studied plants (phylogenetic signal) with tests based on the variance of phylogenetic independent contrasts. Results: Some sites of savanna under high fire frequency were characterized by phylogenetic overdispersion of woody species whereas, in contrast, some sites of semi-deciduous seasonal forest were characterized by phylogenetic clustering. We found phylogenetic signals in the traits across the phylogeny of the 801 species investigated. Conclusion: Fire may have different roles in assembling plant species in Brazilian savannas than in other fire-prone communities. We postulate that the absence of phylogenetic clustering in the cerrado is mainly due to the persistence of long-lived resprouting species from different plant lineages.
25549228|Question: Is it possible to improve the general applicability and significance of empirical relationships between abiotic conditions and vegetation by harmonization of temporal data? Location: The Netherlands. Methods: Three datasets of vegetation, recorded after periods with different meteorological conditions, were used to analyze relationships between soil moisture regime (expressed by the mean spring groundwater level -
3236870|We studied the distribution of litter in a shrubland of the Negev with a semi-arid Mediterranean climate of less than 200 mm of rainfall per year. Our focus was on the effects of litter on properties of landscape patches relevant to ecosystem processes (water runoff and soil erosion), annual plant community responses (seedling density, biomass production and species richness), and animal activity (soil disturbance by termites). Three 60-m transects, extending across a pair of opposing north- and south-facing slopes and their drainage channel, showed that litter accumulates not only under shrubs, but to a lesser extent also on the crusted inter-shrub open areas. We used 35 experimental units ('cells', 0.5 m x 1 m), each containing a crust and a shrub patch. Because runoff flows from crusted patches and is intercepted by shrub patches, the latter were in the lower third of the cells. Leaf litter was added in single and double amounts providing ca. 0.5 and 1.0 cm litter depth, to either, both, or none of the patches. Litter addition significantly decreased the amount of runoff, regardless of the location and amount of litter applied. Litter on the crust increased species number and seedling density of species with low abundance. Adding a double litter layer increased annual plant biomass production, while a single amount had no effect. Litter addition to the shrub patch affected neither biomass nor species richness. Litter addition to both patches at both quantities caused a large increase in termite activity. Termites caused disturbance by disrupting the crust, which may contribute to the reduction in runoff amounts. In the open, flat crust patches, annual plant communities are limited in their productivity and species richness, as there are few structures stopping the outflow of water, soil and seeds. Litter adds such structures, but affects the plant communities only when added to litter-free crust. Litter accumulation and its patchy distribution have large impacts on landscape patch properties affecting resource distribution, plant productivity and diversity, and animal activity. Therefore, understanding litter distribution in relation to the patchy structure of the landscape of semi-arid shrubland should be viewed as an important component of shrubland management.
3236981|Woody plants are increasing in many grassland and savanna ecosystems around the world. As a case in point, the Edwards Plateau of Texas, USA, is a vast region (93 000 km<sup>2</sup>) in which rapid woody encroachment appears to be occurring. The native vegetation (prior to the Anglo-European settlement 150 - 200 yr ago) and the biogeochemical consequences of woody encroachment in this region, however, are poorly understood. To assess these matters we measured plant and soil  <sup>13</sup>C, soil organic C and soil N content from grasslands and two important woody patch types (mature Quercus virginiana clusters and Juniperus ashei woodlands) in this region. Soil  <sup>13</sup>C values showed that relative productivity of C<sub>3</sub> species has increased in grassland and both woody habitats in recent times.  <sup>13</sup>C of SOC in grasslands and Q. virginiana clusters increased with depth from the litter layer to 30 cm (grasslands = <tex-math>$- 21 TO - 13\permille$</tex-math>; Q. virginiana clusters = <tex-math>$- 27 to - 17\permille$</tex-math>) and were significantly different between habitats at all depths, indicating that Q. virginiana has been a long-term component of the landscape. In J. ashei woodlands, soil  <sup>13</sup>C values (at 20 - 30 cm depth) near the woodland edge <tex-math>$(- 13\permille)$</tex-math> converged with those of an adjacent grassland <tex-math>$(- 13\permille)$</tex-math> while those from the woodland interior <tex-math>$- 15\permille$</tex-math> remained distinct, indicating that the woodland has been present for many years but has recently expanded. Concentrations and densities of SOC and total N were generally greater in woody patches than in grasslands. However, differences in the amount of SOC and N stored beneath the two woody patch types indicates that C and N sequestration potentials are species dependent.
3235730|Properties of the top 30 cm of soil under plantations of 1-yr to 8-yr old Eucalyptus (the hybrid E. tereticornis) and in adjacent natural mixed broad-leaved forest were compared in the sub-tropical zone of the central Himalaya. Various soil-physical characteristics decreased with increasing age; soil-chemical properties, notably organic carbon, total N, P and K decreased as a result of reforestation with Eucalyptus and further decreased with increasing age of the plantation.
3236000|Plant species distributions are generally thought to be chiefly under environmental control, although they may be affected by disturbance events or dispersion properties of the species. The relative importance of these different factors is not easy to evaluate because they often share common spatial patterns, such that an inextricable network of relationships occurs between plant distributions, environmental conditions, disturbance events and endogenous factors such as propagule dispersion. In this paper we propose a method for untangling the common spatial component from the relationship between environmental conditions and the distribution of tree species. Using partial Mantel tests and path analysis, we test models of relationships between these data sets. Results show that in our study area, spatial patterns of species associated with hydric conditions remain largely correlated with environmental conditions. However, mesic sites show more complex forest covers, in which a significant spatial component persists when environmental variation is statistically controlled for. This remaining spatial variability suggests that other factors possessing spatial structure partly explain species distributions.
3236082|Mires with attributes similar to the patterned fens of boreal continental regions have recently been reported from northern Scotland. This paper reports on the vegetation and water chemistry of 18 of these sites. Most of the 18 mires displayed remarkable uniformity in their vegetation, with Carex lasiocarpa being a main character species. Major variation of plant communities is associated with microtopographical niches, similar to those found on ombrotrophic mire systems and secondarily with pH and conductivity of surface waters. Nine vegetation noda are described and compared with existing phytosociological associations and National Vegetation Classification (NVC) communities. The dominant Sphagnum - Carex communities are intermediate between the Oxycocco-Sphagnetea and the Caricion lasiocarpae and are thus difficult to assign to existing associations or to NVC communities. Although there is a large variation in pH of surface waters (3.9-6.6), mean measurements for terrestrial and aquatic communities are 5.12 and 5.51 respectively. pH levels are comparable with poor fen systems elsewhere in Britain and slightly higher than patterned fens in continental regions of Europe and North America. The vegetational and chemical attributes of these sites therefore confirm the existence of true patterned fen systems in the British Isles.
4499273|Question: What was the role of fire during the establishment of the current overstory (ca. 1870-1940) in mixed-oak forests of eastern North America? Location: Nine sites representing a 240-km latitudinal gradient on the Allegheny and Cumberland Plateaus of eastern North America. Methods: Basal cross-sections were collected from 225 trees. Samples were surfaced, and fire scars were dated. Fire history diagrams were constructed and fire return intervals were calculated for each site. Geographic patterns of fire occurrence, and fire-climate relationships were assessed. Results: Fire was a frequent and widespread occurrence during the formation of mixed-oak forests, which initiated after large-scale land clearing in the region ca. 1870. Fire return ranged from 1.7 to 11.1 years during a period of frequent burning from 1875 to 1936. Fires were widespread during this period, sometimes occurring across the study region in the same year. Fires occurred in a variety of climate conditions, including both drought and non-drought years. Fires were rare from 1936 to the present. Conclusions: A variety of fire regime characteristics were discerned. First, a period of frequent fire lasted approximately 60 years during the establishment of the current oak overstory. Second, fire occurred during a variety of climate conditions, including wet climates and extreme drought. Finally, there was within-site temporal variability in fire occurrence. These reference conditions could be mimicked in ongoing oak restoration activities, improving the likelihood of restoration success.
3236557|The ground flora (vascular plants < 2 m high, excluding trees and shrubs) was recorded in 1974 and 1991 from 163 permanent 10 m x 10 m plots arranged on a systematic grid across Wytham Woods, near Oxford (UK). The Woods cover about 320 ha, are predominantly deciduous, but of varying ages and management types. The total number of species found (173, 167 respectively), the mean richness per plot (16.7, 17.2) and the breakdown of the species list between different species types (ancient woodland indicators, other woodland species, non-woodland species) showed no significant differences between 1974 and 1991, but mean ground cover declined from 80% to 64%. Ancient woodland indicators as a group showed less change between the years than species associated with the open glades and grassland patches in the wood. Some species increased in frequency across the woodland including Arum maculatum, Brachypodium sylvaticum, Deschampsia cespitosa and Poa trivialis; while others such as Ajuga reptans, Angelica sylvestris and Circaea lutetiana declined. Mean cover of Rubus fruticosus per plot declined from 35% to 6% and of Mercurialis perennis from 32 to 24%. More species were lost from plantations than from semi-natural stands. The results are based on only two times, so inferences on possible causes must be drawn with caution. However the results are consistent with the effects of (1) the changing conditions associated with stand growth, particularly in the plantations, and (2) an increase in browsing/ grazing by deer. No evidence was found for an effect of changing soil nitrogen levels on the vegetation. Changes in the ground flora as well as the woody layers, and in managed as well as unmanaged stands should be monitored, if nature conservation objectives are to be met.
3236530|Species composition, detritus, and soil data from 97 boreal forest stands along a transect in central Canada were analysed using Correspondence Analysis to determine the dominant environmental/site variables that differentiate these forest stands. Picea mariana stands were densely clustered together on the understorey DCA plot, suggesting a consistent understorey species composition (feather mosses and Ericaceae), whereas Populus tremuloides stands had the most diverse understorey species composition (ca. 30 species, mostly shrubs and herbs). Pinus banksiana stands had several characteristic species of reindeer lichens (Cladina spp.), but saplings and Pinus seedlings were rare. Although climatic variables showed large variation along the transect, the CCA results indicated that site conditions are more important in determining species composition and differentiating the stand types. Forest floor characteristics (litter and humus layer, woody debris, and drainage) appear to be among the most important site variables. Stands of Picea had significantly higher average carbon (C) densities in the combined litter and humus layer (43530 kg-C.ha<sup>-1</sup>) than either Populus (25 500 kg-C.ha<sup>-1</sup>) or Pinus (19400 kg-C.ha<sup>-1</sup>). The thick surface organic layer in lowland Picea stands plays an important role in regulating soil temperature and moisture, and organic-matter decomposition, which in turn affect the ecosystem C-dynamics. During forest succession after a stand-replacing disturbance (e.g. fires), tree biomass and surface organic layer thickness increase in all stand types as forests recover; however, woody biomass detritus first decreases and then increases after ca. 80 yr. Soil C densities show slight decrease with ages in Populus stands, but increase in other stand types. These results indicate the complex C-transfer processes among different components (tree biomass, detritus, forest floor, and soil) of boreal ecosystems at various stages of succession.
3236531|We evaluated the balance of production and decomposition in natural ecosystems of Pinus sylvestris, Larix sibirica and Betula pendula in the southern boreal forests of central Siberia, using the Yenisei transect. We also investigated whether anthropogenic disturbances (logging, fire and recreation pressure) influence the carbon budget. Pinus and Larix stands up to age class VI act as a net sink for atmospheric carbon. Mineralization rates in young Betula forests exceed rates of uptake via photosynthesis assimilation. Old-growth stands of all three forest types are CO<sub>2</sub> sources to the atmosphere. The prevalence of old-growth Larix in the southern taiga suggests that Larix stands are a net source of CO<sub>2</sub>. The CO<sub>2</sub> flux to the atmosphere exceeds the uptake of atmospheric carbon via photosynthesis by 0.23 t C.ha<sup>-1</sup>.yr<sup>-1</sup> (47%). Betula and Pinus forests are net sinks, as photosynthesis exceeds respiration by 13% and 16% respectively. The total carbon flux from Pinus, Larix and Betula ecosystems to the atmosphere is 10 387 thousand tons C.yr<sup>-1</sup>. Net Primary Production (0.935 t-C.ha<sup>-1</sup>) exceeds carbon release from decomposition of labile and mobile soil organic matter (Rh) by 767 thousand tons C (0.064 t-C.ha<sup>-1</sup>), so that these forests are net C-sinks. The emissions due to decomposition of slash (101 thousand tons C; 1.0%) and from fires (0.21%) are very small. The carbon balance of human-disturbed forests is significantly different. A sharp decrease in biomass stored in Pinus and Betula ecosystems leads to decreased production. As a result, the labile organic matter pool decreased by 6-8 times; course plant residues with a low decomposition rate thus dominate this pool. Annual carbon emissions to the atmosphere from these ecosystems are determined primarily by decomposing fresh litterfall. This source comprises 40-79% of the emissions from disturbed forests compared to only 13-28% in undisturbed forests. The ratio of emissions to production (NPP) is 20-30% in disturbed and 52-76% in undisturbed forests.
25173188|Question: How far can we simplify the floristic complexity of a tropical rainforest into functional groups in order to predict tree population dynamics after logging-induced disturbance? Location: Paracou experimental site, French Guiana. Methods: We used data from over 15 years in control and distributed plots from a silvicultural trial started in 1984. We selected 53 common tree species assigned to five functional groups based on potential size and light requirement. For each species, we quantified: the fate, i.e. variation in population size, and dynamic processes, i.e. mortality, recruitment and growth, driving this fate. We investigated the links between dynamic processes, fate and functional groups. Results: Disturbance stimulated growth and recruitment for most species, but had a heterogeneous impact on mortality. Species fate in disturbed plots depended on recruitment and was more favourable than in control plots. The functional classification was more predictive for most separate dynamic processes than for species fate: after disturbance, significant differences were found between all functional groups for growth. Pioneer+heliophilous species showed significantly higher recruitment rates. Mortality of shade-tolerant species slightly increased and of mid-tolerant and heliophilous species decreased. Conclusions: A combination of three species classifications separately built from the growth, recruitment and mortality processes is more informative than a global classification combining the processes. Identifying the pioneer+heliophilous species on the basis of their growth rate is crucial to predict species fate after disturbance. We showed that potential growth rate could be used as a reliable indicator to identify this group.
3237368|Litter fall and litter decomposition were studied in four mature stands of Pinus sylvestris (Scots pine) in the eastern Pyrenees. The stands were located in environments differing in bedrock type and exposition and were studied for two years. Mass-loss during the first year of decomposition was compared with other European P. sylvestris forests and regressed with environmental variables (temperature and rainfall) and latitude. The results suggested that the mean amount of needle fall (1760 kg  ha<sup>-1</sup>  yr<sup>-1</sup>) was within the range reported for northern European stands. There were more differences in the amount of litter fall between the four stands than between the two years studied. However, the needle fall pattern over the year showed significant differences between years in three of the four stands. Litter decomposition was similar in all the stands and only the one in drier conditions showed a lower decomposition rate. On the European scale the decomposition rate was positively related to mean annual temperature and annual rainfall. However, regression analysis suggests that there are other factors, not taken into account in this study, that are important for predicting the decomposition rate.
3236277|We propose an alternative approach for the currently used biogeographic global vegetation classifications. A hierarchical vegetation classification system is proposed for consistent and routine monitoring of global vegetation. Global vegetation is first defined into six classes based on plant canopy structure and dynamics observable by remote sensing from satellites. Additional biome variability is then represented through a remote sensing derived leaf area index map, and direct climate data sets driving an ecosystem model to compute and map net primary production and evapotranspiration. Simulation results from an ecosystem function model suggest that the six canopy structure-based classes are sufficient to represent global variability in these parameters, provided the spatio-temporal variations in Leaf Area Index and climate are characterized accurately. If a bioclimatically based classification is needed for other purposes, our six class approach can be expanded to a possible 21 classes using archived climatic zones. For example, tropical, subtropical, temperate and boreal labels are defined by absolute minimum temperature. Further separation in each class is possible through changes in water availability defined by precipitation and/or soils. The resulting vegetation classes correspond to many of the existing, conventional global vegetation schemes, yet retain the measure of actual vegetation possible because remote sensing first defines the six biome classes in our classification. Vegetation classifications are no longer an end product but a source of initializing data for global ecosystem function models. Remote sensing with biosphere models directly calculates the ecological functions previously inferred from vegetation classifications, but with higher spatial and temporal accuracy.
3237229|Links between plant traits and the environment, i.e. sets of plant attributes consistently associated with certain environmental conditions, are the consequence of the filtering effect of climatic, disturbance and biotic conditions. These filters determine which components of a species pool are assembled into local communities. We aimed at testing for consistent association between plant traits and climatic conditions along a steep regional gradient, divided into 13 climatically homogeneous sectors, in central-western Argentina. We analyzed 19 vegetative and regeneration traits of the 100 most abundant species along the gradient. For each trait, we tested for homogeneity of frequencies of different categories between sectors and the regional species pool, using the <sup>2</sup> statistic. We rejected H<sub>0</sub> in 71 % of the pair-wise comparisons, which strongly suggests a 'filtering effect' of climatic factors on key plant functions. Vegetative traits were filtered more often than regeneration traits. Specific leaf area, life span, ramification, canopy height, leaf weight ratio, carbon investment into support tissue and pollination mode were the traits showing differences in the largest number of pair-wise comparisons. This is probably the first attempt to detect, on a quantitative, statistically conservative basis, consistent linkages between climatic factors and numerous plant traits, over a broad spectrum of environmental conditions and plant growth forms. We discuss the advantages and limitations of this approach in predicting vegetation structure and functioning under present environmental conditions, and those expected for the next century as a consequence of global change.
3236914|The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of flooding and draw-down on the germination from the coastal grassland seed banks and to determine whether the effect of flooding varies between the delta and the seashore. Seed bank samples were collected from three shore transects in SW Finland, two on the shore of the Baltic Sea and one on the delta of River Kokemaenjoki. Samples were germinated in non-flooded and flooded conditions for over a month, after which both treatments were maintained in non-flooded conditions. A total of 9267 seedlings of 47 species germinated and mean density of seeds in the soil was ca. 84 000/m<sup>2</sup>. Most of the seedlings were monocots (98%) and perennials (98%). Ca. 30-40% of the species found in the above-ground vegetation had a seed bank including the majority of the most abundant species. The number of seeds and species richness increased as the organic layer became thicker. The organic layer was thicker in the seashore samples and the seed bank was significantly larger than in the delta. The flooding and draw-down treatment significantly increased the number of germinating seedlings in the seashore and also increased species richness in two transects, one in the delta and the other in the seashore. Two species, Schoenoplectus tabernaemontani and Typha latifolia, had significantly higher germination in the flooded treatment than in the non-flooded. Apparently, many species in these coastal grasslands have adapted to flood disturbance and for seeds of some species flooding may work as a positive signal, possibly breaking dormancy.
3237091|Several researchers have hypothesized that plant species richness has a unimodal relationship with biomass, while others have argued for a linear relationship. Data from various types of herbaceous communities show some support for the unimodal hypothesis, but this has not been tested extensively for forests and questions remain concerning its generality. We used linear and quadratic regression models to examine the relationship between overstory biomass and richness in a coastal Maine Quercus-Pinus forest across and within cover types using data from two plot sizes (2500-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats and 625-m<sup>2</sup> sub-quadrats). Understory data from 1-m<sup>2</sup> plots were also analysed. Richness was quadratically related to biomass at both plot sizes for all cover types combined, but the amount of variation explained by the models was very low (R<sup>2</sup>s < 0.09). Richness and biomass were not significantly related at either plot size for the mixed mesic cover type, the most common type in the forest. The best fit (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.43) was obtained with a quadratic model for the conifer cover type at the sub-quadrat level, with the quadratic model for the 1-m<sup>2</sup> data having the second highest R<sup>2</sup> (0.24). Across all six data sets, the quadratic model was the only one with a significant fit in two cases, and had considerably higher R<sup>2</sup>s (1.3 - 1.9 x) in two others. The remaining two data sets could not be fit with a significant model of either type. For this forest, these results suggest little support for a linear relationship between plant species richness and biomass and variable, often weak, support for a unimodal relationship. Density, a potentially confounding variable in this type of analysis, was only weakly correlated with richness and was not found to alter the relationship between biomass and richness.
25173151|Question: What is the effect of vertical seed distribution (i.e. seeds on soil surface or buried) and the relative importance of vertical and horizontal seed distribution (i.e. seeds near established vegetation or near bare soil) for seedling emergence? Location: Patagonian arid steppe. Methods: To evaluate the effect of vertical seed distribution on seedling emergence, four sowing treatments were used in field and greenhouse experiments. Vertical vs. horizontal seed distribution and the occurrence of seedlings were analysed in the field. Effects of trampling and mechanical drilling on seedling emergence were investigated experimentally in the field. Results: In field and glasshouse experiments buried seeds showed a higher emergence and larger seedling size than seeds lying on the soil surface. The observational field study indicated that natural emergence was not associated with particular microsites or plant cover (horizontal distribution), but that most seedlings emerged from buried positions (vertical distribution). Buried seeds represented less than 10% of the sampled seed cohort but account for almost 60% of the seedlings. The trampling/drilling experiment showed that sheep trampling and mechanical drilling increased seedling emergence compared to non-treated controls. Conclusions: The population dynamics of Bromus pictus is strongly constrained by the vertical position of seeds, which largely affects emergence, and seed horizontal distribution, which largely affects seedling survival. Our results showed that sheep trampling after seed dispersal may be a low-input technique for increasing grass recruitment.
3236540|Loss of environmental services provided by forests is a non-linear process in Jambi Province, Sumatra, Indonesia. Intermediate-intensity land-use types in the form of complex agroforests have maintained global environmental benefits under a sustainable and profitable land use regime. Conversion to tree crop monocultures, however, poses a challenge to the environmental stakeholders and an opportunity from to stakeholders in the private economy. We quantified environmental indicators, as well as profitability and sustainability of a range of existing and possible production systems. Criteria and indicators were used at plot to landscape scales, taking into account local, national and global perspectives. Agronomic sustainability and profitability were assessed at plot level as they are of primarily local concern, while environmental services of forests, such as plant species and functional type richness, carbon stocks, greenhouse gas emissions, and trans-boundary haze, which are of national and global concern, were assessed at landscape level. Quantitative trade-offs and complementarities were analysed between global environmental benefits and local profitability. The current trend towards simplification of the complex agro-ecosystems and inherent loss of environmental services of forests is driven by profitability. The sequence in which environmental services of forests are lost is: standing carbon stocks, biodiversity, and low or negative greenhouse gas emissions.
3236455|Recolonization of two experimentally cleared 9 m<sup>2</sup>-patches by macrophytes in a former channel of the Rhone River, France, was investigated from May to July 1994. Two patterns of recolonization were recognized: (1) Groenlandia densa, Luronium natans and Potamogeton natans invaded the bare areas by propagation from the adjacent vegetation (border effect); (2) Potamogeton pusillus colonized the disturbed areas at random, apparently independently from the position of nearby clumps. An intermediate recolonization pattern was shown by Callitriche platycarpa, Elodea canadensis, Hippuris vulgaris, Ranunculus circinatus and Sparganium emersum. Species recolonization patterns and associated strategies were related to species traits, particularly vegetative and sexual reproduction.
25173167|Questions: How do young sagebrush shrubs (Artemisia rothrockii, Asteraceae) affect soil moisture availability? How do young sagebrush shrubs affect soil nitrogen cycling? How does the resident herb community respond to shrub removal in the early stages of sagebrush encroachment? Location: Mulkey and Bullfrog Meadows on the Kern Plateau in the Golden Trout Wilderness, Sierra Nevada Mountains, Inyo National Forest, Inyo County, California, USA. Methods: We removed young encroaching sagebrush shrubs from 3.5 m  3.5 m plots and compared soil moisture, net mineralization, net nitrification, and herb cover with paired control plots over four growing seasons. Results: On average throughout the experiment, the difference between removal plots and control plots in soil moisture was small. Removal plots were wetter by 1.3  2.0% at 0-30 cm depth, 2.1  3.1% at 30-60 cm depth and 3.1  5.8% at 60-90 cm depth. By contrast, after four years, net mineralization was 32  26% (mean  95% CI) lower in sagebrush removal plots, suggesting that sagebrush encroachment increases rates of N-cycling. Total herb cover was 13.0  6.4% (mean  95% CI) higher in plots where young sagebrush shrubs were removed. This difference in cover appeared during the first season in which sagebrush shrubs were removed. Conclusions: Our results suggest that while young sagebrush shrubs do not contribute substantially to meadow drying, they alter N cycling rates, and may indirectly increase the rate of their own encroachment by competitively reducing resident herbs.
3236502|Composition and density of the soil seed banks, together with seedling emergence in the field, were examined on Svalbard. 1213 soil samples were collected from six dry-mesic habitats in three regions representing various stages of colonization from bare moraines to full vegetation cover and spanning a range of typical nutrient and thermal regimes. Of the 165 vascular plant species native to Svalbard, 72 were present as mature plants at the study sites and of these 70% germinated seed. Proglacial soil had 12 seedlings per m<sup>2</sup>, disturbed Dryas heath 131, intact Dryas heath 91, polar heath 715, thermophilic heath 3113, and a bird cliff 10437 seedlings. Highest seed bank species richness was at the thermophilic heath (26 species). Seedlings of 27 species emerged in the field, with fewer seedlings in disturbed habitats (60 seedlings per m<sup>2</sup>) than in intact Dryas heath (142), suggesting that an absence of 'safe sites' limited seedling establishment in disturbed habitats. Measurement of seedling emergence in the field increased awareness of which species are able to germinate naturally. This may be underestimated by up to 31% if greenhouse trials alone are used, owing partly to unsuitability of greenhouse conditions for germination of some species and also to practical limitations of amount of soil sampled. Most thermophilic species failed to germinate and some species present at several sites only germinated from the thermophilic heath seed bank, suggesting that climate constrains recruitment from seeds in the High Arctic.
4096681|Question: What is the influence of refuse dumps of leaf-cutting ants on seedling recruitment under contrasting moisture conditions in a semi-arid steppe? Location: Northwestern Patagonia, Argentina. Methods: In a greenhouse experiment, we monitored seedling recruitment in soil samples from refuse dumps of nests of the leaf-cutting ant Acromyrmex lobicornis and non-nest sites, under contrasting moisture conditions simulating wet and dry growing seasons. Results: The mean number of seedling species and individuals were higher in wet than in dry plots, and higher in refuse dump plots than in non-nest soil plots. The positive effect of refuse dumps on seedling recruitment was greater under low moisture conditions. Both the accumulation of discarded seeds by leaf-cutting ants and the passive trapping of blowing-seeds seems not explain the increased number of seeds in refuse dumps. Conversely, refuse dumps have higher water retention capacity and nutrient content than adjacent non-nest soils, allowing the recruitment of a greater number of species and individual seedlings. Conclusions: Nests of A. lobicornis may play an important role in plant recruitment in the study area, allowing a greater number of seedlings and species to be present, hence resulting in a more diverse community. Moreover, leaf-cutting ant nests may function as nurse elements, generating safe sites that enhance the performance of neighbouring seedlings mainly during the driest, stressful periods.
3235903|A tussock grassland, in Blackrock Reserve, New Zealand, was sampled thoroughly at scales ranging from 0.01 m x 0.01 m to 20 m x 20 m, to investigate species-area relations of relevance to plant community structure, and to offer a pointer to reserve design. In total, 96 species were found. Of the native vascular species among these, 20% were new records for the reserve. For the total and the native vascular flora the observed points fell midway between the Arrhenius and Gleason fitted curves. Cryptogams fitted the Arrhenius model well, with z close to the 0.26 value expected for isolates under Preston's Canonical hypothesis. Extrapolation of the Arrhenius curve to the whole of the New Zealand uplands gave values far too large; the Gleason curve gave values much too low. A General Root model is introduced. It fits the observed species richnesses at various quadrat sizes considerably better than previous models. When biogeographic limitations on species richness are included, extrapolation of the General Root curve accurately predicts the size of the upland flora. This fit, the lack of an asymptote, and the rarity structure, are compatible with a random and individualistic model of community structure. However, there are differences in species-area relation between vascular and cryptogamic plants, which cautions against expecting any universal type of community structure. Extrapolations using the General Root model suggest that if the ideal is a 10 km x 10 km reserve, a reserve one tenth that size would contain 81 % of the native species in that ideal, and the present Blackrock Reserve contains 67%.
3235575|Vegetation development in 68 abandoned gravel pits and their surroundings in five regions in Sweden is described by means of classification and ordination. Most pits were less than 10 yr old, but some pits in central Sweden were up to 100 yr old. For 26 pits in central Sweden the resukts of mechanical and chemical soil analyses are presented. Vegetation in young pits is more homogeneous than the vegetation in the surroundings. The surrounding vegetation type strongly affects pit vegetation. There are regional differences in pit vegetation between pits in coniferous forests in different parts of Sweden. Old gravel pits are clearly distinguished from young ones and show more resemblance to the surrounding vegetation. Tree layer cover and nitrogen content increase, whereas C/N ratio and pH decrease with age. Species richness of the gravel pits was not related to their size.
4499260|Questions: Are community dynamics in old-growth forests predictable? Convergent? Equilibrial? Are answers to these questions dependent on temporal and spatial scale? How can complex, long-term observational data be used most powerfully to address these questions? Location: 100-ha tract of old-growth cool-temperate forest in northern Michigan, USA. Methods: Woody stems were measured, on 243 permanent plots, several times, at varying intervals and intensity, over 70 years. A range of visualization tools and multivariate statistics were used to extract patterns and address questions posed. Results: This ancient forest is not equilibrial; compositional trends suggest that changes are competitively driven and reflect long-lasting effects of disturbance. Predictability of community change varies across environmental gradients, with interval between samples, with spatial scale, and depending on type of predictability being assessed. Plot trajectories in species-space and changes in diversity suggest successional convergence within some habitats, but not across habitats. Dynamics are strongly structured at the scale of 'habitat-patches'. Conclusions: Appropriate address of questions about community dynamics requires observational data of appropriate spatial and temporal scale and resolution. Powerful use of such data-sets calls for data-management and analysis tools that are robust with respect to irregularities in design and data structure. While interpretation of long-term descriptive data is challenging, appropriate analyses cast light on late successional dynamics, allowing address of models and hypotheses that are otherwise difficult to test.
4499298|Question: Is plant diversity in fragmented semi-natural grasslands related to present and historical landscape context? Location: Southern Sweden. Methods: Plant diversity was described at 30 semi-natural grassland sites in terms of total and specialist plant species richness at the site and species density at different scales (
3235996|Data of fruit-set and fruit production of Fraxinus excelsior (ash) at two sites in the archipelago of Stockholm, Sweden, were recorded over six years (1980-85), with particular emphasis on the fruiting tendency of individual trees. The aim was to determine the grounds for the irregularity of fruiting. There was no support for the assumption that irregular fruiting originates as a consequence of the fruiting tendency being resource limited. The probability of fruiting in a certain year was neither negatively related to previous fruiting years, nor positively related to climatically favourable years. Seeds were infested by the monophagous moth larva Pseudargyrotoza conwagana. An increased seed survival was noted in times of large seed crops, indicating seed predator satiation. Date of leafing the preceding year determined whether individual trees fruited or not. This relationship may have significance in synchronizing the fruit production of ash trees.
25549275|Clonal growth of plants is mainly a result of the vegetative growth of organs hidden beneath the soil surface and producing potentially independent vegetative offspring. Clonal traits are difficult to measure due to inaccessibility of the space they inhabit and their morphological diversity. This causes great difficulties with descriptions, standardization of measurements across plant growth forms and, probably, a lack of appropriate questions that should be answered using them. The freely available CLO-PLA database (http://clopla.butbn.cas.cz/) can help to assess the roles of vegetative means of regeneration and spread in plant communities under the effect of various biotic and abiotic filters. It can serve as a source of reference on persistence traits of European temperate flora and, eventually, as a guide for trait sampling in other regions of the world.
4499221| Question: Community structure may be influenced by patterns of dispersed seeds (seed rain) because they contribute to the template of plant community development. We explored factors influencing seed rain in a system dominated by tidal water, where direction and magnitude of water flow are difficult to predict, unlike many other hydrochorous systems where water flow is directional. We posed three main questions: (1) are patterns in seed rain linked to effects of hydrodynamic variability; (2) do these patterns in seed rain reflect distribution of seed sources and seed production; and (3) what are the implications for the assembly of tidal communities? Location: Salt marshes on the Wadden island of Schier-monnikoog, The Netherlands. Methods: Species compositions of vegetation, seed rain, seed production and driftlines along a chronosequence of communities were compared. We also studied seed movement by sowing Astroturf mats with seeds and checking for seeds remaining after a single tidal inundation. Results: Storm surges had a significant effect on seed-rain patterns as the highest density and diversity of captured seeds were found during a stormy period. Seed rain of the youngest communities was more influenced by storms than that of older communities. Patterns in seed rain generally followed similar patterns in the distribution of established plants, and seed production. Conclusions: Results suggested mostly local dispersal of seeds. However, there was some evidence of long-distance dispersal occurring during storm surges in younger communities that are regularly inundated with tidal water. The possible role of seed retention in constraining community development, rather than dispersal per se, is further discussed. 
4499292|Questions: Is post-dispersal seed predation a factor contributing to a positive feedback mechanism for dominance of tall-tussock grasslands? Do seeds dispersed into neighbouring microhabitats of contrasting dominance differ in their probabilities of being predated? Does predation rate vary among predator groups? Do seed eaters selectively forage among the available seeds? Location: The southern and flooding sub-regions of the Argentinian Pampas. Methods: We examined seed predation by vertebrate and invertebrate predators within two microhabitats of grassland mosaics (highly dominated tall-grass patches vs. scarcely dominated short-grass matrix) for different seed species in semi-natural grasslands. Proportion of seeds eaten by different predator groups was estimated through exclusion experiments and analysed using ANOVA for split-split-plot designs. Experiments were performed during the autumn of two consecutive years in both Pampa sub-regions. Results: Removal of seeds after a five day trial was two to four times higher in the tall-grass patches than in the short-grass matrix. During the same period, vertebrate predation was six times higher than invertebrate predation in the tall-grass phase of the Southern Pampa, but it did not differ in the short-grass matrix. Relative predation among phases showed the same pattern in the Flooding Pampa, where preferences by seed species also varied according to phase. Conclusions: The highest predation intensity shown by vertebrates in the tall-grass patches indicates that they are the main seed predators in these systems, possibly because this microhabitat grants them refuge against carnivorous predators. This could significantly reduce the available seeds for recruitment of subordinate species after different disturbance events (fires, trampling by large herbivores, burrowing), representing an active filter to the floristic composition of the patch and contributing with other mechanisms to the dominance of tall-grass species.
4096790| Question: How has the terrain, namely elevation, slope and aspect, controlled the cultural modification of the forest-grass-land transition in southern Alberta? Location: The aspen parkland region of the Rocky Mountains foothills southwest of Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Methods: Dominion Land Survey data, historical maps and a DEM (digital elevation model) were used to determine which decision rules settlers used to plough native grassland and parkland at the turn of the last century. Comparative measurements between historical and current vegetation patterns and GIS techniques were used to explore relationships between terrain, land use and the modification of the landscape. Results: Grassland at lower elevations, aspen parkland at mid elevations and closed forest at higher elevations dominated the pre-settlement forest-grassland transition. Elevation, hillslope angle and aspect affected which parts of the landscape were cleared and ploughed for agriculture or left in their natural state. Clearing and ploughing occurred mostly on gentle hillslopes ( 6). At higher elevations with fewer gentle hillslopes clearing and ploughing were limited. Ca. 90% of the original vegetation at lower elevations has been cleared or ploughed, compared to ca. 30% at higher elevations. Almost all of the grassland at lower elevations has been converted to cropland. In the mid-elevation parkland 48% of the tree cover and > 72% of the native grass have been converted to domesticated grass and cropland. Tree cover has expanded at the expense of grass on steep hillslopes and in ravines that presumably were burned frequently by wildfires in pre-settlement times. At higher elevations, the closed forest has remained more or less intact. Conclusions: Terrain structure has controlled the arrangement of suitable agricultural land and consequently determined the current vegetation patterns in the forest-grassland transition zone in southern Alberta. Tree invasion into grass has been minimal, and has been restricted to hilly topography or wet areas, even though the parkland has expanded somewhat in its distribution. Any effect the cessation of wildfires may have had on aspen expansion has been overshadowed by agriculture, which has converted vast areas of native grassland and aspen parkland to farmland. Thus, along this forest-grass-land transition, the strong elevation, slope and aspect have maintained some of the regional variation in vegetation. 
4499259|Problem: Data from over 100 permanent sample plots which have been studied for 10-20 years need a suitable system for storage which allows simple data manipulation and retrieval for analysis. Methods: A relational database linking tree records, taxonomic nomenclature and corresponding environmental data has been built in MS Access as part of the RAINFOR project. Conclusion: The database allows flexible and long-term use of a large amount of data: more than 100 tree plots across Amazonia, incorporating over 80 000 records of individual trees and over 300 000 total records of tree diameter measurements from successive censuses. The database is designed to enable linkages to existing soil, floristic or plant-trait databases. This database will be a useful tool for exploring the impact of environmental factors on forest structure and dynamics at local to continental scales, and long term changes in forest ecology. As an early example of its potential, we explore the impact of different methodological assumptions on estimates of tropical forest biomass and carbon storage.
3235678|We test the predictions of two theories on plant strategies along vegetation gradients of a North Scandinavian mountain area, from herb-rich birch forests at 250 m. a.s.l. to the summit at 1530 m. a.s.l. According to Grime's theory, stressful physical conditions select for an adaptational syndrome called S-strategy. The theory predicts that the prevalence of S-strategic features increases monotonically from forests to high-alpine boulder fields. Alternatively, the traits that Grime regards as S-strategic can be interpreted as adaptations to high natural-grazing pressure which culminates in moderately stressful habitats: productive enough to sustain grazers but yet so barren that moderate grazer densities suffice to deplete the vegetation. The observed vegetation patterns support this alternative view. We thus suggest that Grime's triangle should be revised as to make the role of grazing as the central causal factor behind the third strategy explicit.
3236912| Fuzzy set ordination (FSO) may be used with either abundance data or binary (presence/absence) data. FSO requires a similarity index that returns values between 0 and 1. Many indices will do so, but their suitability for FSO has not been tested. Nine binary indices were evaluated in this study. Simulated plant community data sets were generated with COMPAS; they contained five levels of -diversity, two levels of qualitative noise, and two sampling arrangements (regular or random) along one gradient. Indices were evaluated with rank and linear correlations between the apparent ecological gradient positions generated by FSO and actual gradient positions; the abilities of the best-performing indices to minimize the curlover effect were also compared. All indices performed best at intermediate levels of -diversity and with regular sampling. Five indices had consistently higher rank and linear correlations (Baroni-Urbani & Buser, Jaccard, Kulczynski, Ochiaiaand Srensen), whereas four were consistently lower (Faith, Russell & Rao, Rogers & Tanimoto and Simple Matching). There were no significant differences in curlover among the five best indices. A step-across algorithm, a flexible shortest path adjustment, improved correlations and reduced curlover for the five best indices at higher -diversity levels. We recommend that one of the five best-performing similarity indices be used with FSO on binary data; a flexible shortest path adjustment should also be employed at higher -diversities when possible. 
3236297|The growth rate of Eucalyptus regnans seedlings in their first year can be much increased if the soil is first dried and then rewetted. The ratio of growth on predried soil to growth on undried soil (the Growth Ratio or GR) reaches a maximum at air-dryness (pF 6.0 - 6.4). In E. regnans forest soil, GR is greatest in humus-rich topsoil and declines with depth. The effect of air-drying persists for several months after rewetting when soil is stored under glasshouse conditions. It is largely unaffected by repeated drying and wetting, by the rate of drying or by the season of collection. The mixing of dried and undried soil or the placement of a layer of dried soil above undried soil produces an enhancement of growth proportional to the amount of dried soil added. Firing of a litter layer above soil at wilting point increases subsequent seedling growth to that in air-dried soil. The addition of ash from a litter fire to undried soil produces an increase in growth approximately equal to that caused by air-drying The drying effect is most pronounced in soils from mature E. regnans forest and nearby brackenland and is less in dense younger forest, frost-hollow grasslands and old grassy gaps in the mature forest. The effect is restored by the inoculation of E. regnans mycorrhizal roots from both dried and undried soil. The effect varies along an gradient from 500 to 1500 m a.s.l. and is a maximum in the wet E. regnans climatic zone and a minimum in zones or local aspects where forests are normally subject to frequent drying. The stimulatory effect on seedling growth in soils of the E. regnans zone may have an effect on the outcome of compttition during regeneration in large gaps. Part of the growth responses previously ascribed to the 'ashbed' effect may be due to the desiccation effect in these soils.
25549270|Questions: Is the red fox a potential vector for epizoochorous seed dispersal? Can seed attachment and retention be predicted from plant and seed traits? Location: Grasslands in southern Norway. Methods: Epizoochorous seed attachment on the red fox was studied by walking a dummy fox through the vegetation and comparing seeds found on the dummy with the estimated seed availability in the vegetation. Seed retention, i.e. the ability of different seeds to stay on the fox, was estimated in a separate experiment. Seed attachment and retention were related to plant and seed traits using statistical models that account for heteroscedasticity and zero-inflated data. Results: The majority of seeds attached to the fox originated from a few species, but also species without specific seed traits that are supposed to enhance epizoochory attached at least some seeds to the fox. The probability of seed attachment was positively related to plant height, bristle and hooked seed appendages, and negatively related to winged appendages, seed mass, and seed sphericity. Seed retention was positively related to the seed traits bristles, hooks and pappus. For several species, the results indicate a high potential for dispersal over long distances. Conclusions: In modern agricultural landscapes, large herbivores are often restricted in their mobility or are found at low densities, and other animal vectors may therefore be important for seed dispersal. In our study, a range of plant species were able to disperse by attaching seeds to, and having their seeds retained in, the fox fur some distance. We suggest that the red fox may be an important vector for epizoochorous seed dispersal in the agricultural landscape.
3236674|Contrary to our expectations, soil salinity and moisture explained little of the spatial variation in plant establishment in the upper intertidal marsh of three southern California wetlands, but did explain the timing of germination. Seedlings of 27 species were identified in 1996 and 1997. The seedlings were abundant (maximum densities of 2143/m<sup>2</sup> in 1996 and 1819/m<sup>2</sup> in 1997) and predominantly annual species. CCAs quantified the spatial variation in seedling density that could be explained by three groups of predictor variables: (1) perennial plant cover, elevation and soil texture (16% of variation), (2) wetland identity (14% of variation) and (3) surface soil salinity and moisture (2% of variation). Increasing the spatial scale of analysis changed the variables that best predicted patterns of species densities. Timing of germination depended on surface soil salinity and, to a lesser extent, soil moisture. Germination occurred after salinity had dropped below a threshold or, in some cases, after moisture had increased above a critical level. Between 32% and 92% of the seedlings were exotic and most of these occurred at lower soil salinity than native species. However, Parapholis incurva and Mesembryanthemum nodiflorum were found in the same environments as the native species. In 1997, the year of a strong El Nino/Southern Oscillation event with high rainfall and sea levels, the elevation distribution of species narrowed and densities of P. incurva and other exotic species decreased but densities of native and rare species did not change. The 'regeneration niche' of wetland plant communities includes the effects of multiple abiotic and biotic factors on both the spatial and temporal variations in plant establishment.
40925543|Questions: Have predictable relationships between environmental variables and vegetation developed in primary succession following a volcanic eruption? Has the rate of succession changed? Have vegetation trajectories converged or diverged? Location: The Abraham Plain of Mount St. Helens, Washington, USA (4612'42"N, 12208'27" W, elevation 1360 m), was sterilized in 1980 by a blast, scoured by lahars and buried by pumice. Method: We monitored 400 100 m contiguous permanent plots annually (1988-2008), and classified each plot from every year into ten community types (CTs). We characterized the terrain by topography and surface features. Redundancy analysis assessed relationships between vegetation and possible explanatory variables, which included sample location. We used detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) to assess successional rates and trends. Results: Relationships between species composition and explanatory variables were only significant after 1996, when position and presence of rills became significant. By 2006, explained variation remained low (13%) but significant. Species accumulated slowly, restricted by stress and isolation. Changes in mean DCA position slowed. Composition shifted from pioneer to persistent species and vegetation became more stable with time. Species accumulated for two decades and then stabilized, while cover has continued to increase. Diversity increased and then declined slightly as dominance developed and pioneer species became less common. Conclusions: We demonstrate weak but increasingly predictable trends in species composition using environmental variables. The rate of succession slowed and trajectories formed a reticulate network of transitions dominated by divergence. Convergence was not evident because vegetation responded distinctively to minor topographic features that allowed alternative stable communities to develop.
3235947|Analysis of the seedling distribution of Erica arborea and Arbutus unedo, two dominant plant species in the Corsican maquis, and of three tree species (Pinus mesogeensis, Quercus ilex and Quercus pubescens) with which they compete in a mosaic of successional habitats, has enabled the determination of the successional position of the two ericaceous species. Erica arborea and Arbutus unedo are often considered to be pyrophytes, but the distribution pattern of their seedlings, following either abandonment of cultivation or after fire, indicates that fire is unfavourable for their establishment. Field and laboratory studies of the germination of the two ericaceous species indicate that the absence of seedlings following fire is not due to the destruction of seeds by fire but due to the newly created environmental conditions. Erica arborea invades sites abandoned after cultivation and has thus spread widely since the end of the last century. Arbutus unedo, the seeds of which are disseminated in bird droppings, has the ability to establish in denser vegetation, and thus appears to be a mid-successional species.
3236523|For seven years we studied the recovery of vegetation in a Belgian P limited rich fen (Caricion davallianae), which had been fertilized with nitrogen (200 g.m<sup>-2</sup>) and phosphorus (50 g.m<sup>2</sup>) in 1992. The vegetation in this fen has low above-ground biomass production (< 100 g m<sup>-2</sup>) due to the strong P limitation. Above-ground biomass was harvested from 1992 to 1998 and P and N concentrations measured. In 1998, below-ground biomass was also harvested. The response to fertilization differed markedly between below- and above-ground compartments. Above-ground, P was the single most important factor that continued to stimulate growth 7 yr after fertilization. Below-ground, N tended to decrease live root biomass and increase dead root biomass and seemed to have a toxic effect on the roots. In the combined NP treatment the stimulating effect of P (an increase of live root biomass) was countered by N. The 1998 soil analysis showed no difference in soil P in the plots. Thus, Fe hydroxides are not capable of retaining P in competition with fen vegetation uptake. However, higher capture of P in root Fe coatings from N plots may partially explain this negative N effect. The results suggest that N root toxicity will be amplified in strongly P limited habitats but that its persistence will be less influenced by P availability. This mechanism may be a competitive advantage for N<sub>2</sub> fixing species that grow in strongly P limited wetlands.
3236298|Ectomycorrhizal species composition and sporocarp abundance in two 15-20-yr old primary stands of Pinus sylvestris in the central part of the Netherlands was compared with those in two 16- and 27-yr old secondary stands of P. sylvestris in the Northeast of the country. The trees of the primary stands were spontaneously seeded in a drifting sand area. Only thin litter and humus layers were present. The trees of the 16-yr old secondary stand were planted on podzolic sandy soil and those of the 27-yr old stand on non-podzolic sandy soil. In both secondary stands thick litter and humus layers had developed. The litter and humus partly originated from former stands at the same sites and partly from the present stands. In the secondary stands the thick litter and humus layers and herb vegetation were removed ('sod-cutting') in order to simulate the thin litter and humus layers in the primary stands. Control treatments were present. Surveys in 1991, 1992 and 1993 showed that sod-cutting enhanced both abundance and diversity of ectomycorrhizal fungi. However, species richness and diversity were higher in the primary stands than in the secondary ones, also even in the sod-cut plots. High species richness and diversity were associated with low concentrations of nitrogen and relatively high pH in the litter and humus layers, and in the mineral soil.
3236106|A series of fertilization experiments was carried out over a 5-yr period in a chalk grassland in Limburg (The Netherlands) as part of a study of the maintenance of species richness in species-rich grasslands. Phosphorus and nitrogen were shown to be the most limiting nutrients. Addition of both elements doubled above-ground production, and species richness dropped ca. 50 % in 0.01-m<sup>2</sup> subplots, relative to controls. However, neither the above-ground production nor plant growth-forms were sufficient to explain the observed changes in species richness. Small-scale structural heterogeneity of the vegetation is probably critical for maintaining high levels of richness. Historically, high nitrogen, low phosphorus conditions were rarely encountered in the Dutch landscape and few species appear adapted to these conditions. Among the chalk grassland species, Brachypodium pinnatum seems well adapted to these conditions, where it dominates and excludes most other species. A detailed understanding of the small-scale processes responsible for maintenance of species richness is critically important in efforts to maintain the biodiversity of natural ecosystems.
4499203|Questions: 1. Do disturbances by harvester ants (Messor barbarus L.) affect soil properties? 2. Do they alter seed distribution? 3. Do they show a different species composition? 4 Are these changes related to seed size (length and weight)? Location: Mediterranean grasslands in central Spain, near Madrid. Methods: We recorded autumn seed banks and spring vegetation in middens, trunk trails and controls. Soil properties were also measured in middens and controls. The effect of seed weight and length was analysed after transforming data into phylogenetically independent contrasts. Results: Soil under middens is more silty and higher in potassium, organic matter and pH. Seed density and seed bank species richness increased greatly in middens, while vegetation species richness was significantly lower in comparison to control samples. Abundance changes in this disturbance type were positively correlated with seed weight, both in seed bank and vegetation. In contrast, we only detected a slight increase in bare ground on foraging trunk trails, with no clear effects on seed bank and vegetation composition. Conclusions: Midden development is a mechanism that generates heterogeneity which favours the survival of certain large-seeded species mainly predated by ants in Mediterranean grasslands. This effect may partially neutralize the dominance of small seeded species expected from the seed predation process.
3236899|This paper describes new methods for the detection of the characteristics of spatial point patterns, based on counting plants in the circumcircles of triangles defined by triplets of the points themselves. In addition to counting points in the circumcircle, a further refinement is to count also the points in a ring around the circumcircle of the same area. This approach can be applied in a univariate form, with one species or one kind of plant, to detect and evaluate the best-defined patches of plants and gaps. In the bivariate form, the method can be used to investigate the spatial characteristics of the relationship between different kinds of plants. These methods are illustrated by application to several data sets. In particular, the method is shown to be useful in describing the spatial relationship between seedlings and trees, both when the seedlings are on the forest floor beneath the canopy trees and when the seedlings represent post-fire regeneration.
40925570|Question: We provide a method to calculate the power of ordinal regression models for detecting temporal trends in plant abundance measured as ordinal cover classes. Does power depend on the shape of the unobserved (latent) distribution of percentage cover? How do cover class schemes that differ in the number of categories affect power? Methods: We simulated cover class data by "cuttingup" a continuous logit-beta distributed variable using 7-point and 15-point cover classification schemes. We used Monte Carlo simulation to estimate power for detecting trends with two ordinal models, proportional odds logistic regression (POM) and logistic regression with cover classes rebinned into two categories, a model we term an assessment point model (APM). We include a model fit to the logit-transformed percentage cover data for comparison, which is a latent model. Results: The POM had equal or higher power compared to the APM and latent model, but power varied in complex ways as a function of the assumed latent beta distribution. We discovered that if the latent distribution is skewed, a cover class scheme with more categories might yield higher power to detect trend. Conclusions: Our power analysis method maintains the connection between the observed ordinal cover classes and the unmeasured (latent) percentage cover variable, allowing for a biologically meaningful trend to be defined on the percentage cover scale. Both the shape of the latent beta distribution and the alternative hypothesis should be considered carefully when determining sample size requirements for long-term vegetation monitoring using cover class measurements.
25173230|Question: Is it possible to model the germinative and resprouting behaviour of plant species in Atlantic shrublands and woodlands in relation to fire intensity? Is it possible to recognise different functional regenerative types in these plant species? Location: Galicia, NW Iberian Peninsula. Methods: We explored the patterns of germination and resprouting plant responses in relation to different intensities of fire using data from 37 trees, shrubs and herbaceous species growing in Atlantic shrublands and woodlands. Results: Synthesizing their germinative and resprouting behaviour, we created two graphical models: the Functional Germinative Model (FGM) and the Functional Sprouting Model (FSM). Integrating the germinative and resprouting responses, and taking into account fire intensity, we created the Functional Regenerative Model (FRM), which predicts the post-fire recuperation of the populations of each species. The FRM has been validated with data from four Atlantic communities. We identified four plant functional regenerative types (PFRT) for Atlantic forest vegetation and we propose three intensities of response. Conclusions: The extracted models (FGM, FSM and FRM) and the grouping of species in four PFRTs could be applicable to more Atlantic species, to disturbance ecology in general and to population, community and landscape management.
25173155|Question: What are the main pathways of long-term stand development in forest ecosystems on oligotrophic and acidic sandy soils? Location: Nine forest reserves at different locations in The Netherlands; all ageing Pinus sylvestris forests that are no longer managed and where massive regeneration of broad-leaved species is often reported. Methods: Agglomerative cluster analysis was used to define structural classes from forest reserve data. Sequences of structural classes, representing different trajectories of stand development, were constructed with the aid of a process based gap model. Results: Four main pathways of stand development could be distinguished. Three pathways are linked to gap dynamics, and lead towards dominance of Betula, Quercus or Fagus. They differ in light availability for regeneration and/or seed tree availability. The fourth pathway comprises of development patterns after major disturbances. Conclusions: The new methodological approach, combining the empirical strength of forest reserve data with the predictive ability of a process based model, made it possible to detail and quantify insights into structure and dynamics of forests on poor sandy soils. Some factors not included in the study can substantially influence pathways, especially those where Quercus and Fagus potentially play an important role.
3236861|The pattern at an ecotone may indicate the processes that created that ecotone. Such patterns may in turn affect the responses of ecotones to environmental change. The resource averaging hypothesis suggests a process for the development of tree lines that should produce patterns that are modifications of patterns in soil resources. A computer simulation model that embodies the resource averaging hypothesis is used to generate tree-line patterns. Different spatial patterns in the variation of soil resources are represented in the model. The patterns of tree line computed by the simulation closely correspond to the patterns of soil resources that were input. These patterns are compared to patterns recorded in the field and by aerial photography. For the patterns of soil resources observed at some alpine tree lines, the model cannot produce the kinds of patterns of vegetation observed. Resource averaging alone cannot be an explanation of such tree lines.
40295779|Question: How do forest herb species differ from each other in their spatial and temporal dynamics during recovery from volcanic disturbance, and how are dynamics related to species traits? Location: Northeast of Mount St. Helens, Washington, USA. Methods: Following deposition of volcanic tephra in 1980, we measured herb density and cover in permanent 1-m 2 plots during 1980-2005 in three old-growth forests with differing tephra depths. For 26 species, we calculated the frequency of plots with residuals (individuals that survived the eruption) versus re-establishment on the tephra, timing of establishment, turnover, influence of nearby conspecific plants, importance of three components of cover increase, and relationship of flowering frequency to succession. Results: Tephra depth affected species behavior. Deep tephra produced fewer residuals, a greater increase in shoot size, and more shoot turnover; favored species that established late; and allowed establishment of early serai herbs. Nearby presence of conspecifics increased permanence of first establishment and rate of plot occupancy. Most species spread significantly in deep tephra but not in shallow tephra. Among species, frequency of flowering increased with fewer residuals, later establishment, and higher turnover. Species behavior seldom differed among growth forms based on leaf longevity and vegetative spread. Conclusion: Population dynamics at the small-plot scale differed from those of the entire population. The timing and permanency of establishment and mechanism of expansion differed among species and with tephra depth. There was some consistency among species with similar habitat breadth and degree of flowering, but little consistency associated with the usual growth form classification.
3236402| The structure and composition of a cool-temperate old-growth beech (Fagus crenata) - dwarf bamboo (Sasa spp.) forest, partially affected by landslide disturbance, in the Daisen Forest Reserve of southwestern Japan, were investigated in relation to forest floor and canopy conditions. All stems  4 cm DBH were mapped on a 4-ha plot and analyses were made of population structure, spatial distribution and spatial association of major tree species. The dominant species, F. crenata, which had the maximum DBH among the species present, had the highest stem density. However, for other species, larger-sized species had lower stem density with few smaller stems or saplings, while smaller-sized species had higher stem density with many smaller stems or saplings. Canopy trees of F. crenata were distributed randomly in the plot, while its stems in the other layers and all other species were distributed patchily. Small patches represent gap-phase regeneration. Larger patches correlate with landslide disturbance, difference in soil age, or the presence/absence of Sasa. Cluster analysis for spatial associations among species and stems in the different layers revealed that the forest community consists of several groups. One main group was formed on sites not covered with Sasa. This group contained a successional subgroup (from Betula grossa to Acer mono and/or F. crenata) initiated by landslide disturbance and a subgroup of tree species that avoid Sasa. Another group was formed on sites with mature soils covered largely with Sasa. This contained associations of canopy trees of F. crenata and smaller-sized tree species such as Acanthopanax sciadophylloides and Acer japonicum. It is found that the community of this old-growth beech forest is largely organized by natural disturbance and heterogeneous conditions of the forest floor (difference in soil age and presence/absence of Sasa). The existence of these different factors and the different responses of species to them largely contribute to the maintenance of tree species diversity in this forest. 
3236319|Permanent plots provide information on spatio-temporal patterns in plant communities, which could be analyzed to yield correlated changes in pairs of species and information on species replacements in space. The potential use of permanent plots to study underlying processes of interspecific interactions (namely competition) is discussed. Two examples (one simulated, using a cellular automaton model, and one from a removal experiment in grasslands) are used to demonstrate that this use is not straightforward, since (1) radically different underlying mechanisms (symmetric founder control with little competitive replacement vs. asymmetric dominance control strongly structured by competition) may produce very similar spatio-temporal patterns; and (2) topology of species replacements in space may be very different from the competitive hierarchy as determined by the removal experiment. Permanent plot data can be used to study interspecific interactions in the following ways: (1) if there is additional information to decide which of the potential underlying models is acceptable, permanent plot data may enable further articulation of the model, such as estimation of the model parameters; this approach is similar to that used in many other plant ecology fields (fine scale patterns, chronosequences, plant size distribution and dynamics); (2) data from permanent plots constrain the number of feasible underlying models; (3) permanent plot data provide verification of predictions of experimental studies; in this respect, they are much superior to non-repeated studies of pattern.
4096672|Question: Predictive vegetation modelling relies on the use of environmental variables, which are usually derived from a base data set with some level of error, and this error is propagated to any subsequently derived environmental variables. The question for this study is: What is the level of error and uncertainty in environmental variables based on the error propagated from a Digital Elevation Model (DEM) and how does it vary for both direct and indirect variables? Location: Kioloa region, New South Wales, Australia. Methods: The level of error in a DEM is assessed and used to develop an error model for analysing error propagation to derived environmental variables. We tested both indirect (elevation, slope, aspect, topographic position) and direct (average air temperature, net solar radiation, and topographic wetness index) variables for their robustness to propagated error from the DEM. Results: It is shown that the direct environmental variable net solar radiation is less affected by error in the DEM than the indirect variables aspect and slope, but that regional conditions such as slope steepness and cloudiness can influence this outcome. However, the indirect environmental variable topographic position was less affected by error in the DEM than topographic wetness index. Interestingly, the results disagreed with the current assumption that indirect variables are necessarily less sensitive to propagated error because they are less derived. Conclusions: The results indicate that variables exhibit both systematic bias and instability under uncertainty. There is a clear need to consider the sensitivity of variables to error in their base data sets in addition to the question of whether to use direct or indirect variables.
3237045|In order to understand the influence of edaphic factors on the spatial structure of inland halophytic plant communities, a 2.6 km<sup>2</sup> study site, located on the lower fringe of the alluvial fan of the Hutubi River, in an arid region of China, was sampled and mapped. 105 patches were found to be homogeneous in species composition. Plant species and their coverage were recorded in each patch. 45 patches were randomly selected for the measurement of edaphic variables. A map with quadrat locations and boundaries of patches was digitized into a GIS and related to the vegetation and edaphic data matrices. CCA was used to evaluate the relative importance of edaphic factors in explaining the variation of the species assemblages and to identify the ecological preferences of species. The spatial structure of the communities and the main edaphic factors were analyzed using correlograms, Mantel correlograms and clustering under constraint of spatial contiguity. Gradient analysis showed that there are two distinct vegetation gradients in the study area, one of which is determined mainly by soil moisture (determined by depth to the water table), and the other by soil salinity (determined by electrical conductivity and hydrolytic alkalinity of the first soil layer). However, spatial analyses showed that at the sampling scale the halophytic communities in the study area are structured along one main spatial gradient determined by the water table level. Similar spatial autocorrelation structures between the factors related to the first soil layer and the communities, given our sampling scale, could not be detected. Our results suggest that the relative importance of the effects of different edaphic factors on the spatial structure of halophytic communities is scale-dependent. The partitioning of species variation indicates that in addition to edaphic factors, other factors, such as biotic interactions, may play an important role in structuring these communities.
3237223| Broadleaved forest communities degenerated through strong pressure from large herbivores. Relief of this pressure led to regeneration, in particular of Salix caprea and other light-seeded pioneer trees: Populus tremula, Betula pendula and B. pubescens. This regeneration proceeded following conservation protection of degenerate stands in a nature reserve and later in Biaowiea National Park. The emergence and development of the Salix caprea population proceeded following the expansion of Picea abies, which coincided with the period of enhanced animal pressure on the broadleaved forest. Salix caprea filled all the gaps in the tree stand after the destruction of trees and undergrowth by herbivores (in the years 1892 - 1915). The species also appeared abundantly in old, at the time unforested, clearings and felled areas. Here, S. caprea developed large populations with certain trees in good condition, with a growth form typical of forest trees and attaining considerable heights. The majority of trees were 50 - 60 yr old at the time of death, although some individuals reached 74 yr of age. The process of extinction of the Salix population - observed over 19 yr on permanent plots with marked trees - proceeded very quickly, especially in the first decade of observation. It led to the almost complete disappearance of S. caprea from the forest communities of Biaowiea National Park. The death of individual trees is preceded by impairment of their health and reduced annual increments in the last 4-9 years of their life. The development of populations of permanent constituents of the forest, notably Carpinus betulus, Tilia cordata, Acer platanoides and Ulmus glabra, under the canopy of light-seeded trees, and the absence of a new generation of pioneer trees points to the end of the process of regeneration in the forest communities of Biaowiea National Park. 
3236891| The effects of selective logging on tree diversity, changes in tree species composition and plant functional types were studied with the use of seven permanent plots in virgin and in logged forest. All plots were located in a lowland dipterocarp rain forest in East Kalimantan on the island of Borneo. Just after logging and during the following 20 yr tree diversity measured as Fishers'  was not significantly affected in logged forest plots. Temporal shifts in tree species composition were analysed with Principal Component Analysis (PCA). Logged forest plots had much larger changes over time than virgin forest plots. In the smallest diameter class, some logged forest plots showed a distinct trajectory in PCA space compared to virgin forest plots, while in larger diameter classes movement of logged plots in PCA space was random. This suggests that there is no predetermined community to which logged forest plots tend to shift when recovering from logging. We found a significant negative correlation between diameter increments and the species-specific wood densities of tree species. Species-specific wood density and potential tree height were used to assign species to five PFTs. As expected, logging increased the fraction of softwood stems in small diameter classes. In the largest diameter classes ( 50 cm DBH) a strong decrease of softwood emergent stems was found in logged forest plots. After more than 20 yr no recruitment was found of softwood emergent stems in selectively logged forest. 
3237263|From 1980-1989, fires burned 32 440 km<sup>2</sup> of boreal forest, 200 km south of the forest-tundra border in northern Quebec, Canada. An assessment of the impact of fire on tree population densities was carried out by comparing the number of PPinus banksiana and Picea mariana in 83 sites before and after the sites burned in 1981, 1983, 1988 or 1989. Age structure analysis of post-fire populations burned in 1972, 1976 and 1983, along with the rapid exhaustion of the seed bank from burned trees, suggest that the majority of seedlings were established within 3 to 10 yr after fire. Consequently, given the absence of nearby living seed bearers, little (if any) further recruitment can be expected in the even-aged, regenerating populations. According to the tree density comparison (pre-fire vs post-fire), a shift from Picea- to Pinus-dominated communities occurred in most of the sites burned in 1981 or 1983, and in some of the sites burned in 1988 or 1989. The 1988 fire reduced the tree population density by 95 % in 10 of the 15 sites; total tree density decreased by at least 75 % in 28 out of 40 sites burned in 1989. This suggests that the areas burned in 1988 and 1989 will mainly regenerate as very open forests or lichen-heath communities that are more commonly found in the forest-tundra zone, north of the study area. Fire intensity, short fire interval, and unfavorable climate during and after fires are three plausible mechanisms associated with these post-fire vegetation changes.
3236130|Machair vegetation is reported for the first time from New Zealand. The habitat is similar to that of British machairs in climate, topography and generally in soil. pH and CaCO<sub>3</sub> content are much lower through most of the sequence, though this difference may partly reflect the greater disturbance of British machair. Sea machair is present, predominantly comprising native species. This grades into machair proper, which contains many species found also in British machair. The machair includes Ammophila-occupied hillocks, a feature typical of British machair. Machair marsh is also present.
3237272|The forest structure in a large, relatively homogeneous area of pristine Picea abies taiga in the southern boreal region west of the Ural mountains was studied along four 500-m long transects. P. abies dominated the forest in association with Abies sibirica and Betula spp. The mean volume of living trees was 216 m<sup>3</sup>/ha. This value varied among the four transects, from 138 - 252 m<sup>3</sup>/ha. Mean density of trees (DBH > 1 cm) (and variation over the transects) was 2 064/ha (1670 - 2710). Living trees classified as dying or seriously damaged made up 2.9 (2.5 - 3.5) % of the living tree volume. Betula was an important canopy component and made up 16 % of the living tree volume. The number of dead standing trees varied from 195 - 325/ha, corresponding to a volume of 10.8 - 70.7 m<sup>3</sup>/ha. The density of trees with a broken stem was 90 - 170/ha and their estimated volume 7.6 - 41.3 m<sup>3</sup>/ha. Standing dead trees and trees with broken stems represented 10.4 and 8.9 % of the total standing tree volume (living + dead), respectively. The mean volume of decaying logs on the forest floor was 117 (84.4-156.2) m<sup>3</sup>/ha, corresponding to 54 (35 - 113) % of the living tree volume. The canopy-forming trees were present in the understory as abundant saplings and suppressed individuals. The size distribution of the dominant tree species resembled the inverse J-shape. Generally, the forest was characterized by a high small-scale structural variation and a larger-scale relative homogeneity. This pattern is consistent with forest dynamics where the forest consists of a small-scale mosaic of patches in different stages of recovery following disturbance. Our results suggest that the ecology and dynamics of extensive areas of natural boreal forests can be driven by small-scale disturbance.
3237041|The response of a Rubus hirtus population to the creation of a new forest gap was analysed. All individuals in two 30-m<sup>2</sup> plots-one in a gap and one with full canopy cover-were mapped and the length of Rubus shoots measured. This was done 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7 yr after creation of the gap. Spatial patterns were analysed using Ripley's K-method. Although the density of Rubus in the gap increased from 3 to 24 rooting points/m<sup>2</sup>, the change in spatial pattern of individuals over 7 yr was very limited. During the first four years a clumped pattern appeared at distances of > 0.5 m. After seven years the pattern was random at all distances. Young shoots spread in all directions with equal probability. The expansion was achieved by establishment of new ramets, increase in the number of shoots per rooting point playing a minor role. Individual plants contributed to gap filling very unequally; few of them produced many rooting points. The average size of canes and the proportion of tip-rooting canes were highest in the second year after the gap formation.
3237049|Methods for monitoring and survey of plant species abundance which do not account for variation in scale are often insensitive and imprecise. In monitoring, repeated observations are usually made within a fixed unit. Counts of species' presence must be made in a range of subunit sizes to accommodate the range of scales at which different species occur. A method comprising a rectangular fixed unit containing an 8 x 4 grid of square subunits has been developed and tested. Each subunit comprises a series of nested cells of increasing size, within which species are recorded cumulatively. Using this method, the concept of optimum scale is introduced. The optimum scale for a species is that for which its frequency count is closest to the midpoint. Two characteristics, sensitivity (absolute change detected) and blindness (failure to detect change in a species) were calculated for 24 plots from lowland grazing marsh which had been partially flooded between the time of two surveys. Optimum scale had greater sensitivity and lower blindness than any single scale in the majority of plots. Combining sensitivity and blindness, optimum scale was always superior. For the whole sample, optimum scale was less likely to cause Type I or Type II errors. The method is recommended for monitoring grasslands and allied plant communities in large geographical areas.
3237024|Despite international recognition that alvar habitats are important reservoirs of biodiversity, they remain little studied in North America. In this paper, the results are reported on an investigation of alvars in the central portion of their known distribution on this continent. 210 plots were distributed among seven sites and were quantitatively sampled for vascular plants, lichens, bryophytes and a suite of environmental variables. Detrended and Canonical Correspondence Analyses and other methods were used to investigate differences among alvars, within alvars and between alvars and adjacent forested habitats. The plant communities and environmental conditions were highly similar among sites in the study region, yet very different from surrounding habitats. There were abrupt changes in vegetation and environmental conditions from alvar to forest, without the presence of transition zones in the vegetation or environmental gradients as the forest was approached. The environmental factors associated with the change from alvar to forest and with variation within alvar habitat were examined. Some alvars in the study were found to contain stunted, slow-growing trees reaching ages of 524 yr. These same sites appear to have remained unburned for several centuries, while other sites likely burned 90 yr ago. The plant communities were very similar between the alvars that lacked a major, biomass-removing disturbance in centuries and alvars that had experienced catastrophic fire relatively recently. Maintenance of the plant communities and open nature of alvars appears site-specific rather than habitat specific.
3236743|The alien plant species and the ecological factors that facilitate their invasion to a coastal strip in the Baix Camp region (Tarragona, NE Spain) were studied. A detailed inventory of the area showed that 20% of the plant species, most of them from the American Continent, were aliens, many of which were strongly invasive. At the habitat level, the relationships between the invasive behaviour and a number of autecological, ecological and habitat variables were analysed by means of logistic analyses. In the best model five variables were related to alien plant invasions: climatic affinity, disturbance of the invaded habitat, route of introduction, soil moisture during summer, and life form. To elucidate the environmental factors that could be responsible for alien plant invasions at a regional scale, the number of alien taxa and the environmental features at 13 localities of the western Mediterranean area were analysed. The warm lowlands, subjected to low annual rainfall and high population density, exhibited the greatest reception capacity for alien plants. It is concluded that various specific environmental features - high mean temperatures, the abundance of riparian systems, the existence of biotopes with favourable water balance which harbour a great richness of alien species and the high human pressure to which the enclave is subjected, combined with the ecological requirements of the alien species and certain species attributes (biotype) can interact at different scales and have caused the over-representation of alien plants.
3237320|Dynamics in hydrology and water chemistry in the Biebrza mires (Poland) were examined by means of a sampling survey that was repeated four times between 1987 and 1992. The dynamics in the vertical stratigraphy of water types in the peat profile are considerable from close to the mire surface to a depth of 50 cm. Water composition in the root zone correlated best with vegetation types during extremely dry or wet conditions. In the root zone of groundwater-fed rich fens with Caricetum limoso-diandrae and Calamagrostietum strictae vegetation, specific groundwater types evolve from the interaction of discharging groundwater from below the root zone and the temporal influence of precipitation and evapotranspiration. The Caricetum limoso-diandrae is fed by the continuous discharge of nutrient-poor, relatively mineral-rich water. The site conditions in the Calamagrostietum strictae are determined by occasional flooding and the presence of discharging mineral-poor groundwater in the lower part of the root zone. In the Caricetum limoso-diandrae and the Calamagrostietum strictae the maximum variations in water level were 56 and 86 cm, respectively. The composition of shallow groundwater of the Betuletum humilis/Caricetum rostratodiandrae fen is diluted most compared to other vegetation types by rainwater in wet periods. In periods of prolonged drought it has a water type that is affected by evapotranspiration and peat mineralisation. The water level varies by only 33 cm. In the Magnocaricion and Glycerietum maximae in the floodplain the water composition is determined by spring flooding of the river and the natural draw-down that occurs in the following summer. Here, maximum variations in water level were 108 and 117 cm, respectively.
3237250|Treefalls are a common form of disturbance in northeastern United States forests. The resultant gaps contribute to a high degree of environmental heterogeneity in the understory of these forests. Plant density, plant cover, and species richness in understory plant communities were monitored for three years during the growing season, May - September. Differences between treefall gap and closed canopy vegetation were less pronounced early in the growing season for plant density and leaf cover. Species richness was significantly greater within treefall gaps during the entire growing season. Eight species were found in greater abundance within treefall gaps (i.e., gap-phase species), while one species was found more commonly under closed canopy. Ordination results suggest that time since gap creation and treefall gap size marginally affect the species composition of vegetation found within treefall gaps.
3236418| This study includes 24 transects on slopes of the Velebit, Biokovo and Orjen mountains, the tallest coastal mountains along the Adriatic Sea, with a very high species richness according to European standards and having the largest regional concentrations of endemics. Within each transect the presence or absence of phytosociological alliances, according to the Zrich-Montpellier School, was interpreted from local studies. The alliance composition of the transects was compared with methods used in numerical syntaxonomy. Three types of vegetation complexes (N. Dinaric inland, transitional and S. Dinaric coastal) were derived from a numerical classification of the transects; they were defined on the basis of their characteristic alliances. The maritime impact affecting the mountains through the river canyons reduces the contrast in vegetation between inland and coastal slopes. The existence of a climatic macrogradient is indicated by seriation of the basic alliance/transect data matrix leading to a diagonal structure, by a gradual shift of the alliance composition within the same vegetational type, and by the distribution of the transects and alliances along the first axis of a Correspondence Analysis ordination. Transect scores on the second ordination axis are negatively correlated with transect vegetational diversity (number of alliances per transect); this axis may reflect a decrease in humidity and temperature range. This interpretation is supported by the result of a comparison of the total mountain vegetational diversity (Mann-Whitney test), which showed that Orjen is the most diverse mountain ridge. The expected correlation between plant community diversity and altitude of the transects is blurred, probably due to the impact of the cold Bora wind and subsequent compression of vegetational zones. 
25549225|Question: To what extent do bison serve as seed dispersers via epizoochory and endozoochory in tallgrass prairie, and does this differ by age-sex class of bison and by month? Location: Tallgrass Prairie Preserve, Osage County, Oklahoma, USA. Methods: We collected bison hair from 19 bulls, 45 cows, and 47 juveniles in fall and we collected bison dung monthly for a year. We recovered and identified seeds from hair and dung samples, and classified seeds by size and diaspore characteristics. Results: Bison hair samples contained 2768 seeds from at least 76 plant species. Several species found in hair did not feature specialized appendages for adhesive dispersal. Seed species composition differed in hair collected from bulls, cows and juveniles, possibly due to differential habitat use. Dung samples contained 7418 seeds from at least 70 species, from which graminoids accounted for 3936 seeds from 27 species. Species composition of seeds contained in dung samples differed among months, corresponding to availability. Grasses constituted about half the seeds in both dung and hair samples, but Asteraceae were more strongly represented in hair, while Scrophulariaceae and Solanaceae were more strongly represented in dung. Conclusions: We conclude that bison are potentially important dispersers of forbs as well as graminoids. A high abundance and wide diversity of seeds were found in both bison hair and dung. The great majority of seeds found undamaged in bison dung were small seeds, which agrees with the 'foliage is the fruit' hypothesis. Dispersal by both epizoochory and endozoochory may play an important role in life history of many species in tallgrass prairie landscapes.
3235635|The vegetation and soil seed bank in a limestone grassland in southern Sweden were studied in permanent 1-m<sup>2</sup> subplots which had been either grazed or not grazed for 17 yr. Of the 92 species recorded, 18 were present only in the seed bank, 28 were more frequent and 24 were less frequent in the seed bank than in the vegetation and 22 were not detected in the seed bank. Among the species present in the seed bank, therophytes were over-represented. Species turnover in the vegetation was estimated from presence/absence data collected in 1980, 1986 and 1990. Turnover was high, but there were no differences between grazed and ungrazed subplots. The turnover for individual species was also high in many cases. There was no clear relationship between the turnover of a species and its presence in the persistent seed bank.
25173182|Question: Which environmental variables affect the floristic composition of south Patagonian bog vegetation along a gradient of climate and biogeochemical changes with increasing distance from the Pacific ocean? Location: Trans-Andean transect (53 S), southern Patagonia Material and Methods: Floristic composition, peat characteristics (water level, decomposition, pH, total nitrogen, total carbon, ash content and plant available P, K, Na, Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Zn, and Al) and climatic constraints of ombrotrophic peatlands were measured at 82 plots along a gradient of increasing distance from the Pacific Ocean. Results: Climatic constraints and biogeochemical peat characteristics significantly change with increasing distance from the Pacific. Peatland vegetation shifted from hyperoceanic blanket bogs dominated by cushion forming vascular plants to the west to Sphagnum bogs to the east. Climatic and biogeochemical variables explained a large proportion of the floristic variation along the first DCA axis. The second axis represented a water level gradient. When 'distance to the Pacific' was defined as a covariable in partial CCA, the proportion of variance explained declined for most other variables, especially in the case of annual precipitation and exchangeable base cations and related traits. The differences in biogeochemical characteristics related to peat were mainly attributed to the input of sea-borne cations. Conclusions: While variation in vegetation composition along a longitudinal gradient crossing the southern Andes was attributed to climatic constraints as expected, vegetation composition was also strongly affected by the biogeochemical characteristics of peat. Sea spray was of high ecological importance to peat chemistry and, consequently, to floristic composition. Presumably, south Patagonian peat bogs represent a glimpse of pre-industrial environments, so that these peat bogs may act as reference systems with respect to atmospheric inputs in mire ecology research.
3236625| This study explored the validity of three responses of vegetation to increased soil erosion: reduction of vegetation cover, number of species and reduced substitution of species. 201 relevs, including edaphic and geomorphological data, were surveyed in the intensely eroded Eocene marls of the Prepyrenees (NE Spain). Changes in plant species' presence in relevs from different degradation stages were compared. The level of vegetation degradation was defined as the total phanerogam cover which, in the studied area, was correlated to the degree of soil erosion. The considered trends were validated. Reduction of phanerogam cover and species number were gradual from low to high-eroded areas. Vegetation degradation explained 48% of the species number variance. In the later stages of degradation a significant substitution of species was not observed, only a lower frequency of occurrence of several species that appeared in the whole set of relevs. Through the process of degradation, 47% of species displayed significantly reduced frequencies as degradation increased, none showed a significant increase in frequency. It is concluded that there are no characteristic species in these plant communities that survive in the severely eroded marls. Among the few species that had increased in frequency, most only colonised favourable micro-environments. 
3235934|The growth and survival of coniferous and broad-leaved trees were followed over a 5-yr period in a temperate old-growth mixed forest in Japan, and dynamic features of the forest were studied in relation to the life history of the dominants, the coniferous Abies homolepis and the broad-leaved Fagus crenata. During this period, the gap formation rate was 31 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>, the mortality of trees > 2m high was 1.7%/yr, and the rate of loss in basal area 1.4%/yr. These values were much higher than the recruitment, 0.3%/yr, and the total growth of surviving and new trees, 0.6%/yr, owing to the inhibition of regeneration by understorey dwarf bamboo (Sasa borealis). A transition matrix model based on DBH size classes predicts that the basal area of the forest will decrease by 14% in 50 yr, but that the DBH distribution of trees > 10 cm diameter will change little. Equilibrium DBH distributions assuming recruitment being equal to mortality, were quite different between broad-leaved and coniferous trees, reflecting different survivorship curves of the two dominants. The composition and structure of the forest may change depending on the pattern and frequency of disturbances, or episodic events, notably the synchronous death of Sasa borealis.
3237158|Different measures of species abundance, particularly cover and biomass, are often used as if they were interchangeable. We ask to what extent the measure of abundance affects conclusions reached in plant community ecology. The test data comprised 35 plots, each 1 m x 1 m, on serpentine vegetation in Tuscany, Italy, in which both cover and biomass were measured. The measure of abundance used made rather little difference when plots were examined in terms of the rank abundance of the species present, and little difference to the results of a DCA-ordination. Likewise, species showed similar variation across plots in cover as in biomass. In calculating species diversity, agreement between measures of abundance was lower, but still good. For evenness, the correlation between cover and biomass results was lower again, though more so with some indices than with others. For the shape of the RAD (Relative Abundance Distribution), cover and biomass gave quite different results, the Zipf-Mandelbrot RAD model most commonly giving the best fit to the cover data, but the General lognormal model to the biomass data. These tendencies can be related to the intrinsic characteristics of cover and biomass as measures of abundance. The parameters of the model fits also differed between abundance measures. We conclude that the importance of using biomass as the measure of abundance depends on the ecological feature being examined. The difference between the two measures may be greater in other vegetation; very little information is available. In the current state of knowledge it is dangerous to use another measure as a surrogate for biomass.
3236748|Cattle influence grassland dynamics in three ways: herbage removal, dung deposition and trampling. The objective of this study was to assess the effects of these factors, separately or in combination, and to compare them with cattle grazing over a one year period in a field experiment conducted in the Jura Mountains of northwestern Switzerland. A set of controlled treatments simulating the three factors was applied in a fenced area: (1) repeated mowing - three levels; (2) intensive trampling - two levels; (3) manuring with a liquid mixture of dung and urine - three levels. All treatments were applied homogeneously to the entire surface of each of the 40 plots inside the exclosure. Additionally, ten plots outside the fenced area represented reference plots with regular cattle pasturing. The multivariate response of species composition was assessed three times with the point-intercept method: in spring before the treatments, in autumn after one season of treatments and at the beginning of the following year after winter rest. Multivariate analyses of vegetation data in the first year showed an overwhelming seasonal shift and significant differences induced by treatments. Abandoned and manured plots showed the largest deviation from the cattle grazed reference. Herbage removal, simulated by repeated mowing, appeared to be the most important factor for maintaining vegetation texture. Seasonal treatment effects were only partially carried over to the next spring, showing an unexpected resilience of the plant community, probably due to life-history traits and competition release following climatic disturbance in winter.
3237365|14 old, unlogged, Picea-dominated stands in the moist cool Sub-Boreal Spruce biogeoclimatic subzone of central British Columbia, Canada, were sampled to describe canopy heterogeneity, regeneration patterns and tree population age structures. These stands are composed of Picea engelmannii x glauca hybrids, Abies lasiocarpa and lesser amounts of Pinus contorta and Populus tremuloides, and had survived 124 - 343 yr since the last stand-destroying wildfire. Canopy cover was patchy and highly variable (ranging from 30.5 % to 86.4 %) but was not significantly related to stand age. Vertical canopy structure was less variable, reflecting the shade-tolerance and live crown ratios (length of live canopy expressed relative to tree height) of component species: 18.8 % for Populus, 20.2 % for Pinus, 46.7 % for Picea and 51.4 % for Abies. Individual stands varied considerably in their population structures and in their stand development trajectories, yet some patterns are evident. Survivors of the initial post-disturbance cohort of trees took 51 to 118 yr (mean = 80, s.d. = 20) to establish. Some stands had all tree species present during stand initiation, while other stands indicated early successional roles for Populus and Pinus, or a late successional role for Abies. Abies recruitment, while often slow in the beginning, occurs uniformly throughout the history of most stands, reflecting the high shade-tolerance of this species. Picea is often recruited in high densities early in stand development, and then (after long periods of exclusion) may be displaced by Abies in some stands but maintains itself in others. Minor, single-tree disturbances (due to bark beetles, root rot, and windthrow) were important in accelerating the reinitiation of Picea in the understory. Results thus suggest that stands from this region can be self-perpetuating in the absence of fire. Yet, post-fire tree populations still clearly dominate these spruce-fir forests, for only the oldest stand had greater basal area in the replacement cohort than in the initial cohort.
3237107|Soil properties are characterized for a range of the Molinietalia vegetation types in lowland Wales. In this oceanic region there is overlap in the distribution of various forms of wet pasture dominated by Molinia caerulea and Juncus acutiflorus. There is subtle and continuous variation in species composition among four communities investigated; this has been analysed by Detrended Correspondence Analysis and partitioned between subcommunities recognized in Rodwell (1991). Canonical Variates Analysis indicated that the main differences in soil conditions between the vegetation classes are related to gradients in base-status; apparent variation in soil fertility may also be significant and requires further investigation. In general, Molinia-Cirsium dissectum fen-meadow soils have higher pH, higher Ca-levels, greater base saturation and lower acidity than Molinia-Potentilla erecta wet grasslands; those of Juncus-Galium palustre rush-pasture and MoliniaCrepis paludosa mire had relatively high levels of inorganic N. The findings are discussed with reference to ecological and phytosociological relationships, and also in the context of nature conservation.
3237084|In this study, plant functional types are understood as groups of plants with similar biological traits displaying significant optima or maxima on a gradient plane of resource supply and disturbance intensity. The biological traits refer to expansion, vegetative regeneration, generative reproduction, dispersal and seed bank longevity. 129 vegetation samples were taken in an agricultural landscape in southwestern Germany, covering a wide range of terrestrial vegetation types - but with the exception of forests and wetlands. For each site, also soil data were recorded. Mean daily soil moisture was estimated with a simple model. Soil moisture, balanced nitrogen supply and available phosphorus were combined into a factor 'resource supply'. In addition, disturbance intensity was estimated for each site. This factor was based on (1) frequency of disturbance, (2) disturbance depth below or above the soil surface, and (3) proportion of the area affected by a discrete disturbance event. 30 plant groups with similar biological characteristics resulted from a cluster analysis, based on a compilation of 19 biological traits for a regional species pool. Logistic regression on a gradient plane of disturbance intensity and resource supply yielded response curves for 28 groups. The dependent variable was defined as the probability of encountering all members of a group in a sample. 17 groups display a significant response curve on the gradient plane. Plants with a potential for long-range dispersal are concentrated on sites with low or high disturbance intensities (e.g. fallow land, fields, lawns). On sites with medium disturbance intensity (e.g. meadows) and low to medium resource supply, small-range dispersal predominates. There are no distinct trends concerning seed bank longevity. The potential for vertical and lateral expansion increases with decreasing disturbance intensity. Only at medium disturbance intensities does vertical expansion correlate positively with resource supply. Rapid detachment of daughter individuals occurs more often on productive sites than on less productive sites. Diversity of groups with similar biological traits is highest on sites with medium disturbance intensities.
3246579|The objective of this study was to predict the effects of climatic variation at multiple temporal frequencies on seedling establishment by two congeneric C<sub>4</sub> perennial grasses (Bouteloua gracilis and B. eriopoda) at the ecotone between shortgrass steppe grassland and Chihuahuan desert grassland in central New Mexico, USA. The approach was to use a daily time-step simulation model to determine the occurrence of a recruitment event in each year based upon the amount and timing of soil water required for establishment. Historical weather data were used to predict effects of seasonal and interdecadal variation in climate on establishment. A sensitivity analysis was used to predict effects of directional climate change on establishment. Bouteloua gracilis had a broad pattern of simulated establishment from May through September that included periods with high year-to-year variation in precipitation. B. eriopoda establishment events occurred primarily in July when precipitation amounts were most reliable. Climatic conditions from 1949 through 1968 were more favorable for B. eriopoda establishment compared to the cooler, wetter conditions from 1969 through 1988 that favored B. gracilis. Establishment of B. eriopoda was lowest in El Nino years whereas B. gracilis establishment was highest in La Nina years. Establishment of B. gracilis was most sensitive to temperature when precipitation was higher than current amounts. The greatest response to temperature by B. eriopoda for all precipitation amounts occurred at cooler temperatures than found currently. These results indicate that climatic variation at multiple frequencies has differential effects on seedling establishment for these two perennial grasses, and may account at least in part for patterns in dominance at this biome transition zone.
3236074|The analysis of spatial patterns is one of the ways to estimate the role of competition among trees in forest dynamics. Three hypotheses concerning distribution patterns in old-growth stands were tested: (1) fine-scale spatial patterns of trees are regular; (2) patterns do not differ significantly from a random distribution, and (3) spatial patterns at larger scales are clumped because of site heterogeneity. Old-growth forest stands in Poland and the Czech Republic were analysed with a modified Ripley K function, using distribution maps of tree stems. Fine-scale spatial patterns (with distances among trees not exceeding 15 m) were usually intermediate between random and regular. Trends towards a regular distribution occurred more often among dead than among live individuals. No significant relationships between tree species were found at smaller scales; however, at larger scales (distances from 15 - 25 m) negative associations between some species were found. This reflects site heterogeneity rather than any direct influence of one tree species upon another.
3236983| We analysed the floristic turnover, or -diversity patterns, of woody legumes in Baja California, the 1300 km long peninsula in NW Mexico. From the specimen labels of nine herbaria, we digitized 4205 records from 78 species and projected them onto a grid of 205 cartographic cells (20' longitude x 15' latitude). We found that the E-W turnover from the Pacific coast to the Sea of Corts was high (ca. 60% change from one cell to the next) and that it was significantly associated with topographic variation across the peninsula. An analysis of between-site similarities showed that floristic regions in the peninsula have well defined boundaries, and that floristic similarities tend to extend for long distances along the coastal corridor of the Sea of Corts. Finally, a numerical classification of Baja California based on the floristic attributes of the cells separated the peninsula into five well defined regions that coincide very closely with regionalizations, previously proposed by various authors using descriptive methods, and with the areas of endemism described for the peninsula in a previous paper. We conclude that the ecological regions of woody legumes in the peninsula clearly reflect the two main environmental forces that act on it, namely, the 1300 km long temperate-tropical climatic gradient and the dramatic E-W gradient running from the Pacific Ocean ca. 100 km across the mountain range into the Sea of Corts. 
25549257|Questions: (i) Can sampling of soil wood charcoals at high spatial resolution produce new evidence concerning the presence of chalk grassland before or during the Neolithic, Bronze and Iron Ages? (ii) Are there correlations between vegetation history and archeological data during these periods at this particular site? Location: The chalk hillsides of Saint-Adrien in the lower Seine Valley, Upper Normandy, northwest France. Methods: The study was carried out at a high spatial resolution in chalk grassland using soil wood charcoal analysis, in which charcoals found in the soil were identified and dated in an area of several hundred square meters. Results: Late-successional woody species (Fagus sylvatica, Quercus sp.) were still present in the study site in an area inconsistent with the existence of large chalk grassland herbaceous plant communities (several hectares) in the Neolithic (6500-3800 BP) and Bronze Age (3800-2700 BP). Conclusions: The presence of late-successional woody species on the studied hillside suggests that fires in the Neolithic were linked to forest clearance for pastoral activities, as already demonstrated for similar ecosystems in eastern France and Germany. Nevertheless, our methodology clearly demonstrates that palaecological studies need to take into account the spatial organisation of plant communities as a complementary element to validate their potential existence in former times.
4499300|Question: This study evaluates how fire regimes influence stand structure and dynamics in old-growth mixed conifer forests across a range of environmental settings. Location: A 2000-ha area of mixed conifer forest on the west shore of Lake Tahoe in the northern Sierra Nevada, California. Methods: We quantified the age, size, and spatial structure of trees in 12 mixed conifer stands distributed across major topographic gradients. Fire history was reconstructed in each stand using fire scar dendrochronology. The influence of fire on stand structure was assessed by comparing the fire history with the age, size, and spatial structure of trees in a stand. Results: There was significant variation in species composition among stands, but not in the size, age and spatial patterning of trees. Stands had multiple size and age classes with clusters of similar aged trees occurring at scales of
3236231|Eragrostis intermedia (Plains lovegrass) is a mid-height perennial bunchgrass native to semi-arid grasslands of the southwestern USA, that becomes an abundant and dominant component of these grasslands in areas long protected from livestock grazing. Substantial mortality of plains lovegrass occurred on a large livestock exclosure in southeastern Arizona, after a period of declining precipitation, but only in areas that had not burned in the previous three years. Lovegrass abundance subsequently increased on both undisturbed and burned sites, but remained substantially higher on the burned area. Long-term abundance of plains lovegrass may depend on episodic fire, particularly during periods of reduced precipitation.
3236611|Salt marshes along the Atlantic coast of France have been converted into solar salt pans since the 7th century. Salt production declined strongly from the 18th century onward, leading to the abandonment of many of these salt pans. High soil salinity is a residue from the original salt production and varies among salt pans according to time since abandonment, the current flooding regime and the effect of drainage measures. The relationships between the plant communities and seven environmental variables were investigated by Detrended Correspondence Analyses (DCA). Duration of flooding, electric conductivity and sodium saturation were most strongly related to variation in vegetation. The Heleochareto-Hippuridetum vulgaris and the Caricetum ripariae occur in lagoons with slightly saline soil that are flooded for the longest time period; the Scirpetum maritimi compacti occurs in salt pans with saline soil flooded for a long period; the Alopecuro-Juncetum gerardii occurs on saline soil where flooding is of short duration whereas the Carici-Lolietum perennis is never flooded and occurs on only slightly saline soil. Soil salinity and duration of flooding provide a satisfactory explanation of the variation in species composition in abandoned salt pans but land-use practices, especially grazing, have to be taken into account to fully understand their floristic composition.
3236280|We examine the potential of standardised data, mainly collected in the laboratory, to elucidate mechanisms of species coexistence, using a south-facing, infertile, species-rich limestone grassland at Miller's Dale, Derbyshire, England as a model system. Standardised autecological data for 15 of the more important Miller's Dale species were obtained from the Integrated Screening Programme (ISP), and their functional attributes were reviewed in the context of a larger database, broadly representative of the British flora. Ordination of adult plant attributes demonstrated that the Miller's Dale species are strategically relatively uniform; most are slow-growing, evergreen and tolerant of mineral nutrient deficiency. Ordination of seed attributes revealed more variety among the Miller's Dale species; the main axis of variation was from species with large, transient seeds (mostly grasses) to species with small, persistent seeds (mostly dicots). From the ordination we derive the predictions that germination of the latter species will be more temporally opportunistic and more inhibited by the presence of vegetation than the former. These predictions are consistent with data collected in experimental studies of seed persistence and germination at the site. These data suggest that spatial and temporal variation in opportunities for regeneration is an important mechanism contributing to the high species richness of dry limestone grasslands.
3235869|Problems of naming African vegetation units are discussed, and related to the AETFAT vegetation scheme and other recent publications. Particularly, the distinction is emphasized between the terms forest and woodland, which are often considered synonyms. In other cases, no precise and ecologically meaningful definitions are presented, which leads to confusion and superfluous terms. More strict rules for the definition and application of vegetation terminology are proposed, and suggested as basic information to be given in vegetation literature.
3236613|The plant and sediment dynamics in salt marshes are strongly interrelated, but few data are available to document their interaction. Puccinellia maritima is a perennial grass that occurs widely in salt marshes and this study examines its role in the stabilization or trapping of sediment in the pioneer zone and its response to burial, a characteristic phenomenon in accreting salt marshes. Puccinellia not only appears to limit erosion but also to significantly enhance accretion. The functional role of this species is largely dependent on the local disturbance regime. The response of Puccinellia to burial was studied in a series of burial treatments. Growth performance of Puccinellia was stimulated by burial of 4 mm sediment and reduced by burial of 8 mm/month. Burial under 12 mm of sediment led to high mortality of up to 97 %. Response was determined by the instantaneous thickness of sediment rather than by the total quantity. Morphological response to burial consisted mainly of stem elongation. Plants collected from accretion zones in the field also produced tillers with adventitious roots at successive soil layers. The range of burial tolerances found for Puccinellia fits well with its occurrence in locations with up to 8 mm sediment accretion per tidal cycle, a common situation in the salt marsh studied.
41059628|Question: Does long-term grazing exclusion affect plant species diversity? And does this effect vary with long-term phytomass accumulation across a regional productivity gradient? Location: Lowland grassy ecosystems across the state of Victoria, southeast Australia. Methods: Floristic surveys and phytomass sampling were conducted across a broad-scale productivity gradient in grazing exclusion plots and adjacent grazed areas. Differences in species richness, evenness and life-form evenness between grazed and ungrazed areas were analysed. The environmental drivers of long-term phytomass accumulation were assessed using multiple linear regression analysis. Results: Species richness declined in the absence of grazing only at the high productivity sites (i.e. when phytomass accumulation was > 500gm -2 ). Species evenness and life-form evenness also showed a negative relationship with increasing phytomass accumulation. Phytomass accumulation was positively associated with both soil nitrogen and rainfall, and negatively associated with tree cover. Conclusions: Competitive dominance is a key factor regulating plant diversity in productive grassy ecosystems, but canopy disturbance is not likely to be necessary to maintain diversity in less productive systems. The results support the predictions of models of the effects of grazing on plant diversity, such as the dynamic equilibrium model, whereby the effects of herbivory are context-dependent and vary according to gradients of rainfall, soil fertility and tree cover.
4096733|Question: Does the degree and timing of disturbance contribute significantly to the pattern and process of regeneration in plant communities as a consequence of the availability and number of species of propagules present? Location: Acid grassland at 230 m a.s.l., eastern Scotland, UK. Methods: Plots were surface disturbed or had their soil profile inverted at monthly intervals at 12 dates during a year. Seed bank and seed rain were assessed at each treatment time. The effect of disturbance intensity and timing on the regenerating vegetation was assessed. Results: Removing the seed bank significantly slowed regeneration, as it contributed 43 % of developing cover after one year where it was present. At an individual seed level, seed in the seed rain had a much higher likelihood of contributing to the regenerating vegetation than a seed in the seed bank. Some species showed a reliance on the seed bank for regeneration, and hence there was a significant difference in the vegetation that developed between plots with the seed bank intact and those where it was removed. Winter disturbed plots (little seed rain) had slower rates of re-vegetation than summer disturbed plots. Timing had little effect on species composition, though a significantly higher cover of perennial forb species developed on the winter disturbed plots. Conclusion: Removing the contribution of the seed bank had a greater effect on the composition of regenerating vegetation than the effect of seasonal variation on the seed rain.
3235882|Monitoring of regional vegetation and surface biophysical properties is tightly constrained by both the quantity and quality of ground data. Stratified sampling is often used to increase sampling efficiency, but its effectiveness hinges on appropriate classification of the land surface. A good classification must be sufficiently detailed to include the important sources of spatial variability, but at the same time it should be as parsimonious as possible to conserve scarce and expensive degrees of freedom in ground data. As part of the First ISLSCP (International Satellite Land Surface Climatology Program) Field Experiment (FIFE), we used Regression Tree Analysis to derive an ecological classification of a tall grass prairie landscape. The classification is derived from digital terrain, land use, and land cover data and is based on their association with spectral vegetation indices calculated from single-date and multi-temporal satellite imagery. The regression tree analysis produced a site stratification that is similar to the a priori scheme actually used in FIFE, but is simpler and considerably more effective in reducing sample variance in surface measurements of variables such as biomass, soil moisture and Bowen Ratio. More generally, regression tree analysis is a useful technique for identifying and estimating complex hierarchical relationships in multivariate data sets.
4499235|Question: Does shrub invasion at ecotones indirectly limit grass establishment by increasing mammalian seedling herbivory? Location: Chihuahuan Desert, New Mexico, USA. Methods: We tested the hypothesis that herbivore-related mortality of seedlings of the dominant perennial grass Bouteloua eriopoda would be highest in shrub-dominated portions of grassland-shrubland ecotones. We tested the hypothesis in two Chihuahuan Desert sites featuring similar shrub encroachment patterns but different shrub species, grass cover, and different abundances of small mammals. Within each site we transplanted B. eriopoda seedlings to grass-dominated, middle, and shrubdominated positions of replicate ecotones during the time of year (mid-summer) when they would naturally appear and monitored seedling fates. We estimated population size/activity of putative small mammal herbivores. Results: Seedlings were killed by mammals in greater numbers in shrubland than in grassland or middle ecotone positions at the site with large herbivore numbers. At the site with low herbivore numbers, most seedlings were killed in middle ecotone positions. The abundance patterns of herbivores did not parallel patterns of seedling herbivory across the ecotones or between sites. Conclusions: Seedling herbivory is an important process and is related to vegetation composition, but the mechanisms underlying the relationship are not clear. We speculate that variation in small mammal foraging behavior may contribute to seedling herbivory patterns. Restoration strategies in the Chihuahuan Desert need to account for the abundance and/or behavior of native herbivores.
25549271|Question: How important is hydrochory for dispersing propagules along riverbanks and to what extent do the quantity and species composition of deposited propagules reflect the riparian vegetation, represent "new" species that are not present in the vegetation, and vary with river flow and season? Location: River Frome, Dorset, UK. Methods: Over 13 consecutive 6-week time periods, during which river water levels were continuously monitored, aerial inputs of propagules to riverbanks were sampled using funnels, hydrochorous propagule transport was sampled using drift nets, and deposition across the riverbanks was sampled using astroturf mats. A survey of the riparian vegetation enabled comparison between samples and the standing vegetation, so that "new" species could be identified. Differences in propagule abundance and diversity between sampling methods, time periods and locations were tested using Mann-Whitney U-tests and Kruskall-Wallis ANOVA. DCA established contrasts in the floristic composition of all deposited propagules and "new" propagules between different sample types, time periods and locations. Results: Aerial seed fall generated few propagules of low species richness. Hydrochory introduced large numbers of propagules and new species, resulting in high propagule deposition on the riverbank. The number and diversity of deposited propagules was governed by seasonal patterns of seed release and the hydrological regime. Propagule deposition was significantly greater on the most frequently inundated parts of the riverbank and autumn floods were particularly important for transporting "new" species to the study site and for remobilizing previously released propagules. Conclusions: The abundance and diversity of propagules deposited along riverbanks is dependent upon high river flows, which facilitates connectivity between the channel and the riparian zone.
3236950|The influence of canopy trees and shrubs on understorey plants is complex and context-dependent. Canopy plants can exert positive, negative or neutral effects on production, composition and diversity of understorey plant communities, depending on local environmental conditions and position in the landscape. We studied the influence of Prosopis velutina (mesquite) on soil moisture and nitrogen availability, and understorey vegetation along a topographic gradient in the Sonoran Desert. We found significant increases in both soil moisture and N along the gradient from desert to riparian zone. In addition, P. velutina canopies had positive effects, relative to open areas, on soil moisture in the desert, and soil N in both desert and intermediate terrace. Biomass of understorey vegetation was highest and species richness was lowest in the riparian zone. Canopies had a positive effect on biomass in both desert and terrace, and a negative effect on species richness in the terrace. The effect of the canopy depended on landscape position, with desert canopies more strongly influencing soil moisture and biomass and terrace canopies more strongly influencing soil N and species richness. Individual species distributions suggested interspecific variation in response to water- vs. N-availability; they strongly influence species composition at both patch and landscape position levels.
3236535|We assessed the influence of annual and seasonal climate variability over soil organic matter (SOM), above-ground net primary production (ANPP) and in situ net nitrogen (N) mineralization in a regional field study across the International Geosphere Biosphere Programme (IGBP) North American mid-latitude transect (Koch et al. 1995). We hypothesized that while trends in SOM are strongly correlated with mean climatic parameters, ANPP and net N-mineralization are more strongly influenced by annual and seasonal climate because they are dynamic processes sensitive to short-term variation in temperature and water availability. Seasonal and monthly deviations from long-term climatic means, particularly precipitation, were greatest at the semi-arid end of the transect. ANPP is sensitive to this climatic variability, but is also strongly correlated with mean annual climate parameters. In situ net N-mineralization and nitrification were weakly influenced by soil water content and temperature during the incubation and were less sensitive to seasonal climatic variables than ANPP, probably because microbial transformations of N in the soil are mediated over even finer temporal scales. We found no relationship between ANPP and in situ net N-mineralization. These results suggests that methods used to estimate in situ net N-mineralization are inadequate to represent N-availability across gradients where microbial biomass, N-immobilization or competition among plants and microbes vary.
3235638|A model is proposed for the fitting of species-area curves to data from the Stellenbosch region, South Africa. Basic assumptions of the model are finiteness of the number of species in a finite area, and random distribution of plant species over the region. The model involves a distribution of densities of different species, and the parameters of this distribution are useful for describing and classifying communities. The data of the Stellenbosch region suggest that the assumptions of the model break down in areas greater than 500 m<sup>2</sup>.
4096632|Question: Does the spatial pattern of nutrient supply modify community biomass responses to changes in both species composition and richness? Location: Duke University Phytotron (Durham, North Carolina, USA). Methods: We conducted a microcosm experiment to evaluate individual plant and whole community responses to species richness, species composition and soil nutrient heterogeneity. The experiment consisted of seven levels of species composition (all possible combinations of Lolium perenne, Poa pratensis and Plantago lanceolata) crossed with three levels of soil nutrient distribution (homogeneous, heterogeneous-up, and heterogeneous-down, where up and down indicates the location of a nutrient patch in either the upper or the lower half of the soil column, respectively). Results: Communities containing Plantago and Lolium responded to nutrient heterogeneity by increasing above- and below-ground biomass. Nutrient heterogeneity also increased size inequalities among individuals of these species. Significant species composition x nutrient heterogeneity interactions on community biomass and individual size inequality were observed when nutrient patches were located in the upper 10 cm of the soil columns. However, root proliferation in nutrient patches was equivalent regardless of the vertical placement of the patch. Conclusions: Our results suggest that nutrient heterogeneity may interact with plant species composition to determine community biomass, and that small-scale vertical differences in the location of nutrient patches affect individual and community responses to this heterogeneity.
3236159| Multivariate analysis was used to describe the composition and distribution of vegetation types on the slopes of the volcanoes Tlloc and Pelado, Mexico. These volcanoes are situated in the transitional zone between the Holarctic and Neotropical floristic regions, which offers a partial explanation for the relatively high  and  diversities. Previous research argued that human activities, i.e. burning and grazing, rather than abiotic factors, play a major role in determining the distribution and floristic composition of the vegetation. TWINSPAN, Detrended Correspondence Analysis and Canonical Correspondence Analysis were used to test this hypothesis. Floristic and environmental data from 138 relev and seven explanatory environmental variables were included: elevation, soil depth, soil moisture, percentage litter cover, percentage cover of bare ground, burning and grazing were included in the analysis. Soil moisture and elevation accounted for ca. 63 % of the residual inertia and none of the remaining explanatory variables proved to be correlated significantly with the first two axes. The present results suggest that burning and grazing operate on a finer scale. In conclusion, soil moisture and elevation are the most relevant variables to explain the distribution of the vegetation under study. 
4096797|Question: Do species from communities with different flooding dynamics differ in seed buoyancy? Is there a trade-off between seed buoyancy and seed longevity? Methods: Seeds of 55 freshwater wetland species were collected and related to communities along the hydrological gradient, ranging from constantly flooded reed beds, through tall herb fens and rich fens, to rarely flooded wet meadows. Species were experimentally tested for seed buoyancy over 210 days in standing water and moving water. Seed longevity for each species was calculated. Results: Community occurrence along the hydrologic gradient was mirrored by seed buoyancy. Seed buoyancy was highest for species of almost permanently inundated reed beds and lowest for species of rarely inundated wet meadows. The seed buoyancy characteristics of species of reed beds were best adapted to hydrological dynamic conditions mimicked by the treatment moving water and were the most independent of the flow rate of the water. A high percentage of the species used had a transient seed bank. Together with high buoyancy in many species, this suggests a trade-off between dispersal capacity and seed persistence. Conclusions: In freshwater wetlands with rather stable water levels, many species lack a persistent seed bank and depend on dispersal for colonization of new habitats. Seed buoyancy enhances aquatic seed dispersal, and can be of great importance in both vegetation dynamics and restoration. In wetlands that are inundated for a long period during the year and with a water level above soil surface, higher seed buoyancy enhances the possibility for hydrochory.
40295827|Questions: How do population structure and recruitment characteristics of Betula saplings beyond the treeline vary among climatic regions, and what is the potential for development into tree-sized individuals with interacting grazing pressure? Location: Scandes Mountains. Methods: Sapling characteristics of Betula pubescens subsp. tortuosa, their topographic position above the treeline, growth habitat and evidence of recent grazing was investigated in three areas with a long continuous grazing history, along a latitudinal gradient (62-69N). Results: Saplings were common up to 100 m above the treeline in all areas. The northern areas were characterised by small (< 30cm) and young (mean 14 years old) saplings in exposed micro-topographic locations unfavourable to long-term survival. In the southern area, broad height (2-183 cm) and age (4-95 years; mean 32 years) distributions were found in sheltered locations. Age declined with altitude in all areas. Sapling growth rate varied within and between areas, and the age  height interaction was significant only in the southern area. Growth rates decreased from south to north and indicated a considerable time required to reach tree size under prevailing conditions. Conclusions: Regional differences can be attributed to climatic differences, however, interacting biotic and abiotic factors such as micro-topography, climate and herbivory, mutually affect the characteristics of birch saplings. In view of the long time needed to reach tree size, the generally expected evident and fast treeline advance in response to climate warming may not be a likely shortterm scenario. The sapling pool in the southern region possesses strongest potential for treeline advance.
40295782|Question: How does location and time of insertion affect the course of succession in experimental containers? Location: Beneov nad Lipou, eskomoravsk vrchovina (Czech-Moravian uplands), Czech Republic Methods: We designed a 5-year container experiment in which plant succession started from scratch. Soil conditions were constant and all containers were filled with homogeneous substrate containing no propagules. We placed the containers in two contrasting habitats (meadow and floodplain) under identical climatic conditions but differing in surrounding vegetations and hence seed input. New containers were installed (and hence succession started) in two subsequent years, twice in each year (spring and autumn). We assume that the individual dates would lead to differences in propagule input and weather conditions. Results: Although both year and season of succession initiation considerably affected the initial species composition, we observed a pronounced convergence within the set of containers located in each habitat. However, the similarity of containers initiated at the same time but located in different habitats decreased over the course of succession. Final composition of the meadow and floodplain containers was therefore mostly determined by permanent seed input from their nearby neighborhood. Conclusions: This study demonstrated that propagule availability is an important determinant of the course of succession, and that differential seed input leads to different pathways of succession, even when all other environmental conditions are equal.
3237192|Asiatic wild asses, Equus hemionus, were driven to extinction in Israel in the early 20th century. In 1983, a herd of these animals was re-introduced to the wild in Makhtesh Ramon, a large erosion cirque in the central Negev desert, Israel. The population has grown steadily ever since and now numbers some 100 animals. In order to determine whether the wild asses are having a significant impact on the vegetation, we have monitored the plant communities in Makhtesh Ramon since 1992, using McAuliffe's log-series survey method. Our study involves 11 pairs of plots along the length of the altitudinal gradient in Makhtesh Ramon. The altitudinal gradient results in a rainfall gradient from an average of 95 mm rain per year to an average of about 40 mm per year. Each pair of plots consists of: (1) an unfenced plot, and (2) a fenced plot that excludes wild asses but not the other large mammalian herbivore, the dorcas gazelle Gazella dorcas. The wild asses have not had a significant impact on vegetation cover, species richness, diversity or dominance. Three plant species showed significant increases in percentage cover in fenced plots, while one species showed a significant increase in percentage cover in unfenced plots. Furthermore, eight plant species invaded fenced plots, three species invaded unfenced plots and one species disappeared from unfenced plots during the study. Using Detrended Correspondence Analysis, we found that the major differences among plots are due to position along the altitudinal gradient. The Detrended Correspondence Analyses indicated that the wild asses have had no significant effect on vegetation community structure.
3246582| The vegetation of the woodland-steppe transition in southeastern Inner Mongolia, where the East Asian monsoon climate reaches its northwestern edge, is described and analysed in this paper. The communities are classified in a phytocoenological way. 12 major types of woodland, shrubland, meadow, fen, open woodland and steppe are differentiated and described on the basis of 133 phytosociological relevs. Detrended Correspondence Analysis shows that precipitation plays a crucial role in the distribution of grassland communities while woodland and shrubland communities are controlled by both warmth and humidity conditions. Four vegetation zones can be distinguished. From the woodland to the woodland-grassland zone, the temperature decreases and the precipitation increases with increasing altitude, which leads to the conditions suitable for the meadow and fen communities. In the direction of the woodland-steppe zone the temperature increases while the precipitation decreases with the gradual lowering of the altitude; the steppe communities form a matrix while the woodlands have a patchy distribution. From the woodland-steppe to the steppe zone, the precipitation rather than temperature decreases; as a result the woodland communities disappear gradually. On a local scale, geomorphologic conditions determine the vegetation pattern of the study area. Due to the existence of a sandy substrate different woodland types occur together in the woodland-steppe transition. The local distribution of woodland and steppe communities is dependent on slope conditions. In addition, human disturbance has also influenced the composition of plant communities. 
4096716|Question: How do interactions between rocky landscape features and fire regime influence vegetation dynamics? Location: Continental Eastern USA. Methods: We measured vegetation, disturbance and site characteristics in 40 pairs of rocky and non-rocky plots: 20 in recently burned stands, and 20 in stands with no evidence of recent fire ('unbumed' stands). Two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to assess the main and interaction effects of fire and rock cover on plant community composition. Results: In burned stands, rock cover had a strong influence on vegetation. Non-rocky 'matrix' forests were dominated by Quercus, and had abundant ground cover and advance regeneration of early and mid-successional tree species. Burned rocky patches supported greater density of fire-sensitive species such as Acer rubrum, Sassafras albidum and Nyssa sylvatica and had little advance regeneration or ground cover. Quercus had fewer fire scars and catfaces (open, basal wounds) on rocky patches, suggesting that rocky features mitigate fire severity. In unburned stands, differences between rocky and non-rocky patches were less distinct, with both patch types having sparse ground cover, little tree regeneration, and high understorey densities of relatively shade tolerant A. rubrum, N. sylvatica and Betula lenta. Conclusion: Under a sustained fire regime, heterogeneity in rock cover created a mosaic where fire-adapted species such as Quercus dominate the landscape, but where fire-sensitive species persisted in isolated pockets of lower fire severity. Without fire, species and landscape richness may decline as early-mid successional species are replaced by more shade tolerant competitors.
3236780|The effects of soil surface disturbance and light level on seedling emergence were examined by creating experimental conditions differing in soil surface treatment and light level in a temperate deciduous broadleaved secondary forest in central Japan. The results of MANOVA showed that soil surface disturbance exerted a favourable influence upon the seedling emergence of many species. Effect of soil disturbance on total density and number of emerged species was greater than that of a high light level. The interaction between soil surface disturbance and light level revealed significant positive effects for seedling emergence, especially for small-seeded species. The relationship between the percentage of emerged seedlings and seed weight was significantly negative in the soil-surface disturbed and high light level condition, suggesting that minute-seeded species largely depend on both factors for seedling emergence. Both soil surface disturbance and high light level had a positive effect on the number of emerged species, suggesting that these factors contributed to species richness at the stage of seedling emergence.
3235976|Shrubland communities in Central Spain were studied through classifying growth forms of woody species and determining the shared use of the ground in progressively smaller spaces. 516 plants belonging to the six most abundant species and taken from different sites were included in biometric measurements. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was used to detect the trends of variation in the architecture of plants. The individuals were classified on the basis of the results of the PCA and different morphological types were detected, mainly 'elliptical', 'spherical' or 'variable' according to their shape. These morphological types were adopted by most plants depending on their location and community. The horizontal occupation of space seems to be determined by whether or not the species rooted close to each other are able to occupy different strata. The co-occurrence of two species in a reduced space is not facilitated when the two species have the same architecture. Then a spatial segregation tends to occur at a fine scale. The results can be interpreted as an optimization strategy of the shrubland 'biomass/horizontal occupied area ratio', which can be maximized in different environmental situations. It can also help to explain the 'grain' size of the pattern of horizontal spatial organization of the shrubland.
3237364| Changes in woody vegetation were examined over eight years, using a 1.05-ha permanent plot in which the location of every shrub and tree  1 m height was mapped. There was little change in the overstory vegetation, as expected for an old-growth forest. Much greater change occurred in the understory, primarily related to a 40 % increase in density. Differences occurred among species in the understory, as Acer saccharum and Prunus serotina increased and Fraxinus americana and Fagus grandifolia decreased. Canopy gap dynamics are implicated in differences among species in the establishment and growth of individuals in the understory and their recruitment into the overstory. It is concluded that because understory is temporally variable, overstory recruitment from the understory may take different courses at different times in the same forest. 
4499223|Questions: Can gender of nurse plants affect regeneration patterns and spatial population structure? Is there a seed-seedling conflict in the regeneration process? What factors are responsible for the clumped spatial population structure observed for adult trees? Location: Mediterranean cold semi-arid high mountains in Spain. Methods: The spatial pattern of adult Juniperus thurifera trees was studied by means of Ripley's K-analysis. 
3236838|We stated (Wamelink et al. 2002) that mean Ellenberg indicator values are biased towards expectations of phytosociologists. Witte & von Asmuth (2003; this volume) have two major points of criticism: (1) the data we used would be systematically biased; (2) in calibrating Ellenberg indicator values for moisture availability against mean spring groundwater level we should have assumed a sigmoid response instead of a linear one. As to (1), a bias in the data would require that wet vegetation types were visited in wet years and dry vegetation types in dry years. We do not see any evidence for this. As to (2), our data do not provide strong evidence for a sigmoid relation instead of a linear one. Neither is there any indication that the bias in the Ellenberg indicator values would disappear when a sigmoid function would be fitted. We do agree with Witte & von Asmuth that it is preferable to characterize the species' response by those variables to which they most directly respond.
25173143|Question: Does the understorey vegetation of Norwegian boreal forests change in relation to broad-scale, long-term changes? Location: Norway. Methods: Permanently marked 1-m vegetation plots from 17 monitoring reference areas in forests dominated by Picea abies (11 areas, 620 plots) and Betula spp. (six areas, 300 plots) were analysed twice, at the start in 1988-1997 and 5 yr later (1993-2002). Species subplot frequency data were analysed separately for each area by univariate and multivariate statistical methods; 5-yr changes in single species abundances, species number per plot and species composition were tested. Results: Two distinct patterns of change were found: 1. Abundance of several vascular plant species decreased in SE Norwegian Picea forests, most noticeably of species with a preference for richer soils, such as Oxalis acetosella. 2. Abundance of many bryophyte species as well as bryophyte species number per plot increased in forests of both types over most of Norway. Conclusions: The pattern of vascular plant changes is probably a time-delayed response of long-lived, mainly clonal, populations to acidified soils resulting from deposition of long-distance airborne pollutants. The pattern bryophyte changes, with reference to the close link between climatic conditions for growth and abundance changes for Hylocomium splendens established in previous demographic studies, is related to climatic conditions favourable for bryophyte growth. We conclude that many forest understorey plants are sensitive indicators of environmental change, and that the concept used for intensive monitoring of Norwegian forests enables early detection of changes in vegetation brought about by broad-scale, regional, impact factors.
3236266|Of 34 species of vascular plants recorded in an unimproved calcareous grassland community in 1960 and subsequently buried for 32 yr, just six spp. were recovered as viable seeds from the original land surface, following excavation of an experimental earthwork. Five of the six are known or suspected to form persistent seed banks; the status of Carex flacca as a persistent seed is now established. The exceptionally low density of viable seeds at 35 seeds/m<sup>2</sup> and the paucity of other plant remains confirm that these calcareous soils have supported rapid decomposition. The complete absence of viable seeds known to be short-lived indicated that the macro-fauna has played no significant role in the introduction of viable seeds from the modern-day surface down to depths in excess of 1.6 m, at least not in recent years. Because of the precise dates of burial and excavation, the results offer a rare opportunity to confirm laboratory and other indirect observations of long-term seed persistence following burial in temperate climate calcareous soils.
4499290|Question: Lower montane treeline ecotones such as the inner Alpine dry valleys are regarded as sensitive to climate change. In the dry Valais valley (Switzerland) the composition of the widespread, low altitude Pinus forests is shifting towards a mixed deciduous state. The sub-boreal P. sylvestris shows high mortality rates, whereas the deciduous sub-mediterranean Quercus pubescens is spreading. These species may act as early indicators of climate change. We evaluate this hypothesis by focusing on their differences in drought tolerance, which are hardly known, but are likely to be crucial in the current forest shift and also for future forest development. Methods: We used dendroecological methods to detect species-specific patterns in the growth response to drought. The relationship between radial growth of 401 trees from 15 mixed stands and drought was analysed by calculating response functions using yearly tree-ring indices and monthly drought indices. PCA was applied to the response ratios to discover spatial patterns of drought response. Results: A species-specific response to moisture as well as a sub-regional differentiation of the response patterns were found. While Quercus showed a response mainly to the conditions of the previous autumn and those of current spring, Pinus did not start responding before May, but showed responses throughout the whole summer. Quercus may restrict physiological activity to moist periods; growth of Pinus was much more dependent on prior growth. Conclusions: Given that the climate is changing towards (1) longer summer drought periods, (2) higher mean temperatures and (3) shifted seasonality of moisture availability, Quercus may benefit from adapting better to drier conditions. Pinus may increasingly face problems related to drought stress as it depends on summer moisture and has a smaller adaptive capacity due to its long-lived photosynthetic tissue.
4096722|Question: Which are the structural attributes and the history of old-growth Fagus forest in Mediterranean montane environments? What are the processes underlying their structural organization? Are these forests stable in time and how does spatial scale affect our assessment of stability? How do these forests compare to other temperate deciduous old-growth forests? Location: 1600-1850 m a.s.l., Fagus forest near the tree line, central Apennines, Italy. Methods: An old-growth Fagus forest was studied following historical, structural and dendroecological approaches. History of forest cover changes was analysed using aerial photographs taken in 1945, 1954, 1985 and 1994. The structural analysis was carried out in the primary old-growth portion of the forest using 18 circular and two rectangular plots. Dendroecological analyses were conducted on 32 dominant or co-dominant trees. Results: These primary old-growth Fagus remnants consist of four patches that escaped logging after World War II. Both living and dead tree components are within the range of structural attributes recognized for old-growth in temperate biomes. Dendroecological analyses revealed the roles of disturbance, competition and climate in structuring the forest. We also identified a persistent Fagus community in which gap-phase regeneration has led to a mono-specific multi-aged stand at spatial scales of a few hectares, characterized by a rotated-sigmoid diameter distribution. Conclusion: Even at the relatively small spatial scale of this study, high-elevation Apennine Fagus forests can maintain structural characteristics consistent with those of old-growth temperate forests. These results are important for managing old-growth forests in the Mediterranean montane biome.
3236112| The availability of major plant resources was investigated in three vegetation types that were assumed to represent different stages of a secondary succession on heathland on the Lneburger Heide, northwestern Germany. Canopy transmission and absorption of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), soil-water availability, and nutrient (Ca, K, Mg, N, P) availability were monitored with high spatial and temporal resolution in (1) a Calluna vulgaris heathland, (2) a pioneer birch-pine forest and (3) a late-successional oak-beech forest, situated close to each other on comparable geological substrate (diluvial). Mean fractional transmission of PAR during summer decreased from 0.48 in the heathland to 0.04 in the oak-beech forest while the fractional canopy absorption increased from 0.49 to 0.92. Soil-water availability as indicated by the soil-water potential, was significantly influenced by differential canopy interception loss and characteristic rooting patterns in the three vegetation types. Annual mean nutrient concentrations in the equilibrium soil solution were similar or, for some elements, increased from the heathland to the birch-pine and the oakbeech forest despite a growing demand. A marked increase was found for the total nutrient pools in the soil-organic layer between early and late successional vegetation types. On the poor glacial parent material, nutrient pools seem to be strongly dependent on stand productivity and litter production which increased with succession. Thus, for nutrients, facilitation seems to be important in this type of succession. 
25173190|Question: Several mechanisms have been proposed that control the spatio-temporal pattern of species coexistence. Among others, the species pool hypothesis states that the large-scale species pool is an important factor in controlling small-scale species richness through filtering of species that can persist within a species assemblage on the basis of their tolerance of the abiotic environment. Because of the process of environmental filtering, co-occurring species that experience similar environmental conditions are likely to be more taxonomically similar than ecologically distant species. This is because, due to the conservatism of many species traits during evolutionary diversification, the ability of species to colonize the same ecological space is thought to depend at least partially on their taxonomic similarity. The question for this study is: Under the assumption of trait conservatism, does environmental filtering lead to nonrandom species assemblages with respect to their taxonomic structure? Methods: The significance of taxonomic filtering in regulating species coexistence is tested using data from 15 local species assemblages from the urban flora of Rome (Italy). To find out whether the taxonomic structure of the selected 'local' species assemblages was significantly different from random, we used a Monte Carlo simulation in which for each local species assemblage, the actual taxonomic diversity was compared to the taxonomic diversity of 1000 virtual species lists of the same size extracted at random from a larger 'regional' species pool. Results: We found that in most cases the local species assemblages have a higher degree of taxonomic similarity than would be expected by chance showing a phenomenon of 'species condensation' in a small number of higher-level taxa. Conclusions: Our observations support the species pool hypothesis and imply that environmental filtering is an important mechanism in shaping the taxonomic structure of species assemblages. Therefore, the incorporation of taxonomic diversity into landscape and community ecology may be beneficial for a better understanding of the processes that regulate species coexistence.
25173208|Questions: 1. Does flood pulsing drive metacommunity dynamics and provide insurance against catastrophic flooding in desert southwestern riparian ecosystems? 2. Do upland and wetland species in the floodplain differ in their dynamics? Location: Southwestern USA. Methods: We sampled vegetation and propagule banks in four communities along a floodplain hydrogradient. Plant species were classified as wetland or upland and community wetland indicator scores were calculated. ANOVA tested for differences between data categories amongst communities (extant vegetation and propagule banks) and soil depths. Srensen's similarity coefficient was calculated to determine compositional similarity between vegetation and propagule banks. Results: Community propagule banks had high similarity indicating broad dispersal by flood waters. Wetland propagules were present in soils from channel bars to floodplain edges, despite declines in wetland vegetation with distance from channel. Wetland communities in propagule banks were dissimilar from those in vegetation except on channel bars. Upland species (vegetation and propagule banks) increased with distance from channel. Propagules of upland species were most abundant in the litter, and were compositionally similar to upland species in most communities. Conclusions: Flood pulsing is one mechanism that drives spatiotemporal metacommunity dynamics in dynamic desert riparian ecosystems. The homogenized regional propagule bank created by flood pulsing provides wetland species with a mechanism to escape local extinction by allowing for recolonization after flooding creates suitable establishment conditions. Upland species are able to germinate from in-situ sources after small-scale flooding or rainfall moistens soil. In fluctuating environments, these dynamics sustain biodiversity in the face of ongoing environmental change.
40295785|Question. Competitive and facilitative interactions among plant species in different abiotic environments potentially link productivity, vegetation structure, species composition and functional diversity. We investigated these interactions among four alpine communities along an environmental productivity gradient in a generally harsh climate. We hypothesised that the importance of competition would be higher in more productive sites. Location. Mt. M. Khatipara (4327N, 4141E, altitude 2750m), NW Caucasus, Russia. Communities ranged from low-productivity alpine lichen heath (ALH) and snowbed communities (SBC), to intermediate productivity Festuca grassland (FVG), and high-productivity Geranium-Hedysarum meadow (GHM). Methods. We quantified the relative influence of competition and facilitation on community structure by expressing biomass of target species within each natural community proportionally to biomass of the species in a "null community" with experimental release from interspecific competition by removing all other species (for 6 years). An overall index of change in community composition due to interspecific interactions was calculated as the sum of absolute or proportional differences of the component species. Results. Species responses to neighbour removal ranged from positive to neutral. There was no evidence of facilitation among the selected dominant species. As expected, competition was generally most important in the most productive alpine community (GHM). The intermediate position for low-productivity communities of stressful environments (ALH, SBC) and the last position of intermediately productive FVG were unexpected. Conclusions. Our results appear to support the Fretwell-Oksanen hypothesis in that competition in communities of intermediate productivity was less intense than in low-or high-productive communities. However, the zero net effect of competition and facilitation in FVG might be the result of abiotic stress due to strong sun exposure and high soil temperatures after neighbour removal. Thus, nonlinear relationships between soil fertility, productivity and different abiotic stresses may also determine the balance between competition and facilitation.
25173156|Question: Are flower production and associated phenological variables (onset, end, duration, and three measures of flowering synchrony) randomly distributed in space or, alternatively, is there a neighbourhood structure (spatial autocorrelation) in the values of these variables? To which extent does spatial autocorrelation affect the correlation tests between phenological traits? Location: A tree savanna reserve in Southeastern Brazil (2215' S, 4708' W). Methods: The flowering season of Chromolaena odorata was followed for all (96) individuals in a completely mapped area of 3000 m. The phenological traits were estimated by counting flower heads in anthesis on individual plants every seven days for 14 weeks. Results: Flowering time was unimodally distributed, but with different peak dates depending on whether individual flower heads or plants were counted. Three phenological traits and canopy closure above the plants showed some degree of spatial autocorrelation, which caused loss of up to 35% of degrees of freedom in nine of 36 correlation tests. Such a decrease in the degrees of freedom resulted in loss of significance for correlations in three pairs of variables. Conclusions: We hypothesize that the spatial autocorrelation in phenological traits between C. odorata neighbours may be driven by genetic similarity among neighbouring plants and/or spatial structuring of environmental factors. Because location and distance between samples may affect their statistical independence, we suggest that spatial autocorrelation should be taken into account in future studies of plant phenology, e.g. by using effective sample size in statistical tests.
3236768|Plant defense theories suggest that chemical or structural defences should be maximized when and where browsing is most likely to occur. We tested this hypothesis on four evergreen woody species growing in a Mediterranean area with a high density of ungulates. In this system, levels of browsing are more intense in the winter (due to the lack of annual plants) and young foliage is often preferred. Therefore we predicted that the chemical defences of these species, namely their phenolic content, would vary with leaf age, season and damage intensity. In addition, we tested whether ungulates preferentially selected species containing lower phenolic levels, and also whether browsing induced either chemical or morphological changes in damaged plants. Phenolic levels varied greatly between plant species; ungulates browsed preferentially on the species with the lowest phenolic levels. No difference in phenolic content was found between browsed and unbrowsed trees. Morphological changes in heavily browsed trees included an increase in shoot and leaf density and a net decrease in leaf size. We suggest that for Mediterranean plants, which have evolved under high browsing pressure from large mammals, the production of small leaves and dense shoots in response to browsing might decrease ungulate foraging efficiency and hence reduce the rate of further damage as effectively as high levels of chemical defence.
3236445|In this study we make clear that the significance of deviations from an expected variance in species richness as demonstrated in alvar grassland, is a function of spatial pattern at the scale richness was measured, i.e. 10 cm<sup>2</sup>. If corrected for spatial dependence, more than half of the significant cases become nonsignificant. As regards cases of significant variance deficit, which has been interpreted as an indication of niche limitation, we suggest that there may be a simple physical limitation to the number of species on the scale of observation in the form of a low number of plant units which can find a place because of the modal plant size of the species involved. In most cases of significant variance deficit the modal size of the plant units involved was probably bigger than average. Insofar as a significant variance deficit can be demonstrated, the resulting species richness distribution curve should be analyzed and we propose a skewness test, enabling us to differentiate between significantly left-skewed curves (`niche limitation'), significantly right-skewed curves (`niche facilitation') and symmetrical curves. We present results obtained with the G-test, a log-likelihood ratio goodness of fit test. Only few cases of significantly left-skewed curves and a majority of symmetrical curves were found. Attempts to demonstrate guild proportionality in grasslands suffer from the heterogeneity of usually distinguished guilds, such as annuals vs. perennials or graminoids vs. dicotyledons. We observe that niche limitation may occur in alvar grassland, but indications for niche facilitation are stronger. Finally, we conclude that deviations in species richness variance are interesting indications of community structure, but only of spatial structure. Niche structure resulting from assembly rules should be investigated through experiments.
3236107|A field experiment involving herbivore exclusion, ploughing, and the combination of both was carried out over a period of 4-5 yr in Mediterranean grasslands located along an elevational gradient. The empirical results provide a general hierarchical framework for understanding patterns of plant species diversity in these grasslands. In grazed grasslands, plant species density decreased as altitude increased, and this pattern was maintained through time. The reduced seasonality along the climatic gradient is suggested as the extrinsic, indirect control factor. Ploughing caused species loss, but after 4 yr the original diversity was recovered in most grasslands. Our hypothesis is that a negative feedback mechanism regulates species increase towards a characteristic level. A trend of species density reduction was observed in ungrazed grasslands. Plant-herbivore interaction is considered to be essential for maintaining species diversity in grazed grasslands and for the recovery of diversity in mechanically disturbed grasslands.
40295825|Questions: To what extent does species-specific variation in gut passage time (GPT), habitat use and mobility of three key avian frugivores synergistically affect the distribution of Xymalos monospora seeds within and among isolated forest fragments? Location: Three fragments of a severely fragmented cloud forest, Taita Hills, southeast Kenya. Methods: We experimentally determined GPTs of X. monospora seeds and recorded movements and habitat use by Turdus helleri, Andropadus milanjensis and Tauraco hartlaubi through radiotelemetry, and combined these data to generate species-specific seed dispersal patterns. Results: Differences in mobility and habitat use among the three frugivores caused significant complementarity in seed dispersal, despite the fact that gut transit times were highly comparable. While the most sedentary and forestdependent species mainly led to short-distance dispersal away from parent trees, two more mobile species dispersed seeds further away from the source trees, both within indigenous forest patches and towards exotic plantations and isolated fruiting trees in the landscape matrix. A. milanjensis inhabiting a very small forest fragment spent significantly more time in the landscape matrix than conspecifics residing in the two larger fragments. Conclusions: By varying distances over which seeds are carried away from parent trees and the habitat types in which they are ultimately deposited, avian frugivores affect the spatial distribution of seeds and early plant recruits in a distinct and complementary manner. Because landscape properties are expected to lead to different constraints on avian mobility for habitat specialists and for generalists, ecosystem processes such as avian seed dispersal are shaped by complex interactions between disperser behaviour and the environment.
3235610| We have constructed a heat budget for the transient heating of cones showing that there is a logarithmic relationship between the time (sec) to serotinous cone opening, releasing viable seeds, or cone ignition and temperature (K) in the convective column above a fire. The rate of opening at a given temperature is controlled by a thermal time constant which is the ratio of the thermal resistance of a cone to convection, to the heating capacity of a cone by conduction. The observed times to cone opening and ignition fit the logarithmic relationship as predicted by the heat budget model. In order to understand the fire behaviour that results in cone opening and ignition, we changed the variables of temperature and time to the fire behaviour variables of fire intensity (kW/m) and fire rate of spread (m/min). Cones borne high in the canopy open in fires with low rates of spread and high fuel consumption, where intensity = rate of spread x fuel consumption x heat of ignition, but not when the rate of spread is high and fuel consumption low. 
3235705|The delta section of the Mediterranean coast of Egypt can be divided ecologically into four main habitats: salt marsh, sand formation, reed swamp and fertile non-cultivated land. In each habitat vegetation types can be distinguished based on the dominance of single species. The salt marsh habitat comprises five such communities dominated by: Zygophyllumaegyptium, Inula crithmoides, Arthrocnemum macrostachyum, Juncus acutus and Halocnemum strobilaceum. The vegetation of the sand formation includes 11 communities dominated by: Elymus farctus ssp. farctus, Alhagi graecorum, Cynodondactylon, Heliotropium curassavicum, Stipagrostis lanata, Thymelaea hirsuta, Moltkiopsis ciliata, Asparagus stipularis and Pancratium maritimum (sand dunes), Cressa cretica and Phragmites australis (sand flats). The reed swamp habitat is dominated by Typha domingensis. In the fertile non-cultivated land Alhagi graecorum, Cynodondactylon and Heliotropium curassavicum are the dominants. Quantitative cluster analysis revealed a lower number of clusters than there are dominance types, but on the whole the two systems are similar. Ordination and subsequent analysis of correlation between vegetation gradients and soil factors showed that the decisive soil factors for the variation in salt marsh vegetation are moisture availability and CaCO<sub>3</sub> content, and for the sand formation soil moisture, - fertility and - salinity.
40295771|Question: What is the role of mound-building ants (Lasius flavus) in successional changes of a grassland ecosystem towards a spruce forest? Location: Slovensk Rudohorie Mountains, Slovakia; ca. 950 m a.s.l. near the Obrubovanec point (1020 m a.s.l.; 4841'N, 1939'E). Methods: Both chronosequence data along a successional gradient and temporal data from long-term permanent plots were collected on ants, spruce establishment, and vegetation structure, together with additional data on spruce growth. Results: There are more spruce seedlings on ant mounds (4.72m) than in the surrounding vegetation (0.8lm). Spruce seedlings grow faster on these mounds compared to surrounding areas. The first colonization wave of seedlings was rapid and probably occurred when grazing prevailed over mowing. Ant colony presence, mound volume, and plant species composition change along the successional gradient. Mounds become bigger when partly shaded but shrink in closed forest, when ant colonies disappear. Shade-tolerant acidophylic species replace grassland plants both on the mounds and in surrounding areas. Conclusions: The massive occurrence of Lasius flavus anthills contributes to a runaway feedback process that accelerates succession towards forest. The effect of ants as ecosystem engineers is scale-dependent: although they stabilize the system at the scale of an individual mound, they may destabilize the whole grassland system over a longer time scale if combined with changes in mowing regime.
3236752| Vascular plant species compositional patterns of the low forest, scrub, and herbaceous vegetation on white sand soils and sandstone substrates were studied at six sandstone plateaus in Colombian Amazonia, by means of a field survey according to the Braun-Blanquet relev method. Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) was applied to separate effects of habitat and spatial configurations of the plateaus on species patterns. Also, information on dispersal ability and phytogeographic affinity of species was used to test explanations for between plateau differences. Low trees, shrubs and herbs were the main species recorded in 212 relevs. The main gradients in the species patterns were linked to the spatial configuration of the plateaus. Spatially controlled species patterns were mainly related to soil depth and soil organic matter. The association between phytogeographic affinity and the habitat controlled spatial link of species pointed at insufficient sampling at one plateau. Dispersal ability did not explain the habitat controlled spatially distributed occurrences of plant species. This might indicate a low frequency of local extinctions at the sandstone plateaus, especially of the poorly dispersed species, possibly because plant populations survive fire or drought disturbances in local sheltered places. Space and habitat controlled species patterns at one plateau were quite distinct from patterns at the other plateaus. This might be due to unmeasured habitat factors (e.g. unrecorded soil variation or human disturbance history) or the preferential, surveyor biased sampling procedure. 
3237253|This paper is a reflection on a recent study on input order sensitivity of data analysis methods commonly used in vegetation science. It is pointed out that variability of results is due to some arbitrary element in the method, either in its algorithm or in its computer program. Many methods produce unique results theoretically; this implies that the source of uncertainty can only be the algorithm or its computer implementation. It is stressed that the prerequisite of meaningful comparisons is that these causes have been identified previously. Whenever the method is known to be input-order sensitive, such as the unweighted pair group clustering technique, the use of algorithms and programs which disregard this sensitiveness should be avoided.
40925539|Questions: How can a resemblance (similarity or dissimilarity) measure be formulated to include information on both the evolutionary relationships and abundances of organisms, and how does it compare to measures lacking such information? Methods: We extend the family of Phylogenetic Diversity (PD) measures to include a generalized method for calculating pair-wise resemblance of ecological assemblages. Building on previous work, we calculate the matching/mismatching components of the 2x2 contingency table so as to incorporate information on both phylogeny and abundance. We refer to the class of measures so defined as "PD resemblance" and use the term "SD resemblance" for the traditional class of measures based on species diversity alone. As an illustration, we employ data on the diversity and stem density of shrubs of Toohey Forest, Australia, to compare PD resemblance to its SD resemblance equivalent for both incidence and abundance data. Results: While highly correlated, PD resemblance consistently measures assemblages as more similar than does SD resemblance, and tends to "smooth out" the otherwise skewed and truncated distribution of pair-wise resemblance indices of our highturnover data set, resulting in nMDS ordinations with lower stress. Randomization of species distributions across assemblages indicates that phylogeny has made a significant contribution to the ordination pattern. Conclusions: PD resemblance measures, in addition to providing an evolutionary perspective, have great potential to improve distance-based analyses of community patterns, particularly if species responses to ecological gradients are unimodal and phylogenetically conserved.
25173191|Questions: Are there interspecific differences in mortality and recruitment rates across life stages between two shade-tolerant dominant trees in a sub-alpine old-growth forest? Do such differences in demography contribute to the coexistence and co-dominance of the two species? Location: Sub-alpine, old-growth forest on Mt. Ontake, central Honshu, Japan. Methods: From 1980 to 2005, we recorded DBH and status (alive or dead) of all Abies mariesii and A. veitchii individuals (DBH  5 cm) in a 0.44-ha plot. Based on this 25 year census, we quantified mortality and recruitment rates of the two species in three life stages (small tree, 5 cm  DBH &lt; 10 cm; subcanopy tree, 10 cm  DBH &lt; 20 cm; canopy tree, DBH  20 cm). Results: Significant interspecific differences in mortality and recruitment rates were observed in both the small tree and subcanopy tree stages. In this forest, saplings (&lt; 5 cm DBH) are mostly buried by snow-pack during winter. As a consequence, saplings of A. mariesii, which is snow and shade tolerant, show higher rates of recruitment into the small tree stage than do those of A. veitchii. Above the snow-pack, trees must tolerate dry, cold temperatures. A. veitchii, which can more readily endure such climate conditions, showed lower mortality rate at the subcanopy stage and a higher recruitment rate into the canopy tree stage. This differential mortality and recruitment among life-stages determines relative dominance of the two species in the canopy. Conclusion: Differential growth conditions along a vertical gradient in this old forest determine survival of the two species prior to reaching the canopy, and consequently allow co-dominance at the canopy stage.
4499184| Questions: 1. Do the species composition, richness and diversity of sapling communities vary significantly in differently sized patches? 2. Do forest patches of different sizes differ in woody plant colonization patterns? Location: So Francisco de Paula, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, 2928' S, 5013' W. Methods: Three woody vegetation types, differing in structural development (patch size) and recovering for 10 years from cattle and burning disturbances, were sampled on grassland. We analysed the composition and complexity of the woody sapling communities, through relative abundance, richness and diversity patterns. We also evaluated recruitment status (residents vs. colonizers) of species in communities occurring in different forest patch size classes. Results: 1. There is a compositional gradient in sapling communities strongly associated with forest patch area. 2. Richness and diversity are positively correlated to patch area, but only in poorly structured patches; large patches present richness and diversity values similar to small patches. 3. Resident to colonizer abundance ratio increases from nurse plants to large patches. The species number proportion between residents and colonizers is similar in small and large patches and did not differ between these patch types. 4. Large patches presented a high number of exclusive species, while nurse plants and small patches did not. Conclusions: Woody plant communities in Araucaria forest patches are associated with patch structure development. Richness and diversity patterns are linked to patch colonization patterns. Generalist species colonize the understorey of nurse plants and small patches; resident species cannot recruit many new individuals. In large patches, sapling recruitment by resident adults precludes the immigration of new species into the patches, limiting richness and diversity. 
4499239|Questions: Is the occurrence of vine species in neotropical rain forests primarily determined by properties of the forest (environmental factors), by properties of the trees (tree species or tree size) or are vines randomly distributed? Location: Maya Biosphere Reserve, Guatemala. Methods: In five 1-ha plots that span variation from unlogged forest to forest impacted by recurrent human disturbance we recorded the presence of all climbing vine species on every tree. The presence of all free standing vine species and 11 environmental variables were recorded in 100-m
4096723|Aim: Patterns of plant functional traits related to clonality (clonal growth modes; CGM) in plant communities were studied and hypotheses on the importance of the selected traits in plant communities supported by soils differing in moisture and nutrient status were tested. Material and Methods: Selected plant functional traits, such as the position of the mother-daughter plants connections, length of spacers, frequency of multiplication, persistency of ramets connections, presence of storage organs and bud protection were studied in two contrasting plant communities (xeric and mesic abandoned pastures) typical of central Apennines, Italy. Results and Discussion: Clonality was shown to be of great importance in both mesic and xeric grasslands. The major differences between the two communities were due to the dominant CGMs: turf graminoids (having effective protection of growth meristems in dense tussocks) dominated xeric grasslands, while rhizomatous graminoids (typical of competitive resource-rich environments) dominated mesic grasslands. Below-ground CGOs (clonal growth organs), shorter spacers, higher multiplication potential, permanent ramet connection, large bud bank and increased importance of bud protection were found to be of importance in water stressed xeric grassland. Contrary to our expectations, the mesic (less stressed) grasslands have the higher number of clonal plants possessing storage organs.
40925472|Question: Environmental limitations on carbon acquisition and use can impact successful establishment and restrict a species range, such as for trees at timberline. How do ecophysiological properties associated with carbon uptake and allocation change along an elevation gradient for adult compared to seedling conifers in a timberline ecotone? Location: Teton Range in the Rocky Mountains, Wyoming, USA Methods: Photochemical efficiency (F v /F m ), specific leaf area (SLA) and foliar nonstructural carbohydrates (NSC) were compared along an elevation gradient (2200-3050 m) among two age classes (seedling and adult) and species (Abies lasiocarpa and Pseudotsuga menziesii) at timberline during mid-summer. Results: F v /F m values were relatively high in both seedlings and adults across the elevation gradient, with the exception of a low F v /F m for seedlings in the site having the lowest soil temperatures. SLA was surprisingly constant within each age class and species across the timberline ecotone. Foliar NSCs did not increase or decrease consistently with elevation in either age class. Nonetheless, NSCs were highly variable among sites, but only in seedlings and not in adults. Conclusions: Elevation effects on these indicators of the efficiency of interception and use of sunlight in the timberline ecotone were minimal during the optimum period of the growing season. However, establishing seedlings had a tendency to exhibit greater responses to the timberline environment, particularly in their allocation of photosynthate to NSC, which may be a constraint to tree establishment at high elevations.
3236279|Impacts of climatic change on ecosystems over large areas cannot usually be assessed on a species basis. The definition of plant functional types (PFTs) may make this task feasible, but its potential and limitations need to be evaluated carefully by quantitative tests. This paper presents such a method for testing a hypothesis about PFTs. A deductive approach is used to elaborate a functional classification of temperate and boreal trees based on their response to climatic change and their feedbacks to the climate system using four attributes: (1) evergreen/deciduous; (2) cold tolerance; (3) drought tolerance; (4) shade tolerance. These attributes are combined to yield six PFTs. The classification is tested by implementing the six PFTs in the forest gap model ForClim, and the behaviour of the PFT-based model is compared to species-based simulation results in Europe and in eastern North America. The six PFTs provide an accurate description of both the physiognomy and the composition of European forests in both transient and equilibrium phases. Under the IPCC 'Business-As-Usual' scenario of climatic change for southern and central Europe, some differences in the forest composition are simulated, pointing at the need of testing PFT schemes not only under current, but also under hypothesized future climates. For eastern North America it was necessary to estimate the parameters characterizing the six PFTs anew. When this was done, the PFT-based simulation yielded results paralleling those of the species-based model closely. The potential and limitations of the present classification are discussed. It is concluded that deficiencies in current gap models, but probably also different evolutionary pathways in North America as compared to Europe, are responsible for the different parameterizations on the two continents.
4096622|Question: Can patterns of species frequency in an old-field be explained within the context of a metapopulation model? Are the patterns observed related to time, spatial scale, disturbance, and nutrient availability? Location: Upland and lowland old-fields in Illinois, USA. Method: Species richness was recorded annually for seven years following plowing of an upland and lowland old-field subject to crossed fertilizer and disturbance treatments (mowing and rototilling). Species occupancy distributions were assessed with respect to the numbers of core and satellite species. Results: In both fields, species richness became higher in disturbed plots than in undisturbed plots over time, and decreased in fertilized plots irrespective of time. A bimodal pattern of species richness consistent with the Core-satellite species (CSS) hypothesis occurred in the initial seed bank and through the course of early succession. The identity of native and exotic core species (those present in > 90% of blocks) changed with time. Some core species from the seed bank became core species in the vegetation, albeit after several years. At the scale of individual plots, a bimodal fit consistent with the CSS hypothesis applied only in year 1 and rarely thereafter. Conclusions: The CSS hypothesis provides a metapopulation perspective for understanding patterns of species richness but requires the assessment of spatial and temporal scaling effects. Regional processes (e.g. propagule availability) at the largest scale have the greatest impact influencing community structure during early secondary succession. Local processes (e.g., disturbance and soil nutrients) are more important at smaller scales and place constraints on species establishment and community structure of both native and exotic species. Under the highest intensity of disturbance, exotic species may be able to use resources unavailable to, or unused by, native species.
4499272|Question: What are the effects of grazing abandonment on the vegetation composition of Estonian coastal wetlands? Location: Vormsi Island and Silma Nature Reserve in western Estonia, Europe. Methods: Local knowledge and field reconnaissance were used to identify current and historical management levels of wetland sites within the west Estonian study area. Nine study sites, with varying management histories, were selected comprising an area of 287 ha. A total of 198 quadrats were taken from 43 distinct vegetation patches in five of the sites. TWINSPAN analysis was used to identify community type, and a phytosociological key was constructed for character taxa. This vegetation classification was then applied within a GIS-based context to classify all the study sites, using a ground survey technique and 1:2000 scale air photos. Results: We identified 11 different brackish coastal wetland community types. Indicator species were defined with community characteristics for the seven main vegetation types readily recognisable in the field. Coastal wet grasslands were most extensive in grazed sites, or sites that had been more intensively grazed, while abandoned sites were largely composed of Phragmites australis stands, tall grassland, and scrub. Site variations based on vegetation composition were significantly correlated with past grazing intensity. Plant community types showed significant edaphic differences, with particularly low soil moisture and high conductivity and pH for open pioneer patches compared to other vegetation types. Conclusion: Abandonment of traditionally grazed coastal grasslands threatens their characteristic biodiversity. This study found that grazing abandonment reduced the extent of coastal wetland grasslands of particular conservation value. Nevertheless, plant species of conservation interest were found across the sequence of community types described. The study shows that grazing is an important factor influencing coastal wetland plant communities but suggests that vegetation distribution is affected by environmental variables, such as topography.
25173207|Question: How will warming and increased nutrient availability affect individual alpine plant species abundances (non-vascular and vascular) and community composition? Location: Dryas octopetala heath at alpine Finse, southern Norway. Methods: Four years with experimental warming (open top chambers) and nutrient addition. Detrended Correspondence Analysis and Redundancy Analysis were used to examine changes in community composition. GLM-ANOVA was used to examine treatment effects on individual species. Results: Warming alone decreased the abundance of some Carex and bryophyte species, but did not affect community composition. Nutrient addition and warming combined with nutrient addition increased the abundance of high stature species, such as grasses (Festuca spp., Poa alpina) and some forbs (e.g. Cerastium alpinum, Potentilla crantzii). Low stature forbs (e.g. Tofieldia pusilla), a lycophyte (Selaginella selaginoides) and most bryophytes and lichens decreased in abundance. After four years of warming combined with nutrient addition 57% of the mosses, 57% of the liverworts and 44% of the lichens had completely disappeared. Community composition changed significantly, with the largest shift when warming and nutrient addition was combined. Conclusions: Tall species may expand at the expense of low stature species in the alpine region if temperature and soil nutrient content increase. Contrasting responses between grasses and sedges, and species-specific responses within forbs, sedges and shrubs, within and across alpine and arctic sites, suggest that the use of functional types in environmental change research may mask important information on individual species responses. The response of one species within a functional type cannot predict the response of another.
3235578|An assessment has been made of the role of independent diversity components (alpha, beta and gamma diversity) in determining the regional plant species richness of the Agulhas Plain, a climatically and topographically uniform area in the south-western Cape Floristic Region. At the 0.1 ha scale, richness (alpha diversity) of the predominantly fynbos vegetation ranged from 26 to 143 (x = 68.9; n = 17). Consistent with other studies in the Cape Floristic Region, alpha diversity was not significantly related to soil nutrient and other habitat variables. Beta diversity along soil fertility gradients was extremely high with almost complete turnover from one site to the next, reflecting the flora's high level of edaphic endemism. Gamma diversity was high with a mean Wilson & Shmida (1984) B value of 0.684 for turnover between geographically distant sites for four communities. Regional richness of the Agulhas Plain was predicted from a simple model incorporating the interactions between alpha, beta and gamma diversity. The model accounted for 69% of the region's 1751 species. It was concluded that the high regional richness of the study area was a function of high turnover within and between moderately rich communities.
3236845|Nanocyperion plant communities occur on wet, more or less nutrient-poor and sparsely vegetated soils in temperate climates and are characterized by tiny, very short-lived plant species. Most of these have become locally extinct. It is generally assumed that drainage and eutrophication were the most important reasons for this decrease. However, chemical analysis of soil pore water from plots on growth sites of these ephemerals showed that phosphorus availability was relatively high. In a greenhouse experiment, the growth of ephemeral species was strongly limited by the amount of available phosphorus, whereas there was little or no limitation to the growth of other plant species from this habitat. At low phosphorus concentrations, the ephemeral species reached their reproductive phase within the same period, but showed a strong reduction in the amount of flowers that were produced. We concluded that ephemeral species in particular require a minimum amount of phosphorus for reproduction. Other species on nutrient-poor, wet soils have a longer life span and can postpone flowering in nutrient-poor soils. In contrast to other short-lived plant species from the same habitat, the growth of ephemeral species was barely stimulated by enhanced nitrogen availability. Apparently, the ephemerals are adapted to low nitrogen concentrations. The occurrence on nitrogen-poor and relatively phosphorus-rich soils suggests that this community may be very sensitive to nitrogen deposition. Reduced phosphorus availability below the minimum requirements of ephemerals, for example after acidification or the exclusion of human activities, has possibly contributed to the decrease of ephemeral plant species.
4096684|Smart & Scott (2004, this issue) criticized our paper (Wamelink et al. 2002) about the bias in average Ellenberg indicator values. Their main criticism concerns the method we used, regression analysis. They state the bias can be mimicked by the construction of an artificial data set and that regression analysis is not a suited tool to investigate underlying phenomena. Moreover they claim that the present bias is caused by the distribution of Ellenberg indicator values between syntaxa, instead of a bias in average Ellenberg indicator values per species. We show that their criticism of the use of regression analysis does not hold. We selected average Ellenberg values per vegetation group for several pH classes and applied an F-test to determine whether or not the vegetation groups within each pH class differed significantly from each other. This was the case for all tested classes (P < 0.001). Moreover we simulated an artificial data set, of which the F-test for varying measurement error could not explain the magnitude of the F-value we found earlier. This indicates that the bias we found in average Ellenberg indicator values cannot be explained by measurement errors or by regression to the mean. In the end, Smart & Scott, as we did, come to the conclusion that there is a bias present and that separate regression lines per vegetation type are necessary, but the debate remains open on whether or not this is caused by the bias in Ellenberg indicator values per species.
3235737|Four measures of biodiversity (species number per site, total species number, mean similarity and mosaic diversity) and their relationships with soil chemical composition were studied in vascular plant communities in groundwater discharge ecosystems of central Spain. Species richness decreased with increasing salinity, alkalinity and halite concentration. Species richness was apparently controlled more by soil toxicity than by soil nutrient levels, although a positive correlation of Ca<sup>2+</sup> with species richness was found after accounting for the effects of toxic compounds. All relationships were strictly monotonic. Six community types were identified based on their soil chemical characteristics: glycophyte, subglycophyte, tolerant, subalkalinophyte, alkalinophyte, and halocalcicole communities. Within community types, species richness showed very few significant relationships with soil characteristics. Mean species richness was lowest in the environmentally stressful communities. Total species richness was greatest in the ecotonal community type. Mean similarity, a measure of among-community diversity, and mosaic diversity, a measure of landscape complexity, differed among community types. Mean similarity was smaller (higher diversity) in species-poor community types, while mosaic diversity was greatest (greater complexity) in species-rich community types. The halocalcicole community type was richest in rare species.
3236773| Plant life-form abundance along a 600 m altitudinal gradient (1600-2200 m a.s.l.) in the semi-arid valley of Zapotitln, Mxico was correlated with soil characteristics and climatic variables. One mixed soil sample was taken and analysed for each of six elevations, temperature was estimated using a terrestrial thermal gradient, and precipitation using a linear regression between total annual precipitation and the elevation of the weather stations in the valley. Rosettes, microphanerophytes, therophytes and nanophanerophytes were well represented throughout the gradient. Columnar cacti were restricted to the 1600-1800 m range, and geophytes to the 1700-1800 m range. In general, abundance of life forms was inversely associated with altitude. Multiple regression analysis did not show parameters to significantly explain the abundance of rosettes, nanophanerophytes, epiphytes, geophytes and hemiparasites; altitude and nitrogen proved significant for columnar cacti, succulents and chamaephytes; altitude, pH, electrical conductivity and nitrogen were significant for globose cacti; pH was significant for therophytes; and altitude was significant for microphanerophytes. 
4499258|Question: How well can mortality probabilities of deciduous trees (Fagus sylvatica) and conifers (Abies alba) be predicted using permanent plot data that describe growth patterns, tree species, tree size and site conditions? Location: Fagus forests in the montane belt of the Jura folds (Switzerland). Method: Permanent plot data were used to develop and validate logistic regression models predicting survival probabilities of individual trees. Backward model selection led to a reduced model containing the growth-related variable 'relative basal area increment' (growth-dependent mortality) and variables not directly reflecting growth such as species, size and site (growth-independent mortality). Results: The growth-mortality relationship was the same for both species (growth-dependent mortality). However, species, site and tree size also influenced mortality probabilities (growth-independent mortality). The predicted survival probabilities of the final model were well calibrated, and the model showed an excellent discriminatory power (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve = 0.896). Conclusion: Mortality probabilities of Fagus sylvatica and Abies alba can be predicted with high discriminatory power using a well calibrated logistic regression model. Extending this case study to a larger number of tree species and sites could provide species- and site-specific tree mortality models that allow for more realistic projections of forest succession.
3236395|A new measure of compositional turnover rate at any gradient point is proposed. The absolute values of the derivatives of estimated species response curves are used to estimate the instantaneous rate of change of the community. The total gradient length can be found by integrating the instantaneous turnover rates over the gradient span. Both the instantaneous rate and total gradient length have been known under the name of beta diversity. Our method is elaborated for the Gaussian response function. It is compared to Hill's SD measure, much used for estimating the gradient length in connection of Detrended Correspondence Analysis with non-linear rescaling for axes. The turnover rate along a canopy cover gradient in forest vegetation in Finland was used as an example. Forest site type and stand age were used as subsidiary gradients. The two ways to compute Hill's scaling gave very different results and were not comparable with the new method. The turnover rate was dependent on the gradient position. However, the turnover rate along the gradient of interest and its total length were dependent on the subsidiary gradients.
3236850|We studied primary succession on mobile tropical coastal sand dunes over an 8-yr period. Every six months, we monitored changes in species composition and sand movement in permanent quadrats located on the windward slopes, the arms and the crests. Our results indicate that sand movement decreased over time but was significantly higher on the slopes and crests than on the arms. In all cases, there were seasonal fluctuations in sand movement which increased during the period with strong northerly winds and decreased during the rainy season. Sand movement was significantly correlated with species distribution. Plant cover and species richness increased at all three locations. Diversity increased on the slope, decreased on the arms and remained unchanged on the crest. However, the equitability values indicated the dominance of a few species, especially at the end of the study period. Temporal trends and species turnover rates differed among locations. Species turnover occurred first on the arms 91994), then on the crests (1998) and lastly on the slopes (at the end of the study period). In all cases the tall grass, Schizachyrium scoparium var. littoralis, became dominant over the endemic legume, Chamaecrista chamaecristoides var. chamaecristoides. Similar to temperate dunes, primary succession on tropical sand dunes was spatially and temporally heterogeneous.
4499198| Question: What characteristics of local biotic neighbourhood is the best proxy of competitive effects experienced by plants in a herbaceous community: (1) total above-ground biomass, (2) root mass or (3) relative above-ground abundance of selected species? Location: Grassland at ca. 1100 m a.s.l. in the Krkonoe Mts., northern Czech Republic. Methods: We implanted two phytometer species, Anthoxanthum alpinum and Festuca rubra, into a mountain grassland, and examined their response to local variation in (1) total above-ground biomass, (2) root mass at three soil depths, and (3) relative abundance of individual species above-ground. Results: Performance of both phytometer species was determined much more consistently by the mass of neighbouring roots and by species composition of neighbours than by the total above-ground biomass. The two phytometer species showed different responses to these parameters. The most important relationships were (1) negative relationship between performance of Anthoxanthum and mass of neighbouring roots at 0-3 cm, (2) positive relationship between performance of Festuca and mass of neighbouring roots at 3-6 cm, and (3) negative relationship between performance of Festuca and relative abundance of Festuca in the neighbourhood. Conclusions: Neighbouring root mass and above-ground species composition are better determinants of biotic interactions than total above-ground biomass of neighbours in the studied mountain grassland. However, the relationships found are not necessarily due to variation in competitive intensity but can be due to other hidden factors as well, e.g. local availability of resources. 
4499181|Question: This paper compares published palynological studies from coastal swamps containing the same suite of species. We ask the following questions: (1) does succession follow the same pathways in different swamp systems, or (2) at different times? If not, (3) how variable are the patterns and (4) what are the likely driving factors? Location: Great Barrier Island, Northern New Zealand. Methods: Eighteen pollen profile diagrams were studied from four estuarine wetlands, ranging from mangroves to swamp forest. Recognition of a transition between vegetation stages was by subjective consideration of the relative abundances of pollen of key indicator species at different depths in the sedimentary sequence. Results: A linear sequence of vegetation communities beginning with mangroves and followed by estuarine marsh communities composed of Juncus kraussii, Leptocarpus similis and Baumea juncea was recognised in almost all pollen diagrams. Further transitions, from Baumea to a terrestrial system of Leptospermum shrubland or Cordyline/Dacrycarpus swamp forest, followed two main pathways associated with autogenic accumulation of peat and terrigenous sediment input respectively. At Kaitoke and Awana the marine/freshwater transition occurred before the arrival of humans on Great Barrier Island. At Whangapoua, increased sedimentation followed anthropogenic burning of adjacent forest, and this transition was faster and is still in progress. Conclusion: Palynology and current vegetation zonation patterns concur to demonstrate that the marine sedimentation phase of estuarine succession is predictable and linear. Baumea marks the transition to the freshwater phase, in which varied successional patterns are determined by interactions between hydrology, sediment input, and peat accumulation. Natural and human disturbances drive sedimentation rates, and interact with autogenic factors, to dictate vegetation transitions in these later stages. The intensive impact (mainly burning) during Polynesian times had a much greater effect on estuaries and swamps than the pre-Polynesian natural processes, greatly accelerating plant succession.
4499304| This communication is a response to a recent suggestion that ordinal data of the Braun-Blanquet type (BB) can be directly or, after conversion to ranks, indirectly analysed by metric methods. I show that the proposals on structure in topological spaces made by Ricotta & Avena in a recent contribution to this Forum are confounding because (1) they use the term 'topological' in the inappropriate way, and (2) the measure they propose is in fact a metric, rather than merely topological. In addition, I illustrate with a few examples how a truly topological measure functions, so that the reader can appreciate the ideas behind their definitions. By reference to axiomatic measurement theory, I argue that whenever vegetation scientists know exactly at the outset what attributes they wish to express by relev data, what questions they are asking and whenever they are aware of the basic properties of the BB scale, ordinal data analysis is still the most logical choice. 
25549250|Question: Climate change models forecast a reduction in annual precipitation and more extreme events (less rainy days and longer drought periods between rainfall events), which may have profound effects on terrestrial ecosystems. Plant growth, population and community dynamics in dry environments are likely to be affected by these changes since productivity is already limited by water availability. We tested the effects of reduced precipitation and fewer rain events on three semiarid plant communities dominated by annual species. Location: Three semiarid plant communities from Almera province (SE Spain). Methods: Rain-out shelters were set up in each community and watering quantity and frequency were manipulated from autumn to early summer. Plant productivity, cover and diversity were measured at the end of the experimental period. Results: We found that a 50% reduction in watering reduced productivity, plant cover and diversity in all three communities. However, neither the 25% reduction in watering nor changes in the frequency of watering events affected these parameters. Conclusions: The lack of response to small reductions in water could be due to the identity and resistance of the plant communities involved, which are adapted to rainfall variability characteristic of arid environments. Therefore, a rainfall reduction of 25% or less may not affect these plant communities in the short term, although higher reductions or long-term changes in water availability would probably reduce productivity and diversity in these communities.
3236156| Former braided channels of a floodplain subjected to the same river regime and regulation are supposed to experience different rates of ecological succession. These differences are assumed to be related to the position of the channel within the floodplain and the subsequent scouring effect of floods. These hypotheses were tested on six former braided channels of the upper Rhne River that have the same age of isolation from the main channel. Channels were discriminated by their substrate grain size, the coarser grain size being related to the stronger effect of floods. Aquatic vegetation indicates the successional stage of the channels through their trophic degree, with on one hand typically eutrophic species, such as Lemna minor and Ceratophyllum demersum, and, and on the other hand, mesotrophic species, such as Berula erecta or Callitriche platycarpa. According to a new analysis, the matching between the two data sets delineated the correlation between the grain size and the trophic degree that corresponds to the successional stages. Two of the six channels are in the most advanced stages of succession as marked by eutrophic species occurring on fine substrate. Two others are in an earlier successional stage with coarse substrate and mesotrophic species, although they have the same age as the latter ones, demonstrating a lower successional rate. The difference in such rates results from the scouring effect of floods which slows down successions by removing fine sediment and vegetation. Succession is also slowed down by ground water supplies in two channels not subjected to a noticeable scouring effect. 
3235787|A generalized research strategy is presented for identifying the ecological effects of the physical environment and management in a poorly known region of subtropical, semiarid thornscrub in northeastern Mexico. Vegetation samples were stratified across a small number of climatic subregions, substrate types and topographic situations. Classification analysis and PCoA of the species x site matrix of incidence data after application of the Information Statistic were used. The analyses suggested that the regional variation in climate, substrates and topography was responsible for the major floristic differences in the vegetation. The distributions of most plant species were related to the variation in the physical environment. PCoA of the species x site cover data after application of the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity metric revealed evidence of vegetation change due to overgrazing in each major floristic group, but not to selective cutting for timber and firewood.
4499289|Spatial and temporal variation in interactions among plants, other species and the abiotic environment create context-dependency in vegetation pattern. We argue that we can enhance understanding of context-dependency by being more explicit about the kinds of direct interactions that occur among more than two living and non-living entities (i. e., third through nth parties) and formalizing how their combinations create context-dependency using simple conceptual models. This general approach can be translated into field studies of context-dependency in communities by combining: progressive sampling of local variation in vegetation pattern that encompasses variation in combinations of direct interactions; spatial and temporal measures of these direct interactions; locally parameterized versions of the conceptual models; and appropriately scaled experiments.
3237333|Nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium were supplied to some Belgian fens of varying nutrient status and productivity. Plant growth in the lowest productive fen with a species-rich Caricion davallianae vegetation was strongly P-limited. N was ineffective when applied alone, but increased the effect of P-addition when applied together. Summer biomass and plant nutrient concentrations were monitored for four years, and showed partial recovery of nutrient limitation. In a more productive fen dominated by Carex lasiocarpa and in a fen meadow, nutrient limitation was less strong. N limited growth in the productive fen, and N and K were co-limiting in the fen meadow. The P-concentration in the productive fen vegetation showed a marked increase after P-fertilization, but it did not result in higher standing crop. The significance of P-limitation for the conservation of species rich low productive fens is discussed. P-limitation may be an essential feature in the conservation of low productive rich fens: because it is less mobile in the landscape than N and/or because it is an intrinsic property of this vegetation type. Plant nutrient concentrations and N:P-ratios may be used as an indication for the presence and type of nutrient limitation in the vegetation. We found N:P-ratios of 23 to 31 for a P-limited site and 8 to 15 in N-limited sites. This was in agreement with critical values from the literature: N:P > ca. 20 for P-limitation and N:P < 14 for N-limitation. Thus, this technique appears valid in the vegetation types that were studied here.
40925501|Questions: Are island vegetation communities more invaded than their mainland counterparts? Is this pattern consistent among community types? Location: The coastal provinces of Catalonia and the para-oceanic Balearic Islands, both in NE Spain. These islands were connected to the continent more than 5.35 million years ago and are now located <200 km from the coast. Methods: We compiled a database of almost 3000 phytosociological relevs from the Balearic Islands and Catalonia and compared the level of invasion by alien plants in island versus mainland communities. Twenty distinct plant community types were compared between island and mainland counterparts. Results: The percentage of plots with alien species, number, percentage and cover percentage of alien species per plot was greater in Catalonia than in the Balearic Islands in most communities. Overall, across communities, more alien species were found in the mainland (53) compared to the islands (only nine). Despite these differences, patterns of the level of invasion in communities were highly consistent between the islands and mainland. The most invaded communities were ruderal and riparian. Main conclusion: Our results indicate that paraoceanic island communities such as the Balearic Islands are less invaded than their mainland counterparts. This difference reflects a smaller regional alien species pool in the Balearic Islands than in the adjacent mainland, probably due to differences in landscape heterogeneity and propagule pressure.
3237240| To evaluate the respective contributions of habitat, fire regime and colonization-extinction processes to the distribution of northern Pinus species, we investigated the distribution of P. banksiana (jack pine), P. resinosa (red pine) and P. strobus (white pine) on 117 islands of Lake Duparquet in northwestern Qubec. Stepwise logistic regressions indicated that the extent of xeric areas on the islands was the sole factor predicting jack pine distribution. The distribution of white pine was predicted primarily by the combined effects of distance to the shoreline and elevation, with a smaller effect of area of xeric habitat. The distribution of red pine was predicted by other populations of red pine nearby, with a slightly smaller effect of the combined effects of distance to shoreline and elevation. None of the species completely saturates all available islands nor is any restricted to specific, very exposed aspects. The results suggest that pine is more frequent on islands with characteristics that promote lightning strikes and thus higher fire occurrence. However, absence of pine in several islands may not be explained by abiotic characteristics or recent fire history. The presence of very small populations, together with low invasion potential, suggests that the observed distribution is mainly driven by the process of random extinction. A disequilibrium between present and past fire regimes may explain why northern pines have discontinuous distributions inside their range limits. 
3236392|Grassland in the semiarid shortgrass steppe, subjected to 50 years of heavy, light, and no grazing intensity, was clipped to simulate the natural pattern and intensities of defoliation by cattle or not clipped. A level of water resource treatment was superimposed upon the grazing and clipping treatments. Half of the plots were supplemented with additional water to simulate a wet year and half were not supplemented in a year of average precipitation. All three treatments interactively determined above-ground production. Water treatment had the largest overall effect on above-ground production. Current-year defoliation had no direct significant effect on production, but mediated differences between both longterm grazing and watering treatments. Long-term ungrazed compared to grazed grassland was capable of responding to high amounts of precipitation, but was also most affected by low amounts of precipitation and, therefore, displayed greater variability in above-ground production and rain use efficiency. Only in the year of average precipitation, defoliation increased rain use efficiency in long-term lightly, but not heavily, grazed treatment. This suggests a water conservation mechanism of defoliation that is reduced with heavy grazing.
40295808|Question: How do temporal changes in plant communities occur after volcanic eruptions? What characteristics determine successional divergence or convergence? Location: The summit area of Mount Usu, northern Japan, completely destroyed by 1-3 m of thick ash and pumice during the 1977-1978 eruptions. Habitats were classified into three types: gullies where the pre-eruption topsoil was exposed due to the erosion of tephra (EG), gullies covered with tephra (CG), and outside of gullies covered with thick tephra (OG). Methods: Plant community structure was monitored for 15 years from 1983 to 1997 in 14 2mx5m permanent plots. The data were summarized by species diversity, life form, and the detrended correspondence analysis. Results: The common species were perennial herbaceous plants, but habitat preferences differed between species. Seed bank species, including a nitrogen fixer Trifolium repens, were dominant in EG, and excluded the establishment of the later colonists. Pioneer trees slowly increased in cover. The detrended correspondence analysis indicated that species composition in the earlier stages did not differ greatly between plots. Thereafter, three patterns of temporal community changes were observed: seed bank species persisted in EG, and in OG and CG forest development proceeded or community structure did not change greatly. Conclusion: Pre-eruption topsoil contributed to revegetation by the supply of seed bank and nutrients in the earliest stages, but resulted in the delay of forest development due to the persistence of seed bank species. Plant community divergence was driven by the persistence of earlier colonists.
41059618|Question: How do aggregate trait values and functional diversity of leaf traits linked to palatability and decomposability change during a woody post-cultural succession spanning 200 years? Location: Coastal Marlborough, South Island, New Zealand. Methods: The biomass of all woody species was determined in 32 20-m x 20-m plots ranging from 10 to 200 years in time since last disturbance. Species abundances were combined with data on leaf nutrient, secondary metabolite and structural carbohydrate content to calculate biomass-weighted trait means (i.e. aggregate trait values) and functional diversity index values for each plot. Aggregate trait values and functional diversity were regressed on successional age and total live above-ground carbon content to examine functional shifts with succession and one consequence of succession - increasing above-ground carbon. Results: Almost all significant regressions between aggregate trait values and both successional age and above-ground carbon indicated a shift toward increased leaf palatability and decomposability during succession. The relationships were all non-linear, with aggregate trait value shifts occurring relatively early in the successional sequence. There was weak evidence for an increase in functional richness with succession, but this was a secondary effect relative to the shifts in aggregate trait values. Conclusions: These results are in direct contrast with studies of the early stages of herbaceous post-cultural successions from grasslands to shrublands, which have found a shift towards communities of decreasing palatability and decomposability, suggesting that functional shifts in woody succession may be fundamentally different.
3237183|This paper describes four decades of in situ vegetation change in a post-agricultural site in southern New England where the role of the introduced vine, Celastrus orbiculatus, has drastically modified the course of vegetation development. An initial perennial forb-grassland community was replaced by two strikingly different physiognomic vegetation types - an early hardwood forest and a vine community occupying the same site 40 yr later. This ecological phenomenon was unpredictable since Celastrus was not recorded at the site until the 1970s. Within the young hardwood forest dominated by Prunus serotina and Acer rubrum, a few old field species (five) persist, whereas 17 forest herbs have become established. Typical forest shrubs are rare or absent. The Celastrus-dominated vine community has suppressed or eliminated pre-existing growth to form a relatively stable community where a forest vegetation is the regional vegetation type. Celastrus also appears to be facilitating a native vine (Vitis labrusca) by forming a 'ladder' for its advance. Although A. rubrum and Quercus spp. could ultimately dominate the forest community, the contiguous and aggressive nature of Celastrus makes predictions questionable. This long-term study highlights the unpredictable nature of old field succession and the role of an exotic species in threatening the natural vegetation development.
3236110|Germination and developmental behaviour during juvenile stages are of importance in relation to succession mechanisms acting on plant communities. This is particularly so in the Mediterranean region, where the climatic summer drought causes stress. We investigated and compared germination and development of four tree species in two parts of the French Mediterranean region where the original dominant tree species (Quercus pubescens) has been largely replaced by Quercus ilex in the southern part, and Castanea sativa in the northern part. Observed differences in germination rates and developmental behaviour, especially shoot:root ratio and the role of water supply, suggest that other species may eventually replace the current dominant species.
25549248|Question: (1) Which factors regulate post-fire recruitment and spread of the shrub Senecio bracteolatus in Patagonian grasslands? (2) What is the role of the grass Stipa speciosa on S. bracteolatus establishment in the post-fire succession? Location: Northwest Patagonia, Argentina. Methods: We studied the effect of fire on S. bracteolatus recruitment and density by comparing these variables between burned and unburned grasslands. In burned areas, we compared abiotic characteristics and seedling establishment under the canopy of grasses (S. speciosa) and in gaps (inter-tussock areas). Post-fire interactions between S. bracteolatus seedlings and S. speciosa were studied using field and greenhouse experiments. Results: Density of S. bracteolatus was higher in burned than in unburned areas. In burned sites, seedlings were more abundant under tussock grasses, whereas juveniles were more abundant in gaps. Tussocks generated more attenuated micro-environmental conditions than gaps during stressful summers. Gaps were more abundant in burned sites, while "under tussock" microsites were more frequent in unburned sites. In burned areas, tussocks allowed higher establishment of seedlings (facilitation), but gaps allowed more seedling growth and higher persistence of juveniles. Conclusions: Fire promoted S. bracteolatus recruitment in Patagonian grasslands by increasing the availability of favourable gap microsites. Grass protection for shrub seedlings became negative with time, probably due to competition with grasses. Gaps led to better performance and persistence of shrub plants. Six years after fire, higher shrub recruitment and adult density (observed as a trend) in burned grassland provides an opportunity for potential S. bracteolatus invasion.
3235614| Changes in the tree layer (> 1.3 m) and sapling layer (< 1.3 m, including seedlings) of a Swedish boreal old-growth Picea abies (Norway spruce) forest from the 1930s to the 1980s were studied in permanent plots. The plots were established in 1938-1939 and re-analysed in 1983-1988. Regeneration, mortality, turnover rate in the tree layer and amount of decomposing logs as well as the time required for complete decomposition of logs were investigated using the detailed data from the 1930s. Ca. 25 % of the trees present during the first analysis were no longer alive. This mortality was balanced by recruitment from the sapling layer. The rate of mortality suggests a turnover time for the tree layer of ca. 200 yr. The number of spruces in the sapling layer has increased by ca. 85 %, hypothetically in response to an increase in amount of decomposing wood that can serve as nurse logs and stumps. The mean time for total decomposition was calculated as ca. 200 yr. Spruce regeneration on logs does not occur until the log is at least ca. 50 yr old. The survival pattern in the sapling layer suggests a high mortality rate at the seedling stage ( 1 yr) and a low mortality rate at the sapling stage. In conclusion, it is suggested that the amount of coarse woody debris available for regeneration, the occurrence of seedlings, and seedling mortality constitute concurrent factors through which climatic fluctuations, in a long-term perspective, direct stand recruitment and density. As a consequence, these boreal forests will be kept in a dynamical equilibrium. 
3237114|Germination of semi-arid Quercus is strongly correlated with the rainy season. However, the timing and amount of summer precipitation in the southwestern United States is extremely variable. Ongoing and impending changes in global and regional climates are likely to increase this variability. Specifically, anthropogenically induced changes in general circulation patterns may alter the seasonal distribution of precipitation in a directional manner. In addition to climatic variability, the inter- and intra-annual variability of Quercus emoryi Torr. (Emory oak) acorn maturation also is high. Therefore, in light of existing climatic variability and potential future climate change, we conducted a greenhouse experiment to investigate the effects of acorn maturation date and the timing of the onset of the 'monsoon' on emergence of Q. emoryi seedlings. Acorns were collected at weekly intervals in July of 1995 and 1996, planted in a greenhouse, and subjected to different watering treatments. Watering treatments were (1) acorns watered the same day as planting; (2) acorns watered two weeks after planting; (3) acorns watered four weeks after planting. Emergence in 1995 was significantly greater in the last week of acorn maturation and decreased significantly as time to the onset of the 'monsoon' increased. Emergence in 1996 was very low, presumably because of soil moisture contents that were lower than those observed in 1995. The dependence of Q. emoryi on water for emergence has profound implications for Q. emoryi recruitment in the face of current climatic variability and future climate change. Summers with a delayed 'monsoon' and decreased soil moisture may severely constrain recruitment of this woody plant.
3237065|Can the interaction of episodic and chronic disturbances explain the maintenance of savanna-like patterns? We explored the morphological and spatial patterns of the leguminous shrub Retama sphaerocarpa in a Mediterranean environment in relation to disturbance. Various morphological variables of R. sphaerocarpa shrubland were found to be determined by a combination of two types of disturbance: (1) mechanical cutting: an episodic, heavy, short-term disturbance of anthropogenic origin for management purposes, and (2) herbivore activity primarily by rabbits: generally a chronic, more lenient, long-term disturbance. The intensities of these two types of disturbance were not correlated. Mechanical cutting effects on R. sphaerocarpa shrubland morphology predominated quantitatively over herbivore effects. Herbivores generally produced open shrubland with fewer, more scattered, thicker branched, larger R. sphaerocarpa shrubs. In contrast, intense sprouting after cutting produced a higher density of smaller R. sphaerocarpa shrubs with denser aerial biomass. However, heavy herbivory in abnormally dry periods produced some effects similar to those of mechanical cutting. The size of R. sphaerocarpa shrubs was positively related to seed production. Thus, the means of propagation depended upon the type of disturbance: episodic disturbances resulted in intense sprouting, whereas chronic herbivore activity resulted in the formation of thick branches that produced a large number of seeds. The combination of these two disturbances determine, in part, space occupancy patterns of dominant woody species in this Mediterranean landscape and similar savanna-type ecosystems. Investigations of environmental constraints on vegetation distribution and abundance should take into account the historical role of herbivores in shaping present systems.
3237054| This survey deals with quantitative vegetation ecology in Denmark since the pioneering period dominated by E. Warming, C. Raunkir and Johs. Iversen. Main topics of this survey are quantitative vegetation description, mainly based on the classical work of Warming, vegetation classification and community ecology, conservation biology and management, vegetation history and palaeoecology, vegetation dynamics, forest ecology and phytogeography. It is concluded that few Danish studies have dealt with the development of models and theories and the application of multivariate statistics. 
4096794|Questions: Is dormancy selected as a means by which a seed defers germination until suitable environmental conditions occur? Are plant species in frost-free and drought-free environments less likely to have some form of dormancy than species from environments with frost and/or drought? Are there any relationships between dormancy and three important plant traits: seed size, plant longevity, and growth form? Methods: Data from the literature including 3164 species were compiled. We quantified the relationship between dormancy and seed size (1795 species), plant longevity (183 species), and growth form (3164 species). Results: Plant species of environments with frost and/or drought were more likely to possess some form of seed dormancy (morphological, physiological, morphophysiological, or physical) than species in more benign environments. Seeds exhibiting some form of dormancy were lighter in weight and generally more prevalent among herbaceous species. Woody plants had a larger proportion of non-dormant seeds. There was a broad overlap in seed size between species with dormant and non-dormant seeds. We also found no significant relationship between seed dormancy and plant longevity.
3246580|In this paper we present an application of aerial remote sensing to the analysis of spatial information in a mountainous area of central Italy by applying texture measures and landscape indices. Land cover data acquired in different time periods are used to calculate measures of landscape pattern and structure at pixel level (tone and texture variables) and patch-level (landscape indices). Images of the patches from the 1950s, 1980s and 1990s have been derived from the tone-texture classification of scanned black-and-white photographs. Multitemporal analysis of landscape indices has been performed to detect changes of landscape elements and related effects on vegetation dynamics due to the reduction of human impact.
4499217|Questions: 1. How does the spatial structure of the organic layer affect tree sapling physiology? 2. Are the organic layer and Picea mariana height growth spatially structured at different scales? 3. Does microtopography influence the accumulation of organic matter and does organic layer thickness affect height growth? Locations: Picea mariana forests, northwestern Quebec, Canada. Methods: We assessed the spatial pattern of each variable in one wildfire site and one harvest site using semivariograms and correlograms. We measured the cross-correlation between relative elevation and organic layer thickness, and between organic layer thickness and growth using cross-correlograms. Results: Picea mariana height growth was autocorrelated to a greater extent in the wildfire site (103 m) than in the harvest site (43 m). The spatial structure of organic layer thickness was similar in both sites. Deeper depressions in the harvest site, as illustrated by spatial variance in relative elevation at short distances (ca. 50 m), and by high autocorrelation values, increased the accumulation of organic matter within 20 m. Conclusions: The interaction between microtopography and organic matter accumulation led to paludification and poor growth of Picea mariana at the harvest site. Paludification at the wildfire site was independent of microtopography and was probably a result of stand development.
4499200|Questions: For eucalypt savanna in northeast Australia subject to multi-year rainfall deficits this paper asks whether (1) dominant tree species (Ironbarks, Boxes) are more drought susceptible than the sub-dominant Bloodwoods; (2) whether soil moisture is beyond wilting point in surface soil layers but available at depth; (3) soil conditions (moisture availability and texture) are related to tree death during drought; (4) the root systems of the Boxes and Ironbarks are shallower than the Bloodwoods; and the survivors of drought within species have deeper root systems than those that died. Location: Central Queensland, Australia. Methods: Patterns of tree death between eucalypt species were compared from field data collected after drought. Soil conditions during drought were described and compared with patterns of tree death for the Ironbark Eucalyptus melanophloia. The basal area and orientation of coarse roots were measured on upturned trees after broad-scale tree clearing, and compared between species, and between live and dead trees with tree size as a covariate. Results: Drought-induced tree death was higher for dominant Ironbark-Box than for sub-dominant Bloodwoods. During a moderate to severe drought in 2004, 41% of 100 cm deep subsoils had soil matric potential less than -5600 kPa. The drought hardy Bloodwoods had a greater root basal area and particularly so for vertical roots compared to the drought sensitive Ironbark-Box. Within species there was no significant difference in root basal area characteristics between trees that were recently killed by drought and those that remained relatively healthy. Surface soil moisture availability was lower where tree densities were high, and tree death increased as surface soil moisture became less available. Tree death was also greater as the clay content of sub-soils increased. Discussion: The study suggests species with roots confined to upper soil layers will suffer severe water stress. The results strongly indicate that root architecture, and the way it facilitates water use during drought, is important for the relative dominance of the tree species. Patchiness in drought-induced tree death seems to be at least partially a product of heterogeneity in sub-soil conditions and competition for soil moisture.
3236574| Up to now the syntaxonomy of the Fagus woods of the southern Balkans is far less known than that of beech communities in the northwestern part of the Balkan Peninsula and in central and western Europe. A set of 607 phytosociological relevs from southeastern Serbia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and northern and central Greece was subjected to numerical classification and ordination. These results were used for a syntaxonomic revision of Fagus, Fagus-Abies and Fagus-Acer woodland communities of the southwestern Balkans. The Doronico columnaeFagenion (seven associations from Serbia, the F.Y.R.O.M., and high altitudes in northern Greece) and the Doronico orientalis-Fagenion (four associations from northern and central Greece) were distinguished. The results of ordination by Canonical Variates Analysis (CVA) showed a very distinct phytogeographical pattern of differentiation between community types. The floristic composition of Fagus woods changes markedly along the north-south gradient. The share of Subbalkan, Balkan, Submediterranean and Mediterranean species increases significantly towards the south, while the Central-European, European, Euro-Siberian, Euro-Asiatic and Circumpolar species decrease in the same direction. The syntaxonomic differentiation of the Fagus woodlands and their classification into regional suballiances reflects this gradient. With the rise in altitude, the number of Balkan, Mediterranean, Submediterranean, European and Euro-Asiatic species declines. 
23012743|Question: How accurately do Amazonian montane forest pollen spectra reflect the vegetation? Can compositional changes observed in the vegetation along environmental gradients be identified in the pollen spectra? How well do herbarium collection data and bioclimatic envelopes represent abundance changes along elevation gradients? Location: Amazonian montane forests, Peru. Methods: Moss polsters collected along five altitudinal transects spanning over 3000 m a.s.l. were used to characterize pollen spectra. Vegetation plot data from a network of 15 1-ha permanent plots were used to correlate pollen spectra with present-day vegetation. Probability density functions (PDFs) fitted to pollen and plot data allowed comparisons using Spearman correlation coefficients. Ordination analyses were used to summarize changes in pollen spectra. Correlations between pollen-based PDFs and previously-published herbarium collection PDFs were also evaluated. Results: Pollen spectra closely reflected changes in species composition along elevation gradients. A mid-elevation shift in pollen spectra was identified using ordination analyses. Pollen spectra from the driest forest in our data set were statistically different from those of wet forests. Pollen abundance PDFs along the altitudinal gradient were significantly correlated (P < 0.01) with PDFs fitted to plot abundance, basal area and herbarium collection data for ten out of 11 taxa analysed. Conclusions: Pollen spectra closely reflected the vegetation composition of Amazonian montane forests. The differentiation of pollen spectra from dry localities showed the potential of genus-level pollen data to reflect precipitation gradients. Pollen spectra also reflected mid-elevation compositional changes well along the lower elevation limit of ground cloud formation. Despite collection biases, herbarium-based bioclimatic envelope PDFs also represented well forest compositional changes along elevation gradients.
3236679| This is the first comprehensive study on Fagus sylvatica s.1. forest communities in Greece. It is based on the multivariate analysis of more than 1100 relevs throughout the distribution area of Fagus in Greece, 60 % of which have been sampled within the last 15 years. The data were compiled from all relevant literature and from unpublished field studies. Prior to data analysis, taxonomic and floristic inaccuracies in older literature have been corrected, and some taxa aggregated. Status and distribution of Fagus in Greece, as well as historical and silvicultural aspects, are outlined. Classification resulted in 16 vegetation types defined by species composition, of which 10 units are ranked as association (of which two were described as new) or community, with six subcommunities included. Synonyms from the literature are given to all types. The floristic structure of the data set is displayed by a synoptic table and by DCA ordination. Community differentiation follows a complex edaphic-climatic-phytogeographic pattern. Apart from Fagus sylvatica ssp. orientalis forests of warm and dry habitats and low to medium altitudes which are related to deciduous Quercus forests, four Fagion community groups are distinguished which represent different habitat types: (1) cool, humid, mesotrophic; (2) cool, acidic; (3) high altitude, calcareous; (4) medium altitude, moderately warm and dry. The communities may be assigned to three regional sub-alliances, viz. (a) Doronico orientalis-Fagenion at medium altitudes of North-Central and East-Central Greece; (b) Doronico columnae-Fagenion in the far north and at high altitudes southward to East-Central Greece; (c) Geranio striati-Fagenion in the Northwest. Various types of thermophilous beech forest are assigned to (a) and (c), acidic forest to (b), and mesic Fagus forest to (b) and (c). 
3236008|Data on distribution and abundance of rare plant species on isolated coastal dunes along the rocky coast of northwestern Spain were compared with the local floristic literature in order to reconstruct past distribution and local extinction of species. Species extinction was not confined to species with a narrow distribution but also included widely distributed ones. Moreover, there was no evidence of colonization. Species number was related to beach and dune area, but species differed in the minimum area required for occurrence. The largest dune reserve possible would probably be insufficient to avoid further extinctions, so also small areas containing particular species should be preserved. There was no significant relationship between abundance of species in the local dune communities and their total distribution, and there were few satellite species. The former might be attributed to low fertility and habitat diversity.
3235602|Variation in vegetation in extra-Andean Patagonia (Argentina) was analyzed using spectral data derived from AVHRR/NOAA satellite. The study of seasonal dynamics of the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI, i.e. a combined index of the reflection in the red and infrared bands) highlighted similarities in functional aspects between regional vegetation units which are dissimilar in a geographical, physiognomical and/or floristical way, and also suggested that gross primary production is correlated with mean annual rainfall. The first axis in a Principal Component Analysis of NDVI data was correlated (r
25549230|Questions: Do short-term seed-addition experiments reliably tell us about seed limitation of perennial species? Does seed provenance affect recruitment success? Locations: Three dry grassland sites (Negrentino, Poma, San Giorgio), southern Switzerland. Methods: 18 000 seeds of Bromus erectus of three provenances were sown in a reciprocal design with temporal replication. Frequent checks were made of all emerged individuals of two seed cohorts over three years and continued annual checks of one cohort until year eight. Performance was determined by number and size of emerging and surviving individuals and a combined measure of population vigour. Results: From a three-year perspective, all sites appeared to be seed limited, and differences due to seed provenance were small. Over five years, two sites showed an increasingly superior performance of the local over the foreign populations. At one of these two sites, average individuals remained small and a decrease in number and individual phytomass since the fifth year suggested complete microsite limitation. Reproductive individuals only occurred at the other sites and confirmed seed limitation after eight years. The best performing site had the first reproductive individuals in the fourth year. Conclusions: B. erectus showed a long pre-reproductive phase during which the prediction of establishment success by individual counts can be misleading if plant size is not also measured. The effect of seed provenance was clearly indicated where populations established most successfully and local-over-foreign superiority increased with time.
3235663| The effects of different kinds of data manipulation on gradient length estimation by non-linear rescaling (as in DCA ordination) are evaluated by considering the first axis in DCA ordinations of 11 field data sets from four investigations. Gradient length estimates are dependent on the range of the abundance scale; the more the scale favours the quantitative aspect (abundance) of the data over the qualitative aspect (presence), the longer the DCA axes. The gradient length estimate decreases when infrequent species are deleted. A new formula is proposed to replace the option for downweighting of rare species in DCA, as the option presently available has some undesirable properties. Some implications for interpretation of gradient length estimates by non-linear rescaling in general (and in DCA in particular) and for comparison of gradient length estimates between studies, are discussed. The potential of non-linear rescaling of gradients for estimation of  diversity is emphasized. 
3237350|Long-term 'high spatial resolution' permanent plot data were used to determine whether fine-scale species replacements in space occur more often than expected on the basis of random processes, and to test whether these replacements are species-specific. Monte Carlo tests were used. There was no indication of significance in associated positive change (species A increased when B increased); the overall number of significant results was not higher than expected on a random basis. For associated negative change, or replacements (species A increased when B decreased) the overall number of significant results was significantly higher than expected. Significant reciprocal replacements between Deschampsia flexuosa, Festuca rubra and Nardus stricta were frequent; changes in Anthoxanthum alpinum and Polygonum bistorta were uncorrelated with changes of the former three. The first three species thus use the 'same' space. Both the latter species often reproduce by seeds and their turnover is much higher. The prevalence of negative correlations of changes (i.e. correlation of increase with decrease) supports the concept of an internal structuring within the grassland community.
25173183|Question: Positive interactions are predicted to be common in communities developing under high physical stress or high herbivory pressure due to neighbour amelioration of limiting physical and consumer stresses, respectively. However, when both stress sources meet in the same community, the relative importance of the two facilitation mechanisms is poorly understood. We ask: What is the relative importance of abiotic vs. biotic mechanisms of facilitation of tree saplings by shrubs in Mediterranean mountain forests? Location: Sierra Nevada, SE Spain (1800-1850 m a.s.l.) Methods: Saplings of four tree taxa (Acer opalus ssp. granatense, Quercus ilex, Pinus nigra ssp. salzmanii and P. sylvestris var. nevadensis) were planted following a 2  2 factorial design: two levels of herbivory (control and ungulate exclusion) and two microhabitats (under shrubs and in open areas). Sapling survival and growth were monitored for five years. Results: Shrubs had positive effects on sapling survival both in control and ungulate excluded plots. This effect was species-specific, with shrubs increasing the survival of Acer opalus and Quercus ilex three and twofold, respectively, but having a minor effect on the Pinus species. Herbivory damage was also species-specific, being much higher for Acer opalus than for any other species. Shrubs did not protect saplings of any species against ungulates. Thus, all Acer saplings (the most damaged species) suffered herbivory outside the exclosures, which largely reduced sapling height. Conclusions: Protection from abiotic stress (summer drought and winter frost) was much more relevant than protection from biotic stress (herbivory). However, we propose that the final balance between the two mechanisms can be expected to vary strongly between sites, depending on the relative magnitude of the different sources of stress and the intrinsic traits (e.g. palatability) of the species interacting.
4096643|Question: What are the importance of elevation and fire in maintaining ecotones of Florida scrub assemblages along a gradual topographic gradient? Location: Archbold Biological Station (ABS), 12 km south of Lake Placid, Florida, USA. Methods: Vegetation cover of upland Florida shrublands was quantified using the line-intercept method along 20 transects traversing similar elevation gradients, stratified by time since fire (TSF). We objectively identified shrubland ecotones using a split moving windows boundary analysis (SMW) with three different window widths. Non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination was used to determine relationships among plant assemblages defined by SMW. Results: We located up to four ecotones per transect, the majority of which were wide, highly heterogeneous zones. Relative elevation controlled the distribution of plant assemblages in upland Florida shrublands. Ecotones in shrublands > 30 years TSF had relatively low dissimilarity values in SMW, indicating that previously discrete plant assemblages with longer TSF were becoming more similar with time. Conclusions: Split Moving Windows (SMW) analysis identified ecotones relatively well although patches generated by oak clonal growth were sometimes identified as ecotones. Fire suppression caused ecotones to become more diffuse, suggesting that without fire at least every 30 years, discrete plant assemblages within upland Florida shrublands will be more continuous.
3236976| Response of a species to an environmental variable may be modeled and predicted using a wide spectrum of different functions. Contrary to other functions (Gaussian, polynomial etc), all parameters of the -function are interpretable in ecological terms. However, computational difficulties in the determination of the -function parameters initiated controversial debates on the applicability and usefulness of this function in vegetation modelling and gradient analysis. We propose a simple algorithm for fitting the -function to observed data. Analytic properties of the algorithm (its ability to recover the known species responses along gradients) are tested using a series of simulated data. In most cases the algorithm correctly estimated parameters of the simulated responses. 
3236909| A first classification for serpentine annual grasslands distributed throughout northern and central California is proposed. This study has followed the Braun-Blanquet phytosociological system based on floristical, biogeographical and bioclimatic features of the sampled areas. Numerical analyses of classification and ordination were applied to the floristic relevs. Minimum Variance Clustering grouped relevs into basic classification units that allowed us to define low-hierarchical syntaxonomical units (associations) and 'communities'. A Principal Coordinate Analysis was used to extract those ecological parameters related to the axes that separate those classification units from the previous dendrogram. The results showed that differences in species composition was mainly due to a continentality gradient and the shady effect of an overstory vegetation. On the basis of both analyses we propose a first syntaxonomic scheme on ultramafic (mainly serpentine) annual plant communities of the biogeographical Californian Region that comprises four associations, two subassociations and some provisional communities. 
3237266|The percentage of above-canopy Photosynthetic Photon Flux Density (%PPFD) was measured at 0, 50 and 100 cm above the forest floor and above the main understory vegetation in stands of (1) pure Betula papyrifera (White birch), (2) pure Populus tremuloides (Trembling aspen), (3) mixed broad-leaf-conifer, (4) shade-tolerant conifer and (5) pure Pinus banksiana (Jack pine) occurring on both clay and till soil types. %PPFD was measured instantaneously under overcast sky conditions (nine locations within each of 29 stands) and continuously for a full day under clear sky conditions (five locations within each of eight stands). The percentage cover of the understory layer was estimated at the same locations as light measurements. Mean %PPFD varied from 2 % at the forest floor under Populus forests to 15 % above the understory vegetation cover under Betula forests. Percent PPFD above the understory vegetation cover was significantly higher under shade intolerant tree species such as Populus, Betula and Pinus than under shade tolerant conifers. No significant differences were found in %PPFD above the understory vegetation cover under similar tree species between clay and till soil types. The coefficient of variation in %PPFD measured in the nine locations within each stand was significantly lower under deciduous dominated forests (mean of 19 %) than under coniferous dominated forests (mean of 40 %). %PPFD measured at the forest floor was positively correlated with %PPFD measured above the understory vegetation and negatively correlated with cumulative total percent cover of the understory vegetation R<sup>2</sup> = 0.852. The proportion of sunflecks above 250 and 500 mol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> was much lower and %PPFD in shade much higher under Populus and Betula forests than under the other forests. Differences in the mean, variability and nature of the light environment found among forest and soil types are discussed in relation to their possible influences on tree succession.
3235857|The dioecious shrub Ceratiola ericoides (Florida rosemary) dominates xeric, infrequently burned Florida scrub vegetation, often to the near-exclusion of other woody species. We studied the spatial pattern, age, sex and size structure of four populations in Florida, USA: two coastal scrub populations subject to recurrent local disturbances due to sand movement, and two inland scrub populations in sites periodically burned by stand-replacing fires. The age structure of individual genets was estimated from node counts and used to describe the age structure of the populations. The sex ratio of males to females was not significantly different from 1:1, except within a female-biased coastal population subject to frequent sand movement. Node counts indicated that the mean age for reproductive individuals was 15 - 16 yr for the inland populations and 13 - 16 yr for the coastal populations. In all sites, there was no difference in mean age between males and females. Vegetative reproduction was uncommon except for the least-disturbed coastal population where 72 % of the reproductive individuals originated through layering. Individuals were generally randomly dispersed at the coastal sites, whereas significant aggregation of males and females occurred in the inland sites where the populations were initiated following fire. Seedling recruitment was continuous in the disturbed coastal scrub site, where 35 % of the individuals were juveniles. Most juveniles were dispersed from 0.5 to 0.75 m around females. At one of the inland sites, where juveniles comprised 11 % of the population, juveniles were clustered at 0.25 to 5.75 m around females. Coastal populations were all-aged, while inland populations were uneven-aged. Recruitment appears to follow periods of disturbance; infrequent fire in the inland populations and continuous sand movement on the coast are factors initiating recruitment.
40925516|Questions: (1) How have the composition and structure of undisturbed upland Quercus forests changed over 50 years across a large region and moisture gradient; (2) What factors are associated with long-term and broad-scale changes in these forests? Location: Oklahoma, USA. Methods: We re-sampled 30 forest stands originally sampled in the 1950s across a large geographical area and compared basal area, tree density, and sapling density between the sampling periods using paired t-tests, CCA, and DCA. We examined vegetation dynamics in the context of drought indices compiled for the sample period. Results: Total and Quercus stellata basal area and tree density increased, but Q. stellata and Q. marilandica sapling density decreased. Juniperus virginiana and woody species richness increased for all measures. DCA indicated that re-sampled stands generally changed from Q. stellata-Q. niarilandica-dominated forests to forests with greater woody species richness and more t. virginiana. Q. stellata remained a dominant tree species; otherwise, composition shifted towards mesophytic and invasive woody species. Measurements taken in the 1950s immediately followed a major drought; whereas subsequent decades were significantly moister. Conclusions: Fire exclusion and drought may have played an important role in driving changes towards lower dominance by Quercus, increased importance of mesophytic and invasive species, and greater woody species richness. These phenomena are similar to those found in Quercus-dommated forests throughout the northern hemisphere.
3236946|Soil seed bank and floristic diversity were studied in a forest of Quercus suber, a forest of Quercus canariensis and a grassland, forming a vegetation mosaic in Los Alcornocales Natural Park, southern Spain. The soil seed bank was estimated by the germination technique. In each community patch, diversity, woody species cover and herbaceous species frequency was measured. Three biodiversity components - species richness, endemism and taxonomic singularity - were considered in the vegetation and the seed bank. Forest patches had a soil seed bank of ca. 11 200-14 100 seed.m<sup>-2</sup> and their composition had low resemblance to (epigeal) vegetation. The grassland patch had a more dense seed bank (ca. 31 800 seed.m<sup>-2</sup>) and a higher index of similarity with vegetation, compared with the forests nearby. The complete forest diversity was 71-78 species on 0.1 ha, including 12-15 species found only in the seed bank; the grassland species richness was higher (113 species on 0.1 ha). We discuss the role of soil seed banks in the vegetation dynamics and in the complete plant biodiversity of the mosaic landscape studied.
3237100| In the Rhne delta (southern France) Juncus gerardi is a dominant, strongly aggregating species in artificially flooded former rice fields. In order to explain this pattern, the effects of water depth, salinity and their interaction were measured on (1) seed germination and seedling development and (2) vegetative growth of J. gerardi in a controlled-environment experiment. The germination pattern of J. gerardi was affected by salinity. Low salinity (2 g/l NaCl) delayed germination while moderate salinity (12 g/l NaCl) reduced germination rate. In contrast, the germination of J. gerardi was not affected in the range of water depths tested (i.e. 0 - 10 cm). Salinity negatively affected the development of below-ground parts, shoots and inflorescences. This negative effect of salinity on the vegetative growth of J. gerardi was amplified when combined with flooding. Flooding with fresh water (0 - 20 cm depth) did not limit biomass production during the experiment. However, a decrease in the ratio of below-ground/above-ground dry weight at deeper water depths suggests a limitation of the vegetative propagation of J. gerardi under prolonged flooding conditions. This hypothesis is supported by the negative correlation between the cover of J. gerardi and water depth found in an abandoned rice field. The limitation on seedling recruitment imposed by salinity and the depression of vegetative growth of J. gerardi due to a combination of salinity and water depth could explain the aggregate distribution of J. gerardi in former rice fields. 
3235754|Theories concerning the factors involved in the dynamics of savannas, particularly the tree-grass interface, are reviewed. Emphasis is put on factors related to soil moisture, soil nutrients, fire and large herbivores. The distinction between external (independent) and internal (dependent, interactive) environment is discussed and it is explained how this distinction is affected by the scale of observation.
23012416|The field of ecoinformatics provides concepts, methods and standards to guide management and analysis of ecological data with particular emphasis on exploration of co-occurrences of organisms and their linkage to environmental conditions and taxon attributes. In this editorial, introducing the Special Feature `Ecoinformatics and global change', we reflect on the development of ecoinformatics and explore its importance for future global change research with special focus on vegetation-plot data. We show how papers in this Special Feature illustrate important directions and approaches in this emerging field. We suggest that ecoinformatics has the potential to make profound contributions to pure and applied sciences, and that the analyses, databases, metadatabases, data exchange formats and analytical tools presented in this Special Feature advance this approach to vegetation science and illustrate and address important open questions. We conclude by describing important future directions for the development of the field including incentives for data sharing, creation of tools for more robust statistical analysis, utilities for integration of data that conform to divergent taxonomic standards, and databases that provide detailed plot-specific data so as to allow users to find and access data appropriate to their research needs.
3235878|GIS and remote sensing have emerged as distinct spatial data handling technologies with their own methods of data representation and analysis. Combining them as tools to support vegetation analysis and modeling thus presents a number of challenges. The paper begins by describing the major data sources, applications, and software characteristics of each technology, and then compares them within a consistent terminological framework that emphasizes the digital representation of continuously varying spatial data. Because the spatial continuum can be discretized in many different ways, and because each can only approximate the truth, both GIS and remote sensing are subject to error and uncertainty. Integration, and subsequent analysis and modeling, require that explicit attention be directed to uncertainty. The paper reviews the models of error that have been developed in recent years for spatial data and examines their use in the interface between GIS and remote sensing. The paper looks at the functional requirements of modeling, and includes discussion of error propagation.
3235789|We compare the dispersal spectra of diaspores from varied plant communities in Australia, New Zealand, and North America, assigning dispersal mode to each diaspore type on the basis of apparent morphological adaptations. Species with ballistic and external dispersal modes were uncommon in most communities we surveyed. Ant dispersal was also rather uncommon, except in some Australian sclerophyll vegetation types. The frequency of vertebrate dispersal ranged up to 60% of the flora, the highest frequencies occurring in New Zealand forests. Wind dispersal ranged as high as 70% of the flora, with the highest values in Alaska, but usually comprised 10-30% of the flora. Many species in most communities had diaspores with no special morphological device for dispersal. Physiognomically similar vegetation types in different biogeographic regions usually had somewhat dissimilar dispersal spectra. The frequency of dispersal by vertebrates often increased and the frequency of species with no special dispersal device decreased along gradients of increasing vertical diversity of vegetation structure. Elevation and moisture gradients also exhibited shifts in dispersal spectra. Within Australia, vertebrate- and wind-dispersal increased in frequency along a soil-fertility gradient, and dispersal by ants and by no special device decreased. Habitat breadths (across plant communities) and microhabitat breadths (within communities) for species of each major dispersal type did not show consistent differences, in general. Antdispersed species often had lower cover-values than other species in several Australian vegetation types. We discuss the ecological bases of these differences in dispersal spectra in terms of the availability of dispersal agents, seed size, and other ecological constraints. Seed size is suggested to be one ecological factor that is probably of general relevance to the evolution of dispersal syndromes.
40925564|Question: Accumulation of litter can have serious implications on the recruitment of plant species, by modifying the physical, biological and chemical features of the microenvironment or acting as a mechanical barrier for seeds and seedlings. Isolating these different effects has rarely been achieved experimentally. Location: Transylvanian Lowland, Romania. Methods: We tested the effects of different "litter" types on the germination of dry grassland species using a controlled pot experiment with three natural litter types, differing in decay state and composition (Stipa pulcherrima fresh leaves, partly decomposed leaves and mixed and partly decomposed plant material) and an artificial plastic litter, with two levels of water addition. As a complementary field study, seed sowing was conducted in grassland plots with litter removal and plastic litter application. Results: Litter effects were mainly positive (intermittent watering) or neutral (frequent watering) under controlled experimental conditions, and mostly negative in the field. Seed size and environmental conditions were the major determinants of litter effects on germination. Significant differences were found in the effect of litter type on germination, much of which could be explained by chemical factors determined by the decay state, as we confirmed a higher concentration of allelopathic compounds in fresh S. pulcherrima litter than in the senescing leaf litter. Conclusions: The effects of litter on seed germination are strongly context dependent, and it is hard to define common rules that apply consistently under various environmental conditions. "Litter" identity and quality matter, i. e. the litter composition and decay state, and influence seed germination.
3236852|We studied the vertical structure of wet grazed grasslands in Tierra del Fuego (southern Argentina). A point quadrat method was developed using a fine needle graduated in cm. The vertical and horizontal frequency of species and organs was quantified in samples collected from non-grazed and grazed plots in the field. There was vertical stratification in both types of samples, but only in the first eight cm above the ground in grazed samples, with a dominance of Caltha sagittata. In non-grazed samples graminoids grew taller than forbs and their inflorescences were an important element of the canopy structure. In both treatments, vertical species diversity was maximum in the lower part of the canopy, although diversity was significantly higher in grazed pots. In grazed samples, Caltha sagittata was the dominant species in 46 % of samples and its leaves occupied 35 % of the upper canopy. In the non-grazed samples, Hordeum pubiflorum and Festuca magellanica were dominant in 63 % of the samples, with H. pubiflorum leaves occupying 55 % of the upper canopy. Comparing species by pairs, significant differences in vertical position were maintained in non-grazed versus grazed pots. It is concluded that vertical stratification occurs even in the shortest communities. In this community, forb species grew close to the ground in the grazed areas, while forbs grew in the gaps and grasses above them in the non-grazed areas. The main differences were in the relative dominance of forb and grass species and the presence of inflorescences.
3235879|Key components in the climatology of the Earth are incoming and net solar radiation. Next to clouds, the major modulator of solar radiation at the surface is topography. Variability in elevation, slope, aspect, and shadowing can lead to large gradients in incoming and net solar radiation fields. The response of vegetation to these gradients can often be dramatic, as in the distribution of vegetation on south- and north-facing slopes. Recently much progress has been made in modeling the effects of topography on incoming and net solar radiation. Such models produce fields of radiation that have been adjusted for topography derived from digital elevation data. This paper presents a topographic solar radiation model that combines digital elevation data with surface and satellite measurements. Specifically, a monthly topoclimatology for the Rio Grande River Basin in Colorado is constructed for the hydrological years 1987 - 1990. Using digital elevation models with 30 m x 30 m grid spacing, representing a mosaic of 39 U.S. Geological Survey 1:24 000 Quadrangles, a digital representation of the watershed is created. Hourly pyranometer measurements taken nearby the basin are then used with satellite reflectances to drive the solar radiation model. The results are monthly maps at 30m x 30m grid spacing covering the entire basin that show considerable variability by location and season. Such maps may be useful for vegetation modeling, especially for pattern analysis and ecosystem process modeling.
3236032| The response of aquatic vegetation to the complex hydrology of a river floodplain was investigated on a stretch of former braided channels of the Rhne River near Lyon, France, which is fed by three different water inputs: underground water, surface flow from a small tribulary and river overflow during spates. Water temperature, pH, conductivity, alkalinity, sulfate, nitrate, and phosphate content were measured monthly at seven sampling stations. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) of these data revealed two gradients: a gradient of spatial heterogeneity and a gradient of temporal fluctuations. A PCA of samples based on substrate grain size, flow velocity, channel width and depth, height and shade of bank vegetation suggested the division of the braided system into four zones. Along these former channels, the vegetation varies from communities with Potamogeton coloratus of nutrient-poor water, to meso-eutraphent communities with Callitriche platycarpa, Elodea canadensis, and Ranunculus trichophyllus. Correspondence Analysis (CA) of the floristic data revealed four zones. Regarding the habitat parameters investigated, one zone is assumed to be linked to the instability and the nutrient inputs of a former channel (running water from the tributary and flood disturbances), while another is linked to the stability and nutrient-poor conditions of the other former channel (supplied by underground water). The other two zones are considered as ecotones, each of them occurring in a former channel, upstream of the confluences. The location as well as the floristic and functional differences between these two ecotones are discussed. 
25173222|Question: What is the influence of remnant trees on secondary forest structure and composition in tropical pastures many years after abandonment? Location: Neotropical lowland wet forest, La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. Methods: Tree and sapling density, basal area, and species richness were quantified at three distances from remnant trees, 0 - 10 m (inner), 20 - 30 m (intermediate), and ca. 50 m (distal) zones. A total of 15 remnant trees were sampled in pastures 23 years after abandonment. Results: Tree density decreased along a gradient from inner (1117  377 individuals/ha) to distal (592  282 individuals/ha) zones, and the number of large-seeded individuals (seeds &gt; 1 cm diameter) was significantly greater in the inner zone. Basal area of tree individuals was greater in the inner (25.6  12 m/ha) and intermediate (28.3  15.6 m/ha) zones than the distal zone (14.7  7.2 m/ha), but there were no differences between inner and intermediate zones. Similar patterns are reported for species richness. Additionally, saplings (1 - 5 cm DBH) had higher density directly beneath and adjacent to remnants, suggesting that remnant trees can affect recruitment even many years after pasture abandonment and the formation of a surrounding secondary forest. Conclusions: Results indicate that remnant trees facilitate forest recovery over a broad temporal range, and appear to 'nucleate' forest regeneration by expanding their sphere of influence outward over time.
25549237|Questions: 1. Does tree growth differ among bedrock-controlled and depositional (floodplains and alluvial fans) riparian landforms? 2. Will the elemental composition of tree cores reveal long-term differences in nutrient availability among bedrock-controlled and depositional landforms? 3. Is understory vascular plant species richness higher on depositional landforms than bedrock-controlled landforms, and highest yet on floodplains? Location: Lower Indian Creek watershed, a tributary of Turnagain Arm of Cook Inlet, Alaska, USA. Methods: Sampling of riparian forests was stratified by landform type. Forest structure, tree growth characteristics, and the elemental composition of tree cores were assessed within point-centered-quarter plots (n = 30). Plots were oriented along transects bisecting the valley floor, along which 50 m  2 m plots (n = 35) were also sampled for understory species composition and richness. Results: Bedrock-controlled and depositional landforms supported mature trees that did not differ in age, yet structural differences were significant. Forests on depositional landforms were less dense, radial tree growth (cm.a) and annual basal area increments were significantly higher, and tree cores revealed lower C: N ratios than trees growing on bedrock-controlled landforms. Species richness of vascular plants was higher on depositional landforms at the landform and plot (100 m) scale. Floodplains supported higher species richness than fans at the landscape scale yet differences at the plot scale were insignificant. Conclusions: Stratification of sampling by landform showed that structural differences between landforms may strongly influence the ecology of riparian plants, and that studies conducted without regard to landform structure may overlook fundamental influences on the ecology of riparian forests.
3235590|Seasonal litter fall and mineral element content (N, P, Ca, Mg, K) of regrowth forest communities at the base and on the slope of an inselberg in Ile-Ife, Nigeria, were studied 7 yr after a ground fire ravaged the forest. Litter fall (t ha
3236416| The influence of pine afforestation on the species diversity of plant communities on ultramafic substrate was investigated in an area of Tuscany, central Italy, by Means of species-area relationships, plant unit area, the Gini coefficient and the pattern of the index of Jaccard in relation to plot size. The species-area relationship was found to best fit the semilogarithmic model. Contrary to the available data for temperate ecosystems, tree canopy cover was found to increase the diversity of the understorey vegetation and its cover. The nutrient input due to the pine canopy caused an increase in the abundance of the grass Festuca inops - which was already present in the community - and subsequently the spread of several grassland species leading to a reduction in dominance concentration and to the formation of a species-rich grassland. The pine cover caused a decrease in floristic resemblance between plots, especially when the canopy cover is scattered. The increase in species richness found under the pine canopy, where the metal content in the soil is higher, suggests that potentially toxic metals are not the most limiting factor in Tuscan ultramafic soils. The typical poorness of vegetation on ultramafic soils should be first of all related to hydrological and nutritional stresses. 
3236152|For a 28-week period in late 1987 and early 1988, a study of seed-shedding by several heath species was carried out at the Muir of Dinnet in northeastern Scotland. The dominant species in the heath is Calluna vulgaris. Seed-shedding in Calluna began in early September 1987 and was completed in April 1988, with the period of maximum shedding falling between early November and late December 1987. The total numbers of seeds/m<sup>2</sup> deposited in stands of Calluna in its four growth-phases were: pioneer, 18 910; building, 169 010; mature, 198 580; degenerate, 33 900. Substantial loss of potential seeds results from the shedding of immature flowers. A control area close to, but outside the area of Calluna dominance had a deposition rate of 770 Calluna seeds/m<sup>2</sup>, indicating sufficient seed to colonise nearby available habitats. Seed rain was also recorded for several other heathland species: Erica cinerea, E. tetralix, Carex spp. and Betula pendula. Seeds of Erica cinerea were deposited in all the Calluna stands, 32 670/m<sup>2</sup> in the pioneer stand, 17 600/m<sup>2</sup> in building, 3720/m<sup>2</sup> in mature, 210/m<sup>2</sup> in degenerate (120/m<sup>2</sup> in the control area). Numbers were greatest at the start of the sampling period, declining thereafter. This applied also to Betula seeds. Erica tetralix occurred in the degenerate Calluna stand and yielded 640 seeds/m<sup>2</sup> (400/m<sup>2</sup> in the control area). Seeds of Carex spp. were obtained in the control: 4110/m<sup>2</sup>. The method of sampling has a significant effect on the figures obtained. A method using tube collectors, emptied frequently, is recommended.
3237327|Climatic differences between three types of deciduous (Quercus pyrenaica) and three types of sclerophyllous (Quercus rotundifolia) Mediterranean forests in the Spanish Sistema Central were analyzed by means of Canonical Discriminant Analysis and Jancey's Discriminant Analysis, applied in successive steps to data from 252 meteorological stations. Climatic data included temperature and precipitation records as well as bioclimatic indices. Discriminant analysis was applied to broad-leaved sclerophyllous and deciduous forest communities sampled at each meteorological station using phytosociological methods. Annual and seasonal (summer, spring) water availability are the most important factor controlling the distribution of the two physiognomic forest types; southwestern associations of Quercus pyrenaica and Q. rotundifolia differ from their colder homologues by annual and monthly temperatures; western associations were separated from eastern ones in terms of annual and seasonal precipitation gradients. Discriminant analysis was a good technique to explore climatic gradients not shown by other general ordination or classification methods.
40925552|Question: (i) How does former land use and land use intensity affect seed bank development during postagricultural succession? (ii) How does time since the last clear-cut change seed bank composition during post-clear-cut succession? Methods: One data set was compiled per succession type using the following selection criteria: (i) the data set included a successional series, (ii) plots were located in mesotrophic forest plant communities and (iii) vegetation data were available. The postagricultural succession data set comprised 76 recent forest plots (eight studies); the post-clear-cut succession data set comprised 218 ancient forest plots (three studies). Each data set was analysed separately using either linear mixed models or generalized linear models, controlling for both environmental heterogeneity and variation between study locations. Results: In the post-agricultural succession data set, land use and time significantly affected nearly all the studied seed bank characteristics. Seed banks on former arable land recovered poorly even after 150 year of restored forest cover, whereas moderate land use intensities (grasslands, heathlands) yielded more rapid seed bank recovery. Time was a significant determinant of all but two soil seed bank characteristics during post-clear-cut succession. Seed banks in managed ancient forest differed strongly in their characteristics compared to primary forest seed banks. Conclusions: Forest seed banks bear the marks of former land use and/or forest management and continue to do so for at least 150 years. Nevertheless, time since the last major disturbance, being either former land use or clear-cutting, remains a significant determinant of the seed bank.
4499241|Questions: A multiple plot design was developed for permanent vegetation plots. How reliable are the different methods used in this design and which changes can we measure? Location: Alpine meadows (2430 m a.s.l.) in the Swiss Alps. Methods: Four inventories were obtained from
4499251|The rapid developments in computer techniques and the availability of large datasets open new perspectives for vegetation analysis aiming at better understanding of the ecology and functioning of ecosystems and underlying mechanisms. Information systems prove to be helpful tools in this new field. Such information systems may integrate different biological levels, viz. species, community and landscape. They incorporate a GIS platform for the visualization of the various layers of information, enabling the analysis of patterns and processes which relate the individual levels. An example of a newly developed information system is SynBioSys Europe, an initiative of the European Vegetation Survey (EVS). For the individual levels of the system, specific sources are available, notably national and regional Turboveg databases for the community level and data from the recently published European Map of Natural Vegetation for the landscape level. The structure of the system and its underlying databases allow user-defined queries. With regard to its application, such information systems may play a vital role in European nature planning, such as the implementation the EU-program Natura 2000. To illustrate the scope and perspectives of the program, some examples from The Netherlands are presented. They are dealing with long-term changes in grassland ecosystems, including shifts in distribution, floristic composition, and ecological indicator values.
3237345|We used a spatially explicit simulation model to examine the impact of small-scale disturbance (created by the digging of aardvarks, Orycteropus afer, and bat-eared foxes, Otocyon megalotis or as a management action) on the temporal and spatial dynamics of a typical Karoo shrub plant community, and to gather insight into the interplay between disturbance structure and population dynamics. Establishment, growth, mortality, seed dispersal and competitive interactions were modelled over long time-scales in annual time-steps under the influence of stochastic and unpredictable rainfall. Three disturbance regimes were included, varying the type, rate and size of the small-scale disturbances. The impact of a disturbance regime on long-term community dynamics depends on complex interactions between disturbance characteristics and life-history attributes of component species. Plant density decreased with overall disturbance rates; this effect was independent of the type of disturbance. A given type and rate of disturbance did not influence all species within a guild (e.g. colonizer species) in the same way. The reason for these differences was that species responded not only to the disturbance but to changes in competition intensity from other species and changes in their reproductive potential relative to other species as well. Such interactions resulted in a sequential change in dominant species within guilds as disturbance rates increased. An increase in the overall disturbance rate did not always produce the trend in evenness expected from the intermediate disturbance hypothesis, but was influenced by the relative abundance of different types of disturbance.
3236030|Patterns of vernal synusiae in alluvial forests of the upper Rhine valley were analysed phytosociologically. Five synusial types were described. Environmental factors included in the analysis were spring water level, texture, trophic status and soil reaction. A separate environmental study was undertaken in pure stands of six competitive geophytes in the most fertile habitats. In a laboratory experiment effects of water stress and interspecific competition were studied for three competitive geophytes. The vernal species can be grouped into eight groups with respect to species position along the environmental gradients occurring in the floodplain. These groups can be used for bioindication.
3235837| A methodology for the morphological analysis of herbaceous communities is presented, together with an example of its application in montane grasslands in the province of Crdoba (Argentina) subject to grazing and burning. The method, based on multivariate ordination and classification techniques, enabled the detection of morphological changes at three levels in response to disturbance: (a) characterization of the spatial structure of the vegetation; (b) identification of morphological plant groups; and (c) quantification of morphological shifts among different individuals of a single species. The architecture of the vegetation changed toward a progressive miniaturization of photosynthetic structures and concentration of biomass close to the ground, as disturbance intensity increased. Six morphological plant groups (modes of response) showing different behaviour in relation to competition for light and pressure from large herbivores were identified. Some species, highly preferred by ungulate grazers, showed high morphological variability among morphs growing in different grazing situations, whereas some others were morphologically uniform. 
3236195|A phytosociological survey of the tundra vegetation of the Kola Peninsula, Russia according to the Braun-Blanquet approach is presented. The areas examined comprise the treeless zones along the shores of the White Sea and the Barents Sea as well as mountain areas above the timberline. Plant communities were assigned to five alliances: Loiseleurio-Diapension on dry, wind-swept habitats on summits and wind-eroded sites in the lowland; Phyllodoco-Vaccinion myrtilli on well-drained soils with intermediate snow cover and moisture status, mostly in the lowlands and lower belts of mountain tundra; Nardo-Caricion bigelowii comprising early snowbed and Salicion herbaceae late snowbed communities; Adenostylion alliariae comprising mesophilous tall-herb communities along mountain springs and in wind-protected and well-drained sites near the sea shore. A DCA-ordination showed that two major gradients determine the varation in tundra vegetation, altitude and topography, which are connected to variation in snow cover. The syntaxa described are well-differentiated, although they form a syntaxonomical continuum.
3236331|All participants at the conference 'Species coexistence and diversity maintenance in temperate grassland ecosystems', in Bedrichov, Czech Republic, were asked to fill in a questionnaire about the spatio-temporal parameters, study type, and species performance measures used in studies presented at the conference. 57 out of 90 participants responded. Most of the reported studies were field experiments. The major differences in approach and spatial parameters divided the studies into singular or repeated recordings. Repeated recording studies tend to use more precise measures of species quantity for species (biomass, number of individuals) than one-time recording studies. Repeated recording studies cover whole range of plot sizes, whereas singular observation studies are confined to ranges from ca. 10<sup>-2</sup> to 10<sup>2</sup> m. The plot size is not related to the extent in time duration, with several finescale studies of rather long duration. Most common experimental manipulations (biomass removal, nutrient addition) indicate that the species coexistence is addressed in a rather indirect way at the community level.
3236154|The importance of the shape of a species response curve to an environmental gradient is reviewed. The implications for vegetation theory, ordination methods, species as indicators of environmental conditions, predicting species distribution from surveys and simulation models of climatic impact on vegetation are examined. A -function V = k (x - a)<sup></sup>  () is used to model species response curves using generalized linear modelling (GLM). Two hypotheses are tested; (1) that response curves differ significantly from a unimodal symmetric (Gaussian) shape and (2) that the direction of skew is a function of species position along the gradient. Nine eucalypt species are modelled using GLM with a -function fitted for mean annual temperature. Six other environmental variables and factors are considered in fitting the statistical models; mean annual rainfall, mean monthly solar radiation, topographic position, lithological type, nutrient index and rainfall seasonality. All nine species are significantly skewed in response to temperature. The direction of skew is positive when a species optimum temperature falls below 11.5  C and negative for species with optimum above. These results indicate that current vegetation analyses which require the modelling of species response curves, or assumptions about the shape of the response, require reassessment.
3235894|The development of seedlings of the miombo tree (Julbernardia globiflora) was studied for 28 months (December 1987 - April 1990) at a Zambian grassland site from which fire has been excluded for many years. Germination occurred 10-25 days after seed planting and germination rates under laboratory and field conditions did not differ significantly. Seed germinability after one year of storage declined to 38 %. Leaf production occurred between December and April with peaks in January each year. Leaf fall occurred steadily throughout the dry season but leafless seedlings were first observed in August of each year. All seedlings had shed all their leaves by the end of November during the first year while 10% of the seedlings remained leafy throughout the second year. Annual seedling mortality was about 60 % during the first year and declined to 36 % during the second year. Survivorship appeared to stabilise at 38 % when seedlings were 55 - 59 weeks old. Every seedling experienced shoot die-back during the first hot dry season (September - November) when open-pan evaporation rates averaged 5 -10mm / day. However, shoot mortality did not necessarily result in plant mortality. Because of recurrent shoot die-back there was little increase in shoot biomass and height at the end of the second and third growing seasons. Seedlings that survived shoot die-back sprouted from roots which showed a steady annual accumulation of biomass. Early shoot die-back in seedlings of Julbernardia globiflora as documented in this study was not caused by fire but most probably by drought and / or nutritional stress.
40925571|Aim: Introduction of a novel approach to the classification of vegetation data (species by plot matrices). This approach copes with a large amount of noise, groups irregularly shaped in attribute space and species turnover within groups. Method: The proposed algorithm (Isopam) is based on the classification of ordination scores from isometric feature mapping. Ordination and classification are repeated in a search for either high overall fidelity of species to groups of sites, or high quantity and quality of indicator species for groups of sites. The classification is performed either as a hierarchical, divisive method or as non-hierarchical partitioning. In divisive clustering, resulting groups are subdivided until a stopping criterion is met. Isopam was tested on 20 real-world data sets. The resulting classifications were compared with solutions from eight widely used clustering algorithms. Results: When looking at the significance of species fidelities to groups of sites, and at quantity and quality of indicator species, Isopam often achieved high ranks as compared with other algorithms.
3236211|The process of colonization of cattle dung patches and its relation to endozoochorous dispersal is analysed in a Mediterranean pasture. Dung pats dropped in spring and winter were marked, and the vegetation developing on them during the first two years of colonization was followed. The influence of endozoochorous seeds on dung colonization is assessed through the study of: (1) the vegetation on spring and winter dung pats and the seed contents of both, which is abundant in the former and negligible in the latter; and (2) the vegetation on spring dung pats compared with that of the surrounding pasture. The origin of plants growing on dung (either seeds in the manure or in the soil seed bank) was traced by studying dung colonization under controlled conditions in pots with manure put on seed-free sand, and on pasture turf. The results indicate that endozoochorous seeds germinate in manure; they are the main source of recovery in gaps generated by dung pats. The micro-succession involved is independent of the type of pasture. A small-scale spatial pattern results in which gaps of old dung are dominated by endozoochorous species. Thus, dung patches enhance the similarity between grazed communities, and the variation within communities.
3236732|Gradients in acidity-alkalinity and nutrient availability were studied in 2 Sphagnum-dominated peatlands on the southeastern Italian Alps. Decreasing concentrations of most mineral elements (Ca<sup>2+</sup>, Mg<sup>2+</sup>, Mn<sup>2+</sup>, Al<sup>3+</sup> and Si<sup>4+</sup>) in pore water indicated a progressively lower influx of mineral-soil water from the slightly minerotrophic conditions in the peatland margins to ombrogenous conditions in the central part of the peatlands. This was paralleled by decreasing concentrations of ash, bulk density, Ca, Fe and, partly, Mn in the peat. The nutrient gradient, as defined by pore water concentrations of N and P, was largely independent of the acidity-alkalinity gradient: NO<sup>3-</sup> and PO<sub>4</sub><sup>3-</sup> had similar concentrations throughout the gradient, whereas NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup> concentrations increased with increasing pore-water pH. In contrast, the peat nutrient gradient coincided with the acidity-alkalinity gradient, with total concentrations of N and P decreasing from the margin to the centre. Bryophytes and vascular plants had different responses along the acidity-alkalinity gradient and the nutrient gradient. Bryophyte distribution reflected the acidity-alkalinity gradient both in pore water and in peat. Vascular plant distribution was mainly influenced by variations in nutrient availability.
3236806|Differences in allocation patterns between seeders and resprouters in several Mediterranean plant communities (Australia, California and South Africa) have led to the prediction that seedlings of seeders grow faster than those of resprouters. In the Mediterranean Basin, it has also been hypothesized that regeneration strategy of plants after fire is associated with several other life history traits. This paper tests both hypotheses for the dominant plants in the Mediterranean Basin from literature data. Results show that seeders from the Mediterranean Basin grow significantly faster and allocate more biomass to leaf plus paracotyledons than resprouters. Seeders are mainly non-sclerophyllous, anemochorous, dry-fruited, small-seeded species that evolved in the Quaternary (post-Pliocene) and are associated with earlier successional stages. Resprouters are mainly sclerophyllous, vertebrate-dispersed, fleshy-fruited, large-seeded species that evolved in the Tertiary (pre-Pliocene) and are associated with late successional stages.
3236153|A numerical syntaxonomic study of rupicolous vegetation of the Asplenietalia petrarchae in the Iberian Peninsula is described. The study is based on 37 local tables (OSUs) of different rupicolous communities from limestone cliffs found in the eastern half of the Iberian Peninsula. Three classification approaches were followed: (1) 'hard partition' techniques, (2) 'fuzzy partition' and (3) ordination partition. In order to find a direct solution, we tried an evaluation system based on the inertia associated with a CCA, Canonical Correspondence Analysis, and its relationships with the inertia of a similar CA, Correspondence Analysis. The most effective solutions were found through spatial partitions, and the best partition was obtained with CA considering five segments per axis. Among the fuzzy partitions the best solution was obtained with two clusters and a fuzziness value of 1.20. The best hierarchical partition was Complete Linkage with Chord Distance as a resemblance function. With the GRID procedure applied to the CA diagram, three different groups were distinguished. The first group is related to the Saxifragion boisseriano-reuterani, including five OSUs from Baetic ranges; the second group is very close to the Cosentinio-Lafuenteion rotundifoliae and includes 11 OSUs from thermo-mediterranean areas; the third group, including 21 OSUs basically related to meso-mediterranean areas, is strongly related to the Teucrion buxifolii.
3237163|Floristic data from paired roadside-paddock analyses from grassland in central Queensland, Australia, were ordinated. The mean direction of the vectors between these pairs was almost perfectly aligned with the indirect gradient represented by the first axis of Non-metric Multi-dimensional Scaling. It confirms anecdotal evidence of a trend from infrequently grazed roadsides to constantly grazed paddocks. The increasing abundance of annual herbs and grasses along this putative gradient is consistent with documented trends from elsewhere in the world. The response patterns of individual species along the disturbance gradient is consistent with ecological theory predicting unimodal peaks in abundance along physical environmental gradients. The ancestral perennial dominants of the grasslands, Dichanthium sericeum and D. queenslandicum, exhibited a declining response to grazing disturbance. Even the generally unpalatable perennial grass Aristida leptopoda declined considerably in the upper segments of the grazing disturbance gradient. A suite of herbaceous trailing legumes had peaks in their abundance near the middle of the grazing disturbance gradient, trends that can be readily explained by the combination of their palatability and intolerance to competition from tall perennial grasses. Several species including the noxious exotic herb Parthenium hysterophorus showed increasing abundance along the grazing disturbance gradient. The methodology may have application as a rapid method of assessing disturbance impacts elsewhere, and is most suited where a management differential between paired plots can be reliably generalized and where the physical environment is relatively monotonous.
3236250| The above-ground standing crop and nutrient concentrations in plant material were examined in 45 stands of mire vegetation in the Biebrza peatland, Poland. The stands included flood-plains, rich fens, transitional fens and bogs. The pattern in nutrient concentrations in the above-ground plant material resembled the pattern in nutrient concentrations in peatwater and peat which had been investigated in an earlier study. Concentrations of N were quite uniform along the gradient. P-concentrations were highest in the transitional fen. Critical nutrient concentrations were defined on the basis of a review of nutrient concentrations in plant material from peatlands in which a fertilization experiment had been carried out. Defined critical values for phanerogams were: 13-14 and 0.7 mg/g dry wt for N and P respectively. Concentrations lower than these values indicate deficiency. P/N ratios  0.07 indicate N-deficiency and P/N ratios  0.04 - 0.05 indicate Pdeficiency. According to these values the Biebrza fens and bogs appear to be primarily deficient in N. The growth of the flood-plain vegetation does not appear to be restricted by nutrients. 
3237104|The seed banks of three grazed and three ungrazed seashore meadows were studied on the west coast of Finland. 8486 seedlings (mean 13 669 seedlings/m<sup>2</sup>) germinated from cold-treated samples (n = 343; depth = 10 cm). Most seedlings and species were monocots and perennials. The seed bank flora included 54 dicots vs. 28 monocots and 66 perennials vs. 16 annuals. The most abundant species were Juncus gerardii, Schoenoplectus tabernaemontani, Eleocharis uniglumis, Agrostis stolonifera, Juncus bufonius and Carex nigra, which made up 73 % of the seed bank. Numbers of species and seedlings differed between elevation classes. Species richness was highest in elevation class 50 - 70 cm. The highest seed density occurred in class 20 - 50 cm. A model for size and species composition of the seed bank in relation to elevation is presented. The seed bank was larger and richer in species in the ungrazed than in the grazed sites, but not so in the upper elevations and closest to the open sea. Grazing reduced the size of the seed bank of Agrostis stolonifera, A. capillaris, Calamagrostis stricta, Elymus repens, Juncus bufonius, Limosella aquatica and Schoenoplectus tabernaemontani, but increased that of J. gerardii. 32 species germinated only from ungrazed samples and 11 species only from grazed ones. Multivariate classification resulted in nine sample groups. The ordination scatter was best explained by the flooding stress variables, elevation, the distance from the water line and the number of helophyte species in samples. 75 species were found both in the seed bank and in the vegetation, but there was a significant lack of resemblance (in the Mantel test) due to over-representation of some species. Eight species occurring only in the seed bank were mainly annuals or biennials (63 %); those occurring only in the established vegetation (86 species) were mainly perennials (86 %).
40925490|Questions: To what extent can Shipley et al.'s original maximum entropy model of trait-based community assembly predict relative abundances of species over a large (3000 km) landscape? How does variation in the species pool affect predictive ability of the model? How might the effects of missing traits be detected? How can non-trait-based processes be incorporated into the model? Location: Central England. Material and Methods: Using 10 traits measured on 506 plant species from 1308 1-m plots collected over 3000 km in central England, we tested one aspect of Shipley et al.'s original maximum entropy model of "pure" trait-based community assembly (S), and modified it to represent both a neutral (S) and a hybrid (S) scenario of community assembly at the local level. Predictive ability of the three corresponding models was determined with different species pool sizes (30, 60, 100 and 506 species). Statistical significance was tested using a distribution-free permutation test. Results: Predictive ability was high and significantly different from random expectations in S. Predictive ability was low but significant in S. Highest predictive ability occurred when both neutral and traitbased processes were included in the model (S). Increasing the pool size decreased predictive ability, but less so in S. Incorporating habitat affinity (to indicate missing traits) increased predictive ability. Conclusions: The measured functional traits were significantly related to species relative abundance. Our results both confirm the generality of the original model but also highlight the importance of (i) taking into account neutral processes during assembly of a plant community, and (ii) properly defining the species pool.
3236346|20 alluvial forest stands of different ages along the river Rhine in central Alsace, France, are described. A natural complex landscape occurs which is formed by erosion activity of the river. Recent human impact (canal construction, cutting) has affected river hydrology: flooding is eliminated over large areas and the underground water levels are stabilized. The forest vegetation varies in species diversity and structure, from young pioneer to older, mid-successional forests. The forests were classified into four associations: Salici-Populetum nigrae, Ligustro-Populetum nigrae, Fraxino-Populetum albae and Querco-Ulmetum minoris. The first three communities are `softwood' because of the dominance of Salix and Populus, the fourth, dominated by Quercus robur, Fraxinus excelsior and Ulmus minor, is `hardwood'. Differences in structure, species composition and diversity in 10 widely varying stands in 30-yr and 150-yr old forests are quantified and interpreted in relation to the processes and gradients (moisture and texture) involved. A model of forest succession is developed as follows: 1. Whatever the topographic level, Salix and Populus species are the most competitive in colonizing bare sediments. 2. Under natural conditions, pioneer softwoods are generally replaced by hardwoods in less than 100 yr. 3. Old Querco-Ulmetum is basically the terminal stage of the alluvial succession. 4. Old softwood forests result from an interruption of the natural course of succession. Softwoods may be an intermediate or late-successional phase depending on the interruption. 5. Successional processes change according to hydrological and edaphic gradients. 6. Allogenic processes of flooding are fundamental in the space-time species pattern. 7. Allogenic processes are responsible for the high species and community diversity.
4499167|Question: We present a general structural carbon - nutrient balance hypothesis parallel to Bryant et al.'s defensive chemistry hypothesis. Our hypothesis suggests that because herb species require a lower investment of carbon per unit length of stem than do woody plants, herbs should be at a competitive advantage where the leaf area of plants in the ground layer is limited by light (or fixed carbon, C) rather than soil resources (R) such as nutrients or water. We test the derivative predictions that in temperate deciduous forests (1) herb cover and species richness increase as soil resources increase, and (2) woody ground-layer cover, density, and species richness increase as soil resources decrease. Location: To maximize generality, the eight temperate deciduous forest sites were dispersed along an 800 km band from the Coastal Plain of eastern North Carolina to the Central Basin of middle Tennessee, USA. Methods: Soil nutrients and moisture, herb cover and woody stem densities were observed in six plots at each site, randomly located in high, medium, and low herb cover areas. Multiple regression, correlation, and Redundancy Analysis ordination were used to test predictions. Results: Plants with herbaceous (low C:R) stems are generally abundant where soil moisture and basic cations (Ca, Mg) are high (low C:R environments), and woody (high C:R) plant cover, basal area, stem density, and species richness are all greatest on dry or nutrient-poor soils (high C:R environments). Plots with intermediate soil resource availability and herb cover have the most species, and maximum herb species richness occurs at higher soil resource levels than maximum woody species richness. Conclusions: Our observations are consistent with our structural carbon - nutrient balance hypothesis.
3236254|Goat grazing is examined as a possible tool for grassland management. In this paper, goat grazing preferences are described. The proportion of biomass of particular species eaten by a goat was estimated on the basis of comparison of paired quadrats. The control quadrats were clipped before grazing and their biomass was compared with the biomass in grazed quadrats. Estimates of the proportion consumed were calculated for frequent species; they were significantly different among species; the most preferred species was Polygonum bistorta, a species with broad, soft, nutritious leaves. The least grazed species were Agrostis tenuis and Galium harcynicum. Various indices of food selectivity (e.g. forage ratio, electivity index) were calculated and their behaviour was compared. Canonical Correspondence Analysis and Redundancy Analysis with appropriate covariates reflecting the block design of the experiment were used to evaluate overall changes in species composition and yielded results similar to those from the direct estimation of the proportion consumed.
3235569|South African mountain fynbos has been severely invaded by trees and shrubs introduced from other mediterranean-climate regions. Management of these invasions should involve controlling current invaders and screening future introductions. Invasion windows are described and functional groups are defined for pines based on life history attributes important for invasion in the fire-prone mountain fynbos. The most successful invasive pines here (Pinus halepensis, P. pinaster and P. radiata) are fire-resilient and have small seeds, low seed-wing loadings, short juvenile periods, moderate to high degrees of serotiny and relatively poor fire-tolerance as adults. Other species with these attributes, especially from mediterranean-climate regions, would be high-risk introductions. Taxa in other functional groups have not become major weeds even with widespread man-aided dissemination. Experience with pine invaders was used to define functional groups in western Australian Banksia species (Proteaceae), shrubs and trees which include taxa with similar attributes to fynbos invaders (e.g. Hakea and Pinus spp.). Banksias have only recently been introduced to the Cape, and are likely to be increasingly cultivated for the cut flower market. Tall serotinous shrubs with many small seeds per plant, short juvenile periods and low fire tolerance were identified as high risk introductions. This group includes thicket-forming species which maintain very large viable seed banks, e.g. Banksia burdettii, B. hookeriana and B. leptophylla. Low sprouting shrubs with few large seeds per plant and long juvenile periods are unlikely to become invasive in mountain fynbos. The approach of defining functional groups based on life history attributes and invasion windows is valuable for predicting the probability of invasive success. Chance interactions such as an opportunistic dispersal mutualism between Pinus pinea and an introduced squirrel sometimes confound these predictions and underscore the idiosyncracies inherent in biological invasions.
4499212|Questions: 1. How does the composition and diversity of established seedlings compare to that of larger size classes in tropical forests? 2. How do species abundances in the seedling layer vary with adult abundance and life history strategies? Location: Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama. Methods: We inventoried woody
3236975|The phenology of spring leaf replacement was studied in a population of 46 evergreen scrub oaks (Quercus cornelius-mulleri) at the edge of the Mojave Desert in each of five years over the period 1990-2001. The oaks occupied a site that spanned rocky slopes to sandy bajadas. The site receives variable annual rainfall (estimated 12-yr average 195 mm; range in study years 67-706 mm). The spatial coordinates of all individuals were recorded, and in April, when leaf replacement was underway, individual replacement phenologies were assessed. Shrub sizes were recorded in three separate years, and in 2001 water potentials were measured. Individuals vary greatly in their timing of leaf replacement within years, and also between years. Many individuals with an early phenology one year are significantly later in the following year, and vice versa. While we detected weak influences on leaf replacement phenology due to shrub size, position within the site, and a genetic component, stronger influences were attributable to the phenology of the shrub in prior years, and to the phenology of neighbours within years. Neighbouring individuals that are close and/or large are significantly disparate in phenology, with one early and the other late. A potential mechanism of local resource depletion associated with costs to an early phenology is discussed.
3236182|A wooded meadow at Laelatu in western Estonia was found to be very rich in vascular plants. The maximum number of species found was 25 in a 10 cm x 10 cm plot, 42 in a 20 cm x 20 cm plot and 63 in a 1 m<sup>2</sup> plot. Species richness is related to the management history of the site. The highest richness was found in sites with the most regular long-term mowing. Species density was lower in the case of fertilization or temporary cessation of mowing. The richest community had an LAI of 2.8 and an above-ground dry biomass of 175 g/m<sup>2</sup>. With increasing height of the herb layer the number of species decreases. Small disturbances cause a remarkable decrease in species density.
3236875|The theory of convergence predicts that, given similar selective regimes, both present and past, unrelated ecological communities will show similar attributes. Mild Pleistocene climate, highly infertile soils, and similar fire regimes explain the remarkable convergence between mediterranean-type vegetation from South Africa (fynbos) and Australia (kwongan). Heathlands in the Aljibe Mountains, at the western end of the Mediterranean basin, constitute a single vegetation type within the Mediterranean region. We studied the association between endemism and plant life form in a flora from environmentally similar areas of the South African Cape region (fynbos) and the Aljibe Mountains by contingency table analysis. We included two non-acid, neighbouring areas to the latter region in the analysis as contrasts. We also compared the patterns of variation in three components of biodiversity (species richness, endemism level and taxonomic singularity) of fynbos and Aljibe heathland woody plant communities along similar soil fertility gradients by means of two-way ANOVAs. At the regional (flora) level, our results show two common features in the biological aspects of endemism between the two regions: (1) edaphic endemism and (2) association of endemism with the shrub growth form. At the community level, we detected strong similarities in the patterns of variation of endemism and taxonomic singularity of woody communities from both regions along an ecological gradient related to soil fertility. We interpret these similarities, both at the regional and community levels, as suggestive of convergence between fynbos and Aljibe heathland.
3236922|We reconstructed forest development and disturbance events (fire and logging) during the last 1000 yr with tree-ring data, pollen and charcoal analysis from a semi-natural Fagus sylvatica-Picea abies forest (ca. 1 km<sup>2</sup>) in the hemiboreal zone. According to pollen analysis, Quercus robur together with Pinus sylvestris was abundant in the forest until the turn of the 18th/19th centuries when these species disappeared completely (Quercus) or nearly completely (Pinus) and were replaced by Fagus and Picea. The disappearance of Quercus was corroborated by the remarkable discovery of a single Quercus stump that had been cut in the 18th century and had become overgrown and preserved by a very old Picea. In total 11 fires were dated from 1555 to 1748 from fire scars in several Pinus stumps cut 100 - 200 yr ago. Since the last fire in 1748, no Quercus or Pinus have regenerated in the core of the reserve apart from single pines in neighbouring managed forest (80 yr ago). During the period of documented fires Fagus was protected from fires in a refuge made up of large boulders. Picea colonized the region at the time when the fires ceased 250 yr ago. We hypothesize that most of the fires were probably of human origin because of their patchiness and high frequency compared to the natural background levels of lightning ignitions in the region. On a 300-yr time scale, logging and fire suppression seem to strongly overshadow the effect of climate change on forest composition and dynamics.
3237043|Competitive ability can be separated into competitive effect (ability to suppress neighbours) and competitive response (ability to tolerate suppressive effect from neighbours), but little is known about the competitive response of plants. A screening trial was conducted in outdoor plant pots where competitive response was measured for 48 wetland species during four months grown with seven established sward species: Acorus calamus, Carex crinita, Eleocharis smallii, Lythrum salicaria, Penthorum sedoides. Scirpus acutus and Typha angustifolia. Competitive response was calculated as 100 (x<sub>1</sub>-x<sub>2</sub>)/x<sub>1</sub>, where x<sub>1</sub> is the weight of the target plant grown alone and x<sub>2</sub> the weight of the target plant grown in the swards. Despite significant differences in biomass and survivorship of the target plants between the sward species, the correspondence, W, of the rank order of the competitive response of target plants grown in the seven sward species was 0.70 (P < 0.001). The competitive response values were not significantly correlated with independent measures of competitive effect, relative growth rate or functional classification. Published competitive effect values, however, were significantly positively correlated with RGR. The results suggest a different approach towards the study of competitive response, with a conceptual model including three different response types: (1) escape; (2) foraging; and (3) persistence.
40295823|Question: Which management treatments are suitable to replace historically applied grazing regimes? How and why does vegetation structure change following changes in management? Location: Semi-natural calcareous dry grasslands in southwest Germany. Methods: We analysed changes in floristic and functional composition induced by different management treatments (grazing, mowing, mulching, succession) in long-term experimental sites. First, floristic and functional distances between the initial conditions and the following years were determined. Second, we used RLQ analyses to include data on abiotic conditions, vegetation composition and functional traits in one common analysis. Finally, we applied cluster analyses on RLQ species scores to deduce functional groups. Results: In contrast to the historical management regime of grazing, all alternative management treatments led to changes in floristic and functional composition, depending on their intensity with respect to biomass removal. The distance analyses showed that mulching twice per year and mowing did not lead to strong changes in floristic or functional composition. However, RLQ analysis clearly provided evidence that only the grazed sites are in equilibrium, indicating that vegetation change still goes ahead. Conclusions: The current study clearly shows that RLQ is a powerful tool to elucidate ongoing processes that may remain hidden when separately analysing floristic and functional data. Alternative management treatments are not appropriate to sustain the typical disturbance dynamics of species-rich semi-natural grasslands. The less frequent an alternative management treatment is with respect to biomass removal, the less the floristic and functional structure can be maintained.
3236807|Persistence, or the tendency of a species to remain in its original position without colonizing new sites, is studied for 24 species on the ombrotrophic Northern Kisselbergmossen in SE Norway. Data sets comprise presence/absence in 436 sample plots (16cm x 16 cm) and 6976 subplots (4cm x 4 cm) analysed with a 5-yr interval. Persistence was calculated for both spatial scales, and the observed values were compared with null models of completely random presence/absence of species. Species characteristics (plot occurrences and persistence) were related to depth to the water table and species optima along ecologically interpreted DCA ordination axes. The observed persistence was significantly higher than predicted from the random model for all vascular plants and cryptogams at both spatial scales. All taxonomic groups showed higher persistence at the sample plot scale than at the subplot scale. No general relationship between persistence and depth to the water table was found, but for the cryptogams there was somewhat higher persistence for the less peat-producing species. The persistence of the vascular plants depended on ramet longevity, growth form and vegetative mobility. In general, the observed persistence of most cryptogams was high, probably because of their perenniality, low growth rates and high reproductive output. Differences in growth-form and life history, as well as the higher number of occurrences, are the most likely reasons for somewhat higher mean persistence of hepatics and Sphagna than of vascular plants at the subplot scale.
3237161|In the framework of a revision of Raunkiaer's classification of life forms, a new life form, aerophyte, is proposed for use in vegetation science. Aerophytic plant communities are described based on own observations and those of other authors. An extended system of life forms is proposed.
3235840|Limitation in the number of species that can coexist at a single point was examined by point-quadrat sampling of a lawn. Three treatments were examined: Control, Herbicide-treated to remove grasses, and Mechanically perturbed to remove all plants, with 10 replicates of each. The Control plots showed an almost constant degree of niche limitation, variance in richness between points being half that expected under the null model. The herbicided plots showed a significantly lesser degree of niche limitation for the first three months after herbiciding, even though the degree of plant overlap had already recovered by the first sampling time. Six weeks after mechanical perturbation, there was no evidence of niche limitation, but the extent of, and statistical evidence for, niche limitation increased until, 10 months after perturbation, community structure was as strong as in the Control.
40295780|Questions: The relationship between fire, aridity and seed banks is poorly understood in plant community ecology. We tested whether there was a close correspondence between the seed bank and standing vegetation composition with time-since-fire in a desert. We also examined whether longer-lived species showed seed limitation relative to more ephemeral species, as this could influence grass-woody ratios in a major biome. Location: Dune hummock grasslands/shrublands of central Australia. Methods: The effects of time-since-fire on floristic and functional group composition were examined by comparing plots unburned since 1984 against plots that had been burned in 2002. Three methods were used to quantify seed abundances: a germination trial using heat and smoke application, a flotation method, and a sieving method. Results: Seed bank densities were very low (< 3000m). Species similarity between the seed bank and standing vegetation was high at sites recently burned (0.86) and low in sites long-since burned (0.52). The relative abundance of ephemeral species in the seed bank peaked in recently burned plots, but the relative abundance of seeds of woody species did not match the pattern of abundance in the standing vegetation. Remarkably, the dominant perennial grasses and woody species were either absent from the seed bank or present at extremely low abundances. Discussion: Differences in the relative abundance of ephemeral species between standing vegetation and seed bank relate to the post-fire succession process. The small soil pool of seed from woody species may be explained by allocation to belowground carbohydrate storage over seed production. Field observations suggest, however, that production of strongly dormant seed can be prolific and that high levels of seed predation make this system strongly seed-limited. The discovery of this seed bank syndrome indicates that shifts in grass-woody ratios can be driven by the juxtaposition of unpredictable seed rain and fire events in these desert dunes. However, estimates of grass-woody ratios due to changing fire regimes will be difficult to predict.
3237067|Data on succession were collected from 15 seres starting on bare ground in man-made habitats (i.e. sites disturbed by various mining activities, bulldozed sites, ruderal urban sites, the exposed bottom of a destroyed water reservoir, and abandoned fields), all in the western part of the Czech Republic, Central Europe. The period for which the data on succession were available ranged from 12 to 60 yr. 56 species reaching dominance in some period of succession were selected (the criterion being: at least 25 % cover in at least one year in any sere); they were compared for biological and ecological traits with other species participating in the seres (167 species with at least 1 % cover in at least one year in any sere), and with the Central European flora as a whole. Significant differences between the species dominating in succession and others were found for the following traits: life form, life strategy, pollination mode, and ability of lateral spread. Dominant species differed from the regional flora in distribution of life strategies, pollination mode and immigration status. The results suggest that an `ideal successional dominant' is a tall, wind-pollinated plant, often a geophyte capable of intensive lateral spread, requiring high nutrient supply and sufficient site moisture. The set of traits contributing to achieving dominance by a species in human-made habitats includes both features occurring independently of phylogenies (life strategy, pollination mode, plant height, moisture demands) and those which dominant species probably share due to their common ancestors (nutrient demands, capability of extensive lateral spread).
3237264| We present a simple empirical model that allows an estimation of mortality due to spruce budworm (Choristoneura fumiferana) outbreak in relation to fire frequency and site characteristics. The occurrence of a recent spruce budworm outbreak around Lake Duparquet (48 30 N, 79 20 W, ca. 300 m a.s.l.) in northwestern Qubec permitted a reconstruction of the stand composition before the outbreak, and also of the mortality of Abies balsamea due to the outbreak. The basal area of A. balsamea increases with time since fire in all site types but with increasing values for (1) rock and shallow till, via (2) till and mesic clay up to (3) hydric clay. Mortality (measured as percentage loss of basal area due to the outbreak) increases with time since fire but did not vary with site type. The increasing abundance of A. balsamea with time since fire is mainly responsible for this increase in mortality. Mortality for a specific basal area is, however, lower for the more recently burned stands suggesting a significant residual effect of time since fire. A landscape model integrating mortality due to the outbreak for stands of different age is developed. Both absolute and relative losses of basal area increased with the length of the fire cycles. According to this model, changes in fire cycle could explain a large portion of the spatio-temporal variations observed in outbreak mortality in the southeastern boreal forest of Canada. 
4499215| Questions: (1) What are the roles of regional climate and plant growth rate for seedling establishment during ENSO rainy pulses along the western coast of South America? (2) What is the water threshold for tree seedling establishment in these arid ecosystems? Location: Atacama Desert, western South America: Piura (510' S, 8037' W), Mejia (1700' S, 7159' W), Fray Jorge (3041'S,7137'W). Methods: We experimentally simulated a gradient of ENSO rainfall in three locations encompassing the total extent of the Atacama Desert to test the relative importance of regional climate for seedling establishment during rainy pulses. We also carried out a common garden experiment to test the role of potential interspecific differences in growth rate among two Prosopis tree species. Results: Water threshold for seedling survival increased towards the south with less than 27 mm required in Piura, 100 mm in Mejia and 450 mm in Fray Jorge. We found that seedling survival and growth rate (shoots and roots) were much higher in Piura than in the other two sites for both Prosopis species. Conclusions: Our results indicate that tree establishment during rainy pulses is more likely to be successful in regions where rain falls during warm months and stimulates fast plant growth, and where loose soil texture facilitates deep root growth and therefore access to more stable water sources. 
4096623|Question: Does canopy tree regeneration response to different large disturbances vary with soil drainage? Location: Old-growth conifer (Dacrydium and Dacrycarpus), angiosperm (Nothofagus and Weinmannia) rain forest, Mount Harata, South Island, New Zealand. Methods: Trees were aged (1056 cores) to reconstruct stand history in 20 (0.12 - 0.2 ha) plots with different underlying drainage. Spatial analyses of an additional 805 tree ages collected from two (0.3 - 0.7 ha) plots were conducted to detect patchiness for five canopy tree species. Microsite preferences for trees and saplings were determined. Results: There were clear differences in species regeneration patterns on soils with different drainage. Conifer recruitment occurred infrequently in even-aged patches (
23012430|Question: Can the abiotic ranges of syntaxonomic units (associations) in terms of pH and nitrate concentration be estimated and then in principle be used to estimate critical loads for acid and nitrogen deposition? Location: Europe. Methods: Using splines, abiotic ranges of syntaxonomic units were estimated on the basis of measured soil pH and nitrate concentration and vegetation relevs. Owing to limited calibration data, this yielded responses for only a few syntaxa. In a second attempt, we used a 160 000-relev training set; the syntaxon of each relev was known but not their soil pH values and soil nitrate concentrations, so for each relev, the soil pH and nitrate concentration were estimated by inference from species composition. We again estimated abiotic ranges using the spline method, including the 5th and 95th percentiles as a proxy for the ecological range. Results: The second (indirect) method yielded ranges for soil pH and for nitrate concentration for many of the associations. The means and percentiles were corrected for regression to the mean. Conclusions: It is not yet possible to directly estimate ranges for syntaxa for pH and nitrate on a large scale from the data available. However, indirectly estimated soil pH and nitrate concentrations are sufficiently available to derive ranges for many associations. The lower (5th) percentile of the indirectly estimated pH ranges for associations may be used as the starting point for the estimation of critical loads for acid deposition. The 95th percentile should still be regarded as a rather uncertain estimate of the maximum nitrate concentration.
3236101| Data from a 7-yr permanent plot study of grassland dynamics were used to address the relationship between processes at two levels of resolution (3.3 cm x 3.3 cm, 50 cm x 50 cm). Grasslands mown and manured in the traditional way in the Krkonoe Mts. (Riesengebirge) were used as a model system. Spatial dynamics at the finest scale were very high, as demonstrated by turnover of individual species in 3.3 cm x 3.3 cm subplots and year-to-year transition matrices of the same subplots. The direction of these dynamics was not correlated with grassland treatment, although there was some correlation within years. An extrapolation of such year-to-year dynamics to larger time scales would result in big large-scale changes on the community level, and large shifts in species composition of the whole sward. However, dynamics at larger spatial or temporal scales were generally small. Some directional change occurred in manured plots, whereas little change occurred in unmanured plots. Large-scale dynamics were not correlated with small-scale dynamics in plots without manuring, but some correlation was detectable in manured plots. There are probably several processes that drive small-scale dynamics, such as non-linear interactions and environmental fluctuations. We argue that within certain limits these forces act on species composition so as to make small-scale dynamics non-directional. This results in both large-scale species diversity and apparent large-scale stability of these grasslands. However, if these forces are beyond these limits, the small-scale dynamics may become directional, resulting in rapid changes at larger spatial scales. 
40925548|Question: What are the effects of the number of presences on models generated with multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS)? Do these effects vary with data quality and quantity and species ecology? Location: Spain and Ecuador. Methods: We used two data sets: (1) two trees from Spain, representing high-occurrence number data sets with real absences and unbalanced prevalence; (2) two herbs from Ecuador, representing lowoccurrence number data sets without real absences and balanced prevalence. For model quality, we used two different measures: reliability and stability. For each sample size, different replicates were generated at random and then used to generate a consensus model. Results: Model reliability and stability decrease with sample size. Optimal minimum sample size varies depending on many factors, many of which are unknown. Regional niche variation and ecological heterogeneity are critical. Conclusions: (1) Model predictive power improves greatly with more than 18-20 presences. (2) Model reliability depends on data quantity and quality as well as species ecological characteristics. (3) Depending on the number of presences in the data set, investigators must carefully distinguish between models that should be treated with skepticism and those whose predictions can be applied with reasonable confidence. (4) For species combining few initial presences and wide environmental range variation, it is advisable to generate several replicate models that partition the initial data and generate a consensus model. (5) Models of species with a narrow environmental range variation can be highly stable and reliable, even when generated with few presences.
3236478|Question: How do lawn floras compare with those of semi-natural grasslands? Are the compositions of lawn floras determined by local, within-garden factors (e.g. lawn management and size) or by regional factors (e.g. climate and location)? Are lawn floras nested (like semi-natural grasslands) or not (like cultivated parts of gardens)? Are there gradients of species composition within lawns? Location: Sheffield, UK. Methods: We examined the composition of the floras of entire lawns and of two 1-m<sup>2</sup> lawn quadrats in 52 gardens. Results: A total of 159 species of vascular plants was recorded, 60 of them only once. Most lawn species were forbs, but most lawn cover consisted of grasses. Lawn species were predominantly natives. Bigger lawns had more species, but richness was not closely linked to other environmental or management variables. Composition of lawn floras varied with altitude, with woodland and wetland plants more common in the higher west of the city, and weeds of waste ground in the east. The species-area curve derived from 1-m<sup>2</sup> lawn quadrats was very similar to that of semi-natural grasslands. Lawn quadrats were significantly nested, with rarer species mostly confined to more species-rich quadrats. Trampling-tolerant Poa annua was more abundant in the part of the lawn nearer the house. Conclusions: In most respects, lawns behaved much more like semi-natural grasslands than like cultivated flower beds and borders. Species composition of lawns is strongly influenced by local climate. Most lawns show an internal gradient of composition, linked to a gradient of intensity of use.
3236473|Questions: Are the vegetation attributes significantly different among lava domes and among geomorphologic units as a result of age and soil features? Are the successional rates equal in all the geomorphologic units of the domes? Are the colonizer species of lava domes totally replaced by other species in the late successional stages? Location: Terceira Island, Azores (Portugal). Methods: Three comparable domes of 240, 370 and 2080 yr old were selected. Data on floristic composition, vegetation bioarea (area occupied by plant species in transects), structure, demography and soil nutrients were collected. Quantitative and qualitative changes along the succession gradient were also analyzed. Results: Vegetation attributes were consistent with the successional stage of each dome in the primary sere; however, the geomorphologic units did not follow the same pattern. The influence of the rates of plant colonization and soil formation are responsible for the decrease of the successional rates from footslopes, to summits, to slopes. The vegetation successionally changes from Juniperus scrub, to Juniperus wood and forest, and there is little species replacement since the similarity in species composition is high between the 3 domes. Conclusions: This is a special type of direct succession that takes place mainly through an increase in biomass and structural complexity. We observed small wooded areas in the fissures of very young domes that are samples of later successional forests - a phenomenon that we call 'zoom effect'.
3236196|A first systematic description is presented of tundra plant communities of the Taymyr Peninsula, northern Siberia, using the floristic approach of the Braun-Blanquet School. Five associations are described: 1. Carici arctisibiricae-Hylocomietum alaskanii, the main 'zonal' association, widely spread on 'plakor', i.e. flat or slightly sloping well-drained sites in the tundra zone, but absent in the polar desert zone. 2. Meesio triquetris-Caricetum stantis, typical for mire depressions throughout the tundra zone. 3. Poo arcticae-Dupontietum fisheri, found in the northern part of the typical tundra subzone on western Taymyr. 4. Gymnomitrio-Phippsietum concinnae and 5. Deschampsio-Cerastietum regelii, which occur on snowbeds with various snow duration. Within several of these associations vicariants are described. These syntaxa are only the first to be described for the Taymyr area. A complete description is still under way.
4499261|Questions: 1. Is the above-ground biomass in natural temperate forests positively correlated with tree species diversity? 2. Is this biomass related to the diversity of tree functional groups? Location: We used published data from over 100 permanent plots located in natural temperate forests in the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia. Methods: We related the number of tree species and Simpson's index of tree species diversity to the above-ground biomass in natural forest stands, and we repeated the same calculations for the identification of functional groups of trees using PCA analysis of functional traits. Results: Analysed sites ranged from almost pure subalpine spruce stands to mixed deciduous lowland forests with eight tree species per stand. The above-ground biomass accumulation ranged from 169 to 536 tons of dry mass per hectare. For the analysed data set the relationship between tree species diversity and biomass accumulation was not significant but showed a negative trend. Similar results were obtained in analyses employing tree functional groups instead of tree species. A significant negative relationship was found after four stands located in the highest elevations had been removed from the data set. Conclusions: There is a weak negative relationship between tree species diversity and above-ground biomass in natural forests of Central Europe.
3237204|Shoot and root biomass yield of a sown grass, Pennisetum pedicellatum, were measured at below-canopy, canopy edge and open locations in young monoculture stands of eight tree species planted on a coalmine spoil. Incident light as percentage of full sunlight decreased from open to canopy edge to below-canopy locations. The shoot and root weights of Pennisetum in different tree stands for each of the three locations were significantly different and were significantly related to each other, and to percentage sunlight across all tree species plots and locations. The gradient of incident light was the principal factor governing the gradient of grass biomass under developing canopies of tree plantations on the mine spoil.
40295819|Question: Is the modern patchy distribution of highly biodiverse Polylepis woodlands a consequence of human activity or natural fluctuations in environmental conditions? What are the consequences of changing climate for the tree genus Polylepis! Location: High central tropical Andes. Methods: We characterized the ecological baseline conditions for Polylepis woodlands over the last ca. 370000 years through: (i) examination of fossil pollen records (Salar de Uyuni and Lake Titicaca) and (ii) a review of autecological information concerning Polylepis. Results: Fossil pollen data revealed fluctuations in the abundance (ca. 0-34%) of Polylepis pollen before the arrival of humans in South America (> 12000 years ago), indicating that Polylepis did not form permanent continuous woodland before the arrival of humans and that climatic factors can drive rapid vegetation change. Autecological assessment of Polylepis revealed: (i) negative moisture balance, (ii) fire, (iii) waterlogging, and (iv) cloud cover to be critical in determining the niche space available for Polylepis. Conclusions: Polylepis niche space in the central Andes was at a maximum during warm and wet conditions in the past, but might be at a minimum during the warmer and drier than modern conditions predicted for later this century. The sensitivity to past global climate change emphasizes the need for conservation planners to consider model predictions of a warmer central Andes in the coming decades when developing planting schemes. Natural fluctuations in woodland abundance suggest the most effective way for conservation efforts to "mimic" the natural baseline would be to develop a reproductively connected patchwork of communities.
3235972|Demographic changes in Cytisus balansae populations were studied during the first 10 yr after a fire, by comparing populations of different ages in which different cohorts were considered. In the study area this species constitutes a monospecific formation which undergoes periodic burning. We distinguished both new genets (seedlings or plants originating from seedlings, after the last fire) and three types of ramets (resprout clumps): rootstock ramets, basal-branch ramets and lateral-root ramets. We found that C. balansae regenerated rapidly after fire. Most seedlings, rootstock ramets and basal-branch ramets emerged in the first year after fire. Lateral-root ramets appeared mainly after 2 - 4 yr and continued to emerge in the following years. The numbers of ramets and new genets decreased with time, mainly during the first six years. Density variations between quadrats within each population also decreased. Survivorship varied between seedlings and type of ramet, and according to time of emergence. Survival curves for seedlings which emerged in the first year were concave, for rootstock ramets convex, and for the remainder of the ramets intermediate. The 10-yr-old population was dominated by rootstock ramets. Some were entirely dead but most of them had only some dead basal branches. At this age new lateral-root ramets were still emerging. The future of C. balansae populations is discussed on the basis of results obtained for old (25 - 30 yr) plants, growing in the prolonged absence of fire.
40925525|Question: Can discriminant analysis be used to quantify ecological change? Can fossil pollen data be used as a proxy to quantify moisture availability change through discriminant analysis? Location: Lake Sauce, Amazonian piedmont of Peru. Methods: A linear discriminant function was used to classify taxa found through pollen analysis into wet and dry indicators. The data set was filtered to exclude rare taxa from the analysis. Given that after application of the filter there were more variables (samples) than observations (taxa), the model was "de-saturated" through simulation of samples based on the existing data set. Results: The inclusion of taxa that have a relative abundance of 1% or more in at least 5% of the samples reduces noise in the data set. Application of discriminant analysis to pollen data gave an error of 18% when classifying taxa by affinity with dry or wet conditions. The inferred moisture availability curve shows consistency with independent proxies from the same core and with identified local and sub-continental moisture patterns. Conclusions: The method provides a reliable means to reduce a complex paleoecological data set to proportional change in a single pre-defined variable.The output is a relative scale of change of a defined environmental gradient through time, without reliance on an extensive array of modern analogues.The results appear to provide a comparable quality of information to that of isotopie analysis derived from speleo them or sedimentary records.
25549272|Questions: Trait differentiation among species occurs at different spatial scales within a region. How does the partitioning of functional diversity help to identify different community assembly mechanisms? Location: Northeastern Spain. Methods: Functional diversity can be partitioned into within-community () and among-communities () components, in analogy to Whittaker's classical  and  species diversity concept. In light of ecological null models, we test and discuss two algorithms as a framework to measure  and  functional diversity (the Rao quadratic entropy index and the variance of trait values). Species and trait (specific leaf area) data from pastures under different climatic conditions in NE Spain are used as a case study. Results: The proposed indices show different mathematical properties but similarly account for the spatial components of functional diversity. For all vegetation types along the climatic gradient, the observed  functional diversity was lower than expected at random, an observation consistent with the hypothesis of trait convergence resulting from habitat filtering. On the other hand, our data exhibited a remarkably higher functional diversity within communities compared to among communities ( >> ). In contrast to the high species turnover, there was a limited functional diversity turnover among communities, and a large part of the trait divergence occurred among coexisting species. Conclusions: Partitioning functional diversity within and among communities revealed that both trait convergence and divergence occur in the formation of assemblages from the local species pool. A considerable trait convergence exists at the regional scale in spite of changes in species composition, suggesting the existence of ecological redundancy among communities.
25549277|Question: How do seed germination and subsequent seedling survival of O. semicastrata (Hance forma litchiifolia How) vary with respect to distance from parent trees and conspecific density in different types of tropical forest? Are there effects of soil biota on O. semicastrata that systematically depend on distance from parent trees and conspecific density? Do soil pathogens differently affect survival of O. semicastrata in different types of tropical forest? Location: Tropical lowland rain forest and tropical montane rain forest in Jianfengling National Nature Reserve, Hainan Island, China. Methods: Individual adult O. semicastrata trees were selected in lowland rain forest and montane rain forest. Soil was collected at a distance of 0-5 m or 15-20 m from the parent tree. Soil samples from each distance were combined into a bulk sample. Half of the soil sample was sterilized by autoclaving. Surface-sterilized seeds were then added to the soil material in shade-houses at both forests. Results: Germination of O. semicastrata seeds at low-or high-seed density was barely affected by the sterilization procedure. In both forests, seedlings grown in non-sterilized soil collected close to parent trees had significantly higher mortality compared to those in sterilized soil. In contrast, seedling survival with soil collected far from parent trees was not affected by the soil sterilization procedure. Conclusions: Host-specific pathogens concentrated in the soil around parent trees may regulate community structure of tropical trees at the stage of seedling development.
4096655|Questions: 1. Can the importance and the intensity of competition vary independently along a nutrient gradient? 2. Are these variations species dependent? Location: Sub-alpine pastures of the northern French Alps. Methods: Competition intensity measures how much competition decreases the performances of an organism. Competition importance measures how much competition contributes to affect performance, among other processes (such as environmental stress or disturbance). Competition intensity and importance were measured on three co-occurring species: Festuca rubra, a perennial grass, and two forbs of contrasting basal area, Chaerophyllum hirsutum and Alchemilla xanthochlora. A neighbour removal experiment was performed on Festuca rubra in three sub-alpine grassland communities differing in fertility and on Chaerophyllum hirsutum and Alchemilla xanthochlora in the two more fertile of these communities. The importance of competition was quantified using an index proposed by Brooker et al. (2005). Results: Competition intensity and importance showed different patterns of variation along the fertility gradient for Festuca rubra: competition importance decreased with decreasing fertility whereas competition intensity did not change. The largest forb was the least affected by competition. Our results suggest that the importance of competition for all three species depended on their individual tolerance to low nutrient availability. Conclusions: 1. The distinction between the importance and the intensity of competition is helpful to explain conflicting results obtained on the variations of competition indices along productivity gradients. 2. The choice of a phytometer can affect the conclusions drawn from empirical studies.
40295813|Question: What precision and accuracy of visual cover estimations can be achieved after repeated calibration with images of vegetation in which the true cover is known, and what factors influence the results? Methods: Digital images were created, in which the true cover of vegetation was digitally calculated. Fifteen observers made repeated estimates with immediate feedback on the true cover. The effects on precision and accuracy through time were evaluated with repeated proficiency tests. In a field trial, cover estimates, before and after calibration, were compared with point frequency data. Results: Even a short time of calibration greatly improves precision and accuracy of the estimates, and can also reduce the influence of different backgrounds, aggregation patterns and experience. Experienced observers had a stronger tendency to underestimate the cover of narrowleaved grasses before calibration. The field trial showed positive effects of computer-based calibration on precision, in that it led to considerably less between-observer variation for one of the two species groups. Conclusions: Computer-aided calibration of vegetation cover estimation is simple, self-explanatory and timeefficient, and might possibly reduce biases and drifts in estimate levels over time. Such calibration can also reduce between-observer variation in field estimates, at least for some species. However, the effects of calibration on estimations in the field must be further evaluated, especially for multilayered vegetation.
3236962|In heavily altered landscapes, where vegetation is not natural and where people are the main source of ignitions, relationships between fire occurrence and climate conditions may be unclear. The objective of this study was to evaluate to what extent territories with similar Potential Natural Vegetation (PNV) in peninsular Spain differ in their forest fire characteristics. From 1974 to 1994, more than 174 000 fires occurred. We used (1) the Spanish data base of forest fires, (2) a PNV map and (3) a land use map. Separate fire characteristics, based either on the number of fires occurred or the area burned, were obtained for each of the ca. 5000 grid-cells (10 km x 10 km) into which peninsular Spain is divided in the UTM projection. Also, meteorological conditions at the time of fire ignition, cause of ignition and present forest cover were referred to the same grid-cells as external factors potentially determinant of fire occurrence. The relationships between fire regime characteristics and PNV units were explored with Principal Components Analysis (PCA). The role of the three sets of external factors in the fire characteristics was evaluated with Redundancy Analysis (RDA). Groups of similar PNV types were clearly segregated, suggesting a gradient of fire characteristics. Higher fire incidence (higher frequencies and spatial incidence of fires, but lower proportions of grid-cells affected by large fires) was associated with Atlantic, warm territories with deciduous forests as PNV. Intermediate fire frequency and rotation period, but with a higher relative incidence of medium and large fires occurred in Mediterranean PNV units, dominated by sclerophyllous oak forests. Low fire frequency and long rotation periods, with strong seasonal and yearly variability occurred for PNV units in the cold uplands (Fagus, Pinus, Abies, Juniperus) or in the semi-arid, shrubby PNV units. The cause of ignition best explained the patterns of forest fire characteristics, followed by weather conditions. Our results indicate that, even in human influenced regions, climate and soil conditions exert control on the resulting forest fire characteristics, as indicated by the high segregation of the PNV types. However, the role of man was crucial in shifting the patterns of fire incidence. This was so that highest fire incidence occurred in regions that, otherwise, would be expected to have a much lower one, thus posing a serious threat for such areas. PNV maps, by providing a phytogeographical framework for characterizing forest fires, could be valuable tools for applying research results to forest fire management policies, taking properly into account the underlying determinant factors.
3235710|Direct gradient analysis (Canonical Correspondence Analysis) of northern Bolivian savanna vegetation revealed correlations between the composition of plant communities and physical and chemical soil properties. Cover/abundance values for 193 species from 27 sites were related to data on eight soil factors. A water-regime variable and the percentage of sand and silt were correlated with the first axis of the species-environment biplot and explained most of the variation in community composition. Along this axis, species and sites of flood-plain vegetation were separated from sites not affected by flooding rivers. The second axis of the biplot was correlated with soil-chemical variables, namely extractable phosphate, base saturation, organic carbon, pH, and effective cation exchange capacity. Part of the variation in community composition can be explained by these soil nutrient variables. Grassland communities were separated from woody vegetation along the soil nutrient gradient, and floodplain communities of white-water rivers from those of clear-water rivers. The results of the gradient analysis indicate that the soil texture-moisture gradient is the prime factor determining the variation in the floristic composition of the savanna communities examined, and that, in addition, the soil nutrient gradient accounts for some of the variation.
25549244|Question: The recovery of forest plant communities in post-agricultural landscapes is largely determined by dispersal constraints, but can environmental legacies of former land use additionally limit the recolonization of recent forests by forest herbs? Location: Ancient forest and recent forest on former heavily fertilized agricultural land (Muizenbos, northern Belgium). Methods: Seeds and adults of two forest herbs with similar life-history traits, but contrasting colonization capacity - the fast-colonizing Geum urbanum and the slow-colonizing Primula elatior - were introduced into both ancient and recent forest sites. Soil conditions and plant tissue nutrient concentrations were measured to characterize habitat quality. To determine whether the introduced species could successfully establish and persist, we monitored recruitment, longevity and adult performance during 8 years in permanently marked plots. Results: Phosphorus availability was ten times higher in recent forest soils and was also reflected in the plant tissue samples. Species longevity was clearly lower in recent forest sites indicating higher turnover. The fast-colonizing G. urbanum counterbalanced this lower longevity by new establishment, while the slow-colonizing P. elatior dropped below the number of originally introduced individuals. Additionally, G. urbanum performed better in recent forest sites in contrast to P. elatior. Conclusions: Even when dispersal constraints of the slow-colonizing forest herb P. elatior are eliminated through introduction, environmental conditions in recent forest sites additionally restrict its recruitment, longevity and performance. These experimental results suggest that environmental constraints may strengthen the differences in colonization capacity among forest herbs if slow dispersers also tend to be less likely to establish.
3237230|The hypothesis that season of defoliation and herbivore selectivity may be as important as level of use in determining plant community response to grazing was tested in a monsoon grassland in northern Australia. Plots, dominated by the tussock grasses Themeda triandra and Chrysopogon fallax, were grazed by cattle at low, medium and high rates of utilization in either the early wet, late wet or dry seasons. Effects of grazing on species composition were greatest in the early wet season when high rates of utilization significantly reduced the proportion and occurrence of Themeda and increased the proportion of forbs. Grazing in the dry season had no significant effect on composition. At medium and high levels of utilization in the early wet season, the pasture responded negatively to defoliation, only partially compensating for plant tissue lost to herbivory. The negative response to defoliation carried over to the next wet season when these same medium and high-grazing treatments produced only 80 % and 60 % growth, respectively, of that in treatments grazed at low levels of utilization or those grazed during the dry season. The frequency of Themeda was still lower, and that of annual grasses and non-leguminous forbs higher, in plots that had been grazed at a high rate of utilization for just eight weeks in the early wet season two years previously. Species richness and diversity were also significantly affected by this grazing disturbance. If species composition is to be maintained in these grasslands then stocking rates must be set at low levels to cope with the combined effect of under-compensation in response to defoliation in the wet season and strong dietary preferences for grazing sensitive species.
4096663| Question: How does geothermal activity influence terrestrial plant colonization, species composition and community development in the Antarctic? Location: South Sandwich Islands, maritime Antarctic. Methods: Bryophytes were documented during a biological survey of the archipelago in January and February 1997. Particular attention was given to sites under current or recent influence of geothermal activity. Temperature profiles obtained across defined areas of activity on several islands were linked with the presence of specific bryophytes. Results: Greatest bryophyte richness was associated with geothermally influenced ground. Of 35 moss and nine liverwort species recorded, only four mosses were never associated with heated ground, while eight of the liverworts and 50% of the mosses were found only on actively or recently heated ground. Some species occur in unheated sites elsewhere in the maritime Antarctic, but were absent from such habitats on the South Sandwich Islands. Several species occurred in distinct zones around fumaroles. Maximum temperatures recorded within the upper 0.5 cm of the vegetation surface were 40 - 47 C, with only Campylopus introflexus tolerating such temperatures. Maximum temperatures 2.5 or 5 cm below the vegetation surface of this moss reached 75 C. Other bryophytes regularly present in zoned vegetation included the mosses Dicranella hookeri, Sanionia georgicouncinata, Pohlia nutans and Notoligotrichum trichodon, and the liverworts Cryptochila grandiflora and Marchantia berteroana. Surface temperatures of 25 - 35 C and subsurface temperatures of 50 - 60 C were recorded in these species. Conclusions: These exceptional plant communities illustrate the transport of viable propagules into the Antarctic. Individually ephemeral in nature, the longer term existence of geothermal habitats on islands along the Scotia Are may have provided refugia during periods of glacial expansion, facilitating subsequent recolonization of Antarctic terrestrial habitats. 
23012753|Question: Biological soil crusts (BSCs) exist in arid and semi-arid ecosystems worldwide, and their recovery following the removal of a disturbance agent is integral to the rehabilitation of degraded landscapes. We asked: what is the likelihood of success and time frame of BSC recovery in vegetation remnants of southeast Australia, following livestock exclusion by fencing. Location: Dryland agricultural region of northwest Victoria, Australia. Methods: We conducted a "space for time" study of BSC recovery across 21 sites where livestock have been excluded by fencing between 1 and > 50 years ago, and used boosted regression tree models to explore the response of BSCs to livestock exclusion while controlling for the influence of environmental variables on BSC abundance. Results: Our results show a relatively rapid, passive recovery of BSCs following livestock exclusion, with cover stabilizing after 20 years. Sites heavily disturbed by livestock grazing at the time of fencing stabilized at a lower cover. In contrast to studies from other countries, our results suggest mosses, not cyanobacteria, are the important colonizers in our study region. Conclusions: Ecosystem function in degraded remnants of southern Australia can be improved in a relatively short time frame through passive recovery alone. This knowledge will benefit land managers choosing between restoration options in disturbed and fragmented arid-landscapes.
3237003| We examined epiphytic macrolichen communities in Pseudotsuga menziesii (Douglas-fir) forests across the western Oregon landscape for relationships to environmental gradients, stand age and structure, and commercial thinning. We used a retrospective, blocked design through the Coast and the western Cascade ranges of Oregon. Each of our 17 blocks consisted of a young, unthinned stand (age 50-110 yr); an adjacent, thinned stand of equivalent age; and an old-growth stand (age > 200 yr). We found 110 epiphytic macrolichen taxa in the stands. Forage-providing alectorioid lichens and the nitrogen-fixing cyanolichen Lobaria oregana associated strongly with old-growth stands and remnant old trees in younger stands (unthinned + thinned). Relative to unthinned stands, thinned stands had a slightly higher abundance of alectorioid lichens and a greater presence of Hypogymnia imshaugii. However, thinned stands hosted a lower landscape-level () diversity, lacking many species that occurred infrequently in the unthinned stands. Patterns in the lichen community composition correlated strongly with climatic gradients; the greatest variation in composition was between the Coast and Cascade ranges. The difference in communities between mountain ranges was greatest among stands 70-110 yr old, suggesting a difference in lichen successional dynamics between the ranges. 
3236886|A large number of plots (306) were sampled for floristic data and variables of soil nutrient availability in a wide range of forest conditions in the Vosges mountains (NE France). Half of the data were used to model species presence/ absence as a function of nutritional variables using two numerical methods: parametric logistic regression and non-parametric Kernel estimation. Species responses were established for calcium, aluminium, Ca : Al ratio, base saturation, pH and C : N measured in the upper soil horizon. The other half were used to predict these variables with vegetation with three approaches: maximum likelihood, indicator values and ecological groups. More than 80 % of the 122 studied species showed a significant response to one or more nutrition factors. Species often had optima for maxima or minima of the studied values. For each variable, species were more frequent in conditions with good nutrition and/or low toxicity: maximum values were most frequent for Ca, Ca : Al, base saturation, pH and minimum values were most frequent for A1 and C : N. For all variables, optima estimated by logistic regression were well correlated with those estimated by kernel estimation: <latex>$R^2\,>\,0.9$</latex>. Mean differences between measured values and predictions by vegetation were ca. 2.6 meq for Ca, 1.2 for log Ca, 3.1 meq for Al, 1.8 for log Al, 30 for Ca : Al, 2.1 for log Ca : Al, 0.21 for base saturation, 0.7 for pH and 5.7 for C : N. The quality of prediction as measured by R<sup>2</sup> between predicted and measured values varied from 0.60 to 0.14. The quality of prediction decreases from soil base saturation to aluminium according to the next order: base saturation > log Ca : Al > log Ca > Ca > C : N > pH > log Al > Al > Ca : Al. Maximum likelihood and ecological groups methods of prediction were more efficient than the indicator values method.
3237159|With sampled field data, the accuracy of delineation of ecotones is directly related to the resolution of the data (i.e. spatial and measurement type) and to the edge detection algorithm used. In the present study the reliability is investigated of an edge detection algorithm (lattice-wombling) to delimit vegetation boundaries when different spatial resolutions (quadrat sizes) are used. To quantify whether the edge detection algorithm is robust, it was applied to data from woody species in a second-growth woodland measured at different spatial resolutions with different data types. Boundaries were found at similar locations using any reasonable quadrat size (ca. 200 m<sup>2</sup>) but there were some slight differences when using different vegetation measures (density versus presence/absence data).
3235657|Patterns of plant succession were studied in areas of scorched and blown-down forest resulting from the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens, Washington. Changes in species abundance were observed for 7 years in permanent sample plots representing four post-disturbance habitats, or site types. Total plant cover and species richness increased with time on all site types. In blown-down forests supporting snowpack at the time of eruption, understory recovery was dominated by the vegetative regeneration of species persisting through disturbance. In forests without snowpacks, plant survival was poorer. Increases in cover and diversity were dominated first by introduced grasses, then by colonizing forbs characteristic of early successional sites. Epilobium angustifolium and Anaphalis margaritacea showed widespread recruitment and clonal expansion throughout the devastated area. As a result, species composition on previously forested sites converged toward that on formerly clearcut sites, where early seral forbs resprouted vigorously from beneath the tephra. Total plant cover and species diversity were poorly correlated with post-disturbance habitat and general site characteristics (e.g. distance from the crater, elevation, slope, and aspect). However, distributions of several life-forms (e.g. low sub-shrubs and tall shrubs) were strongly correlated with depth of burial by tephra and with cover of tree rootwads. Thus, early community recovery may reflect microsite variation or chance survival and recruitment rather than broad-scale gradients in environment or disturbance. Recovery of pre-disturbance composition and structure will undoubtedly be much slower than after other types of catastrophic disturbance. The rate and direction of community recovery will largely depend on the degree to which original understory species survived the eruption.
3236988|Branch direction in Carnegiea gigantea (saguaro) cacti affects PAR interception and CO<sub>2</sub> uptake, and may influence reception of photomorphogenic cues. Branch direction data were collected in 29 saguaro populations over Arizona to determine if the southerly bias observed in previous studies at two locales can be generalized to the American range of the saguaro, and to determine the effect of shading by nurse plants on branch direction. Locally observed S bias from previous studies can be extended and generalized to include the American saguaro range. Branches were statistically uniform across environmental variability regarding temperature and precipitation. The S bias was not found in saguaros shaded by large nurse plants, supporting the assertion that branch direction occurs, in part, to maximize receipt of insolation.
3236221| A spatially explicit, climate-sensitive vegetation model is presented to simulate both present and future distribution of potential natural vegetation types in Switzerland at the level of zonal forest communities. The model has two versions: (1) a 'basic' version using geographical region, aspect, bedrock (represented by soil pH), and elevation, and (2) a 'climate-sensitive' version obtained by replacing elevation (complex environmental gradient) with temperature (climatic factor). Version 2 is used to predict vegetation response under different (today's and projected) climatic conditions. Two regional climate scenarios are applied: (1) assuming an annual mean temperature increase of 1.1 - 1.4 C, and (2) assuming an increase of 2.2 - 2.75 C. Both scenarios result in significant changes of the spatial vegetation patterns as compared with today's climatic conditions. In scenario 1, ca. 33 % of the sample points remain unchanged in terms of the simulated zonal forest community; in scenario 2, virtually all sample points change. The most noticeable changes occur on the Swiss Plateau with Carpinion forests (zonal vegetation of present colline belt) expanding to areas that are occupied today by submontane and low-montane Fagus forests. To estimate the reliability of the simulation, quantitative (comparison with field mapping) and qualitative (comparison with climate types in the Alpine region) tests are performed and the main limitations of the approach are evaluated. 
3236831|In European phytosociology, variable plot sizes are traditionally used for sampling different vegetation types. This practice may generate problems in current vegetation or habitat survey projects based on large data sets, which include releves made by many authors at different times. In order to determine the extent of variation in plot sizes used in European phytosociology, we collected a data set of 41 174 releves with an indication of plot size, published in six major European journals focusing on phytosociology from 1970 to 2000. As an additional data set, we took 27 365 releves from the Czech National Phytosociological Database. From each data set, we calculated basic statistical figures for plot sizes used to sample vegetation of various phytosociological classes. The results show that in Europe the traditionally used size of vegetation plots is roughly proportional to vegetation height; however, there is a large variation in plot size, both within and among vegetation classes. The effect of variable plot sizes on vegetation analysis and classification is not sufficiently known, but use of standardized plot sizes would be desirable in future projects of vegetation or habitat survey. Based on our analysis, we suggest four plot sizes as possible standards. They are 4 m<sup>2</sup> for sampling aquatic vegetation and low-grown herbaceous vegetation, 16 m<sup>2</sup> for most grassland, heathland and other herbaceous or low-scrub vegetation types, 50 m<sup>2</sup> for scrub, and 200 m<sup>2</sup> for woodlands. It has been pointed out that in some situations, sampling in either small or large plots may result in assignment of releves to different phytosociological classes or habitat types. Therefore defining vegetation and habitat types as scale-dependent concepts is needed.
3237276|Mimicking of natural disturbance for ecosystem management requires an understanding of the disturbance processes and the resulting landscape patterns. Since fire is the major disturbance in the boreal forest, three widely held beliefs about fire behavior and resulting landscape patterns are examined in light of the empirical evidence available. These beliefs are: (1) that there is a 'natural' fire frequency for boreal ecosystems; (2) that the landscape mosaic created by wildfire is generally one of small, younger patches embedded within a matrix of older forest; and (3) that forest flammability is largely controlled by fuel accumulation. Despite the apparently logical basis for such beliefs, they are not well supported by empirical evidence. This discrepancy is explained by problems such as failure to appreciate the relationship between number of fires and area burned and inappropriate extrapolations or generalizations from other regions and vegetation types. The most important implications for management are that the natural disturbance processes producing landscape patterns in the boreal forest generally operate at much larger scales than management units, and that humans may have more indirect (through landuse change) rather than direct (through fire suppression) effects on the frequency of wildfires.
3237029|An experimental matrix of water stress and disturbance was superimposed on a Lolium perenne-Trifolium repens grassland using a crossed-gradient design, and the annual subtropical grass Digitaria sanguinalis was introduced into the pasture as seeds and transplanted seedlings. Digitaria plants achieved maximum biomass at high water availability and high disturbance. Digitaria plants grown from transplanted seedlings attained greater biomass further from the conditions of high water availability and high disturbance, compared with those that had grown from seed. The biomass of the temperate species was maximized with high water availability and low to intermediate disturbance conditions. The reproductive effort of Digitaria was maximized under intermediate to high water availability and intermediate to low disturbance. Combinations of water stress and disturbance that gave rise to maximum growth of the temperate and subtropical species were consistent with those predicted by C-S-R theory. Results suggest that processes in the regenerative phase of the plant life cycle were constraining the success of Digitaria in New Zealand grassland. Addition of seed to the soil seed bank would probably be maximized in patches of grassland with high disturbance and water availability; these patches will subsequently act as foci for future invasions by Digitaria.
3236306|The widespread suppression of fire during the 20th century has created extensive areas of fire-prone ecosystems that are in long-unburned condition. Plant species of flatwoods and scrubby flatwoods (= oak scrub) in the southeastern USA possess adaptations that facilitate resprouting, clonal spread, or seeding following fire. While the majority of the woody species of these associations can persist for long periods without fire, fire suppression reduces the populations of ephemeral herbs. Long-unburned (> 35 yr) flatwoods and scrubby flatwoods were burned after five annual vegetation censuses. Both stands were resampled five times over a > 8-yr recovery period. One recently burned (< 20 yr) flatwoods and two recently burned scrubby flatwoods were censused prior to fire and were recensused over a 5-yr or 11-yr period following fire depending on the stand. In spite of the variety of recovery strategies and time since fire, there were limited changes in the compositions and structures of post-burn stands compared to their preburn states. Detrended Correspondence Analysis showed that recently burned stands returned to preburn states within 1 - 2 yr. However, the reintroduction of a single fire to long-unburned stands did not restore the populations of herbs typical of recently burned stands. Our results suggest that a single fire may not be effective in restoring flatwoods and scrubby flatwoods that have experienced fire suppression to states more characteristic of recently burned stands.
3236653|We studied tree regeneration, a key process for the existence of urban woodlands. We hypothesized that, besides the usual biological factors, anthropogenic ones (fragmentation, wear, pollution etc.) determine the regeneration success of tree species in urban woodlands. To test this hypothesis, within an observational setting, we collected data from 30 urban woodlands in the cities of Helsinki and Vantaa, Finland. We defined the number of living saplings (30-200 cm in height) as an indicator of regeneration success and used regression analysis to test different factors as independent variables. The results showed that different tree species responded differently to urban pressure. The regeneration of Picea abies decreased with increasing fragmentation of the forest landscape, whereas for the other most common (deciduous) species, regeneration increased. Wear, measured as total path area per study site, had a negative effect on regeneration success. An a posteriori examination of the data suggested that coarse woody debris might promote regeneration. We conclude that, although tree regeneration in general is not threatened in urban woodlands in the area we studied, the species composition may gradually change. We discuss some management implications for counteracting the urban pressures on tree regeneration.
3237125| We examined spatial relationships among species in the subnival zone of the central Caucasus. The species composition of 300 vegetation patches was analysed. 144 of them contained only one species, whereas the other 156 contained 2.36  1.31 species, with species numbers distributed as follows: 59 patches with two species, 41 with three, 39 with four and 17 with five species. In the multi-species patches, the 22 most frequent species were examined and 46 statistically significant species associations, 36 positive and 10 negative, were found. Ten of these 22 species were typical subnival plants very rarely occurring at lower altitudes. The other 12 species are 'invaders' as they have broader altitudinal ranges of occurrence and are common in alpine and even in subalpine belts. Contrary to the typical subnival species the invaders were found exclusively in the patches with more than one species. Invader species were significantly more associated with subnival species while they were significantly less associated with other species than expected by chance. Our interpretation is that typical subnival species nurse plants from lower altitudes and facilitate their invasion to more adverse subnival environments. 
3236769|Poa ligularis is a dioecious species and a valuable forage plant which is widespread in the arid steppe of northern Patagonia (Argentina). The vegetation in these areas consists of a system of perennial plant patches alternating with bare soil areas defining contrasting micro-environments. We hypothesized that (1) male and female individuals of P. ligularis are spatially segregated in different micro-environments, (2) the intensity of spatial segregation of sexes depends on plant structure and (3) spatial segregation of sexes is enhanced by competitive interactions between the sexes within the vegetation patches. We analysed the spatial distribution of female and male individuals in relation to the spatial pattern of vegetation in two areas differing in their vegetation structure. The location of P. ligularis within patches where either male, female or both sexes occurred was also analysed. The results indicate that different patterns of spatial distribution of sexes of P. ligularis may be found at the community level depending on the dominant life forms and geometric structure of plant patches. Where patches are of a lower height, with a high internal patch cover, individuals of both sexes are concentrated within patch canopies. In sites characterized by large, tall patches and less internal patch cover suitable microsites for female and male P. ligularis occur both within and outside the patch with males located at further distances from the patch edge. Where the patch is large and tall enough to allow the establishment of males and females at relatively high numbers, males occupy the patch periphery or even colonize the interpatch bare soil. These spatial patterns are consistent with selective traits in which females better tolerate intraspecific competition than males, while males tolerate wider fluctuations in the physical environment (soil moisture, nitrogen availability, wind intensity, etc.).
4096789|Question: We were interested if and how variation in frequency and/or size of disturbances affect the dynamics of a montane old-growth forest in Central Europe. Location: The forest, co-dominated by Fagus sylvatica, Picea abies and Abies alba, is located in Lower Austria and represents one of the few sizable virgin forests in Central Europe. Methods: We extracted cores from 100 trees using systematic grid sampling (grid cell size 10 m x 10 m) on each of four 1-ha plots distributed across the old-growth remnant of 300 ha. We inferred disturbance events from rapid early growth and release events. For defining release criteria, we applied the boundary line method. We investigated the spatial structure of current age and gap distributions and past disturbance events in grid cells, using a pair density statistic. Results: The disturbance histories indicate decades with peaks and also extended periods without disturbance. Some peaks occurred synchronously at three of the four plots (1910s, 1930s, 1960s and 1980s). Peaks and gaps in the disturbance chronologies widely agreed with peaks and gaps in the age distributions. Most disturbance events during single decades showed a random spatial distribution. Conclusions: There is considerable variation in disturbance frequency and/or severity over time. Most disturbance events will rather thin the stand than clear larger areas at once. Following scattered disturbance two pathways occur: (1) gap expansion leading to creation of larger gaps, and (2) gap closure by lateral encroachment or by subcanopy trees growing into the canopy.
3236594|Question: Is there a critical depth of burial by sand beyond which species and communities fail to recover, and does repeated incremental burial have a greater impact than a single large deposition? Location: The machair on the calcareous sand dunes on South Uist, in the Outer Hebrides of Scotland, UK. Methods: Eight turves were collected from each of four machair sub-community types. After acclimatization in an unheated polythene tunnel, they were buried with sterilized machair shell sand, either by one single burial to 5 cm or by five applications of 1 cm of sand at approximately seven-week intervals. Species response was recorded on five occasions. Results: Within machair sub-communities, burial by sand reduced the abundance (local rooted frequency) of plants more than it reduced species richness. Intermittent burial was more damaging than a single burial event. Those species with the highest pre-burial frequencies tended to dominate recovery in the sub-community as a whole. Species occurring across all four sub-community types exhibited varying responses to community burial between the differing types. Samples from slack sub-communities had distinctly different response characteristics from those of foredunes and unploughed and three-year fallow dune grassland. Conclusions: The perennial life-form of many machair species has been evolutionarily selected for and dominates throughout the machair habitat. Account needs to be taken of competitive interaction between species in relation to burial response. The results of the investigation show that the hypotheses of Gilbertson et al. and Kent et al. on 'machair stratification' require refinement in that frequency of shallow burial can be as important as overall burial depth.
3236357|Small-scale species dynamics in semi-arid steppe vegetation under grazing and recovering from long-term grazing were followed during five years. Most species successively increased their frequency during the study period, whereas some early successional species decreased in frequency. Perennial Artemisia spp. dominated the vegetation and showed low mobility, whereas small annual or short-lived perennial species had a lower frequency and higher mobility. Significant associations between species were few.
3236102| In a species-rich mountain grassland in the Krkonoe Mts., Czechoslovakia, data from four permanent plots of 50 cm x 50 cm were recorded annually from 1985 to 1990 to study the spatial dynamics of the species. Plots were divided into 15 x 15 subplots and the number of vegetative units of all plants within each subplot was determined. There was not much net change at the plot level, but the subplots were very dynamic. Two aspects of the spatial dynamics of the species were followed: (1) persistence, i.e. the tendency of the species to remain in the same subplot, and (2) long-distance spreading, i.e. movement to subplots beyond the immediate neighbourhood. Species differed widely in their persistence and long-distance spreading and were classified into mobility types: long-range guerrilla, short-range guerrilla, phalanx and 'sitting'. The mobility types were, to a certain extent, correlated with the growth form of plants, but some species of one growth form showed different types of small-scale dynamics and some species with different growth forms had the same spatial dynamics. 
3236713|Species pools are increasingly recognized as important controls of local plant community structure and diversity. While existing approaches to estimate their content and size either rely on phytosociological expert knowledge or on simple response models across environmental gradients, the proposed application of phytosociological smoothing according to Beals exploits the full information of plant co-occurrence patterns statistically. Where numerous representative compositional data are available, the new method yields robust estimates of the potential of sites to harbour plant species. To test the new method, a large phytosociological databank covering the forested regions of Oregon (US) was subsampled randomly and evenly across strata defined by geographic regions and elevation belts. The resulting matrix of species presence/absence in 874 plots was smoothed by calculating Beals' index of sociological favourability, which estimates the probability of encountering each species at each site from the actual plot composition and the pattern of species co-occurrence in the matrix. In a second step, the resulting lists of sociologically probable species were intersected with complete species lists for each of 14 geographical subregions. Species pools were compared to observed species composition and richness. Species pool size exhibited much clearer spatial trends than plot richness and could be modelled much better as a function of climatic factors. In this framework the goal of modelling species pools is not to test a hypothesis, but to bridge the gap between manageable scales of empirical observation and the spatio-temporal hierarchy of diversity patterns.
3236712|Plants are composed of modules, such as shoots and leaves. However, modules have been overlooked as potential abundance measures in describing plant communities. We sampled 8 communities, to examine whether module counts gave different conclusions from biomass on community structure, and better discriminated between communities. Different abundance measures - number of leaves, number of shoots and photosynthetic biomass - gave different results for between-site comparisons of evenness and rank consistency. Since evenness is intended to represent a feature of the whole community, it should vary more between communities than within; module-based abundance achieved this better than biomass. It is speculated that the restrictions on species co-occurrences when plant communities assemble may sometimes be based on the number of modules rather than on biomass.
3236716|This paper compares the regeneration by seeds of heath and meadow and studies relationships between the floristic composition of phases in the regeneration pathway. Seed densities in the seed rain and seed bank as well as the densities of emerged seedlings in gaps and in closed vegetation were greater in the meadow than in the heath. In the heath, environmental constraints hindered seedling emergence almost completely so seeds accumulated in the seed bank. In the meadow, the decrease in the seed bank was due to high seedling emergence. Within both plant communities, seedling emergence in gaps and in closed vegetation was comparable. In the meadow, the seed rain and seedling emergence in gaps, as well as the seed bank and seedling emergence in gaps were positively correlated. Differences in seed and adult plant sizes were reasons for the low correlation between the standing vegetation and the other phases. In DCA ordination the first axis separated the phase of seedling emergence in closed vegetation and seed bank. The second axis separated the standing vegetation from the other phases. The structure of the seed rain was more heterogeneous than that of other phases. In the heath, the standing vegetation and the seed rain were positively correlated. The ordination of these phases reflected the patchiness of standing vegetation and the ability of the diaspores of Betula nana to disperse over long distances.
3236903|Forest patches in central Belgium were inventoried twice for the presence or absence of forest plant species to study the effects of age and distance on species composition. All forests in the study area were subdivided based on their land use history. To avoid effects of autocorrelated environmental characteristics on species composition, habitat homogeneity was indirectly investigated using a TWINSPAN classification of the vegetation data. Two major habitats (alluvial and non-alluvial forests) were distinguished and analysed separately. Patterns of species composition were investigated at the landscape level using Mantel tests. Species composition similarity measures were calculated between all pairs of fragments based on the floristic data. A highly significant correlation was found between species composition similarity and inter-patch distance. Difference in age, which we used as a measure for habitat quality, was less important in explaining species composition patterns. The effects of spatial configuration became significant when difference in age was accounted for, and a partial correlation was calculated between inter-patch distance and species composition similarity. Different results were found for alluvial and non-alluvial forest types. Alluvial forests were more influenced by the spatial configuration than the non-alluvial. For the non-alluvial forest type effects measured with the difference in age between forest fragments obscured the effects of inter-patch distance. Based on our findings we suggest that species composition is not only internally generated, but external processes such as differential colonization caused by varying degrees of isolation may be of overriding importance.
23012492|Question: Can species richness be a predictor for above-ground biomass in natural grasslands at a regional scale? Location: A total of 647 sites across temperate natural grasslands of northern China. Methods: Structural equation modelling (SEM) was used to examine the effect of species richness on above-ground biomass. Asymptotically distribution-free estimation was selected for parameter estimation. The SEM process was performed at five sample sizes (n = 50, 100, 200, 300 and 647). Spatial structure in the original data was examined by calculating Moran's I. Results: SEM run at n = 647 revealed a positive effect of species richness on above-ground biomass after controlling for the influences of bioclimatic factors and grazing. At the four reduced sample size levels, the positive effect held true for most cases in 400 observations ( > 92%). Conclusions: Contrary to observations in previous studies in natural grasslands, our data showed a positive effect of species richness on above-ground biomass. This suggests that, as a short-term effect of diversity on productivity, niche complementarity among coexisting species tends to be an important process in arid and semi-arid natural grasslands. We hold that biodiversity conservation is among the fundamental approaches required to maintain productivity of grasslands in arid and semi-arid areas.
3235995|The effects of grazing upon the establishment, survival, growth and reproduction of a grassland annual Geranium dissectum growing in a sward dominated by grasses were examined in a replicated grazing experiment with sheep. Seeds were sown in both summer and autumn, and grazing was controlled to produce two levels of grazing in winter, two levels in spring, and two in summer, combined in a 2 x 2 x 2 factorial experimental design. Higher intensities of grazing in the period immediately before emergence benefitted plant establishment, but subsequent survival showed many interactions between factors, demonstrating that under certain conditions and at certain times grazing was detrimental. It is suggested that the frequency of G. dissectum in the grassland was low because the heavy grazing conditions that foster seedling emergence also jeopardize subsequent survival. This may also be why productive grassland communities in general contain few palatable dicots.
3236980|This study examined the influence of the fungal endophyte Neotyphodium lolii on the competitive interactions between its perennial, cool season host, Lolium perenne (perennial ryegrass), and a warm season, annual grass, Digitaria sanguinalis (large crabgrass), in densely planted stands (>1000 plant.m<sup>2</sup>) in the glasshouse. Endophyte infection had little or no effect on L. perenne tiller production, above- or below-ground biomass or root: shoot ratio in monoculture. However, endophyte infection significantly reduced L. perenne tiller production and above-ground biomass in mixtures with D. sanguinalis. Conversely, D. sanguinalis had significantly higher above-ground biomass and yielded more seed (g) when competing with endophyte infected L. perenne. An apparent trade-off between allocation of resources to reproductive vs root tissues was observed in D. sanguinalis - root:shoot ratio was significantly lower when competing with endophyte infected L. perenne. Results indicate negative ecological consequences for harbouring the fungal endophyte when competing with the fast growing annual grass in newly established stands. These findings underscore the existence of a physiological cost of harbouring the fungal endophyte which is often overlooked.
3235756|Studies on browse and browsing impact on woody plants in African savannas show that browse can be a significant part of the total food for large herbivores. Utilization of browse is little studied and patterns are therefore difficult to examine. The quality of browse has been described mainly in terms of nutrients, fibre and digestibility. Studies on chemical and physical defences of plants against herbivory can add considerably to the understanding of the browse-browser system. The various ways woody plants respond to browsing are little known. Interactions between browsers and woody plants are dynamic, since responses of woody plants to browsing result in changes in feeding behaviour of the browsing animal, both in savannas and in temperate ecosystems.
3236329|The population dynamics of two monocarpic bamboos, Sasa kurilensis and S. tsuboiana, were studied for more than 10 years after establishment following mass flowering. Both species show vigorous rhizomatous vegetative reproduction after growing up to maturity, but horizontal expansion in the seedling stage was much more vigorous in S. tsuboiana than in S. kurilensis. The pattern of changes in culm density in the two species was strikingly similar: culm densities of both species increased until they reached full-density states, after which they decreased in accordance with seedling growth. However, the mode of regulation in culm density was different. S. kurilensis seedlings were composed of only a few culms and scarcely extended their rhizomes during the observation period. Such poor lateral expansion resulted in asymmetric competition as observed in many non-clonal plants, and consequently their culm density decreased as a result of the mortality of genets due to self-thinning. In S. tsuboiana seedlings, the number of culms per genet increased considerably by frequent tillering and sprouting from rhizomes. However, after reaching full density state, the Bud Utility Ratio (BUR), (the proportion of the rhizome nodes with culms to the total number of rhizome nodes), decreased drastically. In this manner, S. tsuboiana regulated culm density intraclonally as is observed in the stable states of many clonal plants. Hence it is important for the understanding of the regeneration process in clonal species to clarify when and how their seedlings extend rhizomes during their growth.
4096654|Questions: What are the effects of fire on the relationships between community composition and environment? Does fire affect -diversity and rates of species turnover along spatial and environmental gradients? Do these effects differ among functional groups? Location: Linville Gorge, in the southern Appalachians of western North Carolina, USA. Methods: We sampled all vascular plants in 20 plots (200 to
3236246|This note is to apologize for an error in the computer program used to evaluate the random data used in Fuzzy Set Ordination according to Zhang & Oxley. After correction of this error no artifacts could be detected any longer. However, the basic conclusion of the earlier critical note still stands: if one selects environmental variables after analyzing the results of a multivariate gradient analysis, and then uses these variables as input into a multiple univariate gradient analysis, the results are expected to be comparable.
3236055|Relationships between plant form, plant function, and environmental factors are analyzed in order to test the efficiency of growth form attributes and phenomorphology for studying vegetation on a regional scale. Examples of sclerophyllous evergreen coppices with Quercus ilex in the mediterranean climate of southern France are examined. The results for three growth form attributes (renewal bud location, leaf consistency, leaf size) and some environmental factors show that these criteria are efficient along a gradient of increasing stress. Concerning phenomorphology, some trends along the main environmental gradient become evident, but these results should be confirmed with descriptions of more species. It is suggested that man's ancient, very strong influence upon these ecosystems could explain some results showing that growth form distribution does not fit the pattern of variation in environmental factors.
23012728|Question: Does the course of succession on a coal mine restored by hydroseeding converge with a reference community in terms of species composition and vegetation structure? What is the rate of succession on restored areas? How does the balance between local colonization and extinction rates change during succession? Which species group (native or hydroseeded) determines the successional process? Location: Large reclaimed coal mine in the north of Palencia province, northern Spain (4250N, 438W). Methods: Between 2004 and 2009 we monitored annually vascular plant species cover in nine permanent plots (20 m2 each) at a restored mine; these plots were structured to account for site aspect (north, south and flat). Three identical permanent plots were established in the surrounding reference community and monitored in 2004 and 2009. We used detrended correspondence analysis to assess successional trends and rates of succession, generalized linear mixed models to derive patterns of vegetation structural changes and turnover through time, and HuismanOlffFresco modelling to illustrate response of individual species through time. Results: The three restored mine areas exhibited a successional trend towards the reference community through time, although speed of convergence differed. However, after 6 years the restored sites had diverged considerably and this was greater than the dissimilarity reduction with respect to the reference community. Richness, diversity and native species cover increased linearly through time, whereas hydroseeded species cover decreased. Success of hydroseeded species initially differed in the three areas, and this was negatively related with native species colonization rates. Response patterns through time of ten hydroseeded and 20 most common native species are described. Conclusions: Vegetation structural parameters rapidly converged with the reference community, whereas compositional convergence needed much longer. At the same time, successional composition trajectories and rates were related to site properties (here aspect).
25549222|Question: Is a rapid decline in abundance of a dominant species in a bottomland hardwood forest evidence for a trade-off between flood- and shade-tolerance? Location: Bottomland hardwood forest in east Texas, USA. Methods: We used 23 years of data on marked individuals to examine abundance, mortality, recruitment and growth of trees before and after a long growing season flood. Results: A decline of 47% in abundance and 49% in basal area of Carpinus caroliniana (Betulaceae) occurred between 1989 and 1994 in a bottomland hardwood forest following a long summer flood. Other major species showed little change in abundance or basal area. The Carpinus decline was greater at low elevations suggesting the importance of flooding. Carpinus is rated among the least flood-tolerant species in the system. It differs from other species of similar flood tolerance in adult stature (midstory) and shade tolerance (tolerant). Conclusions: The trade-off between flood tolerance and shade tolerance can influence dynamics of floodplain forests.
3236202|Subarctic steppe is currently restricted in interior Alaska and the Yukon Territory to steep, south-facing river bluffs. Paleoecological and biogeographic evidence suggests that some steppe taxa may have been more widespread during the Full-Glacial. We examined factors controlling the distribution of steppe taxa on an elevation gradient across a steppe-tundra ecotone: such analyses may help define potential Full-Glacial distributions of these taxa. Multivariate analyses suggest that species can be divided into four spatially distinct groups, but individualistic species distributions create considerable overlap among these groups. The steppe-tundra ecotone comprises a broad zone of mixing between steppe taxa and drought-tolerant alpine tundra taxa, followed by an abrupt shift to alpine shrub tundra. The transition from low steppe to tundra vegetation is primarily associated with a gradient of decreasing soil temperature. The more abrupt transition from mixed steppe-tundra to alpine shrub tundra vegetation is primarily associated with changes in soil depth and soil moisture. Variation in vegetation within steppe is associated with gradients in soil phosphorus and moisture. Greenhouse experiments on drought tolerance of two steppe and two tundra taxa suggest that the individualistic distribution of species along the ecotone is partly a function of physiological differences among species. Our analyses of vegetation-environment relationships support the hypothesis that some components of the steppe community could have been more widespread during the colder Full-Glacial.
25173224|Questions: Studies of gap effects have been conducted mainly in forests. We studied gap ecology in a pyrogenic Ceratiola ericoides (Florida rosemary) dominated shrubland and asked: How do gap size and the frequency of large gaps change across the fire chronosequence? Do larger gaps differ from smaller gaps in vegetation structure or species diversity? Are effects of gaps independent of, or dependent upon, time-since-fire? Are larger gaps refugia for herbs and subshrubs? Location: Archbold Biological Station, Lake Wales Ridge, south-central Florida, USA. Methods: We investigated plant species occurrence and diversity in 805 gaps (areas free of shrubs taller than 50 cm) in 28 fire-dependent Florida rosemary scrub sites. We collected quantitative cover data in a subset of seven sites. Results: Gap area distribution was lognormal. The largest gaps occurred throughout all but the longest time-since-fire intervals. Gaps were smallest in the longest unburned site but otherwise did not show strong patterns across the fire chronosequence. Species diversity measures increased with increasing gap area, with herbaceous diversity increasing with both gap area and bare sand. Herb diversity (H') decreased with time-since-fire. Larger gaps are refugia for some species. Of 14 species occurring in 25-75% of gaps, 13 had increased occupancy with increasing gap area, and gap area was the strongest predictor of occupancy for seven species of herbs and shrubs. Time-since-fire was the strongest predictor of occupancy for five species, including four ground lichens that increased with time-since-fire. Conclusions: Community structure within Florida scrub gaps is influenced by gap size, which in turn is affected by fire, the dominant ecological disturbance. We present a conceptual model that considers both gap size and time-since-fire as drivers of community structure and herbaceous plant diversity in Florida scrub. Because gap properties (independently of fire) have strong influences on species assemblages in Florida rosemary scrub gaps, fire management should consider the number and size of gaps across the landscape.
40295796|Aims: The upper elevation limit of forest vegetation in mountain ranges (the alpine treeline ecotone) is expected to be highly sensitive to global change. Treeline shifts and/or ecotone afforestation could cause fragmentation and loss of alpine habitat, and are expected to trigger considerable alterations in alpine vegetation. We performed an analysis of vegetation structure at the treeline ecotone to evaluate whether distribution of the tree population determines the spatial pattern of vegetation (species composition and diversity) across the transition from subalpine forest to alpine vegetation. Location: Iberian eastern range of the Pyrenees. Methods: We studied 12 alpine Pinus uncinata treeline ecotones. Rectangular plots ranging from 940 to 1900 m were placed along the forest-alpine vegetation transition, from closed forest to the treeless alpine area. To determine community structure and species distribution in the treeline ecotone, species variation along the forest-alpine vegetation transition was sampled using releves of 0.5 m set every 2 m along the length of each plot. Fuzzy C-means clustering was performed to assess the transitional status of the releves in terms of species composition. The relation of P. uncinata canopy cover to spatial pattern of vegetation was evaluated using continuous wavelet transform analysis. Results: Vegetation analyses revealed a large degree of uniformity of the subalpine forest between all treeline ecotone areas studied. In contrast, the vegetation mosaic found upslope displayed great variation between sites and was characterized by abrupt changes in plant community across the treeline ecotone. Plant richness and diversity significantly increased across the ecotone, but tree cover and diversity boundaries were not spatially coincident. Conclusions: Our results revealed that no intermediate communities, in terms of species composition, are present in the treeline ecotone. Ecotone vegetation reflected both bedrock type and fine-scale heterogeneity at ground level, thereby reinforcing the importance of microenvironmental conditions for alpine community composition. Tree cover did not appear to be the principal driver of alpine community changes across the treeline ecotone. Micro-environmental heterogeneity, together with effects of past climatic and land-use changes on ecotone vegetation, may weaken the expected correlation between species distribution and vegetation structure.
3235884|Vegetation phenological phenomena are closely related to seasonal dynamics of the lower atmosphere and are therefore important elements in global models and vegetation monitoring. Normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) data derived from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) satellite sensor offer a means of efficiently and objectively evaluating phenological characteristics over large areas. Twelve metrics linked to key phenological events were computed based on time-series NDVI data collected from 1989 to 1992 over the conterminous United States. These measures include the onset of greenness, time of peak NDVI, maximum NDVI, rate of greenup, rate of senescence, and integrated NDVI. Measures of central tendency and variability of the measures were computed and analyzed for various land cover types. Results from the analysis showed strong coincidence between the satellite-derived metrics and predicted phenological characteristics. In particular, the metrics identified interannual variability of spring wheat in North Dakota, characterized the phenology of four types of grasslands, and established the phenological consistency of deciduous and coniferous forests. These results have implications for large-area land cover mapping and monitoring. The utility of remotely sensed data as input to vegetation mapping is demonstrated by showing the distinct phenology of several land cover types. More stable information contained in ancillary data should be incorporated into the mapping process, particularly in areas with high phenological variability. In a regional or global monitoring system, an increase in variability in a region may serve as a signal to perform more detailed land cover analysis with higher resolution imagery.
3237182| Separate logistic regression models were developed to predict the distribution and large-scale spatial patterns of dominant graminoid species and communities in alpine grasslands. The models are driven by four bioclimatic parameters: degree-days of growing season (basis 0 C), a moisture index for July, potential direct solar radiation for March, and a continentality index. Geology and slope angle were used as a surrogate for nutrient availability and soil water capacity. The bioclimatic parameters were derived from monthly mean temperature, precipitation, cloudiness and potential direct solar radiation. The environmental parameters were interpolated using a digital elevation model with a resolution of 50 m. The vegetation data for model calibration originate from field surveys and literature. An independent test data set with samples from three different climatic zones was used to test the model. The degree of coincidence between simulated and observed patterns was similar for species and communities, but the -values for communities were generally higher ( = 0.539) than for species (mean individual  = 0.201). Information on land use was detected as a major factor that could significantly improve both the species and the community model. Nevertheless, the climatic factors used to drive the model explained a major part of the observed patterns. 
3235687|Gaps created by disturbance in the forest canopy are important sites for tree regeneration from seed but plants already established in gaps may slow gap-filling. This study deals with consequences of bamboo die-back for tree regeneration and the dynamics of Abies-Betula forests in southwest China. Bamboo dominates the forest understory impeding tree regeneration when in its vegetative phase. Populations of tree seedlings were sampled in 1984-85 and 1990 in two sets of permanent plots where bamboo had died back in 1983. Both Abies and Betula density increased after bamboo die-back, Betula more so than Abies, especially in gaps. Before bamboo die-back, seedlings were established on raised surfaces such as logs but afterwards seedlings became common on the forest floor. This reduced the intensity of clumping of seedling populations between 1984 and 1990. A tree by tree replacement model predicts an increase in Abies and a decrease in Betula after bamboo die-back. Life histories of tree species, gap characteristics, and the bamboo growth cycle (mature/die-back/building) interact to promote fluctuating dominance of Abies and Betula in old-growth forests.
25173240|Question: Detecting species presence in vegetation and making visual assessment of abundances involve a certain amount of skill, and therefore subjectivity. We evaluated the magnitude of the error in data, and its consequences for evaluating temporal trends. Location: Swedish forest vegetation. Methods: Vegetation data were collected independently by two observers in 342 permanent 100-m plots in mature boreal forests. Each plot was visited by one observer from a group of 36 and one of two quality assessment observers. The cover class of 29 taxa was recorded, and presence/absence for an additional 50. Results: Overall, one third of each occurrence was missed by one of the two observers, but with large differences among species. There were more missed occurrences at low abundances. Species occurring at low abundance when present tended to be frequently overlooked. Variance component analyses indicated that cover data on 5 of 17 species had a significant observer bias. Observer-explained variance was &lt; 10% in 15 of 17 species. Conclusion: The substantial number of missed occurrences suggests poor power in detecting changes based on presence/absence data. The magnitude of observer bias in cover estimates was relatively small, compared with random error, and therefore potentially analytically tractable. Data in this monitoring system could be improved by a more structured working model during field work.
3237053|Cove forests of the Great Smoky Mountains are North American examples of old-growth temperate forest. Ecological attributes of seven stands were studied using one 0.6 - 1.0 ha plot per stand. Stand basal area (39 - 55 m<sup>2</sup>/ha) and biomass (326 - 471 Mg/ha) were high for temperate deciduous forest. Density ranged from 577 to 1075 stems/ha. All stands had a mixture of deciduous canopy species. Only rarely did a single species comprise more than half of the stand by density, basal area or biomass. Shade-intolerant species were present at low levels (1 - 5 % of total stand density). A wide range of stem diameters was characteristic of most species. However, some species lacked small stems, indicating discontinuous regeneration. Stands tended to have 10 - 20 tree species per ha and at least five species had biomass levels > 10 Mg/ha, indicating high evenness. Canopy gaps covered 10 % of the total area (2 - 21 % by stand). Gaps and conspecific patches of canopy trees > 0.05 ha in size were infrequent. Spatial analyses revealed a variety of patterns among species at inter-tree distances of 1 to 25 m. When all species were combined, juveniles showed aggregation, and adults were often hyperdispersed. Analyses for individual species confirmed that the mosaic of canopy species is influenced by non-random spatial processes. Adults of several species were aggregated at distances > 10 m. Juveniles of all major species exhibited aggregation. Several species exhibited regeneration near conspecific adults. This pattern suggested limited mobility for such species within the shifting mosaic. A diverse patchwork resulted despite the fact that many species did not exhibit segregation of adults and juveniles. Further understanding of patch dynamics and the potential for compositional steady state in cove forests requires long-term study with spatial data.
3246578|A demographic study of the undesirable perennial weed Chaerophyllum aureum in extensified French Pyrenean hay meadows was carried out. For two successive years the effect of date and intensity of cutting on the population demography of this colonizer. Population density is sensitive to cutting practices essentially through fecundity, seedling survival rate and seed dispersal between fields. Cutting reduces fecundity by preventing seed formation (early cutting) or by exportation of some mature seeds with hay (late cutting). Nevertheless, the number of seeds transported between field populations by hay harvest, organic maturing and associated cutting practices compensates for the lack of seed production in early-cut populations, maintaining them at relative high densities. For each of three cutting regimes, the number of immigrant and emigrant seeds has been indirectly estimated from a prediction of population density at equilibrium from demographic parameters measured in field populations and compared with observed population densities.
3236965|In this paper we analyse six communities with seven Mimosa species in the Tehuacan-Cuicatlan valley, Mexico. All species are endemic to Mexico and four are endemic to the valley. Mimosa species are found in (1) the 'matorral xerofilo' (arid tropical scrub): Mimosa calcicola, M. lacerata, M. luisana, M. polyantha and M. purpusii, and (2) the 'selva baja caducifolia' (tropical deciduous forest): M. adenantheroides, Mimosa texana var. filipes. Most of them occur in similar soil environments, while M. polyantha and M. calcicola establish in particular soil conditions and only M. luisana establishes in two different sites showing a wider range of adaptation to soil characteristics. The communities studied include 24 plant families, 51 genera and ca. 70 species (5% of the total flora estimated in the valley). Heterogeneity was found among the communities. Our results point to the replacement of 'matorral xerofilo' and 'selva baja caducifolia' by 'matorral espinoso' (thorny scrub). Thorny species (e.g. Acacia cochliacantha, Mimosa spp.) are becoming the dominant/codominant elements in the communities. Within the communities, Mimosa species have a significant influence on soil pH, organic matter and electrical conductivity values. These species contribute to ameliorate soil nutrient conditions (OM, N<sub>tot</sub>, P, Ca, Mg, Na and K contents) as well as other environmental factors (e.g. temperature, shade) under their canopy in degraded plant communities and may serve as 'resource islands'.
3237076|Ecologists need a common language of plant traits in order to make comparisons across regions and scales, pool data, and maximize the utility of the data. To develop such a set of traits we began with the primary challenges faced by plants: dispersal, establishment, and persistence in order to identify fundamental traits. Most of these traits are hard to measure, but advances in comparative ecology have suggested a number of easy to measure analogs. Unfortunately, some of the fundamental traits have no simple analog. The common core list includes: seed mass, seed shape, dispersal mode, clonality, specific leaf area, leaf water content, height, above-ground biomass, life history, onset of flowering, stem density, and resprouting ability. Most of the traits can be measured quantitatively, but several traits on the list must still be measured qualitatively due to logistical problems or lack of an easy analog. Key problem areas include: dispersal ability, capacity for vegetative spread, germination, palatability, plasticity, and all the various below-ground traits. Comparative studies need to address these problem areas. The common core list is suggested as a common starting point for studies of functional ecology. The idiosyncrasies of regional floras and specific research agendas will dictate which traits can be ignored and those that need to be added.
3235839|A range of moorland sites in the North York Moors National Park were surveyed where Pteridium aquilinum has been sprayed once with the herbicide asulam between 1 and 7 yr before. The regeneration of both P. aquilinum and the moorland vegetation were studied. The latter was variable and much slower than reported for lowland grassland or heathland, with a large proportion of the developing plant cover consisting of mosses, especially Campylopus introflexus. This slow rate of revegetation was primarily due to the paucity of microsites offered for germination in dense P. aquilinum litter, the poor establishment of seedlings in this litter and its slow breakdown. The consequences of this slow and variable development of vegetation to moorland restoration are discussed.
40925532|Question: Do naturally occurring ecosystem disturbances interfere with allelopathic effects and alleviate growing conditions for plants typical of more productive ecosystem states? Location: An unproductive tundra ecosystem in Northern Fennoscandia. Methods: We designed a factorial phytotron experiment to monitor the growth of seedlings of two herbaceous species in undisturbed and disturbed humus of the dominant dwarf shrub Empetrum hermaphroditum, which releases allelopathic substances that accumulate in soil over time. Herbivore defecation and wildfire are two major ecosystem disturbances likely to alleviate effects of these allelopathic substances. Humus and seeds of herbaceous species were sampled from Empetrum-dommated heaths. Disturbance effects on humus were simulated by adding reindeer faeces and by low-severity burning. Results: The concentration of the allelopathic substance batatasin-III in Empetrum humus was 0.32  0.16 (SE) g g?, which is similar to previous reports from boreal areas. Reindeer faeces addition and burning treatments to Empetrum humus caused three- and five-fold increases in growth of the herbaceous species Avenella flexuosa and Solidago virgaurea respectively. Changes in soil chemistry caused by the disturbance, i.e. increased pH and nutrient availability, likely interfered with allelopathic effects and improved conditions for growth. Conclusions: Humus from Empetrum-dominated tundra areas is infertile for seedlings of local herbaceous plants. Simulated herbivore defecation and wildfire can alleviate this infertility. Based on our results, we discuss the potential role of these naturally occurring disturbances in switching vegetation composition from Empetrum to herbaceous dominance, i.e. from an unproductive to a more productive tundra ecosystem.
40295776|Questions: Is it possible to develop an expert system to provide reliable automatic identifications of plant communities at the precision level of phytosociological associations? How can unreliable expert-based knowledge be discarded before applying supervised classification methods? Material: We used 3677 relevs from Catalonia (Spain), belonging to eight orders of terrestrial vegetation. These releves were classified by experts into 222 low-level units (associations or sub-associations). Methods: We reproduced low-level, expert-defined vegetation units as independent fuzzy clusters using the Possibilistic C-means algorithm. Those relevs detected as transitional between vegetation types were excluded in order to maximize the number of units numerically reproduced. Cluster centroids were then considered static and used to perform supervised classifications of vegetation data. Finally, we evaluated the classifier's ability to correctly identify the unit of both typical (i.e. training) and transitional relevs. Results: Only 166 out of 222 (75%) of the original units could be numerically reproduced. Almost all the unrecognized units were sub-associations. Among the original releves, 61% were deemed transitional or untypical. Typical relevs were correctly identified 95% of the time, while the efficiency of the classifier for transitional data was only 64%. However, if the second classifier's choice was also considered, the rate of correct classification for transitional releves was 80%. Conclusions: Our approach stresses the transitional nature of relev data obtained from vegetation databases. Relev selection is justified in order to adequately represent the vegetation concepts associated with expertdefined units.
23012755|Questions: How to evaluate the mixture effect on basal area increment in two-species forest stands? Is a mixed Norway sprucesilver fir stand more productive than pure adjacent stands of either species? How to develop generic modelling approaches to assess mixture effects in forest stands? Location: In addition to a case study on Norway sprucesilver fir stands in French mountain forests, the generic approach used goes beyond local applications. Methods: We took advantage of National Forest Inventory data to develop a unique stand basal-area-increment model for pure and mixed stands of Norway spruce and silver fir that responds to ecological site conditions. The database was made up of 284 pure Norway spruce stands, 196 pure silver fir stands, and 323 mixed stands of these species. Results: Pure silver fir basal area increment is strongly influenced by spring climatic conditions, whereas pure Norway spruce is more influenced by soil conditions. The mixture of these species has a positive effect on silver fir, which decreases as the proportion of fir increases. In contrast, the mixture has no noticeable effect on Norway spruce. Conclusion: We developed a stand basal-area-increment model evidencing an advantage of the mixture on silver fir basal area increment, but not on Norway spruce. The mathematical formulation of the model developed is generic and can be used in all two-species mixture situations. It also makes it possible to compare different mixture situations with each other.
4499188|In a recent Forum paper, it is argued that, in most studies, ordinal data such as the Braun-Blanquet abundance/dominance scale are not properly treated by multivariate methods. This is because conventional multivariate methods are generally adequate for ratio-scale variables only, while for ordinal variables differences between states and their ratios are not interpreted. Conversely, in this paper it is shown that using conventional multivariate procedures for evaluating ordinal data should imply a shift from a metric space to a topological data space; as such the use of ordinal data does not represent a serious methodological error, provided that results are interpreted accordingly.
3235800|Grass and herb cover, and woody plant densities were measured on 25 native and 25 exotic grassland plots in southeastern Arizona between 1984 and 1990. At least 40 yr previously, the exotic plots had been seeded with two species of lovegrasses (Eragrostis spp.) native to southern Africa. A 1987 wildfire burned 11 native and 11 exotic plots. The fire reduced cover of both native and African grasses for two postfire growing seasons. Herb cover as a whole increased after the fire for 2 yr, although there were important differences among species. One of two dominant shrubs (Haplopappus tenuisectus) was killed by the fire, while the other (Baccharis pteronioides) was little affected. Mesquite trees (Prosopis juliflora) were killed to the ground by the fire, but 62 of 66 trees had re-sprouted to an average 48% of pre-burn height by 1990. Native and exotic grasses appeared equally tolerant of fire, probably because both evolved in fire-type ecosystems. There was no evidence that fire can be used to permanently restore the diverse native flora to species-poor plantations of the South African exotics.
3236856|Six stands located on different land forms in mixed old-growth Nothofagus forests in the Matiri Valley (northwest of South Island, New Zealand) were sampled to examine the effects of two recent large earthquakes on tree establishment and tree-ring growth, and how these varied across land forms. 50 trees were cored in each stand to determine age structure and the cores were cross-dated to precisely date unusual periods of radial growth. The 1968 earthquake (M = 7.1, epicentre 35 km from the study area) had no discernible impact on the sampled stands. The impact of the 1929 earthquake (M = 7.7, epicentre 20 km from the study area) varied between stands, depending on whether or not they had been damaged by soil or rock movement. In all stands, the age structures showed a pulse of N. fusca establishment following the 1929 earthquake, with this species dominating establishment in large gaps created by landslides. Smaller gaps, created by branch or tree death, were closed by both N. fusca and N. menziesii. The long period of releases (1929-1945) indicates that direct earthquake damage was not the only cause of tree death, and that many trees died subsequently most likely of pathogen attack or a drought in the early 1930s. The impacts of the 1929 earthquake are compared to a storm in 1905 and a drought in 1974-1978 which also affected forests in the region. Our results confirm that earthquakes are an important factor driving forest dynamics in this tectonically active region, and that the diversity of earthquake impacts is a major source of heterogeneity in forest structure and regeneration.
23012746|Question: What are the interactive roles of abiotic stress and plant interactions in mediating the zonation of the shrub Tamarix chinensis along a salinity gradient? Location: Yellow River estuary (3746N, 11909E), northeast China. Methods: We surveyed the zonation of T. chinensis along a salinity gradient and quantified its salt tolerance using a pot experiment. In two field experiments, we transplanted T. chinensis seedlings into salt marsh, transitional zone and upland habitats, manipulated neighbours and quantified survivorship and biomass to examine neighbour effects. We also quantified vegetation effects on abiotic conditions in each zone. Results: Tamarix chinensis dominated the transitional zone, but was absent in upland and salt marsh habitats. In the pot experiment, T. chinensis grew well in freshwater treatments, but was inhibited by increasing salinity. Field experiments revealed that competition from neighbours limited T. chinensis growth in the uplands, while T. chinensis transplants were limited, with or without neighbours, in the salt marsh by high soil salinity. In the transitional zone, however, T. chinensis transplants performed better with than without neighbours. Vegetation removal significantly elevated soil salinity in the transitional zone, but not in other zones. Conclusions: Competition, facilitation and abiotic stress are all important in mediating the zonation of T. chinensis. Within its physiological stress tolerance range, or fundamental niche, it is limited by plant competition in low salinity habitats, and facilitated by neighbours in high salt stress habitats, but cannot survive in salt marshes having salinities above its salt stress tolerance limit. Our results have implications for understanding the relationships between facilitation and stress gradients.
3236310|We studied floristic and diversity patterns and their environmental controls in two landscapes of contrasting topography in the Patagonian steppe. The analyses were focused on the effects of water availability gradients and landscape configuration on plant species distribution and coexistence. Floristic variation was investigated using Correspondence Analysis. The relationship between floristic and environmental variation was analyzed using Canonical Correspondence Analysis and correlation tests. We explored diversity patterns by relating spatial distance to floristic dissimilarities. The floristic gradient was determined by shrub and grass species and was related to precipitation in the flat area, and to precipitation, elevation and potential radiation in the mountain area. Site species richness increased with water availability in both areas. Mean site species richness and species turnover in space was higher in the mountain than in the flat area. Landscape species richness and floristic gradients were more concentrated in the mountain than in the flat area. In contrast to shrubs and grasses, forb species distributions were uncoordinated and probably independent of any environmental gradient. Our results suggest (1) that landscape configuration affects species composition and diversity through its direct effect on abiotic environmental heterogeneity, and (2) that the environmental controls of the community composition vary depending on the plant functional type considered.
41059547|Questions: What is the relationship between species assemblages in herbarium collections and species abundances in the field, and how trustworthy are herbarium data in vegetation science? Location: Guadalupe Island, Baja California, Mexico. Location: Guadalupe Island, Baja California, Mexico. Methods: We compared species-abundance distribution and evenness in 110 vegetation plots in Guadalupe Island against data from four herbaria. We tested whether the relative frequencies derived from herbarium specimens differed significantly from species frequencies in the field. We compared the rarefaction curves for both field and herbarium data sets, and tested whether taxonomic collectors accumulated new species at a higher rate than that observed in ecological plot sampling. Results: At any given sampling effort, the total number of observed species was higher in herbarium data. The relative abundance of common species in the field was higher, and the evenness of the distribution was lower, than in herbarium data. There was no significant correlation between species abundances in the field and in the herbaria. By selectively targeting rare species, collectors accumulate previously unseen species much faster than through ecological sampling. Conclusions: Because collectors aim for the rarer species and avoid the more common ones, the relative abundance of species in herbarium collections cannot be interpreted as a predictor of their true abundance in the field. Any statistical procedure that requires the sample to be representative of the true abundance distribution is likely to show errors when applied to herbarium data. However, because collectors actively search for rare species their rate of species accumulation is higher and their floristic lists are more complete than those obtained through ecological field sampling.
3236131|Solutes in mire-water samples vary greatly in their tendency to change on storage. In repeated analyses of samples from Malham Tarn, Yorkshire, U.K., concentrations of NA<sup>+</sup> and Cl<sup>-</sup> proved very stable on storage, and Mg<sup>2+</sup> hardly less so, whether the samples had been filtered or not. K<sup>+</sup> concentrations declined slowly in filtered samples kept at room temperature, falling after two years to about two-thirds of the original value. In unfiltered samples, K<sup>+</sup> concentrations rose on average by about 25 % over a period of two months. At low concentrations Ca<sup>2+</sup> changed little on storage, but above 40 - 50 mg/l equilibration of CO<sub>2</sub> with the air led to precipitation of carbonate and loss of dissolved Ca<sup>2+</sup>. Fe concentrations were rather stable in ombrogenous bog waters, but in fen waters showed rapid decreases on storage. SO<sub>4</sub> <sup>2-</sup> showed little change in most samples, but there were a few large increases in unfiltered samples probably due to oxidation of sulphide. Unfiltered fen water samples generally developed high concentrations of NO<sub>3</sub> <sup>-</sup> (rarely NH<sub>4</sub> <sup>+</sup>) on storage; by contrast acid bog waters typically developed high NH<sub>4</sub> <sup>+</sup> concentrations, but did not nitrify. Bog waters showed a small rise in pH and some reduction in colour (dissolved humic substances). Fen waters changed erratically in pH, depending on the balance of production and loss of CO<sub>2</sub> in the sample. Some recommendations are given for storage and analysis of samples.
3236230| The distribution of five Chinese Fagus species was mapped, and their geographical range clarified. Their climate range was characterized following Thornthwaite (1948) for moisture and temperature (Thornthwaite's moisture index ranging from 26 to 320), and Kira (1945) for temperature (mean annual temperature from 5 to 17 C), and compared with the range of other beeches. Chinese beeches occur only in S. China, mainly between 700 m and 2500 m altitude. They grow abundantly only in perhumid climates. The Northern Hemisphere beeches occur mainly in temperate climates; however, they reach warmer extremes in North America and China than in Europe and Japan. Beech habitats in montane China are more humid than in lowland Europe and North America. Chinese beeches are limited by a moisture deficit in the north, and by high temperatures plus relatively low moisture levels in the south. However, they tolerate a certain water deficit in the growing season. The southern geographical and low altitudinal limits of Chinese Fagus species are probably largely determined by the lack of competition with evergreen dicotyledonous trees, together with human influences. 
3236049|This paper reviews the literature on neighbour manipulation experiments on species interactions in natural or semi-natural vegetation. Three major approaches have been used: 1) introductions into vegetation, 2) trenching, and 3) vegetation removals. Some studies have used a combination of approaches, especially 1) and 3). The removal approach has been used most commonly and is given the greatest emphasis in this paper accordingly. Details of over 50 such studies are summarized here, 48 of which have appeared within only the last two decades. We compare and contrast the experimental designs of these studies and examine their contributions to the understanding of species interactions in vegetation. Evidence for competition is virtually universal among these studies. Several studies have also detected evidence of beneficence between plant species. Numerous factors may confound interpretations in removal experiments including: life stage dependent species responses, species-dependent timing and speed of response, inadequacy of controls due to temporal and/or spatial variability in site quality, indirect effects of treatment on soil moisture content or nutrient levels, or on the activities of predators or decomposers, and several constraints inherent in particular experimental designs. Another level of complexity arises as a consequence of several variables related to plant attributes that directly determine the nature of interactions between neighbours (e.g. relative competitive abilities, the magnitude of beneficial interactions, the extent to which neighbours make demands on the same resource units). These may interact in a complex manner to affect the response of a 'target' plant to the removal of neighbours. Recommendations for future studies are considered and a neighbourhood experimental design is proposed which enables analysis of the extent to which the fates of naturally established individuals following vegetation removal can be accounted for (in multiple regressions) by several variables that reflect different properties and circumstances of interaction with immediate Thiessen neighbours in the field.
3237141|Regular vegetation patterns appear on aerial views of plateaux in SW Niger where densely and sparsely populated zones alternate with each other. This spatial organization of the vegetation is an endogenous phenomenon which is not limited to specific plants or soils; it is a characteristic landscape of many arid regions throughout the world. The phenomenon is interpreted as the result of a spatial range difference between two biologically distinct interactions operating at the plant population level. The proposed mechanism is independent of external heterogeneities deriving from soil geomorphology or meteorology. We present a model to simulate the genesis of vegetation stripes. In addition, the model predicts the occurrence of vegetation hexagons corresponding to higher or lower density spots arranged in a hexagonal lattice. The distinction between the two spatial symmetries is discussed in terms of their Fourier transforms.
40295841|Questions: What are the relationships between weed species traits and their change in distribution over a 30-year period? What does it tell us about factors that have driven shifts in the composition of weed communities? Location: France. Methods: We analysed the links between change in the status of weed species in sunflower crops (decreasing or increasing) and a set of 17 traits using data sets collected in the 1970s and the 2000s, respectively. We analysed the contribution of traits to explain changes in the status of species both individually and in a multivariate way by mean of a clustering of species into functional groups. Results: 69% of the most widespread species had significantly changed their frequency rank status over the last 30 years. Nearly two thirds of the increasing species belonged to a single functional group, out of the five groups identified in this analysis. Overall, the weed flora occurring in sunflower crops has specialised since the 1970s in favour of 'sunflower mimicking' functional groups: increasing species were more nitrophilous, more heliophilous, less sensitive to sunflower herbicides and shared a rapid summer life cycle. Conclusions: The individual trait approach gave some indication as to the environmental factors likely to have caused the shift in sunflower weed communities. The functional group approach seemed to outperform direct trait comparisons as it accounted for major traits combinations i. e. cases where a species has a number of favourable traits, but is severely disadvantaged by the possession of one or a few deleterious traits.
3236401| Plant communities occurring in kettle-holes in the Ziemia Cheklmiska area, northern central Poland are described. These depressions of Late-Glacial origin have gradually become part of the agricultural landscape, but many of them still have semi-natural vegetation. 829 phytosociological relevs were made in 116 kettle-holes; an environmental description included (a) for each relev: soil type, depth of phreatic water table in summer, pH; and (b) for the depression as a whole: size, form, distance to nearest kettle-hole, distance to nearest potential source of disturbance, actual occurrence of a severe disturbance, notably inflow of liquid manure. On the basis of various cluster analyses 120 basic clusters with 113 characterizing species (out of a total of 217 species) were obtained. No less than 29 clusters consist of only one relev and 57 % have no more than four relevs. Most clusters have only one constant - and often dominant - species. 49 species occur only once and 62 % occur in less than 1 % of the relevs. The clusters show little ecological coherence. Correspondence Analysis of the data set showed the occurrence of many outlier samples and species; a moisture and a eutrophication gradient were revealed by Canonical Correspondence Analysis. The lack of coherence between the variation in community types and variation in environmental factors is explained by assuming a chance occurrence of species, which appear and disappear as in the case of species-rich grasslands where a large small-scale species turnover takes place (described as the carousel model). The kettle-holes may provide a small number of broad habitat types, within each of which several species may form short-lived plant communities. Indeed, many locally dominant kettle-hole species are short-lived perennials or therophytes, which may come and go, while sharing the same habitat. This hypothesis has to be tested through repeated vegetation analysis. 
23012751|Question: What are the relative influences of environment and space in structuring the plant composition in a peatland complex? Location: Lakkasuo, southern boreal zone, Finland. Method: We used principal coordinates of neighbour matrices (PCNM) to model spatial structures in the plant composition of a peatland complex comprising ombrotrophic and minerotrophic, open and forested areas. We used redundancy analyses (RDA) and variation partitioning to assess the relative influences of chemical variables (peat and water characteristics), physical variables (hydrology, soil properties, shade), as well as broad-scale (> 350 m) and medium-scale (100350 m) spatial structures on vegetation assemblages. Results: We identified five different significant spatial patterns circumscribing (1) the minerotrophicombrotrophic gradient; (2) dry ombrotrophic and wet minerotrophic areas; (3) open and shaded areas; (4) dry open/shaded and wet patches within the ombrotrophic areas; and (5) dry open patches and dry forested patches. With spatial structures and environmental variables, we were able to model 30% of the variability in plant composition in the peatland complex, 13% of which was attributable to spatial structures alone. Conclusions: We demonstrated that in the peatland complex, the spatial dependence processes were more important at the broadest scale, and found that patterns at a medium scale might reflect finer-scale patterns that were not investigated here. Spatial autocorrelation in vegetation composition in the peatland complex appeared to be driven by Sphagnum species. Our results emphasize that spatial modelling should be routinely implemented in studies looking at species composition, since they significantly increase the explained proportion of variance.
25173228|Questions: How similar are solutions of eight commonly used vegetation classification methods? Which classification methods are most effective according to classification validity evaluators? How do evaluators with different optimality criteria differ in their assessments of classification efficacy? In particular, do evaluators which use geometric criteria (e.g. cluster compactness) and non-geometric evaluators (which rely on diagnostic species) offer similar classification evaluations? Methods: We analysed classifications of two vegetation datasets produced by eight classification methods. Classification solutions were assessed with five geometric and four non-geometric internal evaluators. We formally introduce three new evaluators: PARTANA, an intuitive variation on evaluators which use the ratio of within/between cluster dissimilarity as the optimality criterion, an adaptation of Morisita's index of niche overlap, and ISAMIC, an algorithm which measures the degree to which species are either always present or always absent within clusters. Results and Conclusions: 1. With the exception of single linkage hierarchical clustering, classifications resulting from the eight methods were often similar. 2. Although evaluators varied in their assessment of best overall classification method, they generally favored three hierarchical agglomerative clustering strategies: flexible beta ( = -0.25), average linkage, and Ward's linkage. 3. Among introduced evaluators PARTANA appears to be an effective geometric strategy which provides assessments similar to C-index and Gamma evaluators. Non-geometric evaluators ISAMIC and Morisita's index demonstrate a strong bias for single linkage solutions. 4. Because non-geometric criteria are of interest to phytosociologists there is a strong need for their continued development for use with vegetation classifications.
4096675|Question: What is the nature and relative importance of compositional gradients within- and between fens? Location: Iowa, USA. Methods: 506 0.5 m x 0.5 m quadrats were sampled from 31 fens across a 550 km extent. Presence/absence of all vascular plant taxa, plus the non-vascular genera Sphagnum and Chara, and values for 24 environmental variables were noted. Global Non-Metric Multidimensional Scaling and Monte Carlo tests were used to describe compositional variation and identify significant environmental co-variables. Model-based cluster analysis was used to identify the optimal number of groups supported by the data, while k-means clustering was used to assign each quadrat to a group. The number of occurrences (and frequency) of each species within each group was calculated. Two-dimensional 95% Gaussian confidence intervals, ANOVA, correlation coefficient homogeneity tests, log-linear modelling, and Fisher's exact tests were used to document patterns of compositional change. Results: Two stable axes of variation were identified: the first being most closely correlated with soil pH, Mg, Ca, P, S, vegetation height, surface and -10 cm soil temperature, site area, perimeter, perimeter/area ratio, growing season, and air temperature, with the second being most correlated to soil moisture, N, disturbance level, % organic matter, hummock height, N-S coordinate, and precipitation. Individual sites harboured between 20-47% of total compositional variation, with 28% of Axis 1 and 55% of Axis 2 scores being contained within-sites. Five compositional regions were identified that differed in the proportion of calciphile and hydrophile species. Compositional groups differed significantly between geologic types. Conclusions: While the principal axis of variation (corresponding to the rich-poor fen gradient) is present largely between sites, the second axis (corresponding to water level) is largely repeated within sites. Documentation and protection of vegetation patterns and species diversity within Iowa fens will thus require consideration of multiple sites across the landscape.
3235900|The dynamics of tillers in natural populations of three cohabiting perennial grass species, Agrostis stolonifera, Festuca rubra and Poa irrigata (= Poa pratensis ssp. irrigata) were studied for five years in a Baltic seashore meadow. The process of tiller population maintenance was very dynamic. Both birth and death rates of tillers were high, particularly in A. stolonifera, and the turnover rate of the populations was high. Recruitment was mainly by vegetative tillers, produced continuously throughout the growing season. The proportion of flowering tillers was low, but varied between years. Considerable year-to-year variation was also found in birth and death rates. Despite this between-year variation and the differences found between species in flowering frequency, pattern of survivorship and tiller longevity, population sizes of the species remained relatively constant.
3235929|A nested sampling design was used to describe the spatial patterns for the species richness and composition in the seed bank and vegetation of three Mediterranean old-fields (1, 7, and 15 yr after the last ploughing). Three scales were examined hierarchically: sampling units within plots of 0.25 m<sup>2</sup> for the vegetation and of 0.05 m<sup>2</sup> for the seed bank, 100 m<sup>2</sup> plots within fields, and fields of 1000 m<sup>2</sup>. In spite of the strong spatial variation among sampling units, species richness and composition of both seed bank and vegetation showed hierarchically structured patterns of heterogeneity, while each old-field was a homogeneous entity. These spatial patterns tended to be partially masked when the data were aggregated at the scale of the plot. Such results stress the use of a nested sampling design for studying variation in species richness and taxonomic composition in both vegetation and seed bank. This design, in combination with CCA, also showed that the vegetation showed a coarser grain than the seed bank, probably in relation to seed clumping.
3236825|Though fecundity and dispersal have been recognized as major factors in most invasion models, their ecological determinants are still poorly known. This paper aims to identify the main sources of variation in seed production and dispersal distance in a naturally expanding Pinus sylvestris population. We propose some tree measurements that may be related to their contribution to population expansion. We quantified cone and seed production and measured three seed characteristics related to their dispersal ability: mass, wing area and wing-loading (mass:area ratio) in cones sampled at different relative heights and aspects in the canopy and in trees of different age and competitive status. Results showed that isolated trees had a much more abundant cone production, which was more evenly distributed in the canopy than trees within stands. Age was also positively related to cone production. Seed dimensions varied between and within trees but we found no effect of isolation or age. The strong positive correlation between wing area and seed mass leads to a limited variability of seed wing loading. Seed characteristics may thus play a minor role in individual dispersal ability and relative tree position in the stand that is strongly linked to tree fecundity should be more appropriate for estimating the individual contribution to the whole population expansion. Our results also highlight the importance of obtaining demographic data in low-density populations to estimate the invasive potential of a species.
3235970|Ecological diversity is viewed as a measure of information, as the variety of messages compounded with the number of individuals belonging to different species. Two limit situations of diversity are indicated: a chemostat-like system tending to become monospecific, and a Noah's ark or museum situation with an infinite number of species each represented by just one specimen. In a dynamic approach, two differential equations for S, the number of species, and N, the number of individuals, can be considered. A new index of diversity is proposed based on these two equations. The concept of diversity spectrum is proposed for a series of diversity measurements in samples of increasing size and related to the concept of minimal area. Diversity can also be measured on non-taxonomic categories, e.g. size classes. The contrast between the two boundary types, limes convergens (ecotone) and limes divergens (ecocline), is emphasized. The nature of the difference between them is compared with that of tension zones between fluids in contact. Differences between ecosystems can be characterized through differences in the ratio P/B (Production/Biomass) and a boundary situation is imagined including two systems with P/B different values and different diversity levels. Some examples are presented from communities in streams.
4096650|Question: Are there changes in dispersal patterns in floodplain pioneer vegetation with effects on seedling number, species richness and species composition along a gradient of declining river-floodplain connectivity? Location: Middle Elbe river floodplain, Germany. Methods: An experiment with five treatments was set up along a gradient of declining river-floodplain connectivity, partitioning seedlings into three groups: (1) emerging solely from water dispersed seeds, (2) from wind/animal dispersed seeds and (3) from the soil diaspore bank. Two controls were established: without any manipulation and exclusion of all seeds. The results were compared with those of vegetation and soil sampling to evaluate the representativeness of the experimental sites in terms of species composition, diversity, seedling number and soil parameters. Results: Water dispersal and the soil diaspore bank were the major dispersal strategies shaping floodplain pioneer vegetation at the Middle Elbe river. The number of seedlings, species richness and the variation in species composition in these habitats depend on the degree of connectivity. The seedling number and species richness is highest in sites of permanent or almost permanent exchange with the main channel, where water dispersal additionally contributes to the number of seedlings grown from the soil seed bank. Conclusion: The results underline the importance of river- floodplain ecotones as sink habitats for water-dispersed seeds. Considering the strongly reduced river-floodplain interactions due to dykes and other engineering structures, management strategies are necessary to improve connectivity and the renewal of fluvial land forms.
3236560|Four contrasting ecotones were sampled to address three questions: (1) Are there 'ecotonal' species, (2) Do ecotones possess higher (or lower) species richness than the adjacent communities? and (3) Are exotic species more likely to occur in ecotones? One ecotone was edaphic, one was apparently caused by a positive-feedback switch, one was environmental/anthropogenic and one was entirely anthropogenic. The exact position of each ecotone was established from the spatial change in ordination scores. Ecotonal species, in the sense of species mainly restricted to the ecotone at the site, were present in all four ecotones. All but one of the ecotonal species were native. The switch ecotone and the purely anthropogenic ecotone also contained native species that were significantly more frequent in the ecotone than in either adjacent community. Species richness was intermediate between that of the two adjacent communities in three of the ecotones. In the environmental/anthropogenic ecotone, species richness was higher than in adjacent communities, but not significantly so. There were appreciable numbers of exotic species in the two ecotones with anthropogenic influence, one of which had a proportion of exotic species intermediate between the two adjacent communities. Contrary to theory, the proportion of exotic species in the second ecotone was significantly lower than in either adjacent community. We conclude that all three features we examined depend on the particular ecological conditions and the ecology of the species present; they are not intrinsic properties of ecotones.
3235997|The germinable seed bank of Festuca spp., Carex patagonica, and other annuals and perennials in a semiarid Patagonian grassland was analyzed every three months. The effects of grazing, topography and microsites with respect to established grass tussocks on the germinable-seed bank were also analyzed. The total germinable-seed bank was larger in summer after seed rain. At this time of the year most of the seeds were from annuals and perennial dicots. Seeds of the dominant Festuca spp. were the main components of the graminoid seed bank, which was homogeneously distributed in patches of bare soil. In spring, i.e. some months after the seed rain, the germinable-seed bank of most of the species was greatly reduced, while the seed bank of Carex patagonica did not change significantly. At this time of the year, the graminoid seed bank was heterogeneously distributed in space, with the seeds accumulating in wind-protected microsites. In the grazing treatments, the seed bank of the perennial grasses was reduced proportionally to the decrease of the plant cover. On the other hand, the germinable-seed bank of C. patagonica increased with the grazing treatments, in relation to the increase of vegetation cover. Topographical position had two types of effect on the seed bank of perennial grasses. One was the increase of the germinable-seed bank, after the seed rain, on the relatively warmer northeast facing slopes, which was related to a higher seed rain in these places. The other was an increased seed loss on slopes. The different seed-bank strategies observed in this grassland are compared and discussed in relation to strategies described for other grasslands.
3235881|Snow avalanches, snow accumulation, and snow ablation patterns were mapped and analyzed to assess their impact on the three-dimensional position, composition (closed canopy forest, open canopy forest, meadow, krummholz, and non-vegetated surfaces), and spatial structure of the Alpine Treeline Ecotone (ATE) in a portion of Glacier National Park, Montana, USA. Multitemporal Landsat Multispectral Scanner data were processed to derive snow accumulation and ablation patterns throughout a snow season. Landsat Thematic Mapper data were processed and combined with aerial photo interpretations for discerning and characterizing snow avalanche paths. Transition matrices were used to assess the change in the state of snow cover conditions, whereas multiple regression analyses were used to examine the position and character of snow avalanche paths. The analyses were framed and implemented within a geographic information system (GIS) approach. Results indicate a snowmelt pattern progressing from zonal to azonal; influence of local site and situation factors in snow accumulation and ablation patterns; and the importance of topography, geologic structure, and lithology in defining the starting elevation and source area of snow avalanche paths. Finally, a conceptual process is presented where sites affected by stresses and disturbances are analyzed at a local spatial scale for analysis through a deterministic model, whereas regional stresses and disturbances are assessed through remote sensing and GIS approaches for analysis through empirical models.
25173166|Questions: 1. Do pine seedlings in estuarine environments display discrete or continuous ranges of physiological tolerance to flooding and salinity? 2. What is the tolerance of Pinus taeda and P. serotina to low salinity and varying hydrologic conditions? 3. Are the assumptions for ecological equilibrium met for modeling plant community migration in response to sea-level rise? Location: Albemarle Peninsula, North Carolina, USA. Methods: In situ observations were made to quantify natural pine regeneration and grass cover along a salinity stress gradient (from marsh, dying or dead forest, to healthy forest). A full-factorial greenhouse experiment was set up to investigate mortality and carbon allocation of Pinus taeda and P. serotina to low-salinity conditions and two hydrology treatments over 6 months. Treatments consisted of freshwater and two salinity levels (4 ppt and 8 ppt) under either permanently flooded or periodically flushed hydrologic conditions. Results: Natural pine regeneration was common (5-12 seedlings per m) in moderate to well-drained soils where salinity concentrations were below ca. 3.5 ppt. Pine regeneration was generally absent in flooded soils, and cumulative mortality was 100% for 4 and 8 ppt salinity levels under flooded conditions in the greenhouse study. Under weekly flushing conditions, mortality was not significantly different between 0 and 4 ppt, confirming field observations. Biomass accumulation was higher for P. taeda, but for both pine species, the root to shoot ratio was suppressed under the 8 ppt drained treatment, reflecting increased below-ground stress. Conclusions: While Pinus taeda and P. serotina are commonly found in estuarine ecosystems, these species display a range of physiological tolerance to low-salinity conditions. Our results suggest that the rate of forest migration may lag relative to gradual sea-level rise and concomitant alterations in hydrology and salinity. Current bioclimate or landscape simulation models assume discrete thresholds in the range of plant tolerance to stress, especially in coastal environments, and consequently, they may overestimate the rate, extent, and timing of plant community response to sea-level rise.
3236237|Permanently marked vegetation transects in Big Bend National Park, Texas, USA were monitored to follow temporal dynamics of desert grassland communities on a variety of landforms and soil types over a 26-yr period after the removal of domestic livestock. Historic records indicate that the park area was severely overgrazed prior to its establishment, and our results show that the species present increased in both cover and density after the removal of live-stock. However, the timing of recovery corresponded to multi-year periods of above-average precipitation. Little change was observed in between 1955 and 1960, a period dominated by several consecutive years of drought. The cover of two large shrubs common to the Chihuahuan Desert, Larrea tridentata and Flourensia cernua, increased from 1960 to 1967, a period dominated by summer drought and frequent wet winters. The cover and density of forbs, perennial grasses, and most shrubs increased on nearly all landforms between 1967 and 1981, when summers were wetter than average. In contrast, the cover of Larrea tridentata decreased during this period. Comparisons among the plant communities on each landform showed that they diverged through time after domestic live-stock were removed. Presumably, differences in topographic position and soil texture influence water availability which was reflected in the species composition on each soil series. Unfortunately, we cannot isolate the effects of recovery from grazing from the effects of climate because the study design did not include control plots located within grazed pastures. Certainly, the directional trajectory of change and the regrowth of grasses into inter-shrub spaces, must, at least in part, be the result of recovery from grazing. However, our data also indicate that the desert grassland communities are sensitive to multi-year periods of above- or below-average precipitation. Clearly, the dynamics between shrubs and grasses cannot be explained by a simple successional paradigm that views increased shrub dominance as retrogression from a climax grassland. Many alternate hypotheses have been forwarded to explain the dynamics that control the vegetation composition in the desert and desert grassland region of North America. Experimental tests of these hypotheses are needed to indentify the interactions between biotic and abiotic factors that control dominance by shrubs or grasses.
3235634|Pteridophyta and Melastomataceae were studied in an area of non-flooded (tierra firme) rain forest in Peruvian Amazonia, close to the village of Mishana (River Nanay, in the vicinity of Iquitos City). The general objective of the study was to establish a method for rapidly documenting changes in the floristic composition among and within rain forests in geologically different areas. More specifically, the changes in the plant communities were documented along an edaphic and topographic gradient from clay soil on level ground to quartzitic sand on a hill top. Two 5-m-wide, parallel transects were established 50 m apart. A total of 40 species of pteridophytes were found; 18 of these were confined to clayey soil and 11 to sandy soil. The total number of Melastomataceae on the transects was 22, and 14 of these were confined to clayey soil while only two were confined to sandy soil. Further differences in the abundance of many species correlated with drainage conditions and the accumulation of organic matter on the soil surface. Cluster analyses were made using both edaphic and floristic criteria, and in all cases the transects could be divided into distinct sections. Both transects gave rather similar results, and therefore it was concluded that the chosen transect width was sufficient to document the prevalent floristic patterns.
4096783|Questions: As a consequence of socio-economic changes, many Castanea sativa coppices have been abandoned and are now developing past their usual rotation length. Do we have to expect changes in stand structure and composition of abandoned Castanea sativa coppice invaded by other species? Is a tree ring-based approach adequate to early recognise changes in inter-specific competitive interaction? Location: Lowest alpine forest belt of the southern Swiss Alps. Methods: We selected a 60-year old abandoned Castanea sativa coppice stand with sporadic Fagus sylvatica and Quercus cerris mixed in. Using tree-ring based indices we analysed differences in the species-specific response to competition. Analyses were performed by comparing how subject dominant trees (10 Castanea, 5 Fagus, 5 Quercus) have differently faced competition from their immediate Castanea coppice neighbourhood, taking into account the changes over time and space. Results: Although no species appears yet to have made a difference in the surrounding coppice mortality, there are species-specific differences in growth dominance, which indicate potential successional processes. Castanea sativa growth dominated in the early stages of stand development. However, after approximately 30-35 yr Fagus sylvatica and Quercus cerris became much more dominant, indicating a change in competitive potential that does not favour Castanea sativa. Conclusions: Without interventions this coppice will develop into a mixed stand. A tree-ring based approach allows an early recognition of forthcoming changes in stand composition and structure and is likely to be an important tool for forest landscape management.
3237146|At the western border of its geographical range, Silene nutans (Caryophyllaceae) has evolved two groups of parapatric populations showing distinct allozyme patterns and apparently occurring on different bedrock types. This study tests the hypothesis that these groups represent edaphic ecotypes. With this in view, the ecological amplitude of 36 populations of Silene nutans from Belgium was investigated and their synecology specified using vegetation composition and soil parameters; Ellenberg indicator values were used for ecological interpretation of the vegetation analyses. The results provide evidence that allozyme and habitat variations are correlated, the two groups occurring on contrasting soil with distinct vegetation types. One group is restricted to alkaline soils and typically occurs in open calcareous grasslands, fringes and scrub. The other group is characterized by wider autecological and synecological ranges with a bimodal pHdistribution, occurring on two kinds of siliceous soils: (1) neutral soils, supporting vegetation with a high species richness comprising many mesophilous species, and (2) CaCO<sub>3</sub> -free bedrocks characterized by acidophilous, species-poor, open dry grasslands and woodlands. It also appears that factors not related to soil chemistry, such as microclimate, are involved in the ecological specialization of the two ecotypes. It is argued that these ecotypes exemplify adaptive radiation and parapatric speciation at the margin of a species distribution area.
3236779|Vascular plant species richness was related to biomass and vegetation cover in nine different alpine vegetation types on the Hardangervidda mountain plateau, western Norway. Each vegetation type was sampled within an 8m x 6m area, and the species-richness pattern analysed. Evidence for a unimodal relationship between species richness and both biomass and cover was found at the within-vegetation type scale. Cover was a better predictor for species richness than biomass, suggesting that light may be an important factor influencing species richness at this scale in alpine vegetation. The possibility that the results are an artefact of small grain size is also discussed, and several arguments for an ecological explanation of the humpback relationship between species richness and cover are discussed.
3235621| Post-fire succession was reconstructed for a sector located in the southern part of the Qubec boreal forest. Forest composition for different periods since fire was evaluated using a stand initiation map together with ecological maps representing both site conditions and stand types. Nine fires covering at least 100 ha and representing a chronosequence of more than 230 yr were used. Although a relatively clear successional pattern from deciduous to coniferous composition relating to time-since-fire was observed, Pinus banksiana stands showed an erratic distribution not related to succession but possibly to the pre-fire stand composition. A comparison with forest cover maps produced after a recent spruce budworm outbreak, showed that succession toward coniferous dominance appeared to be interrupted by spruce budworm (Choristoneura fumiferana) outbreaks which, by killing Abies balsamea, lead to a mixed deciduous forest composition. A simple empirical model based on a negative exponential distribution of age classes was developed to evaluate how changes in the fire cycle would affect the composition of the forest mosaic. The transition between deciduous dominance and coniferous dominance occurs in a fire cycle > 200 yr. Although pure deciduous stands tend to disappear during long fire cycles, the proportion of mixed stands remains relatively constant. Prediction of the forest composition for longer fire cycles is complicated by the interaction between post-fire composition and stand vulnerability to spruce budworm outbreaks. 
4499197| Objective: Treeless meadows and parks are widespread but poorly understood features of the montane vegetation of the western USA. These communities frequently form reversed treelines where grassy valleys occur below forested slopes above. Our purpose was to assess the environmental correlates of such treelines, as well as patterns in the composition and diversity of grasslands and forest margins in the Valles Caldera National Preserve. Location: Valles Caldera National Preserve (3550'-3600' N, 10624'-10637' W, 2175-3150 m), Jemez Mountains, New Mexico, USA. Methods: We conducted a gradient analysis based on 200 nested quadrats on transects crossing reversed treelines and spanning the compositional heterogeneity of grasslands. We used cluster analysis and non-metric multidimensional scaling to assess relationships between compositional variation and environmental variables. Results: We found strong, highly significant relationships of the vegetation to gradients in slope inclination, soil texture, moisture, nutrient availability, and nighttime minimum temperatures. Reversed treelines are most strongly associated with shifts in the thermal regime, exhibit weaker relationships with soil texture and nutrient content, and show no relationship with gravimetric soil moisture. Gradients in aspect, soil moisture, and annual mean temperature are associated with compositional variation within grasslands and forest margins. Conclusions: Lower nightly minimum temperatures and fewer consecutive frost-free days resulting from cold-air drainage may prevent tree seedling establishment in valley bottoms via photo-inhibition, tissue damage, or frost heaving. Finetextured soils may also impede tree seedling establishment in valley bottoms. These findings lay the groundwork for experimental and physiological tests of these potential causes of these reversed treelines. 
3236434|The influence of productivity gradients on plant succession, richness, and community composition is the focus of much interest. Earthen mounds and other soil disturbances are a conspicuous feature of many temperate and semi-temperate grasslands. The revegetation of artificial earthen mounds located at different positions along a topographic-productivity gradient was studied in a North American northern mixed-grass prairie over a five year period. Relative stem density increased the most on mounds in low prairie (81% of off-mound density in 1992), followed by mounds in middle (64%) and high prairie (38%). Species richness was significantly different between prairie types by the fifth year of the experiment, but there was not a strong correlation between species richness and stem density within prairie-types. Composition on mounds reflected species composition in the surrounding off-mound areas and only three species were sampled regularly in all three prairie types. Results of this experiment suggest that models and experiments attempting to relate productivity to species richness and composition should include a spatial component.
3236061|The probable causes of spatial variation in the diversity of plant communities on a global and local scale have been widely investigated, but the regional scale has received little attention. It remains unclear how disturbance affects diversity in wetlands and riparian vegetation. This study examines the hypothesis that regional variation in the richness of riparian wetlands is related to variation in macro-environment and flood potential. Vascular plant species richness was sampled in 0.1 ha plots at 115 riparian sites scattered over a 300 km length of the western slope of the Rocky Mountains in western Colorado, USA. The relationship between macro-environmental variables (e.g. drainage basin area), disturbance indicators, and species richness was analyzed using correlation analysis and multiple regression analysis. Total richness varied between 20 and 87 species (average 50.6) per 0.1 ha, and was highest in subalpine riparian forests from 2600-3650 m a.s.l. (57.8 species / 0.1 ha). Tree and shrub richness were highest in lower elevation, larger drainage basins, forb and graminoid richness were highest in higher elevation, smaller drainage basins. These opposing trends resulted in no net trend in total richness with elevation. Regression models for total richness were poor, suggesting that other variables must be important. The intermediate disturbance hypothesis and other single-factor hypotheses are not supported as explanations of the regional pattern of variation in richness.
3236966|A cross-over fertilization experiment was carried out in Dutch floating fens to investigate effects on biomass production in the same and the following years. In total 16 fertilizer treatments were applied, combining four treatments in 1999 with four treatments in 2000 (addition of 20 g.m<sup>-2</sup> N, 5 g.m<sup>-2</sup> P, both elements and unfertilized control). The above-ground biomass production of vascular plants was co-limited by N and P in both years. However, in plots that were only fertilized in 1999 the effects of individual nutrients differed between the two years: N-fertilization slightly increased the amount of biomass produced in the same year (1999), whereas P-fertilization did so in the following year (2000). Fertilizer applied in 1999 also influenced the effects of fertilizer applied in 2000. One year after N-fertilization vascular plant growth was still co-limited by N and P, but one year after P-fertilization, vascular plant growth was only limited by N. Bryophyte biomass responded weakly to fertilization. Nutrient concentrations in plant biomass, nutrient standing crops and measurements of N and P availability in the soil indicated that one year after fertilization, the N-fertilizer had mostly `disappeared' from N-fertilized plots, whereas the availability of P remained markedly enhanced in P-fertilized plots. In addition, P-fertilization enhanced the uptake of N by plants the following year. The time-dependence of fertilizer effects was probably caused by (1) higher addition of P than of N relative to the requirements of plants; (2) longer retention of P than of N in the system; (3) positive effect of P-fertilization on the availability of N; (4) contrasting effects of N- and P-fertilization on nutrient losses by plants and/or on their responses to subsequent nutrient addition; (5) changing interactions between vascular plants and mosses (mainly Sphagnum spp.); (6) nutrient export through the repeated harvest of above-ground biomass. To determine which nutrient limits plant growth fertilization experiments should be short, avoiding that indirect effects of a non-limiting nutrient influence results. To indicate how changed nutrient supply will affect an ecosystem longer-term experiments are needed, so that indirect effects have time to develop and be detected.
3236864| Within an ombrogenous part of N. Kisselbergmosen, Rdenes, SE Norway, fine-scale changes in species abundance, successional trends relative to the main gradients (as represented by DCA axes), and co-ordinated change within pairs of the bottom layer species are studied. Data sets were sampled twice with a five-year interval, and included species abundance and cover of mud bottom, naked peat and litter in 436 sample plots (16 cm x 16 cm), and species abundance in 6976 subplots (4 cm x 4 cm). Depth from the surface of subplots to the water table was estimated in 1991. Most summers and growing seasons were somewhat drier than normal in the 5-yr period. The area covered by mud-bottom, naked peat and litter increased significantly, as did the frequencies of the dwarf shrubs Calluna vulgaris and Andromeda polifolia in hummocks and upper lawn. Sample plots were significantly displaced downward the peat productivity gradient (DCA 2), reflecting the reduced cover of many bottom layer species, including all Sphagnum spp. Significant coordinated changes in cover of bottom layer species are described. The changes observed in hummocks support the existence of a local regeneration cycle, as suggested by other researchers. Some of the vegetation changes seem parallel to those reported from areas with a higher nitrogen deposition, but it is not likely that nitrogen deposition alone is the major cause of the observed changes. Between-year variation in population size and climatic fluctuations may as well explain the observed changes. 
3237185|Changes in vegetation composition after fire in a Sarcopoterium spinosum dwarf-shrub community on phosphorus-deficient terra rossa soil overlying limestone were studied over a 10-yr period. Herbicide application and phosphate fertilizer were combined to provide a range of initial conditions for recovery. The site was undisturbed during the growing season in winter but was grazed by cattle in summer. Encroachment rate of S. spinosum was mainly a function of the density of viable buds on plants that survived the fire and/or the shrub control treatments. This, together with the very low rate of shrub establishment from seed set a short-to-medium term limit to the attainable cover of S. spinosum. The leguminous shrub Calycotome villosa appeared only in the third year after the fire, apparently from seed. After shrub control, the encroachment rate of C. villosa was low, even after 9 yr. On the other hand, where no herbicide was applied, and with the cessation of goat grazing, C. villosa became increasingly prominent, to the extent that by the 8th year after the fire, it inhibited the continued expansion of S. spinosum. Phosphorus nutrition tended to reduce the cover of S. spinosum because of its stimulating effect on the predominantly leguminous herbaceous vegetation. C. villosa also appeared to benefit from greater phosphorus availability, despite greater competition from the annual vegetation. These findings show that, depending on the context, secondary succession after fire can take different courses. Whereas the combined effect of herbicide control and P-enrichment cannot prevent shrub encroachment, it can slow down the rate of succession for more than a decade, despite the presence of ample shrub seed sources in the area.
3237282|The concept of rarity has been used in an ambiguous and confused way in vegetation science. Some authors have defined rarity of plant communities in terms of frequency of occurrence, while others have used the term with reference to the abundance of participating species. Association rarity can be defined in three dimensions: geographical extent of occurrence, absolute frequency of occurrence within the geographical range, and characteristic size of individual stands of the association. Here, each dimension is considered as a binary variable, and seven types of rarity are defined and discussed with examples.
23012503|Question: Which weed traits respond to the community assembly filters imposed by cropping regimes and how do they respond? Which crop characteristics (traits or aspects of field management) represent the strongest filters on weed traits? Location: France. Methods: In 561 arable fields, we measured associations between crop characteristics and (i) mean values of quantitative weed traits at each site and (ii) composition of optimally defined weed functional types, based on both qualitative and quantitative weed traits and typologies. The crop characteristics included crop height, propagule size, family and sowing date; we also used basic types (winter wheat, maize, etc.) for comparison. Results: Crop sowing date was strongly related to many weed traits, whereas crop type was not the strongest predictor of any trait. With later sowing of crops, weeds started flowering later, germinated later and had shorter flowering periods. Sowing date was also associated with the distribution of Raunkiaer life forms, while crop architecture was associated with the distribution of weed heights and a C-S-R classification. Conclusions: Cropping regimes can usefully be summarized by the crop sowing date. Phenological traits of weeds as well as classifications based on life form and C-S-R are important descriptors of weed community composition. Such findings may help predict the effects of particular crop rotations, novel crop varieties and invasive weed species.
4096696|Question: In semi-arid systems, rainfall gradients can cause plant-plant interactions to shift from negative to positive or vice versa. However, the importance of a second major abiotic factor, soil nutrients, has rarely been considered. We consider different combinations of both factors and ask: do net adult-seedling interactions become less competitive and more facilitative with increasing overall abiotic harshness? Location: Succulent Karoo, Western Cape, South Africa. Methods: We examined the interactions between seedlings and adult shrubs at two sites. Sites differ in rainfall, and each contain two habitats: Nutrient-rich mounds associated with underground termitaria and a relatively nutrient-poor matrix. We carried out a spatial pattern analysis of community-wide seedling-adult associations. We then conducted field and greenhouse experiments to test the effects of soil and the presence of neighbouring shrubs on the growth and survival of six seedling species. Results: At the higher rainfall site, both competitive and facilitative effects of adults on seedlings were found but did not differ by habitat, despite the more benign conditions in the mound habitat. At the lower rainfall site, adult shrubs generally had neutral effects on seedlings in the matrix habitat. In the nutrient-rich mound habitat, however, adult shrubs had strong and consistently competitive effects on seedlings. Conclusion: Seedling-adult interactions could not be predicted by a simple overall gradient of abiotic harshness, demonstrating the need for more complex, mechanistic models to predict plant-plant interactions. We suggest that rainfall and soil nutrients affect seedling-adult relations through their interactive effects on the life-history attributes of the species involved.
25173246|Question: How might contrasting plant groups interact to confer ecosystem stability during the development of a wet heath: i.e. in response to two major environmental drivers, past hydrologic change and burning? Location: Rannoch Moor, Scotland. Methods: Three peat cores were used to reconstruct vegetation change, surface moisture and burning phases, during wet heath development for a radiocarbon-dated period from ca. 9500-1000 yr BP. Results: Statistical analysis of peat cores revealed significant relationships between burning phases and past periods of inferred surface dryness. Vegetation elements were related in the palaeoecological record to surface dryness (Ericaceae), wetness (Sphagnum, monocotyledons, and Racomitrium) and periods of burning (i.e. negative correlation of Racomitrium and monocotyledon remains with charcoal). However, correlations between plant groups could not be adequately explained by their equivalent direct response to hydrology and burning, and the effects of species interactions are invoked. Conclusions: The results indicate millennial-scale stability of the wet heath ecosystem in response to past environmental change (i.e. hydrology and burning). This stability is conferred by interaction between a diversity of plant groups, enabling local shifts in vegetation composition in response to environmental drivers. This long-term stability of the mire ecosystem forms a template against which present-day threats (e.g. pollution, climate change) should be critically assessed.
3236824|Major changes in forest floor vegetation were identified on the basis of three nationwide surveys conducted as part of national forest inventories in 1951-1953, 1985-1986 and 1995. These surveys provided objectively selected, statistically representative samples of all forested land in Finland. The 1951-1953 data consist of over 10000 sample plots, while the later surveys were conducted on ca. 3000 permanent plots. Changes in relative abundance of dominant species (i.e. in the proportions of species of the total cover of forest floor vegetation) were analysed across biogeographical provinces. Spatial correlation, systematic sampling, partial re-measurement and multiple testing were taken into account in assessment of the statistical significance of the observed changes. The most notable changes in forest floor vegetation were a decrease in the relative abundance of Hylocomium splendens and an increase in Dicranum polysetum. In N Finland, where forests are grazed by semi-domestic reindeer, we observed a decline in the abundance of Cladina lichens and an increase in Dicranum mosses. Peltigera aphthosa declined throughout the country. Polytrichum juniperinum, Pohlia nutans, and Brachythecium species, which occupy disturbed sites or grow on litter, increased in abundance. The relative abundance of Sphagnum species decreased, particularly in W Finland, where Pleurozium schreberi was favoured. A major decline in S. fuscum was also recorded in C and E Finland. Many of the changes detected in this study are apparently related to intensified forest management; but solely in the basis of this study, its effects cannot be distinguished from those of other large-scale environmental changes.
3235858|We describe a model of heath vegetation, in which species were classified into five functional groups based on characteristics of their propagule pools, post-fire growth, timing and mode of reproduction and competitive status. The model assumes no recruitment without fire and a simple competitive hierarchy based on vertical stature. A critical feature of the model is an initial post-fire window of 5-6 yr in which competition from overstorey species on understorey species is reduced. Understorey functional groups differ in their ability to exploit this window. In the field, we tested five predictions derived from the model: (a) overall species richness of understorey varies inversely with overstorey density as a result of a trend in richness of woody species, but not in herbaceous species; (b) where an overstorey was present in the previous fire interval, post-fire population density is reduced in a functional group of understorey serotinous resprouting shrubs, but not in a group of understorey obligate-seeding shrubs with soil seed banks; (c) in understorey serotinous resprouting shrubs, post-fire regrowth in resprouting individuals is adversely affected by the presence of an overstorey in the preceding fire interval; (d) in understorey serotinous resprouting shrubs, levels of pre-fire propagules are lower in the presence of an overstorey, reducing the density of post-fire recruits; and (e) in understorey serotinous resprouting shrubs, recruitment relative to the pre-fire population is unaffected by overstorey species within the window of reduced competition. Of these, three tests (a,b,d) supported the model, one (e) may support the model, but the results were inconclusive and one (c) did not support the model. Limitations and further applications of the model are discussed. Our results suggest that maintenance of high densities of overstorey populations is in conflict with conservation of some understorey species. Models of the type we propose will help identify and resolve such conflicts and promote the judicious use of fire to maintain full species diversity of plant communities.
3236658|The effects of disturbance and microtopography on the organization and dynamics of plant communities were studied in a European salt marsh located in the Bay of Mont St. Michel, France. The existence of seed trapping mechanisms was also tested. The study took place in the lower and middle marsh plant communities dominated by the perennials Puccinellia maritima and Halimione portulacoides, respectively and associated with the annual Suaeda maritima. Three treatments were used in series of plots placed in each community: (1) vegetation removal and root destruction to a depth of 10 cm and refilling, (2) non-remnant herbicide treatment without vegetation removal and (3) creation of depressions (20 cm deep). These treatments were compared with adjacent control plots. The first year of the experiment showed that the perennials facilitated the establishment of Suaeda by trapping its seeds. Estimation of cover, density and biomass over 5 yr following the disturbances showed that in the first 2 yr Suaeda dominated the disturbed plots. Thereafter Suaeda was gradually eliminated by competitive exclusion after ca. 3 yr in the zone originally dominated by Puccinellia maritima and after 4 yr in the zone occupied by Halimione portulacoides. Depressions constituted refuge habitats for Suaeda by limiting competition with the perennials but also led to a high risk of mortality with temporal fluctuations in density. Despite a period of investigation limited to 5 yr, our study demonstrated that natural disturbances of various types occurred and influenced the dynamics of Suaeda, Halimione and Puccinellia. We deduced that natural disturbances and microtopography are responsible for the maintenance of the habitat in a state of non-equilibrium by favouring the establishment of both spatial and temporal environmental heterogeneity. These conditions appear to be particularly favourable for the maintenance of annual species such as Suaeda maritima.
3237020| The spatial distribution of Eurya japonica, an evergreen understorey species, was studied on a 4-ha permanent plot in an old-growth, temperate, evergreen broad-leaved forest in southwestern Japan. The pattern of spatial dispersion varied with size class, the environmental heterogeneity produced by tree-fall gaps and microtopography and the scale of observation. Seedlings (0.05 to < 0.5 m high) had the most clumped distributions, followed by saplings (0.5 to 1.3 m high) and adults ( 1.3 m). Individuals were more clumped at the smallest grid size, 1.56 m x 1.56 m, and became less clumped as grid size increased for all size classes. On grids of less than 6.25 m x 6.25 m, no spatial correlations were found between seedlings and larger size classes; positive spatial correlations were found between saplings and adults at this scale. Abundant seedlings appeared in tree-fall gaps formed by uprooted trees, but seedlings were frequent on ridge tops and upper slopes. Saplings and adults also occurred on upper slopes, but their spatial distribution had little relation to current tree-fall gaps. The spatial distribution of E. japonica individuals was largely attributed to the distribution of tree-fall gaps and the differential responses to microtopographic variation by individuals at different size classes. 
3235615| To assess the effects of site type, forest initiation periods and fire regimes on the dynamics of Pinus banksiana (Jack pine), the age structure of 69 populations of the species was analyzed. Two landscapes with different fire regimes were selected in the southern part of the Canadian boreal forest in Qubec: the `mainland landscape' is characterized by a fire regime of large lethal fires, the `island landscape` is affected by a complex fire regime including lethal and non-lethal fires. Age structure was compared between forest initiation periods and site types (mesic mainland, xeric mainland and xeric island) using the Shannon regularity index. An even-aged population structure was found within the first 100 yr following a lethal fire, while after that period the population structure becomes more uneven-aged. Under mesic conditions, populations tend to have an even-aged structure, under xeric conditions an uneven-aged structure. Natural openings present in xeric sites allow for recruitment in the absence of fire. This permits the self-maintenance of Pinus banksiana. Xeric island populations show more uneven-aged structures than xeric mainland populations. The occurrence of non-lethal fires on the islands creates uneven-aged structures. Further, the results suggest that the selection pressure of the island fire regime, favouring non-serotinous and mixed P. banksiana individuals, is one of the factors responsible for a higher recruitment in the absence of fire on islands than on the mainland. 
3236551|Surface fuels were examined in 48 stands of the Canadian mixed-wood boreal forest. Tree canopy was characterized with the point-centred quadrant method and stands were characterized as deciduous, mixed-deciduous, mixed-coniferous or coniferous according to the percentage of conifer basal area. Woody debris loadings were measured with the line intersect method and the litter, duff, shrub loads and depths or heights were sampled with various quadrats. No significant difference was found among stand types for total woody debris load, large basal diameter shrub loads and load or depth of litter and duff. However, conifer stands had significantly heavier loads of small diameter elements (twigs and shrubs) and conifer pieces were more numerous within these stands than in deciduous stands. The BEHAVE prediction system was used to evaluate the impact of these differences on the potential of fire ignition in situations where topography and weather were constant. The qualitative and quantitative changes in fuels, resulting from species replacement and fast decay rates, influence fire hazard. Simulations of fire behaviour showed that in the mixed-wood boreal forest fires were less intense and spread more slowly in deciduous stands than in mixed or coniferous stands. Moreover, spring fires were more intense than summer fires, and differences between seasons increased with the increase of deciduous basal area.
3236060| A long pollen record from lowland Panama describes the vegetation during glacial times and probably includes a history of the last 150 000 yr, thus representing a complete glacial cycle. The record is from sediments of an extinct caldera lake under the town of El Valle. Throughout most of the last glacial period oaks and other plants of the modern montane forest maintained significant populations about 700 m lower than present. Immediately before the 14 000 B.P. start of the late glacial period oaks had reached to 1000 m below present limits. These data require significant temperature depressions, perhaps in the order of 4 - 6 C at some seasons of the year. Lowland forest taxa persisted in the neighbourhood of El Valle throughout the glacial period, however, suggesting reassortment of plant populations into communities without modern analog. Although our reconstruction of levels of the El Valle lake in the period 30 000 to 12 000 B.P. suggests less precipitation than in modern times, the lowland climate appears to have been moist enough for taxa of tropical forests to persist. The montane floras of the western and eastern Panama highlands did not merge at any time in the glacial cycle and an hypothesis of dispersal between enlarged areas of montane forest is put forward to explain modern disjunctions in Quercus distributions. The wet highlands of Panama were never refugia for tropical rain forest taxa at any time during the Quaternary, rather rain forest species existed in unfamiliar communities in the Panamanian lowlands. 
3236347|Vascular epiphytes were studied in forests at altitudes from 720 to 2370 m on the Atlantic slope of central Veracruz, Mexico. The biomass of all trees of each species > 10 cm diameter at breast height within plots between 625 and 1500 m<sup>2</sup> was estimated. The number of species per plot ranged between 22 and 53, and biomass between 9 and 249 g dry weight/m<sup>2</sup>. The highest values, both of species and biomass, were found at an intermediate altitude (1430 m). Habitat diversity may contribute to epiphyte diversity in humid forests, but the importance of this effect could not be distinguished from the influence of climate. A remarkably high number of bromeliads and orchids grew in relatively dry forests at low altitudes. In wet upper montane forests, bromeliads were replaced by ferns, while orchids were numerous at all sites, except for a pine forest. The number of epiphytic species and their biomass on a tree of a given site were closely related to tree size. According to Canonical Correspondence Analysis, the factor determining the composition of the epiphytic vegetation of a tree was altitude and to some extent tree size, whereas tree species had practically no influence. The only trees which had an evidently negative effect on epiphytes were pines, which were particularly hostile to orchids and to a lesser degree to ferns, and Bursera simaruba, which generally had few epiphytes due to its smooth and defoliating bark.
3236432|Models of semi-arid vegetation dynamics were evaluated to explain changes in the grassland of interior South Island, New Zealand. Annual records were taken for six years of plant species height frequency and percentage ground cover in five plots established in 1986. One subplot at each site was fenced to exclude sheep, one to exclude rabbits and sheep, and one remained unfenced as a control. Records from 1986-1992 were analysed by ordination. The overall pattern of vegetation change shows considerable year-to-year variation. At some sites, variation in vegetation composition between years was as great as, or greater than, that between grazed and ungrazed subplots. Such variation is particularly evident in grazed vegetation, perhaps because it is under greater stress than ungrazed vegetation. At one site changes in vegetation total cover and species composition could be statistically related to rainfall during the first half of the growing season. The only general trends following cessation of grazing were for perennials to increase in frequency, and for year-to-year changes to become smaller with time. Total vegetation cover values seldom changed as a result of cessation of grazing, but tended to follow year-to-year changes in species frequency. The results do not in general support switch/state-and-transition models of semi-arid vegetation dynamics. Vegetation change follows changes in grazing and climate with little lag. This most closely conforms with the Pulse-phase dynamic model.
3236649|Humus profiles were sampled along an altitudinal gradient in the Macot-La-Plagne Forest (France, northern Alps) to investigate variation occurring under carpets of Vaccinium myrtillus present within Picea abies forests. The vertical distribution of subterranean organs of V. myrtillus was compared with (1) that of P. abies roots and other accompanying vegetation and (2) other components of humus profiles, in particular humified organic matter mainly consisting of animal faeces. It was shown that V. myrtillus roots were mostly concentrated in mineral horizons, while P. abies roots and V. myrtillus rhizomes occupied litter horizons. This was interpreted in terms of competition for nutrient capture between P. abies and V. myrtillus. The effects of altitude were (1) a change in the vegetation accompanying V. myrtillus in dense V. myrtillus carpets, bryophytes at the montane level being replaced by forbs at the sub-alpine level and (2) a decrease in the thickness of ecto-organic horizons. This was interpreted as a shift from a moder system characterized by recalcitrant litter (moss) processed by an active faunal community (stabilized in the form of animal faeces) to a mor system characterized by low animal abundance but with litter of better quality which is easily leached in the absence of prominent faunal activity.
3236827|The effects of vegetation cover, radiation, microhabitat variables and maritime influence on the floristic composition of a saxicolous community in Vingen, western Norway were studied. Particular emphasis is put on the local distribution of Fuscidea cyathoides, Ochrolechia tartarea, Ophioparma ventosa and Pertusaria corallina. Very little of the variation in the lichen community composition is directly related to measured micro-environmental variables but variance partitioning shows that vegetation cover explains more of the floristic variation than radiation, maritime influence and microhabitat variables. Logistic regression analyses nevertheless indicate that the micro-environment influences the spatial distribution of the four species. The high fraction of unexplained floristic variation, 91%, is suggested to result from (1) lack of fit of data to the response model; (2) some influential environmental variables that have not been recorded; (3) local historical factors that affect present day distribution and/or (4) apparent randomness in colonization. The results also agree with the view that the four lichen species in this study are able to co-exist in the long-term because of different spatial distributions resulting from different strategies with respect to ecology, dispersion and interaction.
3236492|Reproducibility of vegetation measurements is critical for large-scale or long-term studies, where numerous observers collect data, but past studies have questioned reproducibility of some techniques. Five methods of evaluating understory composition were appraised for reproducibility among six observers in two forest types in south-central Alaska: ocular estimates in quadrats, overall community species rank and cover estimates, nested rooted frequency, horizontal-vertical profiles, and pin drop (systematic points). One forest type was selected to represent structure of coastal communities, another to represent structure of interior Alaska communities. Three general methods of evaluating reproducibility were considered: standard deviations (precision among observers), components of variance (percentage of total variance attributable to observers), and analysis of variance (significance of observer variance). Observer variances were generally similar among techniques and significant in most cases. No technique stood out as being more reproducible than others. Features of techniques other than reproducibility may be more important when selecting a technique. Management decisions based on vegetation cover data should consider the observer errors involved as well as biological significance.
3236989| Harsh conditions in arid and semi-arid environments make seedling establishment rare. Plant recruitment in arid environments often occurs only in years with above average rainfall or in safe sites under the canopy of nurse plants that provide shelter from high temperatures and low moisture. Associations of establishing seedlings with adult plants are referred to as nurse-protg interactions and are thought to be commensalisms in which seedlings benefit from the micro-environment created by adult plants with no effect for the latter. This phenomenon is thought to be more frequent in harsh than in mild environments and appears to occur frequently in deserts and arid and semi-arid biomes. Here, we investigate whether nurse-protg interactions are more common in arid environments by searching the published literature from the previous 92 years using the terms nurse plants, protg plants, facilitation, nucleation and facultative mutualism. We then quantitatively compared these reports from arid zones to other environments. A total of 296 papers were found which referred to nurse-protg interactions. More than half (158) focused on arid and semi-arid zones. This information was also used to explore hypotheses of potential causative forces that might have selected for such interactions in the arid zones such as seed trapping, nutrient, moisture, protection from browsing or trampling and support availability. Because of the large number of different nurse species (147, from 98 genera and 40 families) and protg species (429, from 273 genera and 84 families), described across a diversity of environments, we suggest that there may be more than one causative factor selecting for nurse-protg interactions in arid and semi-arid environments. 
4096744| Question: How do the relative frequencies of plant traits (clonality, growth form, seed weight, diaspore morphology) vary during the life cycle and how does this affect regeneration? Location: Alpine meadow and heath communities at Kilpisjrvi, sub-Arctic Finland. Methods: Control plots and three treatments were used to measure relative species abundances for five life cycle stages: standing vegetation, seed rain, seed bank and seedlings emerging in gaps and in closed vegetation. Results: The relative frequencies of plant traits varied between the life cycle stages. The meadows were dominated by weakly clonal herbs, small or intermediate seeds and unappendaged diaspores, while the heaths were dominated by clonal dwarf shrubs, small seeds and fleshy fruits. In the meadows, species with small seeds dominated during the seed rain and in the seedling stage in gaps, while species with intermediate seeds dominated the seed bank and the seedling stage in closed vegetation. Species with unappendaged diaspores dominated throughout the life cycle. In the heaths, seed bank and seedling stage were practically absent. Conclusions: The observed differences in plant trait spectra between life cycle stages indicate that important environmental factors differ among the stages. Small seeds are advantageous for dispersal, whereas intermediate seeds have a greater probability of germinating and establishing in closed vegetation. Appendages facilitate dispersal, whereas unappendaged diaspores favour seed burial. Although the plant growth form spectrum largely reflects environmental constraints during the regeneration cycle, information on seed weight and diaspore morphology improves our knowledge of the relative importance of morphological adaptations of sexual structures in different stages during the life cycle. 
3235788|Regeneration levels, size class distributions and a nearest neighbour technique were used to describe a preliminary dynamics framework for the plateau forests. Taken over a large area, most of the canopy dominants have a negative exponential distribution of stems > 10 cm dbh per size class. In small (0.04 ha) plots, if present as more than one stem, most species are present as both canopy (> 25 cm dbh) and understorey (10 - 15 cm dbh) individuals. The canopy dominants maintain their rank in the bank of advance regeneration (> 5 cm height < 10 cm dbh). However, relative numbers of all regeneration of most canopy individuals are not strongly correlated with canopy closure or local abundance of conspecific adults. The mean area of nearest neighbour polygons of canopy individuals around saplings of the more common species are small. In conclusion, most species appear to be shade tolerant and locally persistent conferring a fine grain on this forest. We support recent questioning of universality of the gaps/non gaps paradigm.
3236629|Following a full mast production in autumn 1995 in the old-growth beech forest of la Tillaie (France), cupules, live and dead 1-yr old seedlings were counted in September 1996 in 40 plots, representing a wide range of ecological conditions. The influence of geomorphology and forest stage on mast production and on seedling establishment and survival was studied. Maximum seedling abundance did not occur in areas with the largest cupule abundance, but this result was not statistically significant. The presence of a shallow sandstone table under Fontainebleau sand, where beech is far from its ecological optimum, positively influenced the production of mast but negatively influenced seedling survival. Contrary to expectation, the early biostatic rather than the late biostatic phase seemed to be the best stage for beech regeneration. Gaps also provide good environmental conditions for seedling establishment. Humus and light conditions, water availability and competition between beech individuals may explain the results. Light was the main factor influencing mast production in mature stages, and drought was an important factor causing seedling mortality. This study points out the importance of seedling survival for regeneration patterns in beech forests.
3236372| The annual cycle of vegetative growth in the Mediterranean shrub Halimium halimifolium (Cistaceae) subjected to simulated and natural browsing on the stabilized sands of Doana National Park (SW Spain) is described. In a drier area without herbivory (Monte Intermedio) plants were subjected to different intensities of clipping. In a more humid area with high herbivory pressure (Monte Negro) plants were isolated by cages. Plants were monitored monthly from February to November 1994. Vegetative growth starts in March and ends in June or July, according to temperature and water availability. Plants intensely clipped and plants subjected to natural browsing responded maximally regarding shoot length, and number of leaves on main shoots and branches. Clipped plants, however, did not reach the height and cover of controls. 
3236170|Generalized additive models (GAMs) are a nonparametric extension of generalized linear models (GLMs). They are introduced here as an exploratory tool in the analysis of species distributions with respect to climate. An important result is that the long-debated question of whether a response curve, in one dimension, is actually symmetric and bellshaped or not, can be tested using GAMs. GAMs and GLMs are discussed and are illustrated by three examples using binary data. A grey-scale plot of one of the fits is constructed to indicate which areas on a map seem climatically suitable for that species. This is useful for species introductions. Further applications are mentioned.
4499277|Questions: Is multi-stemming a survival strategy in response to chronic disturbance? Is multi-stemming under phylogenetic control? What environmental factors are associated with multistemming? When do trees initiate growth of multiple stems? Do multi-stemmed trees have limited stature? Location: Subtropical Indian Ocean coastal dune forest at Cape Vidal in the Greater St. Lucia Wetland Park, northeastern South Africa. Methods: Tree physiognomy and environmental conditions were sampled in 20 transects that were 300 m long and 5 m wide. Results: 38.9 % of trees were multi-stemmed, with no correlation between multi-stemming and taxonomic grouping. The multi-stemming trait was most associated with stem decumbency and substrate erosion and multi-stemmed individuals were less common in protected dune slacks. Trees at Cape Vidal appear to facultatively produce multiple stems from an early stage. There was no trade-off between tree height and stem number. Conclusions: Coastal winds and the unstable dune substrate are important environmental correlates of multi-stemming. Both short stature and the high incidence of multi-stemming are related to the tree-disturbance interaction. The taxonomically widespread phenotypic plasticity in this trait indicates the importance of multi-stemming to tree survival even under low levels of disturbance.
3237179|This study attempts to show the dynamics of the canopy structure of the Mediterranean pioneer shrub Lavandula stoechas after man-made perturbation (i.e. grazing). The development of the vertical structure of the shrub was studied by harvesting the canopy of plants of 2 - 6 yr old in horizontal layers. The supportive biomass of the canopy was concentrated near the base at all ages. Leaf biomass was evenly distributed all over the vertical profile in 2- and 3-yr old plants. In 4-yr old plants it presented a maximum near the top of the canopy. For 5-yr old plants a structural transition started with leaf profiles showing a bimodal distribution. Leaf biomass predominated near the base in 6-yr old plants, suggesting that the transition was completed. Three canopy stages in the growth processes of the plant were recognized after the first year of growth: in the first one (from 2 to 3 yr old) both leaf and supportive biomass increased; in the second one (from 3 to 4 yr) leaf biomass remained stable and there was an increase in supportive biomass until the plants reached a 'mature stage', in 4-yr old plants; finally, in 5- and 6-yr old plants there was a decrease both in leaf and supportive biomass and plant structure showed evidence of senescence. Early transitions from seedling to 1-yr old plant and from this to 2- to 3-yr old plants were less obvious. The leaf/supportive biomass ratio always decreased with plant age, from 1.88 in seedlings to 0.01 in 6-yr old plants. Biomass density followed the pattern of supportive biomass, with an increase from 1.7 g/dm<sup>3</sup> (2-yr old plants) to 2.4 g/dm<sup>3</sup> (4-yr old plants). Thereafter, biomass density decreased to 0.6 g/dm<sup>3</sup> (6-yr old plants).
3236534|We develop and evaluate a large-scale dynamic vegetation model, TEM-LPJ, which considers interactions among water, light and nitrogen in simulating ecosystem function and structure. We parameterized the model for three plant functional types (PFTs): a temperate deciduous forest, a temperate coniferous forest, and a temperate C<sub>3</sub> grassland. Model parameters were determined using data from forest stands at the Harvard Forest in Massachusetts. Applications of the model reasonably simulated stand development over 120 yr for Populus tremuloides in Wisconsin and for Pinus elliottii in Florida. Our evaluation of tree-grass interactions simulated by the model indicated that competition for light led to dominance by the deciduous forest PFT in moist regions of eastern United States and that water competition led to dominance by the grass PFT in dry regions of the central United States. Along a moisture transect at 41.5 N in the eastern United States, simulations by TEM-LPJ reproduced the composition of potential temperate deciduous forest, temperate savanna, and C3 grassland located along the transect.
3236373|This study tested whether the frequency of flood disturbances was able to slow down or stabilize vegetation succession in former braided channels over a decade. According to the Patch Dynamics Concept and to succession theory, species richness and diversity should be high but stable in the frequently (40 days / year) flooded channel, and should change over time in the infrequently (1 day / year) flooded one. Within the frequently disturbed channel, composition of vegetation as well as species richness and diversity appeared stable through dynamic equilibrium over the decade. Only one zone, because of particular geomorphological features that decreased disturbance intensity, developed highest diversity and richness as expected from the Intermediate Disturbance Hypothesis. The highest disturbance effect decreased species richness and was related to a higher spatial heterogeneity of the substrate (number of grain-size classes). In the other zones, richness and diversity appeared to be lowest where disturbance frequency was lowest or disturbance intensity was highest. From 1981 to 1987, the infrequently flooded channel underwent succession, and species richness increased in the major part of the channel, whereas diversity increased only in its extreme parts.
4499204|Question: We tested whether (1) the change in composition and structure of whole plant communities after fire is directly related to regeneration of the dominant tree species in the canopy; (2) the change in structure and composition of plant communities several years after fire decreases with the proportion of obligate seeders and (3) the proportion of obligate seeders in plant communities increases with the dryness gradient. Location: Catalonia (NE Spain). Methods: We measured floristic differences between burned and long-since burned sites in eight vegetation types across a climate gradient. We compared 22 sites burnt in 1994 in paired plots with 22 sites that had not been burnt since the 1940s. In each site we placed plots in burned and long-since burned areas, where we identified the presence and abundance of all plant species. Results: When the tree canopy recovers, structure and composition of the vegetation also return to the long-since burned community; when tree canopy does not recover, composition of the post-fire community varies compared to the long-since burned one. A higher proportion of obligate seeders in the pre-fire community promotes quicker regeneration of the original community. The proportion of obligate seeders increased along the dryness gradient. Conclusions: Regeneration of plant communities after fire depends on the vegetation type before the fire. Regeneration increases when the dominant tree or shrub species persists after fire and with a higher proportion of obligate seeders in the pre-fire community. The proportion of obligate seeders varies along the dryness gradient, which suggests that vegetation in drier areas (when seeders are more abundant) recovers earlier than in moister areas.
40295829|Question: In a southern temperate rain forest, we addressed three questions: (1) Does the abundance of climbing plants increase with light availability? (2) Do host tree species differ in their susceptibility to vine infestation? (3) How does the relationship between host tree trunk diameter and relative abundance of vines vary with their climbing mechanism? Location: Two sites in the temperate evergreen rain forest of southern Chile: Puyehue (4039S, 7209W; 350 m a. s. 1.) and Pastahue (4222S, 7349W; 285m a. s. 1). Methods: We sampled vines in 60 25-m plots, with 20 plots in each of three light environments: mature forest, forest edges and canopy gaps. In each plot, for every tree  1.50-m tall of any diameter we counted and identified all climbing plant individuals at a height of 1.30 m. We also counted, measured (trunk diameter at 1.30 m) and identified all these trees, and determined prevalence of vine infestation for each tree species. Results: Light availability in forest plots did not affect vine abundance when the number and size of host trees was taken into account. Overall, vine abundance increased with host tree trunk diameter. Tree species did not differ in the prevalence of vine infestation. The relative abundance of stem twiners and adhesive climbers decreased and increased with trunk diameter, respectively. The densities of stem twiners and adhesive climbers were negatively correlated across the forest. Conclusion: We provide further evidence that the pattern of vine abundance is independent of light availability in southern temperate rain forests, in contrast to results commonly reported for tropical rain forests. We also show that support suitability across the forest varies with the mechanism by which vines climb, probably due in part to biomechanical constraints and in part to vine interspecific competition, a virtually unexplored ecological factor.
41059549|Question: Does community assembly on roadsides differ between two contrasting habitats along a stress-productivity gradient? Is establishment success determined by the regional pool, environmental filters or historical events? Location: Highway roadcuts and embankments in central Spain (4029'N,0334'W). Methods: Species composition was recorded annually in 45 plots distributed on steep slopes with newly exposed surfaces (roadcuts) or newly built topsoiled substrates (embankments), for 4 years following hydroseeding with standard or native seed mixture. Frequency of appearance and local colonization and extinction rates of individual species were clustered in establishment success groups. We examined the correspondence between descriptive plant traits and species performance on both roadslope types. Results: Roadslope species richness showed a sustained increase over time, although at consistently lower levels and rates on the more productive embankments. Sixty per cent of the colonization events involved species from the surrounding vegetation. Hydroseeded species persisted through time, but did not modify community composition or dynamics. A higher establishment success rate was found in wind-pollinated species with large seeds and in exotic species. Those species growing on embankments showed an equal or higher establishment success rate on roadcuts and, conversely, species from roadcuts exhibited an equal or lower success rate on embankments. Conclusions: At the initial stages of community assemblage on unproductive newly created areas, species richness was shaped by the regional species pool. Communities on less harsh topsoiled embankments were subjected, however, to the filtering effect of competitive exclusion. In a reclamation context, efforts to increase site productivity may have detrimental consequences for in situ conservation of local diversity.
4096767|Question: Do water gradients produce patterns of responses to stress and competition similar to those induced by nutrient gradients? Location: French Alps. Methods: We established a split-plot design in a calcareous grassland, with watering and fertilization as main plot treatments and competition as subplot treatment. We followed individual and competitive responses of transplants of the three potential dominant grass species: Bromus erectus, Brachypodium rupestre and Arrhenatherum elatius, in all plots during two growing seasons. Changes in natural relative abundances of the three grass species were also monitored. Results: The growth and the relative abundance of A. elatius were primarily stimulated by nutrient addition and those of B. rupestre by water addition, whereas B. erectus decreased in abundance and had a very low flexibility with enhanced resource supply. Competition intensity increased for all species with both watering and fertilization and the ranking in competitive responses did not change with treatments: A. elatius > B. rupestre > B. erectus. Conclusions: Patterns of dominance were efficiently explained by stress tolerance abilities and competitive responses for dry and poor sites, and wet and rich sites for B. erectus and A. elatius respectively, whereas competitive responses were poor predictors of dominance for B. rupestre in wet and nutrient-poor sites. Further studies are needed to assess the potential role of other processes, such as increasing competitive effect on light with increasing age as well as interference, to explain the dominance of this conservative competitor type of species in wet and nutrient-poor sites.
3237279|Three patterns of target-neighbor plant defoliation were imposed on a late-seral, perennial, C<sub>4</sub>-grass, Bouteloua curtipendula, in three long-term grazing regimes to determine the influence of selective defoliation on competitive interactions and species replacement in a semiarid savanna on the Edwards Plateau, Texas, USA. Short-term (3-yr) target plant defoliation did not significantly affect either tiller or plant responses in any of the three grazing regimes. Neighbor plant defoliation, either alone or in combination with target plants, produced a significant defoliation interaction with time for tiller number and basal area per plant, but not for tiller recruitment or mortality. The minimal effect of selective defoliation on the intensity of competitive interactions in this semiarid community indicates that selective grazing has a less definitive role in mediating herbivore-induced species replacement than it does in mesic grasslands and savannas. This interpretation is discussed within the context of long-term (45-yr) change in herbaceous vegetation associated with grazing in this community. Cumulative tiller recruitment in the intensively grazed regime was only 44 % of that in the ungrazed regime because of greater plant mortality and fewer surviving plants that recruited tillers. Target plant mortality (50 %) only occurred in the intensively grazed regime and the proportion of target plants that initiated tillers decreased by 70, 48 and 32 % in the ungrazed, moderately and intensively grazed regimes, respectively, during the final two years of the investigation. The decrease in cumulative tiller recruitment in all grazing regimes was probably mediated by a drought-induced increase in median tiller age the second year of the study. However, tiller per tiller recruitment rate among plants that recruited at least one tiller remained relatively constant among grazing regimes and years. Intensive, long-term grazing has modified the population structure of this late-seral perennial grass to the extent that population responses to both herbivory and periodic drought have been altered in comparison with those of ungrazed and moderately grazed populations. Ecological consequences of a herbivore-induced transition in population structure may be to minimize the effect of selective herbivory on competitive interactions and to function as an avoidance mechanism to reduce the probability of localized population extinction in response to intensive long-term herbivory.
3246576|We document post-fire succession on xeric sites in the southern Appalachian Mountains, USA and assess effects of 20th century reduction in fire frequency on vegetation structure and composition. Successional studies over 18 yr on permanent plots that had burned in 1976-1977 indicate that tree mortality and vegetation response varied with fuel load and fire season. In the first three years after fire, hardwood sprouts dominated tree regeneration. On sites where summer and autumn fires reduced litter depth to less than 1 cm, densities of shade-intolerant Pinus seedlings increased steadily over this period. 4 to 8 yr after fire, large numbers of newly established seedlings and sprouts had grown to 1 - 10 cm DBH. By year 18 growth of these saplings led to canopy closure on most sites. Herbaceous cover and richness peaked in the first decade after fire, then declined. On similar sites that had not burned in more than 50 yr, regeneration of shade-intolerant Pinus spp. and mean cover and richness of herbs were considerably lower than those observed on recently burned plots. Reconstructions of landscape conditions based on observed post-fire succession and 20th century changes in fire regime suggest that reductions in fire frequency circa 1940 led to substantial changes in forest structure and decreases in cover and richness of herbaceous species.
25549223|Question: In Amazonian moist forest, four questions arose: 1. Do tree species differ in their susceptibility to lianas? 2. What host tree traits (branch-free bole height, growth rate, bark type, leaf length and adult stature) are correlated with the susceptibility of tree species to lianas infesting the trunk and the crown? 3. To what extent do spatial variables (proximity to liana-infested trees and the light environment of the tree crown) affect the likelihood of liana infestation? 4. Are spatial variables or tree traits relatively more important in influencing the susceptibility of trees to lianas? We address all questions separately for trunk and crown infestation. Location: Tambopata Nature Reserve, Peru. Methods: We collected information on liana infestation, tree morphological traits, growth, light-environment and position for 3675 trees in seven 1-ha permanent sample plots. We separated trunk from crown infestation and used correlation and logistic regression analyses for tree species and individual tree-level analyses, respectively. Results: Half of all trees were colonised by at least one liana. Of 41 relatively common dicot tree species, at least five have significantly greater and three significantly lower crown infestation rates than expected by chance. Trunk and crown infestation are influenced by different host traits - trunk infestation was only affected by bark type, while crown infestation is reduced when trees are fast-growing, tall, have low-density wood, long branch-free boles and long leaves. The likelihood of both trunk and crown infestation increases for trees growing in close proximity to another liana-infested tree, but is invariant with the light environment of tree crowns. Conclusion: Crown and trunk infestation have not been properly distinguished before; it is important to do so as the factors determining the different modes of infestation differ fundamentally. The association between crown infestation and tree traits suggests that increases in liana dominance in Amazonian forests could cause changes in forest composition, including favouring faster growing tree species with low density wood, potentially reducing the carbon stored by mature forests.
3237032|The effects of disturbance by trampling and vegetation removal on herbaceous communities and their micro-environments were examined at two sites with different levels of shade. The dominant species of the original vegetation were the perennial herb Artemisia princeps at the sunny site and the dwarf-bamboo Pleioblastus chino at the shady site. With no disturbance and marked dominance of these species, diversity was low. After vegetation removal there was a rapid recovery, leading to a more diverse vegetation with many more species, each with a lower dominance. Continuous trampling induced a short vegetation while the light intensity under the foliage was increased. At the sunny site, species richness was depressed by trampling because the soil water potential decreased markedly during summer and only the stress-tolerant annual Digitaria adscendens grew vigorously. Thus, the lowest species diversity was observed in the heavily trampled vegetation in late summer. At the shady site, soil water availability was not affected by trampling. This allowed the survival of many species and prevented a strong decline in diversity. The results suggest that the pattern of change in diversity in communities subjected to various disturbances, was always determined by the original environments.
4096708|Question: This paper studies the establishment and performance of Cortaderia selloana (Pampas grass), an alien South American ornamental species that is invading many parts of the world. We asked whether (1) early successional stages were the most susceptible to C. selloana invasion; (2) soil microdisturbances increased invasion at any point of succession, and (3) C. selloana invasion of later successional stages was modulated by vegetation type Location: Delta del Llobregat (Catalonia, NE Spain). Methods: We monitored survival and growth of transplanted C. selloana seedlings in disturbed and non-disturbed plots throughout a successional gradient with an age range of < 1 to > 10 years in different vegetation types and within the area of influence of coexisting species with similar growth form. Results: Although seedling survival was extremely low in all treatments, our results revealed that early successional stages were not the most easily invaded since we found no significant differences in the percentage survival of C. selloana along the successional gradient. However, survival and seedling biomass were enhanced by soil disturbance at any seral stage. This result suggested that inhibition ruled C. selloana invasion. Invasibility neither depended on the invaded vegetation type nor on the co-existing species with similar growth form. Finally, C. selloana invasion was not enhanced by decreasing competition with Phragmites australis, a native coexisting species because survival rates after a year were not significantly different. However, Phragmites increased C. selloana leaf length probably due to shading. Conclusions: C. selloana recruitment appears to be positively affected by soil disturbance but it is independent of successional stage or vegetation type.
3236244|The term vicinism (neighbourship), first published in a phytosociological context by Nordhagen, refers to the occurrence of plant species in a less favourable environment outside their sociological (ecological) amplitude - as a result of the continuous supply of propagules from neighbouring areas. In recent studies on this subject the term mass effect has been used for what seems to be the same phenomenon. This is unfortunate since this term was introduced much earlier to indicate the ability of plants which are able to grow in dense stands in order to change the local environment to the benefit of themselves - physically, chemically or mechanically- by developing a dense vegetation cover. Examples of this mass effect are mainly found in extreme environments such as salt marshes and lake shores. The occurrence of both vicinism and mass effect indicates that competition is not the only biological factor important in selection. Vicinism also contributes to connectivity, a major topic in landscape ecology. Both vicinism and connectivity as synecological concepts in their original meaning deserve more attention from ecologists.
3235827|A quantitative study of relationships between forest pattern and environment in the central North Island, New Zealand, is based on forest composition data from ca. 2000 existing plots distributed throughout the forests of the region. Estimates of mean annual temperature, rainfall, and solar radiation are derived for each plot from mathematical surfaces fitted to climate station data. Estimates of the depth of the last major rhyolitic eruption, (Taupo Pumice, ca. 130 AD) are derived from isopach maps. A classification procedure is used to identify broad compositional groups. Generalised linear models are used to examine relationships between major species and climatic and other physical factors. Significant relationships are identified between the distributions of both plot groups and species, and climate, vulcanism, topography and drainage. Among these factors, temperature and/or solar radiation are indicated as major determinants of the regional forest pattern, with rainfall, topography, and drainage acting at a secondary level. The role of the Taupo Pumice eruption is more difficult to interpret, and its effects seem to have been greatly influenced by topography. Deep extensive deposits of tephra on flat-to-rolling sites close to the eruption centre have probably favoured the current dominance of these sites by more rapidly dispersing conifers. In contrast, on adjacent steep sites where forest destruction was likely to be less severe, slow-dispersing Nothofagus species are largely dominant. Further work is needed to understand the factors favouring conifer dominance of the central basins and the degree to which Nothofagus species might expand their range in the future.
40925474|Questions: (1) What is the recovery potential of soil seed banks of intact, average and degraded floodplain woodlands? (2) Will soil seed banks of different functional groups (native and exotic, dryland and wetland) display contrasting responses to site degradation? Location: Semi-arid, seasonally flooded woodland of eastern Australia. Methods: Diversity, abundance and composition of soil seed banks were assessed using a glasshouse study. Surface soil samples were taken from a total of nine sites with three levels of degradation (intact, average, degraded) from three microsites (sub-canopy, canopy edge, open). Results: A total of 26 662 individuals of 82 species germinated. Seed abundance increased tenfold from intact to degraded sites, but there was no effect on richness. Species composition of all functional groups varied significantly among degradation states. Seeds of native wetland and exotic dryland species were more abundant in degraded than in intact sites. However, the abundance of native dryland germinants did not differ among degradation classes and no seeds of exotic wetland species were observed. Richness of exotic dryland species was significantly higher in degraded sites. Conclusions: Increasing disturbance promoted seed banks of exotic but not native dryland species and native but not exotic wetland species. Unexpectedly, disturbance promoted the abundance of native seeds more than exotics, although this was driven by a single species. Our results suggest that the dryland phase of the floodplain community is more resilient to degradation than predicted.
40925487|Question: Indices of functional diversity have been seen as the key for integrating information on species richness with measures that focus on those components of community composition related to ecosystem functioning. For comparing species richness among habitats on an equal-effort basis, socalled sample-based rarefaction curves may be used. Given a study area that is sampled for species presence and absence in N plots, sample-based rarefaction generates the expected number of accumulated species as the number of sampled plots increases from 1 to N. Accordingly, the question for this study is: can we construct a 'functional rarefaction curve' that summarizes the expected functional dissimilarity between species when n plots are drawn at random from a larger pool of N plots? Methods: In this paper, we propose a parametric measure of functional diversity that is obtained by combining sample-based rarefaction techniques that are usually applied to species richness with Rao's quadratic diversity. For a given set of N presence/absence plots, the resulting measure summarizes the expected functional dissimilarity at an increasingly larger cumulative number of plots n(n  N). Results and Conclusions: Due to its parametric nature, the proposed measure is progressively more sensitive to rare species with increasing plot number, thus rendering this measure adequate for comparing the functional diversity of species assemblages that have been sampled with variable effort.
3237178|Dendro-ecological studies were undertaken to document the disturbance history in two old-growth mixed Pinus koraiensis-hardwood forests in the southern part of the Sikhote-Alin mountains in the Russian Far East. Establishment of four common canopy conifers, Abies holophylla, A. nephrolepis, P. koraiensis and Picea ajanensis, and three common canopy hardwoods, Acer mono, Betula costata and Tilia amurensis, were also inferred from population age structures and spatial dispersion patterns. Growth releases on increment cores suggested that peak periods of growth releases indicating partial canopy disturbances have repeatedly occurred over the past 230 yr at intervals from ca. 35 to 100 yr. Slight releases and suppressions other than the peak releases occurred in many years of both histories, suggesting the formation of smaller-scale canopy gaps. Despite the predominance of anthropogenic fires in Primorskiy Kray at present, destructive fires had not affected either forest. Wind disturbances and low intensity fires are likely factors controlling the dynamics of the forests. Under the disturbance regime, P. koraiensis has maintained its populations through its dependence on canopy gaps for establishment. Age distribution and gap dependence of P. ajanensis, A. nephrolepis and A. mono suggested continuous establishment of these species under a closed canopy, whereas occasional establishment of T. amurensis was derived largely from vegetative reproduction. Restricted establishment of A. holophylla and B. costata suggested a variety in kinds of disturbance throughout the histories. Continuous habitation of the study area by P. koraiensis is likely under the disturbance regime without destructive fires.
25549281|Habitat fragmentation is considered a leading cause of plant extinction, and matrix models provide a powerful set of tools with which to identifying mechanisms that influence population declines. We surveyed the ecological literature to determine what components of plant demography have been studied in fragmented habitats, and determined the elasticity values of the vital rates influenced by these components. We found that there is a major disparity between the ecological processes and stages of life history with large demographic impacts and the focus of empirical research on plants in fragmented habitats. While the growth and survivorship of large, established individuals have the highest elasticity values, the focus of empirical research has been on components of reproduction and seedling dynamics. We argue that elucidating the demographic mechanisms underlying population declines in fragmented habitats, and developing strategies for mitigating these declines, will be challenging without a greater focus on understanding how fragmentation alters adult plant growth and survivorship.
3236193|An account of the description and classification of the vegetation of Greenland is presented. Four periods are recognized: the Physiognomic period, the Extension period, the Floristics-Dominance period, and the Syntaxonomic period. The approaches used in vegetation classification pertaining to Greenland are discussed. A first survey is presented of the higher syntaxa known from suboceanic-oceanic, subarctic-low arctic Greenland. 14 classes are dealt with. The syntaxa are floristically defined and their concept is discussed. The Juncetalia trifidi, Caricetea curvulae, are described for the first time.
3236383|In southwestern Tokyo the area covered by bamboo forest has expanded by a factor of 2.7 over the last 26 years. This has mainly been due to bamboo (Phyllostachys pubescens) invading secondary broad-leaved forests, probably after these were abandoned. In the first stage, bamboo sprouts develop from rhizomes at the periphery of the broad-leaved forest and then grow very quickly into young culms. In the next phase culm density increases annually, while the existing broad-leaved trees gradually lose their vitality and die. Finally, the broad-leaved forest is completely replaced by bamboo forest. The competitive ability of bamboo, based on its morphological and growth features, is suggested as the causal factor for the invasion: (1) bamboo can invade a neighboring broad-leaved forest by its vigorous rhizomes; (2) young bamboo culms can break through the canopy of broad-leaved trees; (3) bamboo quickly forms a crown in or above the canopy of the broad-leaved forest; (4) bamboo is very tolerant of strong wind and heavy snow accumulation;(5) bamboo culms, being very pliable during strong wind mechanically damage neighbouring broad-leaved trees.
3235689|The effects of grazing by the molluscs Helix aspersa and Deroceros reticulatus on six plant species of early successional plant communities was studied. Mixtures of Hypochoeris radicata, Plantago lanceolata, Plantago major, Ranunculus acris and Lolium perenne were grown from seed and subjected to grazing. Percentage cover and total yield were determined for grazed and ungrazed mixtures. Grazing had a significant effect on four out of the five species and the differences between the two mollusc species were significant for four species.
3236108|Primary succession on Mount St. Helens, Washington State, USA, was studied using long-term observational and experimental methods. Distance from potential colonists is a major factor that impedes early primary succession. Sites near undisturbed vegetation remain low in plant cover, but species richness is comparable to intact vegetation. Sites over 500 m from sources of potential colonists have as many species, but mean species richness is much lower than in undisturbed plots. Cover is barely measurable after 11 growing seasons. Highly vagrant species of Asteraceae and Epilobium dominate isolated sites. Sites contiguous to undisturbed communities are dominated by large-seeded species. For a new surface to offer suitable conditions to invading plants, weathering, erosion and nutrient inputs must first occur. The earliest colonists are usually confined to specific microsites that offer some physical protection and enhanced resources. Primary succession on Mount St. Helens has been very slow because most habitats are isolated and physically stressful. Well-dispersed species lack the ability to establish until physical processes ameliorate the site. Species capable of establishment lack suitable dispersal abilities. Subsequently, facilitation may occur, for example through symbiotic nitrogen fixation, but these effects are thus far of only local importance. Lupinus lepidus usually facilitates colonization of other species only after it dies, leaving behind enriched soil lacking any competitors. Experiments and fine-scale observations suggest that successional sequences on Mount St. Helens are not mechanistically necessary. Rather, they result from local circumstances, landscape effects and chance.
3235623|We identified four major functional types of forbs in the Patagonian steppe, taking into account phenological and morphological traits: (1) shallow-rooted mesophytic species (annuals), (2) shallow-rooted non-mesophytic species, (3) deep-rooted evergreen species, and (4) deep-rooted deciduous species. The major attributes differentiating these groups were the date at which seasonal growth ended, rooting depth, sprouting depth, distance between shoots of the same plant, and degree of `mesophytism'. We used Cluster and Principal Components Analyses to identify the groups, and the attributes determining them. Late-growth-cycle types had deep roots and/or high `xerophytism'. Late-cycle-xerophytic types had a great sprouting depth, and late-cycle-deep-rooted types had a great distance between shoots of the same plant. On the basis of current knowledge of the structure and functioning of the Patagonian steppe, we suggested three explanations to account for these correlations. 1. Late-cycle forbs survive summer water deficit if they have xerophytic characteristics that reduce transpiration water losses, and/or they have deep roots that increase water uptake. 2. Sprouting depth results from the shift of active buds to dormant buds at the end of the cycle. Summer forbs have a great sprouting depth because only buds which are located deep in the soil survive hot and dry summers. 3. Distant shoots of summer forbs allow them simultaneously to use the high protection against desiccating winds provided by shrubs, and the ample water availability of bare soil patches. All the functional types of forbs depend on winter water recharge to begin their cycles, but each one completes its cycle by using a different portion of the water resources available in spring and summer.
3236412|This paper is a tribute to A.S. Watt who published his 'Pattern and process in the plant community' almost 50 years ago. Watt's interpretation of the plant community "as a working mechanism, which maintains and regenerates itself" is still highly relevant, although the keywords have changed. 'Process' in Watt's view involves both upgrade and down-grade aspects, whereas 'Pattern' was not specified, neither quantified. Nowadays, process is mainly approached as 'disturbance', that is natural disturbance and 'pattern' as patch structure. Together they make up the 'patch dynamics' of the community. Some implications of patch dynamics for phytosociology are discussed. A 'Wattian' concept of the plant community combines the Gleasonian idea of individualistic behaviour of species with the Clementsian (or rather BraunBlanquetian) notion of community dynamics. Later work by Harper (demography), Grubb (regeneration niche) and earlier work of Sernander (forest gap dynamics) is significant for the understanding of the patch-dynamic nature of the community. Recent interest in plant species mobility can easily be linked to the concept of patch dynamics. Examples of mobility in a limestone grassland are given and a system of mobility types is proposed. Some perspectives for the study of patch dynamics are mentioned. Numerical pattern analysis should have a more prominent place in this type of study; the significance of the study of small permanent plots in a stand is emphasized, and unprejudiced demographic studies, as well as experimental studies of small-scale species replacement are recommended.
40295848|Question: How different are lists of diagnostic species of vegetation units, derived using various fidelity measures, in different contexts and with presence/absence versus cover data? Methods: Six different fidelity measures were calculated for vegetation units of two classified data sets covering contrasting types of Central European vegetation (beech forest and dwarf shrub vegetation). Both statistical and non-statistical fidelity measures were used, and either species presence/absence or cover was considered. Each measure was calculated on four hierarchical levels and within two different contexts, either within the whole data set or within the next higher level of hierarchical classification. Average similarities of the diagnostic species lists derived from various combinations of fidelity measures and contexts were calculated and visualized using principal coordinate analysis (PCoA). Results: The correlations between fidelity values derived from non-statistical and statistical measures were rather weak. Nevertheless, diagnostic species lists calculated for the same syntaxon by different measures usually had several species in common. Average similarity between pairs of fidelity measures or contexts (based on the Srensen similarity index) ranged from 0.21 to 0.92. PCoA clustered individual combinations of fidelity measures and contexts mainly according to the context and the use of presence/absence versus cover data, rather than according to the fidelity measures. Conclusions: The strongest impact on the lists of diagnostic species was not the fidelity measure itself but the context of its application and the use of presence/absence or cover data. Despite the weak correlation between individual fidelity values, traditional (non-statistical) and statistical measures produce quite similar lists of diagnostic species, provided that the context of the analysis is the same. Both approaches have their advantages and disadvantages, and the choice of the appropriate algorithm should depend on the focus of the study.
3236260| Patterns of diversity were analyzed in a boreal coniferous forest and its strata (tree, shrub, herb and bryophyte layers): number of species per community - -diversity, total species richness - -diversity, mean similarity - -diversity, and mosaic diversity, a measure of complexity . These four measures of diversity consistently decreased from lower to upper vegetation layers. To study the effect of juveniles of larger life forms on diversity of lower layers, they were removed from the data and the measures of diversity reanalyzed. Number of species per community and mosaic diversity decreased substantially, but -diversity did not change. So, the effect of juveniles on -diversity is due to the greater number of species per community. Multiple regression models revealed that the relationships between -diversity and the environmental variables were the same for the whole forest and for the herb layer. Elevation and soil pH were the major variables explaining -diversity in the whole community. Climate was the only environmental gradient related to species richness in all individual strata. Tree and herb richness values were negatively related to soil drainage and acidity, respectively. Species richness of the plant community was affected by environmental variability mostly through the herb layer. Various explanations of the observed diversity patterns included: environmental constraints, resource competition, generation time, and colonization processes. 
3236721| The relationship between mean Ellenberg indicator values (IV) per vegetation relev and environmental parameters measured in the field usually shows a large variation. We tested the hypothesis that this variation is caused by bias dependent on the phytosociological class. For this purpose we collected data containing vegetation relevs and measured soil pH (3631 records) or mean spring groundwater level (MSL, 1600 records). The relevs were assigned to vegetation types by an automated procedure. Regression of the mean indicator values for acidity on soil pH and the mean indicator values for moisture on MSL gave percentages explained variance similar to values that were reported earlier in literature. When the phytosociological class was added as an explanatory factor the explained variance increased considerably. Regression lines per vegetation type were estimated, many of which were significantly different from each other. In most cases the intercepts were different, but in some cases their slopes differed as well. The results show that Ellenberg indicator values for acidity and moisture appear to be biased towards the values that experts expect for the various phytosociological classes. On the basis of the results, we advise to use Ellenberg IVs only for comparison within the same vegetation type. 
3236585| Questions: 1. To what extent does light availability differ among fen plant communities? 2. To what extent does light coincide with productivity and moisture gradients? 3. Does light act as an important environmental filter in natural and transformed riparian landscapes? Location: Current data from the Biebrza Valley, NE Poland; literature data from the Tebo area, Czech Republic and four sites in the western and southern Netherlands. Methods: Relative light intensity (RLI) was measured in vertical profiles, next to vegetation relevs accompanied by measurements of above-ground biomass, summer groundwater level, N and P content in vegetation, pH and soil redox potential. Data derived from literature included profiles of RLI, biomass and vegetation records. Relationships between RLI and biomass and between species distribution, RLI and other variables were examined by regression analysis and CCA. Four traits were analysed: ability to spread clonally, seed weight, maximum height of adults and time of commencement of flowering. Results: RLI at ground level varied from < 1% in reed beds and tall herb meadows to > 60% in sedge-moss communities and litter meadows. RLI was largely determined by the standing crop and explained a large part of variation in species occurrence. The combinations of analysed functional traits were constrained by the communities' light profiles. Conclusion: Light availability is related more closely to site fertility than to hydrological regime. This confirms that hydrological regime and productivity should be analysed separately with regard to their effect on species distribution in wetlands. Limited light availability seems the major environmental control of the distribution of low growing and late flowering species. 
3236795|Soil samples were collected before and after an experimental fire on a heathland in the province of Leon (Spain). The seed banks were assessed by counting the numbers of seedlings appearing of Erica australis and Calluna vulgaris. A total of 2285 germinable seeds/m<sup>2</sup> before burning and 1177 germinable seeds/m<sup>2</sup> after the fire were estimated for Erica australis, and 90 and 690 germinable seeds/m<sup>2</sup>, respectively, for Calluna vulgaris. After the fire the number of germinable seeds/m<sup>2</sup> of Erica australis had decreased, whilst there was a considerable increase in the number of germinable seeds/m<sup>2</sup> of Calluna vulgaris. Neither seedlings nor sprouts of Calluna vulgaris had appeared in the field plots 10 months after the fire. Erica australis did recover mainly by sprouting after fire.
3236913|Early old-field succession provides a model system for examining vegetation response to disturbance frequency and intensity within a manageable time scale. Disturbance frequency and intensity can interact with colonization and competition to influence relative abundance of earlier and later successional species and determine, respectively, how often and how far succession can be reset. We tested the joint effects of disturbance frequency and intensity on vegetation response (species richness, abundance, canopy structure) during the first six years of succession by clipping the dominant species (D) or all species (T) in spring and fall of each year (S), once per year in summer (Y1), each two years in summer (Y2), or each four years in summer (Y4). Vegetation response reflected disturbance effects on expansion of a later mono-specific dominant perennial herb, Solidago altissima, and persistence of the early, richer flora of annuals. A more abundant and taller top Solidago canopy developed on plots clipped each 2 yr or less frequently. Plots clipped yearly or seasonally were richer, but had less abundant, shorter, and differently stratified canopy. Disturbance mediated the relative abundance of early and later successional species; however, frequency and intensity effects were not completely congruent. Persistence of a richer early successional flora increased through the most frequent disturbance (S), and was magnified by disturbance intensity. Disturbance as extreme as clipping all vegetation twice yearly did not cause a drop in species richness, but maintained the early successional community over the first six years of succession. We conclude that clipping disturbance influenced the rate of succession, but the early community could rebound through the range of disturbance frequency and intensity tested.
3237357| We examined the role of playa lakes in promoting regional heterogeneity on the southern High Plains. The goals of this paper were to: (1) describe vegetation types and zonation patterns within playas, (2) evaluate patterns of species distribution and abundance within and among playas, and (3) assess patterns of heterogeneity within and among playas on a portion of the southern High Plains. Perennial grasses were the most abundant species in playa vegetation. Playa vegetation exhibited distinct and repeatable vegetation zones at the majority of sites, but the number of distinct zones varied from site to site. Agropyron smithii, Buchlo dactyloides, and Panicum obtusum were the most important species of playa interior zones, and Bouteloua gracilis, Buchlo dactyloides, and Schedonnardus paniculatus were important upland species outside of playas. Species distribution and abundance were positively correlated at 38 of 40 sites. The distributions of species occurrences among sites were unimodal both locally and regionally. The degree of heterogeneity varied from playa to playa. Local heterogeneity within playas was found to increase regional heterogeneity; therefore, playas increase both local and regional heterogeneity of vegetation. Long-term monitoring will be necessary to understand the spatial and temporal response of vegetation within and among playas to stochastic climatic factors on the southern High Plains of North America. 
4499238| Questions: Density dependence is thought to restrict exponential growth as well as give rise to size structure in populations. Size hierarchy in trees from tropical dry deciduous forests is studied to ask (1) whether nature of competition is symmetric or asymmetric and (2) what is the self thinning trajectory under a natural gradient of tree density. Location: Western India. Methods: Density was measured as the number of trees in 10-m radius circular plots (n = 96) and size was measured at DBH. Size variation was evaluated by the Gini coefficient (n = 1239 trees). Results: Size inequality between neighbours decreased with density but in a non-linear manner. In the backdrop of existing theory this indirectly suggests that competitive interactions may be symmetric over a 'depletive' resource such as below-ground water (rather than a 'pre-emptive' resource such as light), which is very plausible in a semi-arid environment. The self thinning coefficient derived from the relationship between stem diameter and density (  -1/4), is higher than expected from existing models of allometric plant growth (  -1/3) which are based on above-ground interactions alone. Seen in conjunction, these results suggest that above-ground structures, such as stem size, do not adequately represent the outcome of competitive interactions when below-ground resources, such as water, may be more important under semi-arid conditions. Conclusions: The non-linear relationship between size inequality and density indicates that there exists a density threshold beyond which investment in above-ground biomass becomes sluggish in semi-arid, deciduous forests. Since current allometric models do not incorporate below-ground biomass for trees, these data suggest that a more comprehensive allometric growth model may have higher predictive power and wider applicability. 
4096662|Question: How is tundra vegetation related to climatic, soil chemical, geological variables and grazing across a very large section of the Eurasian arctic area? We were particularly interested in broad-scale vegetation-environment relationships and how well do the patterns conform to climate-vegetation schemes. Material and Methods: We sampled vegetation in 1132 plots from 16 sites from different parts of the Eurasian tundra. Clustering and ordination techniques were used for analysing compositional patterns. Vegetation-environment relationships were analysed by fitting of environmental vectors and smooth surfaces onto non-metric multidimensional scaling scattergrams. Results: Dominant vegetation differentiation was associated with a complex set of environmental variables. A general trend differentiated cold and continental areas from relatively warm and weakly continental areas, and several soil chemical and physical variables were associated with this broad-scaled differentiation. Especially soil chemical variables related to soil acidity (pH, Ca) showed linear relationships with the dominant vegetation gradient. This was closely related to increasing cryoperturbation, decreasing precipitation and cooler conditions. Remarkable differences among relatively adjacent sites suggest that local factors such as geological properties and lemming grazing may strongly drive vegetation differentiation. Conclusions: Vegetation differentiation in tundra areas conforms to a major ecocline underlain by a complex set of environmental gradients, where precipitation, thermal conditions and soil chemical and physical processes are coupled. However, local factors such as bedrock conditions and lemming grazing may cause marked deviations from the general climate-vegetation models. Overall, soil chemical factors (pH, Ca) turned out to have linear relationship with the broad-scale differentiation of arctic vegetation.
40295828|Question: Does the relative importance of stochastic and deterministic factors change during primary succession? Location: Small depressions (potholes) located on Mount St. Helens, Washington (461351N, 12209 10W, 1290m). Methods: Pothole vegetation was described in 1993, 1997 and from 2001 to 2008. Explanatory variables included location and elevation (spatial factors), soil factors and Lupinus lepidus cover from prior years (a fertility surrogate). RDA assessed species-variable relationships. DCA calculated (3 diversity and within-year heterogeneity. Flexible sorting classified the vegetation. Species composition, richness, cover, H and evenness were also calculated. Results: Vegetation cover increased through 2001, and then fluctuated due to changes in L. lepidus cover. Richness peaked in 2005, after which pioneer species began to decline as persistent evergreen species increased. The six CTs recognized in 2008 were more scattered than were the six different CTs from 2001. DCA demonstrated that woody and rhizomatous species increased as pothole vegetation became less variable. RDA revealed weak spatial relationships in 1993, 1997 and 2001; thereafter, environmental and biological factors became important. The species-explanatory data relationship increased during this study from 10.2% to 36.0%, leaving 64.0% of the variation unexplained. Conclusions: This is the first temporal study to demonstrate that deterministic control of vegetation development increases during succession. Pothole vegetation has converged somewhat due to deterministic factors, but the initial effects of chance, local disturbances and history remain large and may prevent strong convergence.
3237062|The potential of two perennial species (Larrea divaricata and Stipa tenuis) to colonize different soil microsites was analyzed in the Patagonian Monte shrubland. We hypothesize that the short-lived grass S. tenuis is more able to colonize the soil of microsites beneath vegetation patches where N-fertility is higher than those in bare soil, while the long0lived shrub L. divaricata colonizes different soil microsites irrespective of their N fertility. A greenhouse experiment was carried out to evaluate the emergence and survival of both species in different soil microsites at different water, inorganic N and seed densities. In all cases soil microsites were seed limited since the addition of viable seeds increased seedling emergence. Both species showed, however, different abilities to emerge and survive in different soil microsites. Microsites of bare soil were more favourable for seedling emergence and survival of L. divaricata than those beneath vegetation patches, independent of their water status. This ability of L. divaricata can not be explained on the basis of increased water or N availability, but probably because of lower salt content of bare soil. The addition of inorganic N reduced the survival of L. divaricata in both microsites but increased individual plant performance. The emergence and survival of S. tenuis was not different in both types of soil microsites but the addition of inorganic N increased seedling emergence and plant biomass. According to these results, emergence and plant performance of S. tenuis may be promoted during humid years by increased concentration of inorganic N. Since N mineralization occurs at a higher rate in soil microsites beneath vegetation patches than in those of bare soil, higher plant performance and probably establishment of S. tenuis is to be expected. These results are consistent with an existing conceptual model of plant dynamics under various grazing intensities in the Patagonian Monte shrubland based on previous field observations.
3246581|We studied gradients in field layer vegetation across ecotone-type borderlines between 12 ancient woodlands and adjacent secondary deciduous woodlands on former arable land. The aim of the study was to determine how distance from the borderline influences species distributions as compared with soil factors and degree of canopy closure. Correspondence Analysis showed that distance from the borderline is closely related to the first ordination axis at all study sites. Canonical Correspondence Analysis with variation partitioning revealed that distance from the borderline was the single most important factor in explaining vegetation variation. In general, the results suggest the following order of decreasing importance: Distance from the borderline > Soil reaction > Soil nitrogen > Soil moisture > Canopy cover. However, the sum of soil variables, as estimated by weighted averages of Ellenberg indicator values for moisture, reaction and nitrogen, accounted for as much as ca. 50-70% of the total variation explained by environmental variables. Important gradients in field layer vegetation are due to a decrease in typical woodland species and an increase in other species with increasing distance from the ancient woodland. The results suggest dispersal limitation of woodland species as an important determinant of secondary forest succession. However, the importance of distance to species distributions decreases with increasing stand age as most woodland species gradually colonize the recent woodlands. After 70 yr, ca. 50 % of the woodland species present at a site showed complete colonization within 50 m from the ancient woodland border.
4096715|Question: What is the relative importance of the initial seed bank and subsequent seed dispersal for floristic composition of bank vegetation two years after creation of a newly-cut reach of a river channel? Location: River Cole, West Midlands, United Kingdom. Methods: We took bank and bed sediment samples from a 0.5-km reach of a new river channel cut into intact flood-plain. After river diversion, seed samples deposited on artificial turf mats placed on the river banks and flood-plain edge were taken in summer and winter 2002 and 2003. Seed rain samples from funnel traps were taken during summer 2002 and 2003. We undertook greenhouse germination trials to assess viable seed species within these samples. In summer 2004, we surveyed river bank vegetation. Agglomerative cluster analysis was used to investigate floristic similarity between seed bank, seed rain, seed deposition samples and final bank vegetation cover. DCA was used to explore contrasts between the samples and to assess whether these reflected interpretable environmental gradients. Results: Seed rain samples contained a small subset of species in the summer depositional samples. 38 species were found within the final vegetation, the seed bank, and at least one of the four sets of depositional samples; a further 30 species not present in the seed-bank samples were present in at least one of the four sets of depositional samples and the final vegetation. Floristic composition of the vegetation was most similar to the depositional samples from winter 2002 and 2003 and summer 2003. DCA axis 1 reflected a time sequence from seed-bank samples through depositional samples to the final vegetation. Conclusions: Newly cut river banks were colonized rapidly. Seed remobilization and hydrochorous transport from the upstream catchment are important for colonization. Species richness was highest in samples deposited during winter when high river flows can remobilize and transport viable seeds from upstream. This process would also have enhanced the species richness of seed production along the banks during the second summer (2003).
40295836|Fragmentation of grasslands and forests is considered a major threat to biodiversity. In the case of plants, the effect of fragmentation or landscape context is still unclear and published results are divergent. One explanation for this divergence is the slow response of long-lived plants, creating an extinction debt. However, this has not been empirically confirmed. In this study, data were compiled from broad-scale studies of grasslands from throughout the world that relate plant diversity to fragmentation effects. Only seven studies from northern Europe, out of a total 61, gave any information on actual habitat fragmentation in time and space. In landscapes with > 10% grassland remaining, present-day species richness was related to past landscape or habitat pattern. In landscapes with < 10% grassland remaining, in contrast, plant species richness was more related to contemporary landscape or habitat pattern. Studies from landscapes with > 10% grassland remaining supported the concept of an extinction debt, while studies from more fragmented landscapes did not provide any evidence of an extinction debt. In order to make generalisations about historical legacies on species diversity in grasslands it is important to consider a range of highly transformed landscapes, and not only landscapes with a high amount of grassland remaining.
3236037|Vegetation changes in a wet dune slack complex have been studied over a period of 23 yr. The vegetation was recorded in 40 permanent plots: all plots in 1964, 1977, 1983 and 1987 and some also in five other years. There were large fluctuations in annual precipitation during this period, including some extremely dry (1976) and wet (1985) years. Many species of wet calcareous and pioneer habitats declined in cover between 1964 and 1977, when there were prolonged dry summer periods, though few species were lost from the sampled quadrats. Practically all calciphilous and pioneer species disappeared between 1977 and 1983, when there were relatively many wet summers. It is suggested that extremely dry conditions temporarily obscure the impacts of hydrological changes in local hydrological systems, by retarding the vegetation succession. After a period of excessive precipitation the (acidifying) effects of ground-water withdrawal rapidly became evident in the species composition of the dune slack.
25173147|Question: In the population dynamics of four understorey shrub species (Hp, Hydrangea paniculata Sieb. et Zucc.; Lu, Lindera umbellata Thunb. var. membranacea (Maxim.) Momiyama; Ms, Magnolia salicifolia (Sieb. et Zucc.) Maxim.; Vf, Viburnum furcatum Blume ex Maxim.), (1) What is the relative importance of seedling regeneration versus vegetative growth? (2) Can these shrubs persist stably for a long time in the understorey? (3) What kind of variation in demographic features is observed among these shrubs? Location: 780m a.s.l., north-eastern Japan. Methods: Population dynamics were analyzed by using stage-classified matrix models. Models were mainly constructed from five years stem-census data, including current-year seedlings and sprouts. Results: Current-year sprouts emerged every year in every species. Current-year seedlings emerged every year in Lu and Vf, but densities were very low. In every species, population growth rate () was close to the equilibrium value 1.0 and no statistical difference was found among species. The stable stage-distribution predicted from the matrix model was similar to the observed distribution for Lu, Ms and Vf, but much different for Hp. Elasticity matrix was also similar among Lu, Ms and Vf, but was quite different for Hp. Conclusions: Lu, Ms and Vf were considered as climax shrubs that can regenerate and maintain their population stably in the understorey, even if canopy gaps form infrequently. Hp is a pioneer shrub that require more frequent formation of canopy gaps for long-term persistence in the understorey.
3236322|Tadham Moor in Somerset, England, is an exceptionally rich wetland site which has been mown for hay for many years, with stock grazing the aftermath, but with no history of any fertilizer use. A randomized blocks field experiment (1986-1989) was used to study the effects of five levels of nitrogen input treatments: 0 = control, 25, 50, 100 and 200 kg of N fertilizer per ha per yr. In Phase II of the experiment (1990-1993), each plot was split into two subplots. The allocated fertilizer treatment for the plot was continued in one, randomly selected, subplot but the treatment was discontinued in the other subplot. The experiment not only identified and quantified the changes occurring in the vegetation of hay meadows under different levels of N input, it also provided valuable insight into the dynamics of the sward upon the discontinuance of the treatments. The data for Phase II were used to estimate the time required by the changed vegetation (under different nitrogen treatments) to revert to a state comparable to that prevailing in the control plots. A method for estimating reversion times is described. The main difficulties in estimating the reversion times are identified, the choice of robust vegetation variables being critical. Reversion time estimation methods are presented and used to obtain working estimates for the four nitrogen treatments, applied for 5 yr. These estimates are 3, 5, 7 and 9 yr respectively. The validity of the estimates of 3 yr for the lowest nitrogen input treatment (25 kg /ha/yr) was checked using the available post cessation data.
3237280|A study of the distribution of herbs, seedlings and vegetative propagules of woody species in a hardwood floodplain forest along the Upper Rhine in France revealed that the occurrence of most species is significantly correlated to elevation above river level and light transmission in summer. Species confined to higher-lying sites which are only occasionally and briefly flooded in the growing season show most damage upon flooding. Tall herb species occur on sites where more than 5 % daylight reaches the herb layer and they only reach a dense cover where flooding is occasional. The occurrence of woody juveniles is negatively correlated with tall herb cover and largely confined to more shaded sites or more frequently flooded sites. The results indicate that both shading and flooding are important for regeneration of woody species and for maintaining species diversity in hardwood flood-plain forests.
3235571|The Log-series survey method allows rapid estimates of density and cover and is applicable for studies of perennial vegetation in arid environments. An optical rangefinder is used to determine boundaries of large circular plots. Numbers of individuals of each species within a plot are assessed; this information is used to assign species to logarithmic density classes equivalent to the logarithm base 2 of actual abundances. Each species is then assigned to a logarithmic canopy cover class, equivalent to the logarithm base 2 of average cover per individual. Log total cover per species per plot is obtained by the addition of logarithmic density and cover classes. Percent cover per species is rapidly computed by taking the antilog of the difference between log total cover per species and log total plot area.
3235830|A phytosociological study of forests on Vosges sandstone in the basins of Pays de Bitche (Bitcherland) resulted in the identification of three plant communities: Luzulo-Quercetum, Leucobryo-Pinetum, and Vaccinio uliginosi-Pinetum. The Luzulo-Quercetum is an association with a typically sub-continental distribution; the two communities with Pinus sylvestris are clearly more continental. The Luzulo-Quercetum oak forest represents a climatic climax and the pine forests are considered edaphic climaxes linked to very dry soils (Leucobryo-Pinetum) or peaty soils (Vaccinio uliginosi-Pinetum). These three associations determine a forest sequence that is typical of sub-continental areas in which Quercus petraea dominates in the climatic climax. In more continental areas, it is gradually replaced by Pinus sylvestris. Thus, the forest sequence in Pays de Bitche represents a remarkable sub-continental link in the transition from Atlantic oak forests to continental pine forests.
40925520|Question: Are trees sensitive to climatic variability, and do tree species differ in their responses to climatic variability? Does sensitivity of forest communities to climatic variability depend on stand composition? Location: Mixed young forest at Walker Branch Watershed near Oak Ridge, East Tennessee, USA. Methods: Using a long-term dataset (1967-2006), we analyzed temporal forest dynamics at the tree and species level, and community dynamics for forest stands that differed in initial species composition (i.e., chestnut oak, oak-hickory, pine, and yellow poplar stands). Using summer drought and growing season temperature as defined climate drivers, we evaluated relationships between forest dynamics and climate across levels of organization. Results: Over the four-decade study period, forest communities underwent successional change and substantially increased in biomass. Variation in summer drought and growing season temperature contributed to temporal biomass dynamics for some tree species, but not for others. Stand-level responses to climatic variability were related to the responses of component species, except in pine stands. Pinus echinata, the dominant species in pine stands, decreased over time due to periodic outbreaks of pine bark beetle (Dendroctonus frontalis).These outbreaks at Walker Branch could not be directly related to climatic conditions. Conclusions: The results indicate that sensitivity of developing forests to climatic variability is stand type-dependent, and hence is a function of species composition. However, in the long term, direct effects of climatic variability on forest dynamics may be small relative to autogenic successional processes or climate-related insect outbreaks. Empirical studies testing for interactions between forest succession and climatic variability are needed.
3235757|Morpho-functional features of perennial grasses in South American savannas are considered as adaptive strategies to cope with stress and disturbance factors of savanna environments. The tussock growth form, annual patterns of vegetative growth and reproductive phenology, allocation of carbon and nutrients, and accumulation of standing dead phytomass at the end of the dry season, are discussed in relation to water economy, resistance to drought, photosynthetic rates, growth rhythms, regrowth after drought and fire, seasonal translocation of critical nutrients and carbohydrates, and the total nutrient budget of the grass layer. Different strategies combining various morphological patterns, phenological alternatives and mechanisms for resisting drought and fire exist within the grass flora of each savanna community. The lack of adaptive responses to grazing by large herbivores is a major distinction from African savanna grasses. Many African grasses, either introduced in pastures or colonizing disturbed savannas, do show positive responses to defoliation, including compensatory growth and enhanced photosynthetic rates. Some guidelines for further research are suggested in order to disclose the mechanisms underlying this different behaviour of native and introduced savanna grasses.
3235853|In periodically burned ecosystems, fire frequency may be an important selective pressure for the evolution of plant reproductive allocation patterns. We evaluated this hypothesis for Florida (USA) scrub plants by developing three models of reproductive effort with time since last fire given assumptions concerning seed dormancy and seedling establishment. We then examined reproductive effort of five woody, resprouting shrubs at sites representing nine times since last fire (ranging from 0-64 yr). All species showed significant patterns with time since fire in percentage of stems reproductive and fruit production. Stems of all species needed to attain a minimum size before flowering. Four species had the greatest level of reproductive effort (fruit biomass/above-ground biomass) within 5 yr post-fire and best fit the Early Peak Model of reproductive effort (i.e. between-fire seedling recruitment or seed dormancy). A fifth species best fit the Broad Peak Model (i.e. immediate post-fire seedling establishment), peaking in reproductive effort at 7 yr post-fire. Both of these models are based on somewhat variable fire-return intervals, suggesting that the frequency of scrub fires may have been too unpredictable to select for reproductive allocation patterns precisely reflecting particular fire-return intervals. Early peaks in post-fire reproductive effort may be a bet-hedging strategy to allow for greater chances of seedling establishment and survival.
40925514|Questions: Can probability of occurrence and dominance be accurately estimated for six important conifer species with varying range sizes? Does range size impact the accuracy of species probability of occurrence models? Is species predicted probability of occurrence significantly related to observed dominance? Location: Pacific Northwest region, North America (6040N, 140110W). Methods: This study develops near range-wide predictive distribution maps for six important conifer species (Pseudotsuga menziesii, Tsuga heterophylla, Pinus contorta, Thuja plicata, Larix occidentalism and Picea glauca) using forest inventory data collected across the United States and Canada. Species model accuracies are compared with range size using a rank scoring system. A suite of climate and topographic predictor variables are used to investigate environmental constraints that limit species range and quantify relationships between species predicted probability of occurrence and dominance at both plot and landscape scales. Results: Evaluation statistics revealed significant and accurate probability of occurrence models were developed for all six species. Based on ranked evaluation statistics, Tsuga heterophylla had highest overall model accuracy (statistic rank score = 5) and Pinus contorta the lowest (statistic rank score = 17). Across species, ranked evaluation statistics also revealed a pattern of decreasing model accuracy with increasing range size. At plot level, correlations between dominance and probability of occurrence were weakly positive for all species with only half of the species having statistically significant correlations. Pseudotsuga menziesii had the highest correlation (r = 0.36, and Thuja plicata lowest (r = 0.038, P = 0.799). At the 50-km scale, correlations between dominance and probability of occurrence improved for all species except Pinus contorta. Pseudotsuga menziesii displayed the highest correlation (r = 0.68, P< 0.001) and Thuja plicata the lowest (r = 0.07, P > 0.709). Conclusions: Species probability of occurrence model accuracy decreased with increasing range size. The strength and significance of correlations between probability of occurrence and dominance varied considerably by species and across spatial scales. Apart from Pseudotsuga menziesii and L. occidentalis, the results suggest that probability of occurrence is not a consistently reliable surrogate for species dominance in Pacific Northwest forests. We demonstrate how the degree of correlation between species occurrence and dominance can be used as an indicator of how well predictions of occurrence characterize the optimal niche of a species.
3236698|We examined if the spatial distribution of epiphytes in a forest stand differs between two sexually and three asexually dispersed species. As study species we have chosen two sexually dispersed species, the lichen Collema curtisporum and the bryophyte Orthotrichum speciosum, and three asexually dispersed species, the lichens C. furfuraceum and Leptogium saturninum and the bryophyte O. obtusifolium. All of these species grow on Populus tremula. In P. tremula stands, individual trees may be regarded as distinct patches for the studied species, while the stand represents a 'landscape" of discrete patches. The study was performed in two relatively homogeneous forest stands. The study revealed that the asexually dispersed species were more common than the sexually dispersed. It was also shown that the sexually dispersed species were more aggregated than P. tremula in both stands. In contrast, the distribution of the asexually dispersed species mirrors, more or less, the distribution of their host, i.e. the spatial pattern shown by P. tremula. It is unlikely that the measured environmental variables strongly influenced the observed spatial distribution. Thus, we suggest that the different dispersal and establishment strategies were important in shaping the local distribution of the species.
23012726|Questions: Is light availability the main factor driving forest dynamics in Pyrenean sub-alpine forests? Do pines and firs differ in growth, mortality and morphological response to low light availability? Can differences in shade tolerance affect predictions of future biome changes in Pyrenean sub-alpine forests in the absence of thermal limitation? Location: Montanesub-alpine ecotones of the Eastern Pyrenees (NE Spain). Methods: We evaluated morphological plasticity, survival and growth response of saplings of Scots pine, mountain pine and silver fir to light availability in a mixed forest ecotone. For each species, we selected 100 living and 50 dead saplings and measured size, crown morphology and light availability. A wood disk at root collar was then removed for every sapling, and models relating growth and mortality to light were obtained. Results: Fir had the lowest mortality rate ( < 0.1) for any given light condition. Pines had comparable responses to light availability, although in deep shade Scots pine risked higher mortality (0.35) than mountain pine (0.19). Pines and fir developed opposing strategies to light deprivation: fir employed a conservative strategy based on sacrificing height growth, whereas pines enhanced height growth to escape from shade, but at the expense of higher mortality risk. Scots pine showed higher plasticity than mountain pine for all architectural and morphological traits analysed, having higher adaptive capacity to a changing environment. Conclusions: Our results support the prediction of future biome changes in Pyrenean sub-alpine forests as silver fir and Scots pine may find appropriate conditions for colonizing mountain pine-dominated stands due to land-use change-related forest densification and climate warming-related temperature increases, respectively.
3236309|We evaluated the importance of dispersal for species frequencies and distribution by comparing dispersal properties of vascular plant species with their frequencies along river banks. We assumed that species with long-floating seeds would be more frequent than species with short-floating seeds. We compiled data on frequencies of vascular plants and their dispersal properties from ten rivers in northern Sweden and compared these with boreal forests and grasslands in the same region. In all rivers, but in none of the reference areas, there was a positive relationship between floating capacity and frequency of species. A comparison of floating capacity between species with and without certain dispersal devices showed that seeds of vegetatively dispersed species had higher floating capacities than other seeds. For other dispersal categories (animal and wind dispersal), floating time did not differ from contrast groups. The results indicate that water dispersal has a certain role in structuring the riparian flora, and provide a basis for explaining species distribution patterns from dispersal characteristics. They also suggest that continuous river corridors are important for maintaining regional biodiversity.
3235603|Vegetation survey programmes in Austria, Great Britain, the Netherlands and Germany are described. The aims of these programmes are discussed and their origin and motivation elucidated against the historical background of the development of phytosociology (as part of vegetation science) in particular countries. The Austrian, British and Dutch national vegetation surveys have been logistically supported by either basic-research (Austria) or nature-conservation (Great Britain and the Netherlands) funding organisations. They are either being published (British Plant Communities) or heading for publication of their first volumes within the next two years. The German vegetation survey is a voluntarily-based enterprise expected to complete its work by the end of this century. The experience gained by the management of these national surveys is of fundamental importance in launching the European Vegetation Survey (a project under preparation).
3236874|The fragmentation and deterioration of old-growth forest habitat by modern forestry have become a major threat to species diversity in Fennoscandia. In order to develop a conservation strategy for the remaining diversity it is essential to identify the existing diversity and to develop appropriate conservation and monitoring programs. For these purposes indicators of conservation value for administrative prioritization are required. This study examines the predictability of plant and fungal species richness on two spatial scales on 46 isolated old-growth forest islands (0.17 - 12 ha) in a forest-wetland mosaic. We explore (1) to what extent area, isolation and stand structure variables can explain the variation in species richness and (2) if richness patterns of individual species groups correlate. Isolation showed no relation to species richness. Area explained 50 - 70% of the variation in total species richness and was positively related to the density of crustose lichens and Red-list species in island interiors. Stand structure variables explained 28 - 66% of the residual variation in total species richness after controlling for island size, and 15 - 73% of the variation in density of species in island interiors. The highest predictability of species richness was found among substrate-specific fungi and Red-list species. Different stand structure variables were found to explain richness in the different species groups, and only among a few species groups species richness correlated. Thus, species richness of one single species group is unlikely to be a good indicator for total biodiversity. The results show that measurements of stand size and stand structure variables may be a strong complementary tool, and sometimes a substitute to extensive species inventories when one aims to estimate and monitor plant ans fungal species diversity in old-growth Picea abies forests.
3236414|The ability of a plant community to maintain favourable conditions within its canopy was examined by means of removing the vegetation around individual plants (radius ca. 1 m) and measuring light and temperature relations and rates of net photosynthesis in both isolated and sward plants. The results suggest that neighbour interactions are important for the stabilization of environmental relations within the canopy, at least in hay meadows as compared to intensively grazed pastures. The canopy may maintain optimal conditions for plant life within a wider variation of environmental factors. At the same time, plants have to adapt to contrasting (sunny vs. cloudy) weather conditions occurring with about equal frequency during the vegetation period in the central Caucasus.
25173150|Question: How does the frequency of heathland fire events affect population growth rates of two woody shrub species, Ulex gallii and U. minor? Location: Dry heathland on the south coast of England, UK. Methods: The population dynamics of U. gallii and U. minor were modelled at each phase of the heathland cycle - pioneer, building, mature and degenerate - using periodic matrix products to investigate the response to different fire regimes. Results: Population growth rates of both Ulex species declined under annual burning. Initially, as the time between burns increased, population growth rate increased for both species. Maximum population growth rates for each Ulex species were achieved under a 16-yr fire return interval. Fire return intervals &gt; 16 yr resulted in declining population growth rates. Conclusions: A species-specific critical fire frequency can be predicted, the minimum fire return intervals permitting persistence were 4 yr for U. minor and 3 yr for U. gallii. These patterns are similar to those reported for a range of woody plant species within savanna environments.
4499224|Question: Plant invasions result from complex interactions between species traits, community characteristics and environmental variations. We examined the effect of these interactions on the invasion potential of two invasive Senecio species, S. inaequidens and S. pterophorus, across three Mediterranean plant communities in a natural park. Location: Catalonia, NE Spain. Methods: We carried out two series of experimental seedling transplantations, in the spring and fall of 2003, in grassland, shrubland and Quercus ilex forest. Competition with neighbouring plants and water availability were manipulated. We evaluated the survival, growth and reproduction with respect to each treatment combination. Results: Any habitat can be colonised if disturbance occurs. In the absence of disturbance, shrubland enhanced the survival of seedlings. Competition with resident vegetation dramatically reduced survival in grassland and forest when establishment occurred in the spring. However, establishment in the fall promoted invasion in grassland and shrubland, even in the undisturbed treatment. Grassland allowed the highest growth and reproductive performance of both species while forest was the most resistant habitat to invasion. S. inaequidens had a higher growth rate and a shorter pre-reproductive period than S. pterophorus. S. pterophorus produced more biomass and was more dependent on water availability than S. inaequidens. Conclusions: In the light of our results, we recommend surveying open shrublands and grasslands after periods of rainfall. Special attention should be paid to S. pterophorus, which is currently spreading. A preliminary assessment of the invasiveness of this plant is given in this study.
4096749| Question: According to Whittaker's proposal,ecologists have traditionally viewed -diversity as the ratio between -diversity and average -diversity. More recently, an alternative way of partitioning diversity has been 'rediscovered' for which -diversity is obtained as the difference between -diversity and average -diversity. This additive way of partitioning diversity has rapidly become a very popular framework for hierarchical diversity decomposition at various spatial scales. The question for this study is: Can we highlight any relation between these two ways of partitioning diversity, or do these methods really capture different facets of spatial turnover in species composition? Methods: First the properties that a diversity measure should possess for enabling additive decomposition into -, -, and -components are reviewed. Next, attention is drawn to the relationships between additive and multiplicative diversity decomposition. Results: It is shown that the additive model is closely related to its multiplicative counterpart through a simple logarithmic transformation. Conclusions: Contrary to the current assumption, both methods for partitioning diversity are not as different as they appear. Hence, the supposed superiority of additive diversity partition over multiplicative diversity decomposition is largely unjustified. 
3236261|Numerous ecological studies use Principal Components Analysis (PCA) for exploratory analysis and data reduction. Determination of the number of components to retain is the most crucial problem confronting the researcher when using PCA. An incorrect choice may lead to the underextraction of components, but commonly results in overextraction. Of several methods proposed to determine the significance of principal components. Parallel Analysis (PA) has proven consistently accurate in determining the threshold for significant components, variable loadings, and analytical statistics when decomposing a correlation matrix. In this procedure, eigenvalues from a data set prior to rotation are compared with those from a matrix of random values of the same dimensionality (p variables and n samples). PCA eigenvalues from the data greater than PA eigenvalues from the corresponding random data can be retained. All components with eigenvalues below this threshold value should be considered spurious. We illustrate Parallel Analysis on an environmental data set. We reviewed all articles utilizing PCA or Factor Analysis (FA) from 1987 to 1993 from Ecology, Ecological Monographs, Journal of Vegetation Science and Journal of Ecology. Analyses were first separated into those PCA which decomposed a correlation matrix and those PCA which decomposed a covariance matrix. Parallel Analysis (PA) was applied for each PCA/FA found in the literature. Of 39 analyses (in 22 articles), 29 (74.4 %) considered no threshold rule, presumably retaining interpretable components. According to the PA results, 26 (66.7 %) overextracted components. This overextraction may have resulted in potentially misleading interpretation of spurious components. It is suggested that the routine use of PA in multivariate ordination will increase confidence in the results and reduce the subjective interpretation of supposedly objective methods.
3236323| The phenology of five types of phrygana vegetation situated at various altitudes in SW Krti (Crete), Greece, was studied over a period of 17 months. Two treatments were compared - traditional pasturing and non-grazing since spring 1993. The numbers of species in blossom and the numbers of flowering units were recorded. For each site, management type and year were displayed in symphenological diagrams. Differences in phenology were mainly related to altered management or the weather regime, or both. The numbers of flowering units were more evident than those of species in blossom for describing the early response of phrygana vegetation to non-grazing. Increases in numbers of flowering units in the ungrazed areas are mainly due to certain abundant therophytes. Unfavourable weather conditions in late winter or early spring may cause a temporary decline in annual species. Rainfall in May at low altitudes promotes resprouting and reflowering of annuals. 
3236762|Although many methods have been proposed for analysing point locations for spatial pattern, previous methods have concentrated on clumping and spacing. The study of anisotropy (changes in spatial pattern with direction) in point patterns has been limited by lack of methods explicitly designed for these data and this purpose; researchers have been constrained to choosing arbitrary test directions or converting their data into quadrat counts and using methods designed for continuously distributed data. Wavelet analysis, a booming approach to studying spatial pattern, widely used in mathematics and physics for signal analysis, has started to make its way into the ecological literature. A simple adaptation of wavelet analysis is proposed for the detection of anisotropy in point patterns. The method is illustrated with both simulated and field data. This approach can easily be used for both global and local spatial analysis.
3237236| A method is presented for a quick and easily repeatable evaluation of the state of invasion of alien woody plants and the ecological status (prominence value, diversity, singularity and rejuvenation) of potentially important biodiversity sites in the Seychelles. The usefulness of this method has been tested in a survey on the islands of Mah and Silhouette. The survey revealed 34 species as invasive alien species, the most prominent being Cinnamomum zeylanicum, Psidium littorale, Adenanthera pavonina and Tabebuia pallida. The greatest intensity of invasion was recorded in Intermediate Forests on moderate or gentle slopes and in stream ravines protected from desiccating winds and insolation. 'Mountain Mist Forests', 'Palm Forests' and 'Glacis' are the least invaded vegetation types. The difference in prominence values of alien and native plant species between leeward and windward sides is significant. Glacis habitats do not show a decline in protection values with decreasing altitude. Prominence values and percentage frequency of invaders are exceeded by the endemic palm Phoenicophorium borsigianum which is able to maintain itself in areas suffering from forest destruction and topsoil erosion. 
3237137|We resumed mowing in two plots of ca. 100 m<sup>2</sup> in an abandoned meadow dominated by Brachypodium pinnatum on the slope of Monte Generoso (Switzerland). We monitored species composition and hay yield using point quadrats and biomass samples. Species frequencies changed little during 10 yr (1988-1997) while hay yields showed large fluctuations according to mean relative humidity in April-June. We performed a seed-addition experiment to test whether the establishment of meadow species is limited by lack of diaspores or favourable microssites for germination and recruitment from the seed bank. We sowed ca. 12 000 seeds of 12 species originating from a nearby meadow individually in plots of a 4 x 6 unbalanced Latin square with four treatments, burning, mowing, mowing and removal of a layer of decayed organic matter, and a control. We monitored the fate of seedling individuals for 24 months. Seedlings of all species were established and survived for 12 months, 10 species survived during at least 24 months, some reached a reproductive stage. Species responded to different qualities of microsites provided by the different treatments thus required different regeneration niches. Spontaneous long-distance immigration was insignificant. We conclude that the former species composition of abandoned meadows cannot easily be restored by mowing alone because many plant species of meadows do not have persistent seed banks and immigration over distances of more than 25 m and successful establishment is very unlikely.
3236439|The dynamics of seed population on slope surfaces were studied to test the hypothesis that the lack of vegetation on badlands is caused by seed removal by erosion. The initial soil seed bank and two years of seed rain and seed removal by erosion were estimated in two small catchments, and a seed balance was constructed. In addition, six rainfall simulation experiments were performed to test the susceptibility of seeds to be removed by overland flow. A variety of soil surface conditions, rainfall characteristics and plot sizes were used in these experiments. Soil seed bank densities are low, but enough for the development of plant cover. Seed losses due to erosion after natural rains were low (< 13 %), and in agreement with seed losses from simulated rainfall experiments. After two years, seed inputs in the seed rain were greater than seed outputs through seed removal, which resulted in a continuous increase in the numbers of seeds in the soil bank. These results point out that seed removal by erosion is not the key factor explaining the lack of vegetation on badlands. It is suggested that other factors, such as those related to seed germination and seedling survival, may play an important role.
3236113|Accumulation of nutrients in leaves of the dominating species of three ecosystems, characterizing the secondary succession from Genisto-Callunetum heathland through Leucobryo-Pinetum birch-pine woodland to mature Querco-Fagetum oak-beech forest, as well as nutrient turnover within these ecosystems was studied. The objective of the study was to establish potential variations in quantity and quality of nutrient supply to the plants with respect to succession dynamics. The results show very low leaf nutrient concentrations of all species investigated, coinciding with low nutrient availability in the soil. However, the nutrient content of leaves and leaf litter of Quercus petraea and Fagus sylvatica, which dominate the late succession stages, and in Betula pendula are higher than in the photosynthetic organs (leaves and young shoots) of Calluna vulgaris and Pinus sylvestris. The combination of the higher nutrient content of the leaves and an increasing leaf-litter production during succession results in an increased nutrient turnover via leaf-litter fall. However, due to the high leaf biomass, the storage of nutrients in the leaf biomass is highest within the birch-pine woodland. From this, it may be assumed that the low demand and the low loss of nutrients via leaf-litter fall are favourable for Pinus at the early stages of forest succession on poor sandy soils. In contrast, Quercus and Fagus are provided with better growth conditions at the later stages of succession resulting from the accumulation of plant-available nutrients in the ecosystem by Pinus sylvestris, combined with a higher nutrient turnover as compared with the heathland.
4499225|Question: Land-use change has a major impact on terrestrial plant communities by affecting fertility and disturbance. We test how particular combinations of plant functional traits can predict species responses to these factors and their abundance in the field by examining whether trade-offs at the trait level (fundamental trade-offs) are linked to trade-offs at the response level (secondary trade-offs). Location: Central French Alps. Methods: We conducted a pot experiment in which we characterized plant trait syndromes by measuring whole plant and leaf traits for six dominant species, originating from contrasting subalpine grassland types. We characterized their response to nutrient availability, shading and clipping. We quantified factors linked with different land usage in the field to test the relevance of our experimental treatments. Results: We showed that land management affected nutrient concentration in soil, light availability and disturbance intensity. We identified particular suites of traits linked to plant stature and leaf structure which were associated with species responses to these environmental factors. Leaf dry matter content separates fast and slow growing species. Height and lateral spread separated tolerant and intolerant species to shade and clipping. Discussion and Conclusion: Two fundamental trade-offs based on stature traits and leaf traits were linked to two secondary trade-offs based on response to fertilization shade and mowing. Based on these trade-offs, we discuss four different species strategies which could explain and predict species distributions and traits syndrome at community scale under different land-uses in subalpine grasslands.
3236286|A functional type approach, in which the complexity found in nature is reduced by grouping organisms that are functionally similar into a single classification, is being promoted in global change research. This paper examines a proposed analogy between this functional type approach in global change ecology and the periodic table of the elements in chemistry. When applied to a 'bottom-up' approach for defining functional types in ecology, in which large numbers of organisms are classified into smaller groups based on similarity of certain functions, the analogy fails. Ecological functions are not simple attributes of a biological entity, as electronic structure is for a chemical element, but are themselves complex chemical and physical systems that often interact strongly with the environment. The analogy to the periodic table may be of some use as an organizing tool in a 'top-down' approach in which a modelling context is used to define the number of 'elements' and their properties. This will be elaborated for plant functional types. Each PFT is assigned characteristics that allow its response to the driving forces of change, e.g. temperature, precipitation, soil nutrients, disturbance, to be predicted. 'Rules of combination' determine how the mix of PFTs in a particular ecosystem changes to form different ecosystems, which would correspond in the analogy to chemical compounds. However, these requirements present significant challenges to the usefulness of the analogy, even as an organizing tool in the 'top-down' approach.
3236907|The importance of litterfall as an agent of physical damage and mortality to canopy tree seedlings was investigated in two New Zealand forests: Huapai Scientific Reserve, a warm temperate forest and Pureora Forest Park, a cool temperate forest. 200 natural seedlings within the 10-30 cm height class and 200 artificial seedlings, made from plastic straws and wire, were monitored at 4-6 week intervals over two years in each forest. Litterfall was the cause of a significant proportion of seedling mortality in each forest (11-18%). Seedling growth rates were measured and used to estimate the mortality that a cohort of seedlings may suffer due to litterfall in the time taken to grow through the 10-30 cm height class. Up to 38% mortality due to litterfall may occur to such a cohort at Huapai and up to 29% at Pureora. Although mortality due to litterfall of natural seedlings was similar in both forests, damage at Huapai (7%/yr) was almost 3 x greater than at Pureora (2.5%/yr) (P < 0.001). Artificial seedlings were damaged due to litterfall at almost five times the rate at Huapai (16%/yr) than at Pureora (3%/yr) (P < 0.0001). The rate of damage to artificial seedlings at Pureora is similar to that reported for a Northern Hemisphere temperate forest, however, the rate of damage to artificial seedlings at Huapai is much greater, and of a similar rate to those reported from tropical forests. The evolutionary and ecological implications of the differences between the rates of damage at Huapai and at Pureora, and the mechanisms promoting litterfall damage to seedlings, are discussed.
4096763|Questions: Do past disturbance, soil nutrients, or species diversity predict the invasion success of the alien tree Pittosporum undulatum in an island montane rain forest? What are the consequences of its invasion for forest composition and species diversity? Location: Blue Mountains, Jamaica. Methods: Censuses of trees
3236931|Relationships between seed deposition, size of soil seed banks and some of the environmental factors affecting them were assessed for Calluna vulgaris throughout its altitudinal range (150-960 m a.s.l.) in eastern Scotland. Seed rain was assessed using pitfall traps, collected every 5-10 wk for 3 yr; germinability was determined by laboratory incubation. Seed bank size was estimated, once only, by counting seedlings emerging from soil cores kept for 50 wk in a glass-house. Seed deposition varied annually, was related to parent plant cover but always declined with altitude, falling sharply above 600 m a.s.l. Seed bank size was more closely correlated with the proportion of organic matter in the soil than with the amount of seed rain. Seed bank sizes declined gradually with altitude but did not differ significantly between four altitudinal zones. The mean density of buried seeds was less than half the mean annual seed rain at sites below 300 m a.s.l. but was over 200 x greater than annual seed rain above 800 m, suggesting that seeds buried at high altitudes remain viable for much longer than those at lower altitudes.
3237313|We studied the floristic composition of lignicolous cryptogams (i.e. bryophytes and lichens inhabiting decaying wood) in the old-growth coniferous forests of southern coastal British Columbia. The composition of the cryptogams was related to forest communities (described by vegetation units using forest floor cryptogams and vascular plants) and regional climates (described by biogeoclimatic zones). The study is based on a total of 247 sample plots, each of 0.04 ha in size. The plots were located in three different biogeoclimatic zones and were classified into 12 alliances and four orders in a previous study. We used indicator species analysis to determine cryptogam indicator species for each vegetation unit and biogeoclimatic zone, and used similarity analysis and multivariate analyses (discriminant analysis and detrended correspondence analysis) to detect differences in the floristic composition of the cryptogams among sample plots, vegetation units, and biogeoclimatic zones. Most of the cryptogams in this study had a narrow distribution, and only < 5 % of the species were present across all the vegetation units and biogeoclimatic zones. The overall means of Jaccard coefficients between two sample plots from the same vegetation unit (alliance or order) or biogeoclimatic zone were significantly higher (P < 0.05) than those from different vegetation units or biogeoclimatic zones. The difference in the mean Jaccard coefficients within- and between-units was highest for zones. The results of detrended correspondence analysis and discriminant analysis suggest that the composition of lignicolous cryptogams changes with the change in the floristic composition of forest floor vegetation. When the first axes of detrended correspondence analysis were compared, the Pearson's correlation coefficients between the first axes of lignicolous cryptogams and forest floor vascular plants and between the first axes of lignicolous cryptogams and forest floor cryptogams were 0.78 and 0.87, respectively. The degree of correspondence in the composition of lignicolous cryptogams and forest floor vegetation increased from alliance to order to biogeoclimatic zone. This trend suggests that the floristic composition of lignicolous cryptogams is influenced at the community level mainly by edaphic conditions and at the regional level by climatic conditions.
3237052|Age structures of populations of canopy trees in Wormley Wood are consistent with reports that successional change is occurring, with Carpinus betulus replacing Quercus petraea as the dominant species. TWINSPAN analysis of data from a vegetation survey identifies three communities (described in earlier work), the 'Bracken', 'Bramble', and 'Bareground' societies, characterized by increasing prominence of C. betulus and loss of species diversity. An experiment was set up in which C. betulus, Q. petraea and Betula pendula seedlings were explanted into each of the communities. Survival of seedlings was monitored over 860 days and differences investigated. Cohort survivorship differed between species and sites. C. betulus seedlings survived longer than Q. petraea in Bracken and Bramble communities. Species- and site-specific variation in the types and effects of herbivory were found. Herbivory did not appear to be a critical factor in the survival of Q. petraea seedlings. The photosynthetic light response of the seedling species was measured in the field. The light compensation point for Q. petraea seedlings (77  mol photon m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) is higher than the maximum available light under the main tree canopies in the wood. In contrast, seedlings of C. betulus have a lower light compensation point (15  mol photon m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) and the mature tree casts a deeper shade than Q. petraea. It is suggested that the invasion of the canopy by C. betulus, following the cessation of coppicing, is creating light levels too low for Q. petraea seedling banks to persist.
3237033|Photosynthetic stress in response to a natural episode of frost and seasonal drought was assessed in a 'dehesa' grassland of SW Spain with a portable fluorimeter. Chlorophyll fluorescence characteristics of dark-adapted leaves of 11 abundant species of Mediterranean grassland were measured over the course of a growing season from November 1992 to July 1993. Concomitant changes in population size were estimated from censuses of permanent quadrats. There was a general decline in the photochemical efficiency F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub> during the growing season and this was particularly evident late in the growing season (spring and early summer) when ambient temperatures were increasing rapidly and rainfall was low; it coincided with the period of most intense mortality for most species. A frost in early March (-5 C), when photosynthetically active radiation was relatively high, resulted in a small decrease in F<sub>v</sub>/F<sub>m</sub> that was consistent across many species. The mechanisms of protection in species of Mediterranean grassland appear to be sufficiently effective to avoid damage to PSII for most of the year. For most species there was little evidence of photosystem II damage, as initial fluorescence (F_{o}) usually did not increase. Many of the effects observed were due to a reduction in (F<sub>m</sub>) and thus were consistent with non-photochemical quenching. This could be adaptive in protecting PSII from damage in species that show little evidence of stress. The sharp increase in stress toward the end of the life cycle coincided with the fall in net population size.
3235982|The soil chemistry of a headwater valley fen is influenced by local ground water discharge that supplies base cations and alkalinity to the fen. An irrigation canal just upward of the fen is the source of this alkalinity. The ecological consequences of this artificial system are studied both on the soil and vegetation level. Rich-fen species of the alliance Caricion davallianae are connected to soil water alkalinity and soil base status. They depend directly on the alkaline ground water discharge. In addition, the local input of this water causes a gradient-rich pattern from poor to rich fen, and it is therefore concluded that it is responsible for the presence of intermediate fen vegetation too. High nutrient levels in the irrigation water have not influenced the fen until now. This case study illustrates the possibility for rich fen restoration after acidification. Irrigation with alkaline water is efficient if excess nutrients can be removed.
3237002|The deciduous Vaccinium myrtillus and the evergreen Vaccinium vitis-idaea were subjected to five removal treatments of understorey layers: control, removal of the moss layer, removal of the field layer, removal of both moss and field layers and removal of moss, field and humus layers. A second factor, sowing, was included to investigate sexual reproduction after disturbance. Density of new ramets and seedlings and growth of annual shoots were studied for the first two growing seasons, whereas cover was measured for five growing seasons after disturbance treatment. Initially, vegetative production of new ramets and species cover increased rapidly in all disturbed plots, except for the most severe treatment, in which production of new ramets was virtually absent throughout the study. Full recovery following removal of the field layer only or both field and moss layers was reached after four years for V. myrtillus. V. vitis-idaea recovered more quickly, after one year (removal of field layer only) and four years (removal of field and moss layers). The relative growth of V. myrtillus and V. vitis-idaea increased in the latter treatment in terms of production of annual shoots and length of annual shoots, respectively. Seedling density increased after sowing in the most severe treatment. The results underscore the importance of vegetative growth for recovery of these species at moderate-level disturbances. The high rate of sexual reproduction in the most severe treatment implies that strong mechanical disturbance is needed to enhance the establishment of new genotypes in these species.
4096781|Questions: The objectives of this study were to clarify the extent to which environmental factors and geographical distance account for tropical floristic composition, and propose a methodology for delimiting the boundaries of floristic types based on species similarity. Location: The Panama Canal watershed. Methods: To assess which factors (climate, topography, geology and geographical distance) account for floristic composition, we performed Mantel tests on distance matrices and partitioned variation in species composition using canonical analysis. We used a permutation-based regression model computed on distance matrices and a hierarchical clustering of the tree composition to construct a predictive map of forest types of the Panama Canal Watershed. Results: We found that spatial variation alone explained 22-27% of species variation, while the fraction of species variation explained by environmental variables was smaller (10-12%); 13-19% of the variation was accounted for by the joint effect of environmental variation and geographic distance. The similarity-based map emphasizes the principal division in tree flora between the drier Pacific side and the wetter Caribbean slopes. Conclusions: The distribution of Panamanian tree species appears to be primarily determined by dispersal limitation, then by environmental heterogeneity. 'Environmental segregation' processes do play an important role. Maps of broad-scale vegetation patterns based on thorough tree inventories can be used in conservation planning in the tropics.
25173245|Questions: 1. How many traits associated with persistence and regeneration are necessary to predict the response of plants to soil fertility and disturbance? 2. Are correlated changes in trait expressions linked to the response of functional groups to fertility and disturbance? Location: Lower Frankonia, Germany. Methods: On 120 plots located in managed and abandoned grasslands, fields, and vineyards, we recorded species composition, disturbance intensity, soil water and nutrients, and ten candidate traits for 75 species. We used a novel method which is based on three steps: (1) logistic regression to separate responsive from non-responsive species; (2) iterative clustering of all possible combinations of the candidate traits including regression of each cluster in response to the environmental variables; (3) selection of the trait combination that performed best with respect to goodness of fit of all clusters from this combination. Bivariate trait relationships across functional groups were analysed with reduced major axis regression (RMA). Results: The parsimonious trait combination consisted of life span, specific leaf area (SLA), canopy height, and seed number. The 'acquisitive' functional groups in terms of SLA and height were linked to higher fertility and earlier disturbance, while the 'retentive' groups related to lower fertility and later disturbance. Investment in reproduction, however, displayed a reverse relation. SLA and canopy height showed correlated shifts in two pairs of co-occurring functional groups. Conclusions: A small number of traits is sufficient to predict the response of species. Plants need a higher increment in SLA to reach the same height, if start of disturbance is earlier. Linkages between traits shift from generative to vegetative with increasing fertility and earlier start of disturbance. Functional groups enable shifts in scaling relationships between traits to be analysed, in contrast to the analysis of single traits.
3237324|Wetland vegetation developed in the crater of Mount Usu, northern Japan, soon after the 1977-1978 cruptions which destroyed the vegetation. The cover of each species was measured in 1994 in 118 50 cm x 50 cm plots situated in transects and related to environmental factors (elevation, water depth, soil texture, soil compaction, soil organic matter, and soil pH) to clarify vegetation development. Five vegetation types were recognized dominated by Eleocharis kamtschatica, Equisetum arvense, Lythrum salicaria, Juncus fauriensis and Phragmites australis respectively. Sedge/grass marsh and reed swamp dominated deep-water sites; willow swamp and wet meadow vegetation characterized shallow-water sites, indicating that vegetation zonation developed soon after the eruption. Since those wetland plants were derived neither from seed banks nor from vegetative propagules, they had to immigrate from outside the summit areas. However, except for willows, most species lack the ability for long-distance dispersal. Late successional species, such as P. australis established in the early stages of the primary succession. The water depth varied by 27.5 cm among the plots. Coarse soil particles accumulated, and pH (5.22 - 6.55) was low on the elevated sites. Organic matter ranged from 2.8 % to 19.1 %, and was high on the elevated sites. Water depth was responsible for the establishment of large-scale vegetation patterns, while edaphic factors, i.e. soil compaction, pH, and organic matter, were determinants of small-scale vegetation patterns. Among the edaphic factors, soil compaction appeared to have a strong influence on vegetation development.
4096772|Question: Is there any change in seed density and species richness in Mediterranean surface soil banks during summer? Are there any relationships between these summer variations and seed traits (weight, length and shape), without and with controlling the phylogenetic effect? Location: Central Spain. Methods: Samples of the surface soil seed bank were collected in two Mediterranean systems, grassland and scrubland, at two points in the year: immediately after the summer production peak and immediately prior to the autumn germination peak. We used Canonical Correspondence Analysis ordination to check for changes in floristic composition and ANOVAs to check for changes in seed density and species richness between summer and autumn samples. We used multiple regression analysis to analyse the relationship between summer variations in soil seed density and form traits, with and without controlling phylogenetic relations. Results: Soil seed density dropped significantly during the summer in the two systems (28% in grasslands, repeated measures ANOVA test; F = 58.19, P < 0.01; 72% in scrublands, repeated measures ANOVA test; F = 75.67, P < 0.001). Species richness, however, only dropped significantly in the scrubland (32%; repeated measures ANOVA test; F = 9.17, P < 0.05). Variation in the floristic composition of the shallow banks was only significant in the scrubland. Changes in shallow bank density were related significantly to seed morphology features, with greater drops in species with heavier seeds in grasslands and species with longer seeds in scrubland. Conclusions: Our results show a substantial loss of seeds in the uppermost soil layer during the summer period between the point of peak production and the autumn germination peak. This drop was clearer in the scrubland than in the grassland. Longer and/or heavier seeds underwent the greatest declines in density at the end of summer, indicating a more intense effect of post-dispersal predation on large-seeded species.
3237211|We quantified the spatial distribution of roots of individual plants using detailed drawings from the literature of species of grasses, forbs, and shrubs in the Central Great Plains grasslands of North America. We scanned each two-dimensional drawing electronically and used ARC/INFO, a Geographic Information System, to calculate root length (cm) and density (cm root length/cm soil) with depth in the soil profile. We then selected one of three mathematical models that best fit the data, and classified each species as either shallow-, medium- or deep-rooted. 66 root drawings from 55 species were evaluated. Most plants were shallow-rooted with largest root densities occurring at depths < 20 cm; most maximum rooting depths were > 1 m. Grasses had the shallowest maximum depth and shrubs the deepest. Deep-rooted forbs had the smallest root densities by depth. Most plants had two sections to their distribution of root density: an initial increase from the soil surface followed by a decrease in density with increasing depth. Our results suggest that the abundance and importance of different species and growth forms in North American grasslands is related to similarities and differences in the spatial distributions of their root systems. Our approach provides quantitative information on root distributions to be used for comparisons among species, and in simulation modeling analyses that could not be done with conventional methods that are qualitative in nature.
3236137| An inventory was made of the vegetation and soils of a watershed area of 480 ha in the tropical rain forest of Guyana. 252 plots of 0.05 ha were sampled. In total 111 tree species  20 cm were recorded. A TWINSPAN analysis resulted in seven groupings. Correspondence Analysis revealed that the major environmental differentiation underlying the floristic variation is according to soil type. Finally, five main forest communities were described. Most sites in the watershed area are characterized by the dominance of one or a few species. Species distribution patterns are strongly determined by soil type and drainage class. 
3237358|Germination of Quercus ilex L. in coppice stands of this species in the western Mediterranean Basin was examined and a germination inhibitory process is proposed to explain some germination traits. Germination rate and seedling biomass of Q. ilex were greatly modified by watering acorns with various concentrations of aqueous soil extracts from a Q. ilex coppice stand but also when the acorns were sown in soil from Q. ilex coppice stands. In the aqueous extract experiment, Q. ilex germination and seedling weight both decreased as the aqueous extract concentration increased. In the soil type experiment, Q. ilex soil decreased the Q. ilex germination rate. Comparative studies with Q. pubescens germination (this species, replaced by Q. ilex around 5 000 B.P., is assumed to form the climax vegetation of the region) revealed that Q. pubescens was less sensitive to the aqueous extracts and soils of Q. ilex coppice stands. Inhibition of Q. ilex seed germination could be a major reason for the poor seed regeneration and suggested a possible comeback of Q. pubescens.
3236472|Question: How do distribution patterns change with increasing scale level, and can this shift be attributed to dispersal and/ or niche limitation? Location: Dune slacks at the Belgian and North French coast. Method: Frequency distribution patterns of species were tested over different scale levels (ranging from 0.008 to 45 km<sup>2</sup>). Analyses were executed for the total species pool and for subsets of species with high and low dispersal rates and habitat generalist and specialist species. Results: Species distributions for the total species pool on scale levels larger than 1.5 km<sup>2</sup> were unimodal, with an overrepresentation of rare species. With decreasing scale level, the proportion of common species increased, leading to weak bimodality. Distributions of subsets of slowly dispersing and habitat specialist species are on all scale levels characterised by a strongly unimodal pattern. The subset of species with high dispersal rates and habitat generalist species has a higher proportion of common species, leading to a significant core peak. Conclusions: On all scale levels both dispersal and niche limitation are hampering the wider distribution of rare species. However, since isolation and habitat heterogeneity are limited on the smaller scale levels, a larger proportion of well dispersing and habitat generalist species is able to occupy a high number of patches, resulting in a significant core peak for the total species pool.
23012745|Aims: The stress-gradient hypothesis (SGH) predicts how plant interactions change along environmental stress gradients. We tested the SGH in an aridity gradient, where support for the hypothesis and the specific shape of its response curve is controversial. Location: Almera, Cceres and Coimbra, three sites in the Iberian Peninsula that encompass the most arid and wet habitats in the distribution range of a nurse shrub species  Retama sphaerocarpa L. (Boiss)  in Europe. Methods: We analysed the effect of Retama on its understorey plant community and measured the biomass and species richness beneath Retama and in gaps. We estimated the frequency (changes in species richness), importance and intensity of the Retama effects, and derived the severityinteraction relationship pattern, analysing how these interaction indices changed along this aridity gradient. Results and conclusions: The intensity and frequency of facilitation by Retama increased monotonically with increasing environmental severity, and the importance tended to have a similar pattern, overall supporting the SGH. Our data did not support predictions from recent revisions of the SGH, which may not apply to whole plant communities like those studied here or when interactions are highly asymmetrical. Facilitation by Retama influenced community composition and species richness to the point that a significant fraction of species found at the most arid end of the gradient were only able to survive beneath the nurse shrub, whereas some of these species were able to thrive in gaps at more mesic sites, highlighting the ecological relevance of facilitation by nurse species in mediterranean environments, especially in the driest sites.
3237023|Studies were conducted on 41 five yr-old common beech (Fagus sylvatica) saplings collected in an old-growth beech wood (Fontainebleau forest, biological reserve of La Tillaie, France), under varying humus and light conditions, following gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar) caterpillar injuries. Aerial and subterranean parts of each sapling were described by means of 34 parameters and environmental conditions at the microsite, where each sapling was excavated, were characterized by 23 parameters. The development of beech saplings is strongly affected by microsite conditions. An increase in sapling size was associated with darkness of the A-horizon, typical of zones with poor mineralization of organic matter. Light conditions were more important in influencing the development of the root system than that of the aerial parts. Rooting depth was shallower and rate of mycorrhiza development by the black ascomycete Cenococcum geophilum was lower in microsites receiving incident light during the morning than in those never receiving incident light during this period. Results are discussed in the frame of survival of young beech individuals in varying environmental conditions, when submitted to competition by other vegetation and adverse climate conditions.
3237351| Fine-scale structure of a species-rich grassland was examined for seasonal changes caused by manipulated changes in the availability of above and below-ground resources (additional illumination with the help of mirrors and fertilization) in a field experiment. If changes induced by fertilization - which are expected to lead to a reduction in small-scale diversity -are due to intensified light competition, they should be compensated for by additional light input. Permanent plots of 40 cm x 40 cm were sampled by the point quadrat method at three angles (60, 90 and 120 from the horizontal North-South direction), using a laser beam to position the quadrats, in early July and early September. The applied treatments did not cause apparent changes in plant leaf orientation. The degree of spatial aggregation of biomass increased seasonally in fertilized, non-illuminated plots: greater productivity at a constant light supply led to a faster growth rate of potentially dominant species, as compared to the subordinate ones. Additional illumination mitigated this effect of fertilization, indicating that the observed changes in biomass aggregation were due to increased light competition. There was a considerable seasonal decrease of variance ratio (ratio of observed variance of richness at a point and variance expected at random) in fertilized only and in illuminated only plots. In fertilized plots this was due to the positive relationship between biomass aggregation and expected variance of richness. Biomass constancy occurs to be inversely related to deficit in variance of richness. In illuminated plots, in contrast, only the observed variance of richness decreased seasonally, indicating a more uniform use of space by different species. Evidently, a deficit in variance of richness can be caused by drastically different processes, showing that the variance ratio statistic may not have a significant explanatory value in fine-scale community studies. 
25173237|Question: What are the physical and chemical effects of plant litter on annual grassland community composition, above-ground net primary production (ANPP), and density? Location: California annual grassland. Methods: We manipulated litter and light levels independently and in concert. Litter removal and litter addition treatments tested both the physical and chemical impacts of litter's presence. We additionally simulated the effect of litter physical shading by using shade cloth, and added powdered litter to test for the chemical impacts of decomposing litter. Results: Increased whole litter and shading decreased grass germination and establishment, but not that of forbs or legumes. Species shifts occurred within all groups across treatments, including a transition from small-seeded to large-seeded grass and legume species with increased shading. ANPP was highest in control plots (473  59 g/m), and species richness was highest in litter removal plots. While the physical effects of litter via shading were significant, the chemical effects of adding powdered litter were negligible. Conclusions: This work suggests that over one growing season, the physical impacts of litter are more important than chemical impacts in shaping community structure and ANPP in annual grasslands. Changes in light availability with altered litter inputs drive shifts in species and functional group composition. Litter feedbacks to ANPP and species composition of local patches may help maintain diversity and stabilize ANPP in this grassland.
40925473|Question: We studied vegetation succession after drainage in a bog, as an analogue for potential persistent water table drawdown due to climate change. We asked: (1) how does bog vegetation change following a long-term water table lowering and (2) how are effects of drainage on hydrology and vegetation distributed temporally and spatially? Location: Mer Bleue peatland, Ontario, Canada (45.41 N 75.48W). Methods: Analyses of changes in vegetation and hydrology associated with drainage were examined spatially along a hydrosequence and temporally using paleoecological reconstructions from peat cores (testate amoebae, pollen) in a drained portion of a peatland untouched for 85 years following drainage. Relationships between modern vegetation and water table were assessed through clustering and ordination analyses of vegetation relevs. Results: Post-drainage increases in tree cover, especially Betula and Larix, decreases in Sphagnum cover and shifts in species composition of dominant shrubs were observed. Present-day vegetation patterns along the hydrosequence were primarily related to seasonal variability of water table depth. Paleoecological records reveal that where the present-day vegetation has been impacted by drainage, persistent water table lowering occurred in response to drainage. However, in an area with relatively natural vegetation, a transient drop in water table depth occurred at the time of drainage. Conclusions: Temporal and spatial patterns revealed that the bog response to drainage was spatially and temporally heterogeneous, and probably mediated by feedbacks among vegetation, peat structure and hydrology. Spatial patterns along the hydrosequence were similar to those observed in paleoecological reconstructions, but the use of the two complementary techniques provides additional insights.
3236229|The first 10 yr of old-field successional dynamics on the Argentine Inland Pampa were studied on a series of adjacent plots established consecutively between 1978 and 1989. We examined differences in species abundance patterns among plots in order to detect the spatial and temporal variability of succession. Perennial grasses steadily increased in cover and replaced the dominant annual species after 5 yr. Pioneer dicots persisted in older seral stages with 20 - 23 species/plot. Overall, exotic species (mostly the grasses Lolium multiflorum and Cynodon dactylon) contributed much to the plant cover in these communities. Native grasses comprised 45 % of total cover at years 7 - 10 of succession, but occurred with less than 7 species/plot. Substantial variation was found in the successional pathway, which reflected the particular sequence from annual forbs to short-lived and perennial grasses in the various plots. The course of succession was apparently influenced by a 2-yr period of unusually high rainfall. Deyeuxia viridiflavescens, a native perennial grass virtually absent before the wet period, spread over the study area and dominated seral communities for 3 yr, irrespective of plot age. Climatic conditions thus affected the successional turnover of life forms by increasing the rate of colonization by perennial grasses. We further point out the constraints imposed on secondary succession by the life histories of 'available' species.
3237113| Most species-rich grasslands dominated by Themeda triandra in southeastern Australia have been ungrazed and frequently burnt for decades. The seedling emergence technique was used to determine the size and taxonomic composition of the soil seed bank of five grasslands that had different fire histories (i.e. burnt at 1 yr, 3 yr and  10 yr intervals) and this was compared to the standing vegetation at each site. A nested sampling design (subplot, plot, site) was used to determine the effect of spatial scale on the patterns observed in both the vegetation and the seed bank. Temporal variation in the seed bank was assessed by repeated soil sampling over a two year period. 61 native and 30 exotic species were recorded in the vegetation. Richness varied more between sites than within sites. Sites were therefore internally homogeneous for species richness. However, no correlation between burning frequency and richness was found. DCA ordination separated the sites into distinct groups, but sites with similar fire history did not necessarily group closely. 60 taxa germinated from the soil seed bank, comprising 32 native and 28 exotic species; 11 species, mostly therophytes, were restricted to the seed bank. The richness of the seed bank was significantly lower than the vegetation at all spatial scales. No correlation between seed bank richness and fire history was found. The seed bank of species-rich grasslands is dominated by a limited number of widespread, highly clumped, annual, native and exotic monocots. Most native hemicryptophytes, and perennials in general, were represented in the soil by a transient seed bank. Only 12 % of study species, all therophytes, were considered to form large, persistent seed banks, the size of which was greater in unburnt grasslands at all times of the year. The distinct floristic patterns observed in the vegetation are less clearly represented in the seed bank. The seed bank represents a floristically distinct (and less variable) component of the vegetation when compared to the standing flora. The size of the long-term soil seed bank suggests that it has little functional importance for many native species and probably contributes little to seedling regeneration processes following disturbance. Altering established fire regimes is likely to only change the composition and small-scale richness of the existing site vegetation and will not re-integrate species previously lost from the vegetation due to past management. It is suggested that the maintenance of vegetation remnants and processes that encompass a range of long-term burning histories will be necessary if the flora is to be conserved in situ. Restoration of degraded grasslands cannot rely on the soil seed bank but rather, will be dependent on the reintroduction of propagules. 
25549268|Question: 1. How do the competitive response and the importance of competition vary between species and along a flooding gradient? 2. How does the role of competition in constraining species distribution limits along the gradient vary between lower and upper limits? Location: A 1-ha meadow within the Alzette floodplain in Luxembourg. Methods: Competitive response and importance of competition were assessed on seven meadow species differing in their tolerance to flooding. Species were cultured in monocultures and in mixtures, in three water treatments reflecting the wet, the middle and the dry end of a natural flooding gradient. We developed two models based on a multiple regression in order to express each component of competition as a function of the neighbour biomass. Results: Five species showed variations in their competitive response across water treatments; however, these species achieved either their highest or their worst competitive response in their optimal water treatment (i.e. the treatment in which the species had the highest biomass in monoculture). Competition was more important for the flood-tolerant species in the dry treatment than for the flood-intolerant species in the wet treatment. Conclusions: 1. Variations in species competitive responses along flooding gradients may be the result of either an amplified effect between competition and hydrological stresses, or a hierarchical effect of stress over competition. 2. The role of competition is more important in constraining the upper distribution limits of the flood-tolerant species than the lower limits of the flood-intolerant species along flooding gradients.
3236476|Question: Is plant capacity to regrow under different herbivore treatments related to herbivore increaser/decreaser plant status? Location: Grassland in Southeast England (GR 41/944691). Methods: A field experiment was established in order to understand the role of plant tolerance to herbivory in explaining the abundance of nine grassland species previously known as herbivore increasers or decreasers. Tolerance was measured as a plant's capacity to regrow after exposure to herbivores. The experiment was designed to measure the impact of rabbits, molluscs, insects and clipping (artificial damage). Plants were propagated by stolons, exposed to different treatments in the field and then allowed to recover in the greenhouse for a month Results: Previous studies have stated that plants that are able to persist in a herbivore environment could be tolerant or resistant, in agreement with the later our results showed that rabbit increaser plants were tolerant to herbivory in terms of biomass regrowth. Nonetheless, insect and mollusc increasers did not show any particular pattern related to plant compensation and some decreaser species were intolerant. Conclusions: This study shows that tolerance to herbivory could be an important mechanism for rabbit increaser species survival in grazed ecosystems.
3235985|Plant macrofossils extracted from fossil woodrat (Neotoma spp.) middens at a single locale in the northwestern Great Basin were used to examine vegetation dynamics during the last 30 000 yr. Although the modern assemblage of xeric species at the study site is a recent occurrence, a large proportion of the modern plant taxa near the study locale were also found 12 000 - 30 000 yr BP. The persistence of extant species through time was likely facilitated by within-species genetic diversity and the formation of coenospecies. The diverse topographic and microhabitat features in the northwestern Great Basin also allowed different species to coexist during glacial periods. Changes in species composition occurred during two time intervals: 20 000 - 30 000 and 10 000 - 12 000 yr BP. Vegetation changes during 20 000 - 30 000 yr BP were cyclic; community composition oscillated between two groups of taxa. Vegetation changes between 10 000 - 12 000 yr BP occurred during the Pleistocene-Holocene transition and were largely directional from the Pleistocene assemblages through two transition assemblages to a Holocene assemblage. These changes in species composition generally reflect changes in climate. The presence of relatively mesic species during 10 00030 000 yr BP is consistent with the regional late-Pleistocene climate, and the gradual loss of relatively mesic species during the Holocene parallels the change to a more xeric climate. Contrasted with other areas of North America and Europe, the magnitude of vegetation changes at our study area were relatively small. Furthermore, the persistence of many species through time at this site in the northwestern Great Basin also differs from results at other study sites in North America and Europe. These differences are probably related to land form characteristics and genetic diversity within species.
3236822|We analysed the biogeographic patterns of woody legumes in the Baja California peninsula, NW Mexico. From the specimen labels of eight herbaria, we digitized 4205 records from 78 species, and projected them onto a grid of 205 cartographic cells (20' longitude x 15' latitude). Most species followed distribution patterns that coincide with floristic subdivisions of the peninsula. Endemism is high, reaching 60 70% in the centre of the peninsula, where the driest deserts are found and where significant floristic changes took place during Pleistocene glacial events. The number of cartographic cells (i.e. their geographic ranges) were log-normally distributed, as has been reported for many other taxa. Floristic richness was found to be clumped around some cells where the observed richness is significantly higher than could be expected from chance variation. We tested the hypothesis that these 'hotspots' could be attributable to great collection efforts or to large land surfaces, but we still found 16 cells where richness is significantly high once these two factors are accounted for. Species richness and micro-endemism increase towards the south, conforming to Rapoport's rule that predicts that species ranges become smaller towards the equator while richness increases. The floristic hotspots for woody legumes in Baja California occur in the Cape Region and along the Sierra de la Giganta in the southern Gulf Coast, where 77% of the total peninsular legume flora can be found. These hotspots are mostly unprotected, and should be considered priority areas for future conservation efforts.
3237239|In the cool-temperate Bibi Mire, Hokkaido, Japan, valley fens and flood-plain fens have quite different vegetation. The main variables controlling the vegetation were all hydrological: mean water level, water level fluctuation and surface water flow. Chemical factors such as electrical conductivity, dissolved oxygen and related peat decomposition were less important. The pH was about neutral and has little effect. The flood-plain fen developed under fluctuating water table conditions. The dominant species are Calamagrostis langsdorffii and Carex pseudocuraica. When temporal inundation occurs in the rainy or typhoon seasons, the submergence stimulates bud germination of the stoloniferous C. pseudocuraica, which can rapidly elongate its stolons upward. Some large floating peat mats occurred in the flood-plain fen zone. On these mats some Alnus japonica saplings establish and patches of alder forest can arise. Here the water level was higher than in the peripheral alder forest zone. The valley fen is dominated by Carex lasiocarpa var. occultans and/or C. limosa. It is formed under stable water table conditions in the inundated parts of the mire-where the non-inundated wet areas are dominated by alder trees. In the area where the surface water is flowing, these two fen sedges grow in deeper water since the high oxygen content is considered to compensate the flooding stress.
3235823|Nutrient utilization and growth performance of Pinus roxburghii Sarg. and Quercus leucotrichophora A. Camus, the two major forest trees of the Central Himalaya Mountains between 1000 and 2000 m elevation, were analysed at different nutrient levels. The early successional P. roxburghii occurs naturally on nutrient-poor sites and the late successional Q. leucotrichophora on nutrient-rich sites. Seedlings of these two species were grown both in monoculture and mixed, in plastic bags containing 1 kg soil and representing five levels of nutrients (NPK) in a 12 : 32 : 16 ratio. The P. roxburghii seedlings showed significantly greater nutrient extraction efficiency (nutrient unit extracted by seedlings per nutrient unit in the soil) than the Q. leucotrichophora seedlings, and this difference was increased in interspecific competition, particularly at the higher nutrient levels. In interspecific competition the extraction efficiencies of P. roxburghii for N, P and K were distinctly higher than those of Q. leucotrichophora. This we consider to be the main reason for the replacement of Q. leucotrichophora by P. roxburghii, even on nutrient-rich soils, after disturbance and subsequent increase in light availability. In both the species, re-translocation of nutrients from senescing leaves declined with increasing soil fertility. For example, re-translocation for P. roxburghii was 49% N, 30% P and 32% K at the lowest soil fertility, and 20% N, 8% P and 13% K at the highest soil fertility.
3236738|We investigated the spatial and temporal pattern of edge influence on primary (forest structure) and secondary (understory structure and composition) responses at forest edges next to regenerating clear-cuts in Populus-dominated boreal forest in Alberta, Canada. We used before/after-harvest comparisons to determine whether there were significant effects of edge creation in the first and second year after harvest. We also investigated 5- and 16-yr-old edges to determine whether their structure and composition were significantly different from interior forest. Distance of edge influence (20-60 m) was not extensive compared to findings from studies conducted in other forest types. In the first two years after harvest, there were significant primary responses to edge creation including increased tree mortality, snag breakage and amount of downed coarse woody debris; as well as secondary responses including prolific vegetative regeneration of Populus spp. and a decrease in total shrub cover. Significant edge effects were still detectable 5 and 16 yr after edge creation, despite the rapid regeneration of Populus- dominated forest in the adjacent clear-cuts. These older edges showed evidence of past primary and secondary responses, including a more heterogeneous canopy, along with additional changes in understory composition. At both younger and older edges the distance of edge influence was greater for secondary responses (up to 60 m) than for primary responses (10-20 m). We hypothesize that secondary responses to edge creation start later than primary responses and that the distance of edge influence is greater for secondary (vs. primary) responses.
3236608|On Tenerife, the occurrence of environmental gradients over short distances provides a unique opportunity to investigate the relationship between vegetation and environmental factors. In the semi-arid coastal region of Tenerife, floristic composition, species richness and vegetation structure of perennial plants have been studied in 67 locations covering the existing precipitation gradient. On the island as a whole, variation in species composition could be best explained by mean annual precipitation; at coastal sites, substrate age and soil characteristics also played a significant role. On the other hand, substrate chemistry and the type of eruptive material explained little of the floristic variation. Stand biomass was strongly correlated with mean annual precipitation and was, on the youngest lava flows studied, also affected by substrate age. The native stem succulent species made up the bulk of total biomass along the whole precipitation gradient. Disturbed and undisturbed sites differed significantly in stand biomass and cover. Species richness was correlated with precipitation and substrate age. Distribution of plant functional types was also related to the precipitation gradient. The relative abundance of hemicryptophytes and shrubs with non-hairy leaves increased with increasing precipitation whereas the ratio of shrubs with hairy/ non-hairy leaves and succulent plants decreased. Some alien plants were quite frequent at disturbed sites but, on the whole, they contributed little to the species spectrum and to the stand biomass. Undisturbed sites remained almost free of introduced species not considering annuals.
3236465| Vegetation arcs are characterized by dense patches of up to 100 % plant cover surrounded by bare areas where cover is around 5 %. These patterns of contracted vegetation have been reported mainly in alluvial fans of arid and semiarid zones (known as bajadas) with gentle slopes (0.2 - 2 %), summer rainfall, and heavy showers that run as sheet-flow. It has been suggested that run-off water from bare areas is stopped at the front of the arcs and, depending on the amount of rainfall, may advance superficially into the arc, reaching the downslope limit less often. These dynamics would imply a gradient of water availability inside the arc, higher at the upper edge. We termed this the moisture gradient hypothesis. We indirectly tested this hypothesis by following the demography of a cohort of stems of the honey mesquite Prosopis glandulosa var. torreyana in three vegetation arcs and their corresponding bare areas during a yearly cycle at the Bolsn de Mapim in the Chihuahuan Desert. We selectively removed different plant life-forms (trees, shrubs and herbs) in three positions within the arcs; no manipulation was possible in the bare areas due to low plant cover. The results suggested that removal of other plant life-forms, mainly grasses, affected growth and survival of mesquite low (but not high) stems, making them accessible to medium-sized mammal browsers (jackrabbits and packrats). These results suggest that, at least for the honey mesquite, water availability in vegetation arcs was not the most strongly limiting factor for shoot performance and demography, and that browsing damage, a biotic constraint, took precedence over resource limitation. 
3236212|Vegetation, water table depth and water chemistry of 16 peatlands in the southern Alps, Italy, were analysed in 115 sample plots. A poor-rich gradient could be detected along the first axis of a partial Detrended Canonical Correspondence Analysis. Both vegetation and hydrochemistry vary gradually along the gradient. Vascular plants have much broader niches along the gradient than bryophytes. Mosses (except Sphangnum) and hepatics have narrower niches than Sphagnum. The various species of Sphagnum segregate more clearly from each other along the moisture gradient than along the poor-rich one. The positions of species optima along the latter gradient largely reflect the ecological preferences of mire plants in peatlands with respect to nutrient status.
4096711|Questions: How do gap abundance and the spatial pattern of trees and snags change throughout stand development in Picea mariana forests? Does spatial pattern differ among site types and structural components of a forest? Location: Boreal forests dominated by Picea mariana, northern Quebec and Ontario, Canada. Methods: Data on the abundance, characteristics and spatial location of trees, snags and gaps were collected along 200 m transects at 91 sites along a chronosequence. Spatial analyses included 3TLQV, NLV and autocorrelation analysis. Nonparametric analyses were used to analyse trends with time and differences among structural components and site types. Results: Gaps became more abundant, numerous and more evenly distributed with time. At distances of 1-4 m, tree cover, sapling density and snag density became more heterogeneous with time. Tree cover appeared to be more uniform for the 10-33 m interval, although this was not significant. Patch size and variance at 1 m were greater for overstorey than for understorey tree cover. Snags were less spatially variable than trees at 1 m, but more so at intermediate distances (4 - 8 m). Few significant differences were found among site types. Conclusions: During stand development in P. mariana forest, gaps formed by tree mortality are filled in slowly due to poor regeneration and growth, leading to greater gap abundance and clumping of trees and snags at fine scales. At broader scales, patchy regeneration is followed by homogenization of forest stands as trees become smaller with low productivity due to paludification.
25173201|Questions: Is plant diversity in mesic grassland ecosystems vulnerable in the short-term to extreme climate change events? How rapidly can responses in vegetation composition occur in perennial grasslands? Are the expected compositional changes related to rare species losses or to shifts in the relative abundance of the dominants? Location: Subalpine mesic grasslands on limestone in the Pyrenees. Methods: Transplanting turves from the upland, with cold-temperate climate, to a lowland location, with continental Mediterranean climate. Results: Transplanting led to decreased biodiversity and strong shifts in vegetation composition. Results from both permutation tests and traditional multivariate analysis suggested different trajectories of vegetation depending on the initial species pool. Vegetation showed a tendency to converge in composition in the lowland over time, independently of initial differences. Estimated changes in relative biomass of the five most abundant species between the upland and the lowland ranged from -89 to +96%. The ensemble of all other species was reduced by 80%. The most dominant species in the upland, Festuca nigrescens, reduced its abundance in the lowland, shifting from having mainly positive to mainly negative associations with other species. Conclusions: Mesic grassland ecosystems in the Pyrenees showed strong shifts in plant diversity and composition after a short period of warming and drought, as a consequence of acute vulnerability of some dominant grasses, losses of rare species, and aggregate and trigger effects of originally uncommon forb species.
3236160|Primary production as measured by annual mean litter fall in the Lower Cache near Perks, Illinois, was the lowest recorded for cypress swamps (2345.5 kg/ha/yr). This swamp is continuously flooded with a low input of phosphorus (< 0.24 mg l). Rates of leaf litter decomposition were higher in the Lower Cache for Taxodium distichum than in swamps to the south of the region. The winter rates of leaf litter decomposition in the Lower Cache were slower than summer rates for Cephalanthus occidentalis, Echinochloa muricata, Polygonum pensylvanicum, Jussisaea repens, Taxodium distichum, and Eleocharis obtusa, but not for Typha latifolia. Because the 99 % turnover rates for these species (0.69-5.10 years) often exceeds one year, undecomposed litter can be expected to accumulate or be exported from the system. Most leaves are shed in the autumn (October through December; 83.6 %).
40295778|Question: Static sampling designs for collecting spatial data efficiently are being readily utilized by ecologists, however, most ecological systems involve a multivariate spatial process that evolves dynamically over time. Efficient monitoring of such spatio-temporal systems can be achieved by modeling the dynamic system and reducing the uncertainty associated with the effect of design choice at future observation times. However, can we combine traditional techniques with dynamic methods to find optimal dynamic sampling designs for monitoring the succession of a herbaceous community? Location: Lower Hamburg Bend Conservation Area, Missouri, USA (40 34'42" lat. 95 45' 38" long.). Methods: The dynamic nature of the system under study is modeled in such a way that uncertainty in the measurements and temporal process can both be accounted for. Both fixed and roving monitoring locations were used in conjunction with a spatio-temporal statistical model to efficiently determine optimal locations of roving monitors over time based on the reduction of uncertainty in predictions. Results: During the first 3 years of the study, roving monitors where held at fixed locations to allow for statistical parameter estimation from which to make predictions. Optimal monitoring locations for the remaining 2 years were selected based on the overall reduction in prediction uncertainty. Conclusions: The dynamic and adaptive vegetation monitoring scheme allowed for the efficient collection of data that will be utilized for many future ecological studies. By optimally placing an additional set of monitoring locations, we were able to utilize information about the system dynamics when informing the data collection process.
3236442|Heracleum mantegazzianum, a tall forb from the western Caucasus invaded several different habitats in the Czech Republic. The relation between invasion success and type of recipient habitat was studied in the Slavkovsky les hilly ridge, Czech Republic. The vegetation of 14 habitat types occurring in an area of ca. 25 km<sup>2</sup> was analysed using phytosociological releves, and the invasion success of Heracleum (in terms of number of localities, area covered and proportion of available area occupied) was recorded separately in each of them. Site conditions were expressed indirectly using Ellenberg indicator values. The hypothesis tested was that Heracleum spreads in the majority of vegetation types regardless of the properties of the recipient vegetation. Community invasibility appeared to be affected by site conditions and the composition of the recipient vegetation. The species is not found in acidic habitats. Disturbed habitats with good possibilities of dispersal for Heracleum seeds are more easily invaded. Communities with a higher proportion of phanerophytes and of species with CS (Competitive/Stress-tolerating) strategy were more resistant to invasion. The invasion success was bigger in sites with increased possibilities of spread for Heracleum diaspores. Communities invaded by Heracleum had a lower species diversity and a higher indicator value for nitrogen than not-invaded stands. It appears that species contributing to community resistance against invasion of Heracleum, or capable of persisting in Heracleum-invaded stands, have similar ecological requirements but a different life strategy to the invader.
3235901|Savanna vegetation and pertinent soil features were studied on 43 sites in a dry tropical forest region of India. Grazing intensity ranged from 0.68 to 0.98. Soil moisture was positively related to the proportion of fine soil particles (< 0.1 mm), and the latter decreased while the proportion of coarse particles (2.0-0.5 mm) increased with increasing grazing intensity. Canopy biomass ranged from 28 to 104 g/m<sup>2</sup> in grazed communities and from 230 to 337 g/m<sup>2</sup> in ungrazed communities and was positively related to vegetation cover which ranged between 30 - 72 % in grazed and 68 - 91 % in ungrazed communities. Vegetation cover was negatively related to grazing intensity. Species richness and diversity were highest at low grazing intensity. Using community coefficients and Detrended Correspondence Analysis, the grazed stands were clustered into six and the ungrazed ones into three communities. The grazed communities were recognised as degradation stages and the ungrazed ones as recovery stages. Only five grass species, in various combinations were able to dominate in one of the different stages. Evidently the harsh climatic conditions (high temperatures, high variability in rainfall and a long dry period) in the region permit only a few species already adapted to these conditions to participate in the succession.
4499160|Question: To which extent do external ecological factors effect Corynephorus grassland vegetation? Location: Central Netherlands. Methods: We implemented different treatments (sand deposition, litter deposition, nitrogen input, mechanical disturbance, control) in permanent plots representing different successional phases in Corynephorus grassland. Plots were recorded just before the treatments and during the subsequent two years. Vegetation changes were analysed by Redundancy Analysis for repeated measurements and Correspondence Analysis, changes in single species abundances by ANOVA. Results: Species composition hardly changed during the observation period. Several single species abundances showed significant responses to different treatments, most often decrements as direct effects of cover, removal, or dieback. However, Corynephorus canescens and Polytrichum piliferum benefited from sand deposition, the exotic moss Campylopus introflexus from litter deposition. In the colonization phase Polytrichum, Campylopus and Cladonia diversa increased irrespective treatment. Therophytes such as Spergula morisonii showed the strongest negative response to drought, grasses (e.g. Corynephorus canescens) and bryophytes (e.g. Polytrichum piliferum) were less susceptible. Most lichens did not respond at all. Conclusions: The experiment confirms the high stability of Corynephorus grassland vegetation. Most vegetation changes are in accordance with the hypothetical series of successional phases. In contrast, changes in abundance of single species express considerable dynamics within the vegetation. Species responses also depend on extreme weather conditions as well as on the successional phase of the grassland vegetation and therefore on the competition situation.
3237328|Field reconnaissance data are used in a supervised classification of a 1989 Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) scene to create a digital database of high and low quality grasslands for northwestern Kansas. To test the classification of grassland quality, plot-based vegetation data collected from 32 sites are analyzed for differences in species composition, and evaluated for relationships between TM data and plant diversity. Significant differences between predicted high and low quality grassland sites are identified for the following variables: cover of the dominant and common species, overall species richness, number of forbs, number of grasses, and plant diversity using Shannon's index. Linear regression analysis reveals a significant relationship (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.61) between species diversity and the prediction of grassland quality from the supervised classification. The addition of spectral data to this model did not improve the prediction of species diversity, but spectral brightness is identified as a key feature in mapping shortgrass vegetation diversity patterns with TM data.
40295781|Question: In managed forests, woody plant richness shows great variations in pattern. Herein we try to elucidate the role of major factors, such as successional status, to explain this variation. Assuming that less competitive or disturbance-sensitive species will be systematically more prone to disappear, we investigate the existence of nonrandom patterns of species impoverishment -i. e., the number of species unable to attain maximal richness -and the ecological and successional status of species associated with impoverishment in relation to a regional climatic gradient. Methods: We explored species composition in approximately 7500 forest plots in Catalonia (NE Spain). We evaluated non-random patterns of species impoverishment by analyzing their nestedness. Multivariate analysis was used to relate environmental variables and impoverishment to species occurrence. Plot successional status and ecological range were also estimated from species composition, and species impoverishment was then correlated to these estimators. Results: Most forests show a non-random pattern of species loss: poor stands tend to retain the same species, and the species determining high richness tend to be the same. Late successional species tend to be more common in impoverished plots of drier and warmer forests, while species typical of open or disturbed habitats are more common in impoverished plots of moister and colder forests. Communities dominated by early or late successional species are mostly impoverished, while the richest stands are constituted by species of intermediate stages. Forests dominated by species with a narrow or wide ecological range showed high impoverishment levels, while the richest stands had species with an intermediate ecological range. Discussion: In warmer Mediterranean forests, impoverishment tends to be associated with late successional stages, while in moister and colder forests, species loss is more closely related to disturbance and exploitation. This study reveals the difficulties involved in using species richness as a simple descriptor of the degree of forest conservation. Identification of dominant species and species indicative of ecological processes would constitute an easily applicable practice that would consolidate assessment of forests status.
4096724| Question: Underlying ecological processes have often been inferred from the analysis of spatial patterns in ecosystems. Using an individual-based model, we evaluate whether basic assumptions of species' life-history, drought-susceptibility, and shade tolerance generate dynamics that replicate patterns between and within forest stands. Location: Virginia piedmont, USA. Method: Model verification examines the transition in forest composition and stand structure between mesic, intermediate and xeric sites. At each site, tree location, diameter, and status were recorded in square plots ranging from 0.25 to 1.0 ha. Model validation examines the simulated spatial pattern of individual trees at scales of 1-25 m within each forest site using a univariate Ripley's K function. Results: 7512 live and dead trees were surveyed across all sites. All sites exhibit a consistent, significant shift in pattern for live trees by size, progressing from a clumped understorey (trees  0.1 m in diameter) to a uniform overstorey (trees > 0.25 m). Simulation results reflect not only the general shift in pattern of trees at appropriate scales within sites, but also the general transition in species composition and stand structure between sites. Conclusions: This shift has been observed in other forest ecosystems and interpreted as a result of competition; however, this hypothesis has seldom been evaluated using simulation models. These results support the hypothesis that forest pattern in the Virginia piedmont results from competition involving species' life-history attributes driven by soil moisture availability between sites and light availability within sites. 
3236240|To test if low soil fertility and competition limit the performance of Mediterranean shrubs, and if the effects of competition on plant performance were modified by soil fertility, we subjected shrubs of Erica multiflora to a factorial field experiment of fertilization and removal of neighbours around target plants. After 18 months of treatment, fertilization had stimulated the growth of pre-existent sprouts and biomass allocation into stems to new sprouts, but decreased the frequency of sprout flowering. Removal of neighbours increased the number and biomass of new sprouts, the probability of sprout flowering and the biomass of flowers. Fertilization slightly enhanced sprout recruitment and the probability of sprout flowering when neighbours were removed, but did not modify the other parameters of plant performance. According to our results, both low soil fertility and competition limited plant performance. Competition was slightly more intense in fertilized plants, but only in determining sprout and flowering bud stimulation.
4096677|Question: Is the relation between productivity and species richness due to an increase in plant size and hence a reduced plant density? Location: Glasshouse experiment. Methods: Productivity was manipulated with fertilizer and irrigation in a microcosm experiment. The 'sampling effect' was removed using rarefaction to a common density of individual plants per pot. Results: Fertility increased community biomass towards an asymptotic maximum, and reduced the light passing through plant canopies towards an asymptotic minimum. As biomass increased, so did species richness. However, this did not seem to be a direct effect of productivity on species richness, but rather one mediated by plant density, since: (1) the richness/density relation was stronger than the richness/biomass one; (2) adding biomass to the richness/density regression did not increase its predictivity; (3) the richness/biomass relation was removed by rarefaction to 200 individuals per pot. It is therefore concluded that the richness/biomass relation observed was due to the sampling effect. Rarefaction to a small number of plants gave a quite different trend: lower richness at high biomass. This seems to be due to an increased number of subordinate species at high community biomass, and a more uneven distribution of abundance. Conclusion: The Competitive Exclusion and No-Interaction hypotheses have been seen as alternatives. We suggest that they can operate simultaneously.
3236772|Vegetation changes in a semi-natural grassland of wooded meadow type that had been grazed for centuries are described following the introduction of various management regimes: mowing each year, mowing every third year, burning, mechanical removal of woody plants, chemical treatment of woody plants, continuous grazing and abandonment. The experiment was established in southern Sweden in 1972 and has been in progress for 15 years. In 1972, 1980 and 1986 the botanical composition in these plots was investigated in permanent subplots. The study clearly demonstrates that mowing or grazing is necessary to preserve community structure and that mowing is to be preferred in cases where maintaining species richness is of primary concern. Mowing every third year delayed vegetation change and prevented woody species from spreading. Therefore, periodic mowing might be an alternative way to preserve the flora. In contrast, yearly burning does not seem to be a viable management in this type of semi-natural grassland. To preserve the open landscape regeneration of woody plants has to be prevented. However, in plots where woody plants were removed the typical grassland flora declined. Abandonment resulted in closed forest.
3236126| The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relative importance of small-scale variation in abiotic factors and large-scale spatio-temporal variation on the distribution of wetland vegetation of a section of the Upper St. Lawrence River in Qubec. Vegetation data have been classified with agglomerative clustering into 11 community types, from Acer rubrum, Acer saccharinum and Fraxinus swamps, to scrubs dominated by Salix petiolaris, Alnus rugosa var. americana or Myrica gale, to Typha, Typha/Lythrum, Carex lacustris and Calamagrostis canadensis marshes. Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CANOCO) suggested that peat thickness and water level are the most important abiotic variables correlated with plant community composition. As a whole, small-scale variation accounts for 25.6 % of the species variation. Another 21.6% is explained by large-scale variation based on location data summarizing large-scale spatial distribution, and historical landscape dynamics differentiated into (a) no net loss of wetlands, (b) net loss of wetland, and (c) changes within wetlands, which are correlated with the actual variation in herbaceous and scrubby vegetation. The interaction between small-scale and large-scale variations explains another 1.7%. In total, 48.9% of the species variation is explained by the two data sets, leaving 51.1% unexplained. Whereas the omission of some abiotic variables is possible, it is hypothesized that the abiotic conditions measured in this study play an important role, especially in the distribution of forested swamps. In addition, past history, particularly that of human interventions, becomes another important factor leading to the observed importance of large-scale spatio-temporal variables. This is particularly true for Alnus rugosa var. americana shrublands. Time lag between a relative stabilization of species distribution and the reduction of natural disturbances (water level fluctuations and fires) could be a possible cause of the importance of spatio-temporal variables and the undetermined portion of species variation. 
3237283|Many perennial plants strongly enhance the survival of seedlings of other species. We studied patterns of long-term recruitment of Quercus agrifolia (Coastal live oak) associated with shrub-dominated communities by counting Q. agrifolia recruits on a time sequence of historical aerial photographs and comparing recruitment among mapped patches of coastal sage scrub, chaparral, and grassland in an 1120-ha landscape. Because we could not identify new recruits in existing woodlands with aerial photographs, we studied the recruitment of Q. agrifolia in this vegetation type indirectly by comparing population size structures and the spatial relationships between shrubs and recruits among woodlands that varied in understory community type. At the landscape scale, recruitment was higher in coastal sage scrub vegetation than predicted by the extent of its coverage, commensurate with the spatial coverage of chaparral, and very low in grassland. Recruitment within woodland communities also varied considerably. In woodland communities on sheltered, north-oriented topography with understories dominated by shrubs, there were large numbers of small Q. agrifolia, and recruits were not significantly spatially associated with shrubs within plots. In woodlands with herbaceous understories there were few individuals in the small size classes, and recruits were strongly spatially associated with shrubs within plots. Woodlands with shrub-dominated understories have population structures that appear to be stable, but woodlands with herbaceous understories exhibit size structures associated with declining populations. Quercus recruitment into shrub-dominated patches corresponds with previous documentation of facilitative relationships between shrubs and oak seedlings, and suggests the occurrence of an unusual form of patch dynamics in these landscapes.
3236778|The possible causes for the lack of vegetation in five badland sites from southeast Spain were experimentally tested. The main factors affecting seed germination and seedling survival considered were seed availability, regolith water dynamics in relation to rain events, regolith salinity, seedling predation by herbivores and seedling removal by erosion. Four issues are addressed: 1. Both rainfall and the temporal and spatial dynamics of regolith water during the seedling emergence period were monitored in five different zones at one site (Petrer, Alicante). 2. Effects of salinity and water potential on the rate and speed of germination of local seeds were determined. 3. Seed reserve and seedling emergence and mortality were followed throughout one season. 4. Regolith characteristics of all five sites were compared and the consequences for plant colonization discussed. The main factor limiting plant colonization in these sites was the very short duration of available water in the soil, due to the physical and chemical characteristics of the regolith. In addition, high regolith salinity and its effects on seed germination, the aspect of the site and the pattern of rain events, played a very important role reducing germination and survival. Herbivory and erosion were seldom responsible for seedling mortality. However, there were no highly erosive rain events during the study period, although several have been measured during the past few years.
3236889|A previous study of the spatial patterns of Borassus aethiopum (a humid savanna palm tree) led to the following predictions: H1. Trees and termite mounds positively influence all developmental stages; H2. There is intense competition between B. aethiopum juveniles; H3. Juvenile and seedling survival and growth rates are higher away from mother plants; H4. Mound positive effect overwhelms the effect of intraspecific competition for very young B. aethiopum individuals, the reverse applies to older, non-reproductive individuals. To test for these hypotheses the potential positive and negative neighbourhood effects were analysed. Progression of seedlings into the juvenile stage and juvenile growth were analysed through logistic regression models including the effects of four neighbourhood indices designed to model the respective influence of B. aethiopum juveniles and adults, trees and termite mounds. Statistical results explain the observed spatial pattern and reveal two main neighbourhood effects that influence both B. aethiopum juveniles and seedlings: a positive effect of mounds due to the fact that they constitute nutrient-rich soil patches, and a negative effect of juveniles due to intraspecific competition. Seedlings would be mostly affected by the mound positive effect, whereas juveniles would be mostly affected by competition.
3236731|We described 38 relictual old-growth stands - with data on the mortality, regeneration, floristic richness, fuel load and disease incidence in our study area in the Tahoe Basin of California and Nevada. The stands are within the lower and upper montane zones (1900-2400 m a.s.l.) and they are rare, occupying < 2% of the land in the Basin's watershed. Correlation matrices and ANOVAs of forest types and conifer species with environmental gradients revealed significant relationships with elevation, distance east of the Sierran crest, slope aspect, annual precipitation, date of complete snow melt, litter depth and degree of soil profile development. Pathogens, parasites and wood-boring insects were present on 23% of living trees; 16% of all trees were dead. We compared these stands to a reconstruction of pre-contact Basin forests and to ecologically analogous old-growth forests of Baja California that have never experienced fire suppression management. Currently, overstorey trees (> 180 yr old) in the Basin stands have ca. 33% cover, 54 m<sup>2</sup>.ha<sup>-1</sup> basal area and 107 individuals.ha<sup>-1</sup>, values very similar to reconstructions of pre-contact Basin forests and to modern Baja California forests. Understorey trees (60-180 yr old), however, are several times more dense than historic levels and species composition is strongly dominated by A. concolor, regardless of the overstorey composition. The ratio of Pinus : Abies has increased - and the age structure of extant stands predicts that it will continue to increase - from approximately 1:1 in pre-contact time to 1:7 within the next century. Disease incidence and mortality in Baja forests were lower. Although we quantitatively defined current Basin old-growth forests - in terms of stand structure - we realize that our definition will differ from that of both past and future old-growth forests unless management protocols are changed.
3235686|Lower salt-marsh species occur more in the grazed than in the mown sites of a salt marsh in Schiermonnikoog in the Netherlands. This was demonstrated by a sowing experiment which determined which characteristic of the stand structure, height of the canopy or percentage of bare soil, is responsible for this difference. The total number of seedlings which emerged was negatively related to the height of the canopy and positively to the percentage of bare soil. The survival of seedlings of Suaeda maritima and Plantago maritima could be explained by the height of the canopy and for the latter species also by the percentage of bare soil. The survival of Aster tripolium and Plantago maritima was higher in grazed than in mown sites. Since the amount of bare soil was higher than seemed necessary for germination and survival, it was concluded that the taller canopy was responsible for the absence of lower salt-marsh species in the mown sites.
25549233|Question: Plant communities in Paleotropical savannas are regulated by a combination of bottom-up and top-down effects. However, the paucity of ungulates and other large herbivores in Neotropical savannas has led to speculation that these communities are primarily structured by physical factors such as fire, precipitation and soil chemistry. We addressed the following question: How much plant biomass is consumed by leaf-cutter ants in Neotropical savannas, and is it comparable to the amount of biomass consumed by herbivores in Paleotropical savanna sites? Location: Our study was conducted at the Estao Ecolgica do Panga, located 30 km south of Uberlndia, Minas Gerais, Brazil. All field work was conducted in the vegetation type known as cerrado sensu stricto. Methods and Results: Using direct measurements of herbivory, coupled with estimates of plant productivity and ant colony density, we found that leaf-cutter ants (Atta spp.) consume 13-17% of the foliar biomass produced annually by woody plants in a Neotropical savanna (Brazilian cerrado). Although comparisons with other savanna systems are complicated by methodological differences among studies, the proportion of biomass consumed by Atta species is about 25% of that consumed by the entire ungulate community in some African savannas and greater than or comparable to the total herbivory observed in some terrestrial ecosystems. Conclusions: We hypothesize that this intense biomass consumption by Atta will have important ecological consequences for the cerrado ecosystem, because leaf-cutter abundance increases in fragmented or degraded habitats. These effects are likely to be exacerbated as anthropogenic pressure in this biodiversity hotspot increases.
25549246|Question: How can we determine differential taxa in a vegetation data set? Methods: The new algorithm presented here uses an intuitive fidelity threshold based on relative constancy differences. It is tested on a simulated and a real data set. The results of the proposed algorithm are discussed in comparison with other methods used for the determination of differential taxa. Results: The new algorithm defines each taxon in each group of relevs as: (1) positively differentiating, (2) positively-negatively differentiating, (3) negatively differentiating, or (4) non-differentiating. Each taxon in a data set may be: (1) positively, positively-negatively or negatively differentiating for each group in the data set, (2) differentiating for some groups and non-differentiating for the remaining groups, or (3) non-differentiating for all groups in the data set. Conclusions: The new algorithm finds the relev groups that are positively differentiated against other groups that are negatively differentiated. It reveals differentiating structures in the data set and thus makes quantification of the relations among and between different syntaxonomic ranks conceivable. As it distinguishes between different types of differential taxa, it might improve standards of typification in vegetation classification.
3236497|We evaluate the potential influence of disturbance on the predictability of alpine plant species distribution from equilibrium-based habitat distribution models. Firstly, abundance data of 71 plant species were correlated with a comprehensive set of environmental variables using ordinal regression models. Subsequently, the residual spatial autocorrelation (at distances of 40 to 320 m) in these models was explored. The additional amount of variance explained by spatial structuring was compared with a set of functional traits assumed to confer advantages in disturbed or undisturbed habitats. We found significant residual spatial autocorrelation in the habitat models of most of the species that were analysed. The amount of this autocorrelation was positively correlated with the dispersal capacity of the species, levelling off with increasing spatial scale. Both trends indicate that dispersal and colonization processes, whose frequency is enhanced by disturbance, influence the distribution of many alpine plant species. Since habitat distribution models commonly ignore such spatial processes they miss an important driver of local- to landscape-scale plant distribution.
3236481|Question: Current climate changes in the Alaskan Arctic, which are characterized by increases in temperature and length of growing season, could alter vegetation structure, especially through increases in shrub cover or the movement of treeline. These changes in vegetation structure have consequences for the climate system. What is the relationship between structural complexity and partitioning of surface energy along a gradient from tundra through shrub tundra to closed canopy forest? Location: Arctic tundra-boreal forest transition in the Alaskan Arctic. Methods: Along this gradient of increasing canopy complexity, we measured key vegetation characteristics, including community composition, biomass, cover, height, leaf area index and stem area index. We relate these vegetation characteristics to albedo and the partitioning of net radiation into ground, latent, and sensible heating fluxes. Results: Canopy complexity increased along the sequence from tundra to forest due to the addition of new plant functional types. This led to non-linear changes in biomass, cover, and height in the understory. The increased canopy complexity resulted in reduced ground heat fluxes, relatively conserved latent heat fluxes and increased sensible heat fluxes. The localized warming associated with increased sensible heating over more complex canopies may amplify regional warming, causing further vegetation change in the Alaskan Arctic.
3235785|Multivariate analysis of an extensive palynological database for Europe has enabled reconstruction of broad-scale vegetation history. Whereas many major features of present vegetation patterns were established early in the Holocene, floristic composition of the forests has changed continuously up to the present day. For example, although 'mixed deciduous forests' had reached approximately their present extent in northwest Europe by 8000 B.P., Tilia peaked in abundance in these forests during the middle post glacial, whereas Pinus was most abundant in these forests during the early post-glacial and Fagus increased in abundance only in recent millennia. Pollen-climate response surfaces for major pollen taxa show how their distribution and abundance patterns relate to contemporary climate. Past forest-compositional changes were responses to climatic changes, the nature of which can be inferred from pollen-climate response surfaces. Post-glacial climate changes have been different in magnitude and direction in different regions of Europe. For example, in recent millennia the vegetation changes indicate decreasing summer temperatures in northern Europe but increasing summer temperatures in the Mediterranean region. The way in which vegetation responded to past climatic changes gives insight into the likely response of vegetation to future climate changes induced by the 'greenhouse effect'.
3236071|A general statistical framework is proposed for comparing linear models of spatial process and pattern. A spatial linear model for nested analysis of variance can be based on either fixed effects or random effects. Greig-Smith (1952) originally used a fixed effects model, but there are also examples of random effects models in the soil science literature. Assuming intrinsic stationarity for a linear model, the expectations of a spatial nested ANOVA and two term local variance (TTLV, Hill 1973) are functions of the variogram, and several examples are given. Paired quadrat variance (PQV, Ludwig & Goodall 1978) is a variogram estimator which can be used to approximate TTLV, and we provide an example from ecological data. Both nested ANOVA and TTLV can be seen as weighted lag-1 variogram estimators that are functions of support, rather than distance. We show that there are two unbiased estimators for the variogram under aggregation, and computer simulation shows that the estimator with smaller variance depends on the process autocorrelation.
3237290|Past explanations of the large disjunctions in the distribution of New Zealand's four Nothofagus species have emphasized displacement during glacial cycles followed by slow re-occupation of suitable sites, or the effects of plate tectonics coupled with ecological and/or environmental limitations to further spread. In this study the degree of equilibrium between Nothofagus distribution and environment was compared with that of other widespread tree species by statistical analysis. Generalized additive regression models were used to relate species distribution data to estimates of temperature, solar radiation, soil water deficit, atmospheric humidity, lithology and drainage. For each species, the amount of spatial patterning remaining unexplained by environment was assessed by adding a variable describing species presence/ absence on adjacent plots. Results indicate that Nothofagus species occur more frequently in environments suboptimal for tree growth, i.e. having various combinations of cool temperatures, low winter solar radiation, high root-zone water deficit, low humidity, and infertile granitic substrates. Despite these demonstrated preferences, they exhibit substantially more spatial clustering which is unexplained by environment, than most other widespread tree species. Predictions formed from regressions using environment alone confirm that several major Nothofagus disjunctions are not explicable in terms of the environmental factors used in this analysis, but more likely reflect the effects of historic displacement coupled with slowness to invade forest dominated by more rapidly dispersing endomycorrhizal species. The technique used in this study for detecting residual spatial autocorrelation after fitting explanatory variables has potentially wide application in other studies where either regression or ordination techniques are used for analysis of compositional data.
3236930|Carex curvula is a dominant sedge of European alpine tundra, exhibiting two morphological forms: C. curvula ssp. curvula (Ccc) and C. curvula ssp. rosae (Ccr). In this paper, we attempt to explore whether Ccc and Ccr are ecotypes or vicariant forms and whether between- and within-regional distribution patterns can be explained by variations in the amount of available habitats and/or by changes in niche attributes. The study area covered three bioclimatically distinct regions of the southwestern Alps in which local abundances of Ccc and Ccr strongly differ. The realized niche of both forms was investigated by a direct gradient analysis performed on an extensive floristic and environmental data set. We found no evidence of niche overlap between Ccc and Ccr as their distribution curves differ strongly along disturbance, mesotopography and soil acidity gradients. We investigated the effect of region on the structure of local scale variables tables. Highly concordant patterns among regions were found, except that optimal habitat conditions for Ccc were infrequent in the southernmost regions. We compared the ecological behaviour of range centre and range margin populations of each form. We found a narrower ecological amplitude for Ccr in the northern part of its range, whereas for Ccc the niche breadth of range-margin populations was not reduced compared to range centre populations. At its southern range limit, Ccc mostly occupies ecologically marginal habitats. We conclude that Ccc and Ccr represent ecotypes, not vicariant forms. Finally, we suggest that habitat availability, resulting from the interplay of regional-scale and local-scale variables, satisfactorily explains the distributional patterns of Carex curvula ecotypes in the southwestern Alps.
3236742|Winter and summer annuals in the Chihuahuan Desert have been intensively studied in recent years but little is known about the similarities and differences in the dynamics between these two communities. Using 15 yr of census data from permanent quadrats, this paper compared the characteristics and temporal dynamics of these two distinct, spatially co-existent but temporally segregated communities. Although the total number of summer annual species recorded during our 15 yr of observation was higher than winter annuals, the mean number of species observed each year was higher in the winter community. The winter community exhibited lower temporal variation in total plant abundance and populations of individual species, lower species turnover rate and higher evenness than the summer community. The rank abundances of species in winter were significantly positively correlated for a period of up to 7 yr while in summer significant positive correlations in rank abundance disappeared after 2 to 3 yr. The higher seasonal species diversity (i.e. number of species observed in each season) in winter rather than the overall special pool (over 15 yr) may be responsible for the greater community stability of winter annuals. The difference in long-term community dynamics between the two communities of annual plants are likely due to the differences in total species pool, life history traits (e.g. seed size), and seasonal climatic regimes.
3237150|Plant competition in communities subjected to stress and disturbance is an important ecological issue. We review studies on plant competition in mediterranean-type plant communities in order to discuss its effect on plant- and plant community structure, to determine the type of competition that takes place and the interaction between competition and effects of fire. Competition can intermittently effect all stages of the plant life cycle. Water and light seem to be the most frequent resources for which plants compete. Competition for nutrients also occurs and seems to be more intense when nutrient availability is high. Plant interference through allelopathy is also important. Competition may also occur after fire but it is not clear if it is less intense than in mature stands. As most of the studies have been carried out in California. More field experiments that combine the effect of competition and fire along with environmental gradients differing in water and nutrient levels should be conducted in other mediterranean regions in order to draw generalizations on the mechanisms of competition in plant communities.
4499179|Question: To what extent do surrogate approaches to vegetation description provide equivalent data and estimates of the patterns of variability in species composition to that which would be obtained using species-level abundance data? Locations: Picos de Europa in Northern Spain and South Uist, Outer Hebrides, Scotland, UK. Methods: Percentage cover data were collected from 117 plots in montane and sub-alpine grassland and woodland mosaics in the Picos de Europa and 217 quadrats across a gradient from temperate coastal dunes to upland grassland and heath on South Uist. From these data, 14 surrogate datasets were derived using supra-species (genus, family) levels of description, presence-absence, life form, growth form and plant functional types (PFTs; derived from seven easily measurable traits). The descriptive power of each of the 14 surrogate datasets in each area, relative to the original cover abundance dataset, was assessed by 'second stage' analysis, based on Spearman's rank correlation coefficient calculated between pairs of similarity matrices. Results: In both areas, presence-absence data showed the closest similarities to the original cover abundance data, followed by data generalised at supra-species level. PFT, life form, growth form and leaf trait data were less similar. Conclusions: Many situations exist where it may be more efficient or desirable to collect neither species nor abundance data and to use appropriate surrogates. The results demonstrate clearly that the information content of surrogate datasets in our study may be an acceptable substitute. These ideas merit further investigation in a wider range of habitats and contexts.
3236910|Numbers of plant species were recorded in species-rich meadows in the Bile Karpaty Mts., SE Czech Republic, with the aim to evaluate the sampling error made by well-trained observers. Five observers recorded vascular plants in seven plots ranging from 9.8 cm<sup>2</sup> to 4 m<sup>2</sup> independently and were not time-limited. In larger plots a discrepancy of 10-20% was found between individual estimates, in smaller plots discrepancy increased to 33%, on average. The gain in observed species richness by combining records of individual observers (in comparison with the mean numbers estimated by single observers) decreased from the smallest plot (27-82% for two to five observers) to the largest one (13-25%). However, after misidentified and suspicious records were eliminated, the gain was much lower and became scale-independent; two observers added 12% species, on average, and the increase by combining species lists made by three or more observers was negligible (3% more on average). It is concluded that most discrepancies between individual observers were caused by misidentification of rare seedlings and young plants. We suggest that in species-rich meadows plants should be recorded by at least three observers together and that they should consult all problematic plant specimens together in the field, to minimize errors.
41059621|Question: This study evaluates historical changes in landscape structure and heterogeneity in subalpine forests. We use response to severe fires in 2001 and 2003, along with historical reconstructions to examine crown-fire effects on landscape heterogeneity and to assess, comparatively, effects of fire exclusion management in the 20th century. Location: Subalpine forests of Kootenay National Park (KNP), Canadian Rockies. Methods: Using a landscape-level model based on a fire-origin stand age map, we reconstructed decadal burned areas within the landscape for 1750-2000 (forming reconstructed landscapes). Landscape pattern was analysed for each reconstructed landscape map, and we compared landscape pattern indices (total area, number of patches, mean patch area, patch area variation, largest patch index, edge density, perimeter-area ratio, landscape shape index) with those in 2005 after recent large fires. Results: After large fires in 1926, connectivity of the KNP landscape increased and its diversity was quite low. After 2001 and 2003 fires, the post-fire landscape of 2005 was highly heterogeneous in terms of size, variation, edge density and perimeter-area ratio of the remnant forest patches. Since the decline in occurrence of large fires after 1926 reflected a period of wet weather, fuel build-up resulting from landscape homogenization within the 20th century landscape could not be attributed solely to fire exclusion. This period without fires greatly enhanced connectivity of late-successional forests that finally burned in 2001/2003, but connectivity was within the historical range for these forests. The gradual increase in stand connectivity before recent large fires may indicate that fire exclusion was less responsible than often believed for fuel build-up in these fire-susceptible older forests. Conclusions: The large fires at the beginning of the 21st century are within the natural range of disturbances for this landscape, and do not stand out as "human-induced disasters" in their effects on landscape patterns. Such stochastic large disturbances contribute to maintenance of highly heterogeneous landscape structure, which is important for many taxa and natural ecological processes. Identifying future probability of such large disturbances and their ecological roles should be incorporated into management of these dynamic, disturbance-prone systems.
4096734|Question: Is it possible to determine the species composition of root samples containing multiple species, without first disentangling individual roots? Methods: The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA was amplified and sequenced from four California annual grassland species (two Poaceae and two Asteraceae). Restriction enzymes that cut the ITS region of each species into uniquely sized fragments were identified based on DNA sequence variation of the ITS regions. Mixed root samples were analysed to test the ability of the method to identify the presence or absence of each species in multi-species samples. Results: The technique successfully identified species present in multi-species samples. ITS regions were shorter in Poaceae than in Asteraceae, so size differences alone were sufficient to distinguish these taxonomic groups. At the species level, digestion of ITS regions with the appropriate restriction enzymes yielded at least one uniquely sized fragment for each species. Conclusions: This method is the first to identify the species composition of mixed root samples. It should be applicable to most plant species because the ITS region is flanked by universal primers and most species have unique ITS sequences. The ability to determine species-specific rooting distributions has broad applications in vegetation science.
3237072|The analysis of spatial pattern in plant ecology usually implies the solution of some edge effect problems. We present in this paper some explicit formulas of edge effect correction that should enable plant ecologists to analyse a wider range of real field data. We consider the local correcting factor of edge effect for Ripley's K-function, that can also be used for other statistics of spatial analysis based on the counting of neighbours within a given distance. For both circular and rectangular study areas, we provide a review of explicit formulas and an extension of these formulas for long and narrow plots. In the case of irregular-shaped study plots, we propose a generalization of the method that computes edge effect correction by excluding triangular surfaces from a simple (rectangular or circular) initial shape. An example in forest ecology, where the soil characteristics determine a study plot of complex shape, illustrates how this edge effect correction can be effective in avoiding misinterpretations.
3236320|This paper concerns the hypothesis that shoot (light) competition is the main interaction determining the community change during succession from a relatively species-poor deciduous forest (an overgrown former grassland) to a species-rich grassland, while root (nutrient) competition is of little importance. In a 4-yr restoration experiment, clearcutting, mowing and root trenching were used as treatments. The results did not reject the hypothesis. However, the significance of separating two kinds of shoot competition - 'coarse-scale (between different growth forms) and 'fine-scale' (between similar growth forms) became evident. Release from the 'coarse-scale' shoot competition (between different growth forms) increased species richness at the beginning of the experiment. This change was interpreted as the replacement of one species pool (shade-tolerant herbaceous perennials) by another (light-demanding herbaceous perennials), the second pool containing considerably more species. The importance of 'fine-scale' shoot competition increased gradually - the levelling of competition by mowing resulted in a more pronounced increase in species richness during successive years. The elimination of 'coarse-scale' root competition seemed to be important to some extent only in combination with another treatment - mowing. Initial colonization of the cleared area by individual species was a stochastic process which had little relevance to life-history traits. True grassland species were able to colonize quickly. On the community scale, the developing community still remained relatively poor in species. In all plots which were cleared but not mown, succession already started to reverse towards woody vegetation in the third year.
25549280|Question: What is the disturbance response of low-arctic plant communities two to three decades after seismic exploration. Location: Mackenzie River Delta, low-arctic, northwestern Canada. Methods: Plant communities in two upland tundra vegetation types were compared between winter seismic lines, created between 1970 and 1986, and adjacent "reference" tundra. Also, we used aerial surveys to quantify the total area impacted by visible linear features. Results: Vascular plant cover was significantly higher, and lichen cover significantly lower, on seismic lines than in reference tundra. The increase in vascular plant cover was attributable to deciduous shrubs and graminoids. There were significant differences in plant community composition between seismic lines and reference tundra but no differences in species diversity or richness. Betula glandulosa and Arctagrostis latifolia were significant indicator species for seismic lines, while Saussurea angustifolia was a significant indicator for reference tundra. Based on the aerial surveys, these effects apply to at least 90% of seismic lines from two-dimensional programs in these habitat types during the 1970s. Conclusions: Vegetation composition and structure on 20-30-year-old seismic lines differs from reference upland tundra despite no persistent differences in organic layer depth or depth to permafrost. We propose that this reflects: (1) successional redevelopment following changes in soil conditions and nutrient availability arising from the disturbance, and/or (2) disturbance-initiated succession towards a community reflecting current climatic conditions.
25173172|Question: Do coexisting plant life forms differ in overall phenology, leaf traits and patterns of leaf litterfall? Location: Patagonian Monte, Chubut Province, Argentina. Methods: We assessed phenology, traits of green and senesced leaves and the pattern of leaf litterfall in 12 species of coexisting life forms (perennial grasses, deciduous shrubs, evergreen shrubs). Results: We did not identify differences in phenology, leaf traits and patterns of leaf litterfall among life forms but these attributes contrasted among species. Independent of the life form, the maintenance of green leaves or vegetative growth during the dry season was mostly associated with leaves with high leaf mass per area (LMA) and high concentration of secondary compounds. Low LMA species produced low litterfall mass with low concentration of secondary compounds, and high N concentration. High LMA species produced the largest mass of leaf litterfall. Accordingly, species were distributed along two main dimensions of ecological variation, the dimension secondary compounds in leaves - length and timing of the vegetative growth period (SC - VGP) and the dimension leaf mass per area - leaf litterfall mass (LMA - LLM). Conclusions: Phenology, leaf traits and leaf litterfall varied among species and overlapped among life forms. The two dimensions of ecological variation among species (SC - VGP, LMA - LLM) represent distinct combinations of plant traits or strategies related to resource acquisition and drought tolerance which are reflected in the patterns of leaf litterfall.
3236991|Persistence by longevity has been rarely considered as an alternative to regeneration by seeding for plants showing multiple demographic strategies. We propose a conceptual model of multiple demographic strategies for long-lived plants in stable habitats, shifting from regeneration by seeding to persistence by longevity and/or vegetative reproduction, along gradients of abiotic stress or interspecific competition. Regeneration by seeding would be promoted under low abiotic stress or under low competition, whereas persistence by longevity and/or vegetative reproduction would predominate at high levels of abiotic stress or competition. We test this model with two threatened species of the Mediterranean region, the shrub Juniperus communis, a widely distributed species which maintains relict populations in the Mediterranean mountains thanks to great adult longevity and Pinguicula vallisneriifolia, a palaeo-endemic herb relying on a perennial habit and vegetative reproduction under drought imposed stress or high competition at late successional phases. As a main consequence, multiple demographic strategies enhance a plant's ability to exploit environmental heterogeneity at different spatial (patches, localities, regions within the species' distribution area) and temporal (individual life span, glacial-interglacial cycles) scales. The potential of multiple demographic dynamics based on persistence and regeneration must be considered as a major ecological trait determining the long-term viability of peripheral populations of relict species as well as the inertia against extinction of many threatened endemisms, thereby contributing to the maintenance of the high plant diversity characterizing the Mediterranean region.
3235646|Patterns of associations between 36 bryophytes and their relationships with trends in  and -diversity were studied at five spatial scales (from 1 m<sup>2</sup> to 1/256 m<sup>2</sup>) in a Norwegian boreal spruce forest. The range and dispersion of diversity values in the data were significantly higher than in comparable model data sets, indicating varation from favourable to unfavourable conditions for bryophytes at all scales, particularly with increasing cover of the upper layers. The number of positive associations was significantly higher than predicted from a random distribution, for all sample plot sizes except the smallest. For the most frequent species, this number decreased with decreasing sample plot size. The excess of positive associations was due to the presence of (1) -diversity trends, as demonstrated by a stochastic simulation, and (2) diversity (variation along environmental gradients). A microscale coenocline from dominance of large forest floor mosses to small liverworts, is added to two broad-scale coenoclines demonstrated earlier. Facilitation - positive density-dependence caused by more favourable moisture conditions within dense stands - is discussed as a possible third cause of excess positive associations. The number of significant negative associations was generally low, and deviated neither from theoretical values assuming random distribution of species, nor from predicted values accounting for -diversity trends. The low proportion of negative associations, even in the presence of -diversity trends, suggests that interspecific competition is not important in this vegetation. Several alternatives to competition are discussed; (1) static mechanisms for avoidance of competition, (2) mobility, and (3) the importance of density-independent mortality, in particular due to fine-scale disturbance. Simulation studies for assessing the effects of -diversity trends on species associations are emphasized.
4096776|Question: What is the relationship between species richness of vascular plants, bryophytes and macrolichens, and two important gradients in the alpine environment, altitude and local topography? Location: Northernmost Fennoscandia, 250-1525 m a.s.l. corresponding to the range between timberline and mountain top. Methods: The vegetation was sampled in six mountain areas. For each 25 vertical metres, the local topographic gradient from wind-blown ridge to snowbed was sampled in quadrats of 0.8 m x 0.8 m. Patterns in species richness were explored using Poisson regression (Generalized Linear Models). Functional groups of species, i.e. evergreen and deciduous dwarf-shrubs, forbs, graminoids, mosses, hepatics and lichens were investigated separately. Results: Functional groups showed markedly different patterns with respect to both altitude and topography. Species richness of all vascular plants showed a unimodal relationship with altitude. The same was true for graminoids, forbs and lichens analysed separately, but forb richness peaked at much higher altitudes than total richness. The richness of dwarf-shrubs decreased monotonically with altitude, whereas richness of mosses and liverworts showed an increasing trend. Significant interactions between altitude and local topography were present for several groups. The unimodal pattern for total plant species richness was interpreted in terms of local productivity, physical disturbance, trophic interactions, and in terms of species pool effects. Conclusions: Patterns in local species richness result from the action of two opposing forces: declining species pool and decreasing intensity of competition with altitude.
25173211|Question: We studied the patterns of plant species co-occurrence on three, nested, spatial scales in semi-natural grassland communities and explored the possible ecological processes underlying the patterns. Location: Dry, semi-natural grasslands in a 4.5 km  4.5 km area on the Baltic Island of land (Sweden). Methods: The study used replicated samples on three, nested, spatial scales: 50 cm  50 cm plots (N = 516), grassland patches (N = 109) and the whole landscape (N = 6). We used a null model approach to study species co-occurrence patterns and compared the ecological amplitudes of the pairs of species contributing most to the patterns. We used linear models to search for associations between species segregation and environmental and landscape factors. Results and Conclusions: Our results support the prediction that patterns of species co-occurrence are likely to be influenced by different mechanisms on different spatial scales. On the plot scale, we interpreted the species segregation in terms of species interactions. The degree of species segregation was significantly associated with the plots' positions within the grassland patches (edge effects) and with management intensity of the grasslands - both variables can be assumed to influence species interactions. On the grassland patch scale, we interpreted the species segregation in terms of within-patch environmental heterogeneity. The degree of segregation was significantly associated with the area of the grassland patches and with management intensity - both variables that are likely to be related to environmental heterogeneity within the grasslands. Species segregation on the landscape scale was interpreted in terms of environmental heterogeneity among grassland patches and was significantly associated with land-use history.
25173145|Question: Do soil water content and/or soil nitrogen (N) content and/or soil phosphorus (P) content affect the biomass of Vaccinium myrtillus and V. vitis-idaea in a sub-alpine heath? Location: Dolomites, northern Italy, 1800 m a.s.l. Methods: We determined above-ground and below-ground biomass of the shrubs at three sites, each on a different substrate type. At each site, we determined soil N- and P-contents. We also determined leaf water potential (), N- and P-concentrations in plant tissues and litter, as well as C and N in mature leaves. Results: V. myrtillus biomass was highest at the silicate site, V. vitis-idaea biomass was highest at the carbonate site. Both shrubs had low biomass at the peat site, possibly due to a toxic effect of waterlogging in wet soils. For both species, pre-dawn  indicated optimal hydration and midday  did not show any sign of water stress. Water use efficiency (WUE) did not differ among sites for any species. Whole-plant nutrient concentrations showed that, with increasing biomass. N was diluted in V. myrtillus tissues while P was diluted in V. vitis-idaea tissues. Foliar N-concentration was higher overall for V. myrtillus. Foliar P-concentration in V. myrtillus peaked at the silicate site. Foliar N: P ratios suggested that V. myrtillus was primarily P-limited and V. vitis-idaea primarily N-limited. Conclusions: Water content affected the distribution of the two shrubs in a similar way, higher P-availability in the soil enhanced V. myrtillus rather than V. vitis-idaea.
4499162|Question/Location: We modelled lichen epiphyte biomass in relation to topography, stand structure, and lichen community composition in the central Cascades of western Oregon. Methods: Sampling was stratified by stand structure. Epiphyte biomass was estimated based on lichen litter for three functional groups: cyanolichens, forage lichens, and matrix lichens. Regression models for estimating lichen biomass (
3236808| The Skattlsbergs Stormosse mire was reinvestigated in 1995 after 50 years of natural development since the previous investigation. The undrained mire is situated in an area with low anthropogenic deposition. The distribution of 106 plant species was mapped in detail and pH was measured at 251 locations, providing a unique opportunity to quantify long-term mire dynamics. The results show decreased pH in the richer (high-pH) parts of the mire, but little or no change in the poor fen and ombrotrophic parts. 14 species had disappeared while two new species were recorded. Most species had a more restricted distribution in the mire area in 1995 than in 1945. Species richness in 10m x 10m plots had decreased, especially in plots with higher pH. Most Sphagnum species had unchanged distributions over the mire, while 73 % of other bryophyte species and 38 % of vascular plant species had decreased by more than 20 % in plot frequency. There was a strong relationship between number of species and pH-value. The mean and standard deviation of pH in plots where the species occurred have both decreased since 1945. We interpret the changes in species richness in the richer fens to be mainly caused by acidification. This could partly be an autogenic succession, but may be enhanced by increased atmospheric deposition. The mire represents an almost untouched site which can act as a reference for mires in more polluted areas. 
25549251|Question: Grasses often resprout from surviving belowground buds following a fire in which aboveground matter is consumed. We used a soil heat and water transport model to present a general method for determining the potential mortality of rhizome buds due to fire for three tallgrass species (Andropogon gerardii, Sorghastrum nutans, and Panicum virgatum). Methods: Soil heating was described by physical processes that include heat conduction through the soil and heating and evaporation of soil water. We considered the following factors: soil moisture, texture, mineral thermal conductivity, maximum surface temperature, and fire residence time. Simulated soil temperature profiles were combined with measured belowground bud distributions to determine the proportion of buds expected to be heated to lethal temperatures under various conditions. Location: Wisconsin, USA. Results: Lethal temperatures for buds do not occur below 2 cm, and at least 30% of rhizome buds remain below lethal temperatures, even under extreme conditions. Conclusions: The model explains the possible mechanisms for grass belowground rhizome bud survival in fires. Changes in fire and soil conditions do not notably impact soil temperatures and rhizome bud survival.
3236326|Facilitation of the establishment of certain plant species by nurse plants is a common phenomenon in arid and semiarid ecosystems. The most commonly reported mechanisms of facilitation include cooler temperatures and increased soil nutrients beneath the nurse plant canopy, which favor establishment of other plant species. During conversion of upland grasslands to thorn woodland in southern Texas, Prosopis glandulosa appears to facilitate establishment of other woody plants, including Celtis pallida, whereas Acacia smallii occurs only in habitats between P. glandulosa canopies. We tested the hypothesis that light intensity and soils under P. glandulosa canopies facilitate seedling emergence and growth of C. pallida but inhibit seedling emergence and growth of A. smallii. In the field, C. pallida and A. smallii seeds were planted under P. glandulosa canopies and in adjacent interspaces. Percent emergence of C. pallida seedlings was greater under the canopy of P. glandulosa, whereas percent emergence of A. smallii seedlings was greater in interspaces. In a greenhouse experiment, seeds of each species were planted in pots filled with soil from under P. glandulosa canopies or from adjacent interspaces. Two treatments, shade and sunlight, were imposed and plants harvested seven weeks later. Seedling mass of both species was greater in canopy soil than in interspace soil in sunlight but mass of the two species did not differ between soil sources in shade. Canopy soils contained more total and available nitrogen than interspace soils. These results suggest that light is more limiting than nutrients under shaded conditions and so neither species can take advantage of the high nutrients beneath P. glandulosa. Shade and greater soil nutrients beneath P. glandulosa do not appear to be the major factors that facilitate C. pallida or inhibit A. smallii. Aggregation of C. pallida beneath P. glandulosa canopies appears to be a complex process that involves both passive facilitation (seed dispersal by birds) and active facilitation (reduction of seed dormancy by under-canopy temperatures) operating only during the seed germination stage with successional mechanisms other than facilitation operating during later stages of shrub establishment and growth.
25173227|Question: Do shrubs influence the spatial pattern of soil seed banks in herbaceous vegetation and are these effects influenced by wind direction, sampling position (windward vs leeward sides of the shrub) and distance from the shrub? Location: Horqin desert in eastern Inner Mongolia, China. Methods: A pioneer shrub, Artemisia halodendron, occurring in a mobile sandy habitat was used as a case study. Species composition and abundance of the seed bank and established herbaceous vegetation around six target shrubs were sampled along transects aligned to the four main wind directions and at 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4.5 and 6 m from the shrub base on both windward and leeward sides of a transect. Results: The presence of shrubs significantly modified the spatial pattern of seed deposition, but effects varied with wind direction, sampling position and distance from the shrub. More seeds were deposited on the leeward side than on the windward sides in all four transects, especially on transects with the most prevailing wind directions. Shrubs also caused a marked variation in seed deposition across sampling locations; this effect was more pronounced on the leeward side of transects with the most prevailing wind directions, suggesting the mean range of the shrub's influence is within ca. 2 m. Conclusions: The study shows clear evidence of shrubs as a source of spatial heterogeneity in seed availability in the herbaceous layer. Shrub presence effects were strongly influenced by complex interactions between wind direction, sampling position, and distance from the shrub.
3235780|The Clements' Deterministic model of plant communities implies that a change in one species, especially a change in the physiognomic dominant, would have profound effects on the remainder of the community. Gleason's Individualistic model suggests there would be little effect. These alternative models are tested by examining the forest composition on both sides of a boundary along which the tree Nothofagus menziesii is slowly invading. Classification of forest composition, excluding N. menziesii, gave little evidence of an effect of N. menziesii on the lower strata: understorey vegetation types were distributed across the boundary. Some differences were found at individual sites, but these were often inconsistent between sites. Ordination, also excluding N. menziesii, similarly showed that none of the first three understorey axes reflected any effect of N. menziesii. The fourth axis was correlated with the presence of N. menziesii, but only when canopy trees were included. It is concluded that specific composition of the canopy in these montane New Zealand evergreen forests has little effect on the understorey, supporting Gleason's Individualistic concept of the community.
25173194|Question: Are soil lichen communities structured by biotic interactions? Location: Gypsum outcrops located next to Belmonte del Tajo, central Spain. Methods: We sampled a total of 68 (50 cm  50 cm) plots in gypsum outcrops from central Spain. Each plot was divided into 100 (5 cm  5 cm) sampling quadrats, and the presence of all lichen species in every quadrat was recorded (6800 quadrats in total). We used two realistic null models to generate random communities unstructured by biotic interactions, and used them to test the hypothesis that soil lichen species co-occur less often than expected by chance. Results: We found fewer species combinations and less co-occurrence than expected by chance. However, the latter result was dependent on the null model selected. The number of checkerboard pairs did not differ significantly from the null expectation. Conclusions: Overall, our results suggest that gypsiferous soil lichen communities are structured by competitive interactions. They are consistent with studies conducted with a wide variety of taxa, and fill a gap in our knowledge of the factors driving the small-scale distribution of these important organisms.
3246588|A hierarchic classification of Danish semi-natural grassland vegetation on well-drained soils is presented. TWINSPAN was used for clustering of 614 samples of grassland vegetation showing floristic gradients and turnover in species composition in more dimensions. The optimal hierarchic level of clustering was determined by indicator species analysis. The classification was interpreted in terms of variables relating to abiotic environment and vegetation structure and to major ecoclines previously identified by gradient analysis. The 12 final clusters were compared to syntaxa of formal phytosociology and to communities in the British Vegetation Classification. Criteria for achieving floristically homogeneous clusters without sacrificing the ecological interpretability and validity of the clusters in time and along geographical gradients are discussed.
3236932| Methods for coupling two data sets (species composition and environmental variables for example) are well known and often used in ecology. All these methods require that variables of the two data sets have been recorded at the same sample stations. But if the two data sets arise from different sample schemes, sample locations can be different. In this case, scientists usually transform one data set to conform with the other one that is chosen as a reference. This inevitably leads to some loss of information. We propose a new ordination method, named spatial-RLQ analysis, for coupling two data sets with different spatial sample techniques. Spatial-RLQ analysis is an extension of co-inertia analysis and is based on neighbourhood graph theory and classical RLQ analysis. This analysis finds linear combinations of variables of the two data sets which maximize the spatial cross-covariance. This provides a co-ordination of the two data sets according to their spatial relationships. A vegetation study concerning the forest of Chiz (western France) is presented to illustrate the method. 
40295806|Question: Species diversity is commonly expressed as the number of species present in an area, but this unique value assumes that all species contribute equally to the area's biodiversity. Can taxonomic diversity be used as a complementary measure for species richness in order to assess plant biodiversity in remnants of primary forest and patches of secondary vegetation? Location: Veracruz, Mexico. Methods: Using data from six sampling transects of each vegetation type in an elevation gradient (400-900m a.s.l.), we compare the point, mean and cumulative floristic diversity of primary forest and secondary vegetation in a tropical deciduous landscape, using species richness and two measures of taxonomic diversity: average taxonomic distinctness (+) and variation in taxonomic distinctness (A+). We performed a randomization test to detect differences in the observed taxonomic diversity, from the expected values derived from the species pool of each vegetation type. Results: We found that the species of secondary vegetation are more closely related at low taxonomic levels (lower A+ value) than the species of primary forest remnants. Also, in secondary vegetation the distribution of species is uneven among the taxonomic levels and units (high A+ value). These patterns are consistent for point, mean and cumulative taxonomic diversity. Families Asteraceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fabaceae and Poaceae are over-represented, while families Bromeliaceae, Cactaceae, Orchidaceae and Pteridaceae are under-represented in secondary vegetation. Conclusions: Although in a previous paper we concluded that secondary vegetation is more alpha-diverse than primary forest (in terms of both cumulative and mean species richness), and beta-diversity between vegetation types is notoriously high, we now provide a wider view by highlighting the importance of taxonomic diversity in primary forest remnants. Our data indicate that to measure biodiversity accurately, we should seek to capture its different facets. This will allow us to make conservation recommendations based on a broader view, and not on a single dimension.
4096747|Question: Are tree saplings in wooded pastures spatially associated with specific nurse structures or plants that facilitate tree sapling survival? Location: Wooded pastures in the Jura Mountains, Switzerland. Methods: In two sites, 73 km apart, we sampled 294 plots of 4 m
3237337|The background of the Nordic Vegetation Survey is outlined and the concepts for this international collaboration project are reviewed. The project includes, so far, institutions in Denmark, Faeroes, Finland, Norway and Sweden. We are setting up a common basis for a vegetation database, with a Nordic species list, exchange of data and joint revisions of important Nordic vegetation types. Progress in the Nordic Vegetation Survey is described and the future perspectives indicated.
3235931|This study evaluates the species diversity and phenological behaviour of the weed communities associated with the common crops in the Nile Delta region (three winter crops: Egyptian clover, broad beans and wheat; and three summer crops: cotton, maize and rice). The weed communities of winter crops are of higher diversity than those of summer crops, presumably due to differences in sowing and weeding processes. The phenological sequences of the weed communities are, in most cases, closely related to those of the crops in which they occur. The correspondence between the crucial periods in the life cycle of the weed and the crop (seedling establishment and fruiting) often leads to severe competition.
40925551|Question: How strong are climate warming-driven changes within mid-elevation forest communities? Observations of plant community change within temperate mountain forest ecosystems in response to recent warming are scarce in comparison to highelevation alpine and nival ecosystems, perhaps reflecting the confounding influence of forest stand dynamics. Location: Jura Mountains (France and Switzerland). Methods: We assessed changes in plant community composition by surveying 154 Abies alba forest vegetation relevs (550-1,350m a.s.l.) in 1989 and 2007. Over this period, temperatures increased while precipitation did not change. Correspondence analysis (CA) and ecological indicator values were used to measure changes in plant community composition. Relevs in even- and uneven-aged stands were analysed separately to determine the influence of forest stand dynamics. We also analysed changes in species distribution to detect shifts along the elevation gradient by focusing on the lowest, central and highest positions of lowland and mountain species altitudinal ranges. Results: We found significant shifts along the first CA axis, which reflected a change in plant community composition towards a greater frequency of lowland species. Analyses of ecological indicator values indicated increases in temperature and light availability in A. alba stands, particularly in evenaged stands. However, no major changes in overall species distribution were found. Conclusions: The community-level changes are consistent with effects of climate warming and local stand dynamics. Changes in species distribution were small in comparison to observed local temperature increases, perhaps reflecting dispersal limitation, phenotypic plasticity or microclimatic buffering by the tree canopy. Causality cannot rigorously be inferred from such a descriptive study; however, we suggest that recent warming is now driving plant community change in the climatically more moderate mid-elevation forest setting.
3236086|To study fine root biomass in response to canopy gap formation, we determined fine root biomass in the upper 15 cm of soil within four experimental canopy gaps, and within the surrounding intact forest. Sampling was conducted throughout the growing season (May through August) following gap creation. We observed a mid-season decrease in root biomass within gaps, and within the intact forest surrounding the gaps during June and July. Later in the season, less fine root biomass was found within canopy gaps than within the intact forest, and this trend may be attributed to root death accompanying the tree(s) that were felled to form the gaps. These results provide strong evidence for the formation of a below-ground gap in association with the creation of a canopy gap.
40925506|Question: Species composition during secondary succession is influenced by a number of factors, such as soil moisture, disturbance timing and surrounding vegetation. How does the importance of these factors change over the course of succession? Methods: We set up a full-factorial block design using molehills differing in (a) disturbance timing, (b) soil moisture and (c) composition of surrounding vegetation, and recorded the cover of all species present on the molehills over 3 years. Multiple regression analyses on the dissimilarity matrices of community composition and of environmental factors were applied for each of five age classes of molehills to estimate the effect of the single factors at different stages of succession. Results: The timing of disturbance did not significantly affect community composition at any stage of succession. In contrast, the effects of soil moisture and surrounding vegetation changed significantly over time, with moisture being more important at earlier stages of succession and surrounding vegetation at later stages. Conclusion: The importance of environmental factors for species composition change significantly over the course of secondary succession. Instead of aggregating the effects of environmental factors over time, future studies should consider underlying dynamics of recolonization more comprehensively.
3236933|The wet to moist bryophyte-dominated vegetation of Sassendalen, Svalbard, was classified into seven communities. These communities were grouped into (1) Cardamino nymanii-Saxifragion foliolosae marsh; (2) Caricion stantis fen; (3) Luzulion nivalis snowbed - including manured vegetation corresponding to moss tundras. All communities have a basically arctic distribution. Marshes are developed in habitats with a water table above the bryophyte vegetation surface and fens on sites with a water table level high above the permafrost but below the bryophyte surface. Moss tundras normally have no standing water table, but in Sassendalen they have a low water table due to their development on less steep slopes than in their normal habitat near bird cliffs. CCA confirms that the standing water level is the prime differentiating factor between the alliances, while aspect favourability and permafrost depth differentiate between the fen communities and temporary desiccation is important for the Catoscopium nigritum community. Carex subspathacea is a characteristic fen species in the absence of other Carex species dominating elsewhere in the Arctic. Arctic marshes are linked to an extremely cold environment. They have a very low species diversity with a few species dominating; Arctophila fulva, Pseudocalliergon trifarium, Scorpidium scorpioides and Warnstorfia tundrae are character species. Moss tundra as defined here appears to be restricted to Svalbard and, probably, neighbouring Novaya Zemlya. This may be due to the absence of rodents and the high seabird density, which is related to the mild sea currents reaching further to the north here and which implies manuring of surrounding ecosystems. Manuring in a very cold environment produces moss carpets with a thin active layer and accumulation of thick peat layers without a standing water level. In Sassendalen the role of arctic seabirds is replaced by Svalbard reindeer which are non-migratory and are concentrated to favourable grazing areas where their manuring effect is intense. Their long-term manuring effect probably explains the occurrence of moss tundras in this weakly rolling landscape where seabird colonies are absent.
25173229|Questions: Is seedling emergence limited by the set of viable seeds, by incompatibility between the phenology of seed shedding and timing of mowing, or by dry weather in germination periods? Does seedling mortality fluctuate with season and weather? Location: Negrentino, southern Alps, Switzerland. Methods: Fecundity estimates of the dominant grass Bromus erectus; highly frequent counts of spontaneous seedlings by species and calculation of a community-level average mortality rate across 5 years; species-level records of seed shedding date and measurements of seed mass; measurement of soil moisture. Results: B. erectus produced 143.9 viable seeds/m/year while the density of its seedlings was a 55 times smaller fraction. Grasses had fewer seedlings than forbs and their phenology of seed shedding was less compatible with mowing date. Soil moisture was a strong determinant of seedling emergence in spring and less so in autumn. Average seedling mortality declined with age of the populations and reached a maximum in an extremely dry summer. In relatively wet summers establishment success was positively related to seed mass. Conclusion: Community structure is susceptible to drought through mechanisms that selectively reduce recruits of coexisting plant functional groups. We propose that (1) more frequent intense droughts tend to reduce species that depend on frequent recruitment from seed, hence favour long-lived clonally spreading species, (2) drought timing selects between species with different germination phenology and drought resistance, and (3) drought impacts can be mitigated by changing management regimes that affect seed shedding.
4096638|Questions: Do species planted outdoors in native soil differ in the timing of their period of vegetative spread during the growing season? Location: Cleish Hills, Fife, Scotland, UK. Methods: Patches (20 cm x 20 cm) of Agrostis capillaris, Festuca rubra, Holcus lanatus, Lolium perenne and Poa trivialis were arranged in plots so that every species patch had all the remaining species as neighbours. The plots were cut every 14 days at 3 cm and photographed monthly from above. The photographs of species boundaries were traced and digitised. Measurements were made on the digitised images of the distances each species spread and of the area occupied by each species. Results: Fitting some simple models to the data indicated firstly that species varied in their vegetative competitive ability, with A. capillaris and P. trivialis being the most and least competitive respectively, and secondly that the ability of a species to colonize can differ from its ability to resist colonization, the most discrepant species being H. lanatus. Our analysis also indicated statistically significant variation in the data over and above the simple models, providing evidence of additional, genuine, complexity in the seasonal patterns of spread. Conclusion: This study provides evidence to support the hypothesis that clonal grass species do not spread vegetatively at the same times within a growing season. Since sward height is known to affect species spread, there is some opportunity for the manipulation of species composition simply through temporal control of sward height.
4096730|Question: What is the long-term influence of nutrient availability, productivity and soil pH on grassland community organization? Location: Ukulinga research farm, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. Methods: The influence of fertilization on soil pH, nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) on variation in plant traits, community composition and species richness were examined in a 50-year grassland fertilization experiment. Results: Averaged over 30 years, above-ground net primary production (ANPP) was 337, 428 and
25173165|Question: Which are the plant functional groups responding most clearly to agricultural disturbances? Which are the relative roles of habitat availability, landscape configuration and agricultural land use intensity in affecting the functional composition and diversity of vascular plants in agricultural landscapes? Location: 25 agricultural landscape areas in seven European countries. Methods: We examined the plant species richness and abundance in 4 km  4 km landscape study sites. The plant functional group classification was derived from the BIOLFLOR database. Factorial decomposition of functional groups was applied. Results: Natural habitat availability and low land use intensity supported the abundance and richness of perennials, sedges, pteridophytes and high nature quality indicator species. The abundance of clonal species, C and S strategists was also correlated with habitat area. An increasing density of field edges explained a decrease in richness of high nature quality species and an increase in richness of annual graminoids. Intensive agriculture enhanced the richness of annuals and low nature quality species. Conclusions: Habitat patch availability and habitat quality are the main drivers of functional group composition and plant species richness in European agricultural landscapes. Linear elements do not compensate for the loss of habitats, as they mostly support disturbance tolerant generalist species. In order to conserve vascular plant species diversity in agricultural landscapes, the protection and enlargement of existing patches of (semi-) natural habitats appears to be more effective than relying on the rescue effect of linear elements. This should be done in combination with appropriate agricultural management techniques to limit the effect of agrochemicals to the fields.
4096784| This article investigates whether the Braun-Blanquet abundance/dominance (AD) scores that commonly appear in phytosociological tables can properly be analysed by conventional multivariate analysis methods such as Principal Components Analysis and Correspondence Analysis. The answer is a definite NO. The source of problems is that the AD values express species performance on a scale, namely the ordinal scale, on which differences are not interpretable. There are several arguments suggesting that no matter which methods have been preferred in contemporary numerical syntaxonomy and why, ordinal data should be treated in an ordinal way. In addition to the inadmissibility of arithmetic operations with the AD scores, these arguments include interpretability of dissimilarities derived from ordinal data, consistency of all steps throughout the analysis and universality of the method which enables simultaneous treatment of various measurement scales. All the ordination methods that are commonly used, for example, Principal Components Analysis and all variants of Correspondence Analysis as well as standard cluster analyses such as Ward's method and group average clustering, are inappropriate when using AD data. Therefore, the application of ordinal clustering and scaling methods to traditional phytosociological data is advocated. Dissimilarities between relevs should be calculated using ordinal measures of resemblance, and ordination and clustering algorithms should also be ordinal in nature. A good ordination example is Nonmetric Multidimensional Scaling (NMDS) as long as it is calculated from an ordinal dissimilarity measure such as the Goodman & Kruskal  coefficient, and for clustering the new OrdClAn-H and OrdClAn-N methods. 
3236173| A transition matrix model was used to explore the dynamics, rate and potential extent of changes in landscape vegetation patterns on a southern Texas Prosopis savanna. Transitions between seven vegetation classes were determined for the periods 1941-1960 and 1960-1983 on aerial photographs of three sites. During these periods, the sites were heavily grazed by cattle and were fire-free. Vegetation states assessed in grids of 20 m x 20 m cells superimposed on photographs ranged from grass-dominated to woody plantdominated. The 1941-1960 period (denoted DRY) was characterized by prolonged drought, whereas annual rainfall during the 1960-1983 period (denoted WET) was typically normal to above-normal. The 1941 landscape consisted of herbaceous zones (6% of cells), woodland (50% of cells) and savanna parkland (44% of cells with grass/woody plant mixtures). The woodland state was the most stable, with probabilities of no change being 0.970 and 0.873 in WET and DRY periods, respectively. The herbaceous state was least stable, with corresponding values of 0.074 and 0.353. Past and future landscape structure was modelled by randomly selecting DRY or WET transitions at 20 year time steps. The model was run under a series of rainfall scenarios where the probability of selecting the WET transition matrix (P[WET]) ranged from 0 (DRY always chosen) to 1 (WET always chosen). Historical records indicate P[WET] has approximated 0.3 to 0.4 in the region. The rate of succession to states of greater woody cover increased as P[WET] increased. Forward simulations based on P[WET] > 0.2 suggest the present landscape is unstable and will develop into a closedcanopy woodland within the next 180 years, assuming the processes operating between 1941 and 1983 continue (e.g. grazing by cattle and lack of fire). Reverse simulations concur with historical observations and projections derived from woody plant growth rates in other studies and suggest that 200 to 300 yr BP these landscapes contained a substantially greater proportion of cells dominated by grassland or grassland with scattered woody plants (43 to 74%) than was present in 1983 (19%). Based upon elapsed time between predicted past and future steady states, succession from open savanna to closedcanopy woodland may occur in ca. 400 to 500 yr for P(WET)  0.33. Arresting or reversing the projected trend may require changes in climate and/or changes in livestock grazing and land management practices. The approaches employed in this study illustrate how time series maps, aerial photographs and satellite imagery can be analyzed and used to interpret, project and reconstruct local and regional changes in ecosystem structure. Difficulties and limitations associated with the use of Markov chains to model succession are identified and discussed. 
3236431|We tested whether interspecific variation in tree seedling establishment in canopy gaps was significantly related to interspecific variation in tree density, for seven deciduous forest tree species (Quercus alba, Hamamelis virginiana, Acer rubrum, Sassafras albidum, Quercus rubra, Prunus serotina, Ostrya virginiana). For each species, seedling establishment was calculated as the difference in seedling density before experimental gap creation versus three years after gap creation. In each of the six experimentally-created gap types (33 % or 66 % removal of tree basal area from 0.01ha, 0.05-ha or 0.20-ha patches), differences in seedling establishment among species were significantly related to differences in their density in the tree canopy. A regression model with log<sub>e</sub> tree density as the independent variable accounted for between 93 % and 98 % of interspecific variation in seedling establishment. Our results provide empirical support for models of tree dynamics in gaps that assume seedling establishment depends on canopy tree density.
25173218|Question: How do different regeneration scenarios shape species composition at two stages of plant community establishment (emergence and net recruitment) in an early succession? Location: Northern Spain. Methods: In a recently ploughed field, we created eight regeneration scenarios with light, water and nitrogen availability (five replicates each). Seedlings of all species were monitored from emergence to death during one year. Abiotic and biotic variables were measured per quadrat, i.e. soil texture, nutrient contents, seed bank densities and composition, neighbour plant species densitiy and cover. We used partial ordination methods in order to separate the effect of each environmental variable on species composition during emergence and adult net recruitment. Results: Light treatment determined annual plant density at time of emergence and recruitment, while water addition controlled the recruitment of perennials. Resource levels explained the emerged species composition; this effect was not translated into the recruited species composition. N-addition and N + water addition were strongly associated to species abundances at the time of emergence. Seedling composition in summer was correlated with seed abundance of Cerastium spp. Neighbour species density and cover (mainly Arrhenatherum bulbosum, Agropyron repens and Picris echioides) explained significant fractions of species composition in the emergence and recruitment of the different cohorts. Interactions between species seem to vary in intensity among cohorts and in the key plant species that determined species abundance along succession. Conclusions: Our scenarios exerted contrasting and multilevel effects on the development of our early succession community. Resource availability differently affected plant density and species composition at different life stages. It is relevant to consider different life stages in plant community studies. However, regeneration conditions and other abiotic factors are not enough to explain how community composition varies.
3235562|The phenological changes in populations of Festuca pallescens (St. Yves) Parodi at different topographic positions and exposure along an altitudinal gradient (600 - 1100 m) were investigated during two growing seasons in northwestern Patagonia. Stepwise multiple regression analysis was used to describe the relationship between phenology and environment during the entire growing season. Analysis of variance was also performed at each sample date to detect significant environmental factors influencing phenology at different sites. The sum of maximum air temperatures was identified as the environmental variable best correlated with the seasonal variation of phenological events of Festuca pallescens over the period of two growing seasons, explaining 93.2 % of the total variance. Significant differences between sites were observed at each sample date. Main effects of altitude and topographic position and two-way interactions between altitude and topographic position, and topographic position and exposure were also detected as significant. Phenology was delayed at increased altitude. Differences in phenology between topographic sites at the same altitude were not detected during the entire growing season and were only observed in the reproductive phase. At this time, the phenology was significantly delayed at high topographic positions on the slopes as compared with low and mid positions. At high altitudes in the valley (950 m a. s. l.), where steep slopes and humid conditions prevail, phenology was delayed on western exposures and low positions. The results adequately summarize and quantify the effect of spatial and temporal environmental variation on the phenological development of Festuca pallescens in northwestern Patagonia.
4096694|Question: Bush encroachment (i.e. an increase in density of woody plants often unpalatable to domestic livestock) is a serious problem in many savannas and threatens the livelihood of many pastoralists. Can we derive a better understanding of the factors causing bush encroachment by investigating the scale dependency of patterns and processes in savannas? Location: An arid savanna in the Khomas Hochland, Namibia. Methods: Patterns of bush, grass, and soil nutrient distribution were surveyed on several scales along a rainfall gradient, with emphasis on intraspecific interactions within the dominant woody species, Acacia reficiens. Results: Savannas can be interpreted as patch-dynamic systems where landscapes are composed of many patches (a few ha in size) in different states of transition between grassy and woody dominance. Conclusions: In arid savannas, this patchiness is driven both by rainfall that is highly variable in space and time and by inter-tree competition. Within the paradigm of patch-dynamic savannas, bush encroachment is part of a cyclical succession between open savanna and woody dominance. The conversion from a patch of open savanna to a bush-encroached area is initiated by the spatial and temporal overlap of several (localized) rainfall events sufficient for Acacia germination and establishment. With time, growth and self-thinning will transform the bush-encroached area into a mature Acacia stand and eventually into open savanna again. Patchiness is sustained due to the local rarity (and patchiness) of rainfall sufficient for germination of woody plants as well as by plant-soil interactions.
3237265|The biomass and chemical composition in six dominant field and bottom layer species was followed during four years after a fire in a Pinus sylvestris forest in western Norway. Three fire intensity levels were distinguished: low, medium and high. The overall biomass in the different species was estimated from the biomass per shoot, the shoot densities in pure stands of the investigated species and the percentage cover at medium burned sites. Corresponding measurements were made at control plots outside the burned area. A strong post-fire increase in the overall biomass of Calluna vulgaris, Polytrichum spp., Deschampsia flexuosa and Pteridium aquilinum was found, against a much slower regrowth of Vaccinium myrtillus and V. vitis-idaea. The Vaccinium species and Calluna were the dominant species at the control plot. Accumulation of carbohydrates seemed to take place in green and non-green tissue of Pteridium and Deschampsia. A corresponding accumulation of nitrogen was found in green and nongreen Calluna and in non-green Vaccinium myrtillus tissue, and of phosphorus in green and non-green tissue of both Vaccinium species and Calluna as a result of fire. The regrowth of Calluna was mainly from seeds that appeared to be present in the soil before the fire. The regeneration of Pteridium and the two Vaccinium species took place almost exclusively vegetatively from below-ground rhizomes that had survived the fire. Three years after the fire the overall biomass at the burned site was higher than at the control site, due to improved light and nutrient conditions. However, the biomass is expected to decrease in the future and the species composition will probably change as nutrients are leached out of the soil and Pinus and deciduous trees (Betula pubescens and Salix caprea) regenerate from seeds and roots, leading to increased competition in the field and shrub layer.
3235713|Inverse classification is routinely used in vegetation surveys to produce groups of sociologically similar species. However, no classification methods have been proposed specifically for this purpose, nor has any evaluation been made of the suitability of existing methods for the purpose. A new variant of Cluster Analysis is introduced, i. e. using the Cole/Hurlbert association measure C<sub>8</sub> as coefficient, and named for convenience Cole Cluster Analysis. This method, and four standard ones, were used on saltmarsh vegetational data from New Zealand. Ecophysiological data were obtained from salt-tolerance experiments. These data, and distributional information, were used as independent criteria against which to compare the inverse vegetation classifications. Information Analysis did not prove suitable for inverse analysis in this test. Nor did Cluster Analysis with the Simple Matching Coefficient or with Jaccard's coefficient. Indicator Species Analysis was more suitable, but the new Cole Cluster Analysis seemed the most effective on these data.
3236210|Neither conventional niche theory nor current lottery models offer a satisfactory theoretical scope for modelling coexistence of species with disjoint generations. South-African fynbos and Australian kwongan include many species which are killed by, and recruit only after, fire. We propose a density-dependent lottery model which accommodates the unusual demographics of these species. We show that coexistence requires density dependence in recruitment. The result applies to a wider class of populations than the one considered here. It is applied to non-resprouting species in fynbos and kwongan. We show that the lottery assumption of recruitment in proportion to propagules is often satisfied, while the production of such propagules is often density-dependent, and we discuss some evidence of mechanisms whereby this may occur.
3235653|Vegetation succession after severe burning of a Brittany heathland was recorded in permanent plots for ten years. Mosses are the first colonizers, soon forming a dense layer which locally prevents establishment of new species. Ten years later, the moss layer is still an important component of the regenerating heathland. After ten years the pattern of species distribution is mosaic-like with grassy patches (Agrostis), heath patches (Erica, Ulex), and wood (Betula). Processes which may be involved in this successional pattern are discussed. They are found to be pluriform: various strategy types, types of response to disturbance and various succession models operate simultaneously.
3236964|We characterized the abundance, size and spatial patterning of canopy gaps, as well as gap-forming processes and light availability in boreal, sub-boreal, northern temperate and subalpine old-growth forests of northwestern British Columbia. The proportion of area in canopy gaps ranged from 32% in northern temperate forests to 73% in subalpine forests. Evenly distributed developmental gaps were dominant but permanent openings created by edaphic components and by shrub communities were also common, particularly in subboreal forests. Abundant gaps, large gap sizes, high numbers of gap makers per gap and frequent gap expansion events suggest that gaps have long tenure in these forests. Snapped stems and standing dead mortality were the most common modes of mortality in all forest types resulting in little forest floor disturbance, creating few germination sites for seedling establishment. We found high mean light levels (16-27% full sun) and little difference between non-gap and gap light environments. Our results suggest that gap dynamics in these forests differ fundamentally from those in temperate and tropical forest ecosystems.
3237242|Seed mortality (caused by predators and pathogens) and germination were compared between Puerto Rico and Costa Rica on landslides in lower montane wet forest. Seeds of six common species on five Puerto Rican landslides and four common species on two Costa Rican landslides were used with a Cecropia species and a Gonzalagunia species included at both sites. In the Puerto Rican experiments Cecropia schreberiana was the only species to show significant seed predation (which was due to insects), pathogens grew from all species and fewer seeds were lost to predators than pathogens. Also in Puerto Rico mean germination across all species was 57 % before dispersal (filled seeds collected while still on the tree) and 71 % after, with Phytolacca rivinoides seeds germinating most abundantly, followed in descending order by Ocotea leucoxylon, Cecropia spec., Miconia racemosa, Palicourea riparia and Gonzalagunia spicata. In the Costa Rican experiments three species had significant predation: Cecropia polyphlebia and Urera caracasana (both due to insects) and Witheringia coccoloboides (due to mammals); pathogenic disease caused more seed loss than predation, and germination was high (61 % pre-dispersal, 69 % post-dispersal). Similarities between these island and mainland sites included (1) percentage of seeds lost to predation and percentage lost to pathogens (all in the 5 - 15 % range), (2) generalist pathogens which claimed more seeds than predators and (3) majority germination with a general increase after dispersal. Finally sites were dissimilar only in the number of species with significant predation loss and whether it was by insects or mammals, casting doubt on the traditional island/mainland dichotomy.
3236424|Invasive plants are considered to be a major threat to the earth's biodiversity, but have not been sufficiently investigated. To address this problem a relational database on invasive woody plants has been set up. It is based on 2045 bibliographical references and contains records on 653 species representing 110 families. The families with the largest number of invasive species are: Rosaceae, Mimosaceae, Papilionaceae and Pinaceae. Out of 1060 recorded invasive events an equal number are reported from continents and oceanic islands. The highest number of invasive woody species are recorded from Europe, followed by the Pacific islands, North America, New Zealand, Australia, Indian Ocean islands and southern Africa. Included in these regions are areas which have fewer highly invasive species, e.g. islands on continental shelves, such as the British Isles. Although most invasions occur in disturbed habitats, most natural communities are susceptible to woody plant invasions. Data on species attributes are only available for a minority of species but indicate that invasive woody plant species may be either insect or wind-pollinated, have a wide array of fruit types, fruit and seed sizes, number of seeds per fruit and dispersal agents. The relative frequency of several attributes varies with the degree of invasiveness. Thus it is not yet possible to determine which set of attributes favours invasiveness and therefore it is difficult to make predictions.
3235654|The interpretation of Hill's 'Two Term Local Quadrat Variance' analysis to detect the scale of spatial pattern in vegetation is improved by an equation that relates the block size of a variance peak to the scale of the pattern that gave rise to it. (Contrary to previous belief, the two are not the same, especially for large block sizes.) Deviations of pattern from a perfectly regular alternation of equally sized gaps and patches of uniform density cause changes in the variance. To aid in the interpretation of these changes, two indices of pattern regularity are proposed, one based on density and one based on presence/absence, in order to distinguish the effects of irregularities of patch density from irregularities of patch size and position. These methods are applied to a study of primary succession on glacial moraines near Mt. Robson, British Columbia, Canada, in order to evaluate certain hypotheses about the development of pattern. Other researchers have proposed that during succession, the pattern at first intensifies at the scales initially observed, then as succession proceeds some scales of pattern are lost due to coalescence of patches and eventually the intensity of those that remain decreases as the patterns become more and more irregular. The vegetation on the Mt. Robson moraines confirms this sequence of changes in vegetation pattern, only to the extent that patterns intensify initially in the chronosequence; the number of scales of pattern in the vegetation remains about the same throughout and there is no evidence that the patterns become more irregular. The variance-block size graphs derived from presence / absence data matched those from density data well, indicating that the simpler data, in this case, are almost as informative about pattern as the more detailed data.
25173160|A reply is presented on the comments by Marrs, Weiher, and particularly Lortie et al. on an earlier Forum paper. The main point is that adapted alpine plants are not stressed, which follows, i.a., from their productivity which is equal to that in tropical systems when the length of the growing season is taken into account. Another point is that individual-based and community-based considerations should not be confused.
3236194| Most vegetation classification studies on Svalbard have followed the phytosociological tradition. Exposed ridges and accumulation sea shores are the habitats investigated best, whereas the open vegetation of screes, active sedimentation plains, erosion plains, young moraines, polar desert and saxicolous vegetation range from almost unknown to poorly known. All published associations and non-ranked plant communities based on relev data are reviewed and discussed in an ecological framework with 19 major habitat types. Most of them are arranged in a system of 17 alliances. Most of the alliances are expected to occur elsewhere in the Arctic, but this remains to be documented. The majority of the Svalbard studies are local and have obvious shortcomings. Nevertheless, vegetation types are probably better known on Svalbard than elsewhere in the northern parts of the Arctic. 
3235954|Population structure, fruit production and dispersal, and recruitment of Rhus integrifolia, a gynodioecious sclerophyllous shrub living in coastal chaparral, were studied in two localities in southern California last burned 60 and 90 years ago. Though hermaphroditic plants produce some fruits, only the male-sterile plants bore significant numbers. Among the sample plants, one individual accounted for 50% of the crop measured. Terrestrial animals, through the loss of some seeds taken for consumption, play a decisive role in the seed dispersal, promoting the establishment of seedlings outside the parent's canopy. Birds have not been demonstrated to contribute to long distance dispersal, but they are responsible for dropping 25% of the fruits collected below the R. integrifolia canopies, 36% of which were completely destroyed. Allelopathic effects were not observed in laboratory assays, and germination is probably not influenced by the species beneath which seeds have been deposited. This pattern can explain the non-aggregated distribution of individuals observed in the studied populations. We conclude that establishment of new individuals has been continuous at both localities and that the populations of R. integrifolia are increasing in these long unburned stands. This may be indicative of a successional trend in unburned chaparral and coastal scrub toward a sclerophyllous woodland.
3237212|The woody and shrubby riparian vegetation of the Mediterranean Region of Spain shows a progressive displacement from the Querco-Fagetea, typical of Central Europe, towards the Nerio-Tamaricetea, which has its maximum expression in North Africa. We studied the occurrence of 107 riparian plant communities on 52 locations in the Segura River Basin (SE Spain) and their presumed relation to variation in rainfall and temperature. On the basis of agglomerative clustering and Redundancy Analysis (RDA) three riparian vegetation complexes were identified and characterized by (a) Central European-related temperate communities, (b) predominantly North African riparian communities and (c) a combination of both community types, respectively. North African communities predominated in the lower stretches of the Segura Basin, probably due to the prevailing semi-arid bioclimate.
3236694| Successional patches are a large component of forest ecosystems throughout the world and their vegetation composition is conditioned by multiple factors such as land use history, disturbances, environmental conditions and landscape context. We investigated the relative contribution of historical, environmental, biotic and spatial factors in determining vegetation composition and invasion by exotic species in secondary forest patches of Sierra de San Javier, Tucumn, Argentina. We estimated canopy cover for shrub, vine and tree species distributed over 51 patches with known land use history. We also recorded environmental, historical and spatial variables and used multivariate techniques to explore the relationship between forest composition and explanatory variables. Land use, time since abandonment, altitude, slope and cover of different strata were related to the vegetation pattern in the study site, and they were all significantly structured over space. Exotic species appeared to differ from natives in their response to explanatory variables. Overall, exotic species were dominant on the edges of young patches originated from herbaceous crops, but the total number of exotic species was related to the distance to urban areas and small farms identified as potential sources of exotic propagules. Vegetation composition of secondary forests in NW Argentina was related to historical and environmental factors, but spatial variables strongly influenced vegetation composition as well as the variation in explanatory variables. 
3237193|In order to understand how communities of rockinhabiting micro-organisms are spatially organized, rock samples and environmental variables were collected from five cliff sites in Ontario, Canada. Algae and cyanobacteria were extracted from the epilithic zone (rock surface) and endolithic zone (subsurface) of 180 samples, and the frequency of each taxon (genus or larger) was determined. Multivariate statistical analyses were used to determine (1) the variation in community composition on different spatial scales; (2) differences in community composition between surface and subsurface; and (3) the environmental constraints of community structure. 13 taxa of cyanobacteria and 12 taxa of eukaryotic algae were identified in the endolithic zone, and 17 and 14 in the epilithic zone, respectively. The most frequent taxa were similar in both zones, but MANOVA of species frequencies showed significant differences between endolithic and epilithic communities. DCA and CCA showed that geographic-scale variation in community composition was the dominant trend in the data for both surface and subsurface. Cyanobacteria and eukaryotic algae showed a clear separation on the first ordination axis. When the geographic-scale variation was removed in a partial ordination, the separation of organisms by kingdoms disappeared and epi- and endolithic ordinations were no longer similar. Light then appeared to control the endolithic species composition, while other factors, possibly moisture-related, were suggested for the epilithic community. Despite biomass and productivity that varies mostly at scales of < 1m<sup>2</sup>, we conclude here that species composition and its environmental constraints vary at small as well as larger scales.
3236232|60 of the 75 Banksia species are confined to south-western Australia where five or six species often coexist. We explored the role of regional species richness, niche differentiation, and habitat specialization in structuring banksia assemblages. The diversity of growth forms and categories of seed production and response to fire were assessed in actual assemblages at 40 sites throughout southwestern Australia. Diversity indices at each site were compared with those from null communities assembled on the basis of the abundance and sociability of taxa in regional species pools. The relationship between local and regional species richness suggests that processes at the scale of 100-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats limit local richness and therefore coexistence. However, there was no consistent evidence that taxa are differentiated by growth form or regeneration strategy. No particular biological profile makes a banksia adept at coexisting with a wide range of other taxa. Habitat specialization is an important factor contributing to lower local richness than would be predicted from niche differentiation of taxa in regional pools. There is recent empirical evidence of several mechanisms whereby the number of coexisting banksias is increased beyond the limits suggested by simple niche theories. Variability in the fire regime also provides a mechanism for maintaining local species richness because different fires favour recruitment of different taxa.
4096669|Question: What factors limit woody plant recruitment in a mosaic landscape where former agricultural lands are dominated by the invasive tree Ligustrum lucidum (Oleaceae)? Location: Subtropical northwestern Argentina. Methods: In secondary forest patches, we measured (1) tree, shrub and liana abundance in different size classes; (2) seed rain of Ligustrum and two native trees and (3) topographic, soil and light variables. We used spatial autoregressive models to test for effects of Ligustrum dominance and environment on native plant abundance in each size class. We used multiple regression on resemblance matrices to quantify the relative importance of spatial (e.g. dispersal) and environmental effects on native species composition. Results: Native tree abundance in the smallest size class was unrelated to Ligustrum canopy dominance, while native tree abundance in larger size classes and native liana abundance were negatively correlated with Ligustrum dominance. Native species composition was both environmentally and spatially structured, suggesting that some species are dispersal limited. Seed rain was spatially correlated with conspecific basal area for one of two native species, but not for Ligustrum. Conclusions: Native tree recruitment appears to be limited primarily by sapling mortality in patches dominated by the invasive Ligustrum. Ligustrum does not appear to be dispersal limited in our study area and is likely to continue spreading. Invaded patches may persist for hundreds of years.
3236276|Functional classifications have been derived for various purposes using subjective, objective and deductive approaches. Most of the classifications were derived to describe a static state of a region or landscape rather than to predict the dynamics of the system. Here, we suggest a simple, but comprehensive functional classification based on life history parameters that can predict the dynamics of plant communities subject to recurrent disturbances. The predicted dynamics are described in terms of survival and local extinction of the functional groups. The groups derived from the classification are probably largely independent of functional groupings that may be derived for other aspects of community composition (e.g. structure, phenology) and community interactions (roughness, albedo etc.). We emphasize that functional classification is context-dependent and we should not expect to find a useful, universal classification into functional groups. Software has been developed to help classify the species into functional groups, to derive successional sequences and to predict community composition under different disturbance regimes both in point and landscape models.
3236100|Previous research has indicated that patch structure at small spatial scales <latex>$(< 100 m^2)$</latex> in tallgrass prairies was defined by a diverse array of infrequent species because dominant species occurred in all samples at this scale. Also, patch structure was not significantly different from that derived from random species associations. Based on these results, we hypothesized that removal of a dominant species would have no effect on patch structure in these prairies. We tested this hypothesis by removing a dominant grass, Schizachyrium scoparium (Poaceae), from half of each of four 10 m x 10 m study blocks, and comparing differences in patch structure between control and removal halves before and after removal. The minimum resolution in our study was 1 m<sup>2</sup>. Patches of similar species composition were defined by cluster analysis of presence/absence data and cover data. Patch sizes ranged from 1 to 34 m<sup>2</sup>. Following the removal of S. scoparium there was an overall increase in the number of species in the removal half of each block compared to pre-treatment levels. However, the number of patch types and number of spatially mapped groups, based on presence/absence or cover data, did not change between control and removal plots after the removal of S. scoparium. This supports the hypothesis that removal of a large, dominant species would have no effect on patch structure at this scale of resolution in these prairies. Thus, patch structure, as defined here, is an emergent property in these grasslands that is not predictable from changes in species composition. This property of stochastic patch structure results from interactions of processes operating at scales both larger and smaller than our scale of resolution. Stochastic models may provide a reasonable approach to modelling smallscale patch dynamics in tallgrass prairie communities.
3236474|Question: The relationship between carbon-13 in soil organic matter and C<sub>3</sub> and C<sub>4</sub> plant abundance is complicated because of differential productivity, litter fall and decomposition. As a result, applying a mass balance equation to <sup>13</sup>C data from soils cannot be used to infer past C<sub>3</sub> and C<sub>4</sub> plant abundance; only the proportion of carbon derived from C<sub>3</sub> and C<sub>4</sub> plants can be estimated. In this paper, we compare <sup>13</sup>C of surface soil samples with vegetation data, in order to establish whether the ratio of C<sub>3</sub>:C<sub>4</sub> plants (rather than the proportion of carbon from C<sub>3</sub> and C<sub>4</sub> plants) can be inferred from soil <tex-math>$\delat^{13}C$</tex-math>. Location: The Tsavo National Park, in southeastern Kenya. Methods: We compare vegetation data with <sup>13</sup>C of organic matter in surface soil samples and derive regression equations relating the <sup>13</sup>C of soil organic matter to C<sub>13</sub>:C<sub>4</sub> plant abundance. We use these equations to interpret <sup>13</sup>C data from soil profiles in terms of changes in inferred C<sub>3</sub>:C<sub>4</sub> plant ratio. We compare our method of interpretation with that derived from a mass balance approach. Results: There was a statistically significant, linear relationship between the <sup>13</sup>C of organic matter in surface soil samples and the natural logarithm of the ratio of C<sub>3</sub>:C<sub>4</sub> plants in the 100m<sup>2</sup> surrounding the soil sample. Conclusions: We suggest that interpretation of <sup>13</sup>C data from organic matter in soil profiles can be improved by comparing vegetation surveys with <sup>13</sup>C of organic matter in surface soil samples. Our results suggest that past C<sub>3</sub> plant abundance might be under-estimated if a mass balance approach is used.
3237270|Small-scale canopy openings are being increasingly recognized for their importance in boreal forest stand development. Yet more work is necessary to understand their effects on seedling growth. This study investigated the effect of different degrees of canopy opening (all trees cut, conifers cut, conifers girdled and control quadrats) in different stand types on Abies balsamea seedling recruitment, growth and architecture. The lack of a treatment effect on seedling establishment suggests that gaps primarily affect advance regeneration. In the first year after treatment the seedlings in the cut blocks (both conifer cut and all trees cut) responded with an increase in height growth. Changes in the leader to lateral branch ratio were also significant. Continued architectural change in terms of number of branches produced did not occur until after two years had passed. Although not significantly different from the control, increases can be observed in all measurements for the girdled treatment. It is therefore concluded that the growth response of advance regeneration is more important following canopy opening than new seedling recruitment and that seedling performance is greatest where degree of opening is greatest.
3236849|The coarse-root dynamics of ramets of Populus tremuloides (aspen) were investigated with respect to persistence of the original root connections (roots of parent trees from which the ramets originated), the time of establishment of new roots at the base of the stem and the fate of the communal root system after death of individual trees. Parts of the root systems of three declining stands of aspen ramets were hydraulically excavated. From each stand, sections of all structural roots were collected at the base of live and dead trees and were analysed using dendrochronology techniques. Parent roots were identified in the root system of every tree. The trees initiated new structural roots shortly after suckering. Live roots were often connected to the stump of dead and decayed trees. Grafting was common, especially at or near the stumps. Death of trees along the parent roots over time did not seem to favour the entry of significant decay, nor promote breakage of the original root connections. Instead of becoming independent of the parent root system the ramets incorporated the parent roots into their own root systems, remaining interconnected.
3236542| The program JUICE was designed as a Microsoft WINDOWS application for editing, classification and analysis of large phytosociological tables and databases. This software, with a current maximum capacity of 30 000 relevs in one table, includes many functions for easy manipulation of table and header data. Various options include classification using COCKTAIL and TWINSPAN methods, calculation of interspecific associations, fidelity measures, average Ellenberg indicator values, preparation of synoptic tables, automatic sorting of relev tables, and export of table data into other applications (word processors, spreadsheet programs or mapping packages). JUICE is optimized for use in association with TURBOVEG which is the most widespread database program for storing phytosociological data in Europe. 
3236379| Secondary meadows in the Krun hory mountains, central Europe, are not colonized by woody species, although they have been abandoned for half a century and are surrounded by Picea abies (Norway spruce) forests. The causes of inhibition of establishment of Norway spruce seedlings in the meadows were tested experimentally. The experiment was started in a masting year to ensure sufficient seed input. Four treatments (vegetation cut; vegetation cut and litter removed; all above-ground biomass and topsoil removed; control) were combined in a factorial design. The effect of browsing, mainly by deer, was assessed by fencing half of the experimental plots. Seedling establishment differed among treatments (all pair-wise differences were significant) but was independent of fencing. In contrast, seedling survival was influenced both by the treatment and fencing. At the end of the second year, only the plots with all biomass and organic topsoil removed supported viable populations of spruce seedlings. Dense herb cover and a thick layer of slowly decaying litter are considered the main factors inhibiting the establishment of woody species. 
3237379|Aesculus turbinata is a tree species with large seeds (6.2 g mean dry weight). We studied the demography of its seeds and seedlings in a temperate deciduous forest in northern Japan to elucidate the ecological significance of large seeds with special reference to herbivory and secondary dispersal. Both seed and seedling stages suffered greatly from herbivores. Seedling herbivory was important judged from experiments with shoot clipping and hypogeal cotyledon removal. However, some seedlings survived through re-sprouting after herbivory. Survival rate and percentage resprouting seedlings were lower than those with remaining cotyledons, though seedling size was not affected. This suggests that stored resources in hypogeal cotyledons are working as a kind of 'risk hedge' against severe above-ground shoot clipping experienced by A. turbinata. The spatial distribution of seedlings was expanded via seed scatter-hoarding by rodents. Seedling survival rate was higher within canopy gaps than under closed canopy, indicating that canopy gaps are safe sites for establishment, and was negatively correlated with seedling density. Therefore, secondary seed dispersal in this species seems to be effective in 'finding' safe sites and in 'escaping' density-dependent mortality. The large seeds and seedlings of A. turbinata are attractive to herbivores, but the high resistance of seedlings to herbivory due to large reserves and the effective secondary dispersal appear to mitigate these disadvantages.
3236944|The interactions between plants of different species, age or size play an important role in the dynamics of an ecosystem and can induce specific structures. These interactions can be studied by analysing the spatial structure of the corresponding bivariate patterns. The intertype L<sub>12</sub>-function has recently been successfully used in many papers for that purpose. However, when interpreting the results obtained with ecological data, at least two different null hypotheses - independence or random labelling - can be appropriate, depending on the context of the study and the nature of the data. As these two hypotheses correspond to different confidence intervals, an inappropriate choice of the null hypothesis can lead to misinterpretations of biotic interactions when studying ecological data. This problem has rarely been mentioned in the literature. In this paper we clarify the differences between these two null hypotheses, and illustrate the risk of misinterpretation when using an inappropriate null hypothesis. We review the main characteristics of these two hypotheses, and analyse the spatial structure of both real data from forest stands and simulated virtual stands of different structures. We demonstrate that the risk of misinterpretation is quite high, and that extreme misinterpretations, i.e. cases leading to opposite conclusions in terms of spatial interaction, can occur in a significant number of cases. We therefore propose some guidelines to help ecologists avoid such misinterpretations.
3235926|The relationships of plant species associations and underlying environmental factors in a woodland savanna in South Africa were investigated. 40 plots were included with 25 tree and 17 grass species dominating the arboreal and ground cover. Correspondence Analysis described the relationships between soil moisture retention, soil nutrients and the abundance of trees and grasses. Dry matter indices represented the accumulated effects of rainfall, fire and grazing of the herbaceous layer. Variations in the abundance of plants corresponded to well-defined gradients of soil nutrients. The distribution of grass and tree species along the ordination axes indicated that soils with high water retention capacity and high nutrient contents provided a suitable substrate for many of the tree species sampled. However, grass species abundance was high in plots with porous soils and poor nutrient availability.
3236740|We focused on community boundaries in a sub-alpine forest landscape in the Shiretoko Peninsula, northern Japan. Gradient-directed transects were conducted on the north-western slope (ranging 500-600 m a.s.l.) of Mount On'nebetsu (1331 m), where complex topography was formed by past landslides. Pioneer Picea glehnii made up a mosaic of pure stands related to landslides. Structural and compositional changes from P. glehnii pure stands to P. glehnii and Abies sachalinensis mixed stands were characterized by ca. 20 m transitional zones over the landscape. Stand density of the species changed across boundaries. A. sachalinensis preferred less undulated slopes with deep soil and P. glehnii preferred undulated rocky sites. Positive spatial associations between overstorey-understorey P. glehnii were found at undulated core parts of P. glehnii pure stands. Short-lived A. sachalinensis grew faster to the smaller maximum size than long-lived P. glehnii. Undulated topography controlled the increase of A. sachalinensis and provided regeneration sites for P. glehnii, which prevented the general trend of canopy replacement from P. glehnii to late-successional A. sachalinensis. However, the locations of current boundaries were not accordant with the topographic changes in the meso-scale landscape. Initial P. glehnii pure stands would extend to larger areas if current patterns reflect vegetation recovery since the last landslide. P. glehnii pure stands with accurate boundaries were not maintained by topographic complexity, but were dynamically arranged by the one-sided canopy replacements from P. glehnii to A. sachalinensis at less undulated slopes in the sub-alpine forest landscape.
3235597|Spatial changes in tree and upland tundra cover in response to a complex environmental gradient and to landscape factors were investigated in the high subarctic forest-tundra of NW Canada. Vegetation and terrain studies provided ground truth for a grid of 1314 air photos which covered 24 % of the Canadian high subarctic and some of the adjacent low subarctic and low arctic. Across the high subarctic, gradual spatial change in % cover of tree and upland tundra vegetation is typical at both high and low cover values, with more rapid change occurring at intermediate cover. Cover gradients of zonal tree and tundra vegetation in the forest-tundra region in general follow a sigmoid pattern. Tundra and tree patch sizes increase in area and variability with higher tundra and tree cover, respectively.
4499213| Question: Herbivores can play a fundamental role in regulating the composition and structure of terrestrial plant communities. Relatively inconspicuous but nevertheless ubiquitous gastropods and small mammals are usually considered to influence grassland communities through distinct modes. 1. Do terrestrial gastropods and small mammals, either alone or in combination, influence plant community composition of an intact annual grassland? 2. Do these herbivores influence the plant size structure of the dominant grass Avena? Location: Jasper Ridge Biological Preserve (3724' N, 12213' W, elevation 150 m) in northern California. Methods: Animal exclosures were used to examine the single and combined influences of these herbivores on annual grassland production, community composition, and plant size structure during the growing season of an intact annual grassland. Results: The removal and exclusion of the herbivores increased the prevalence of grasses relative to legumes and non-legume forbs; increased total production of above-ground plant biomass; and increased mean plant size and exacerbated size hierarchies in populations of Avena. The effect of both gastropods and small mammals, alone and in combination, was characterized by temporal oscillations in the relative dominance of grasses in plots with vs. without herbivores. Conclusions: Both groups of herbivores are important controllers of California annual grassland that exert similar influences on production and composition. While other factors appear to determine the absolute number of individuals in this plant community, selective consumption of grasses by gastropods and small mammals partially offsets the competitive advantages associated with their early germination. 
3236868|In ecosystems where environments are extreme, such as deserts, adult plant species may facilitate the establishment and growth of seedlings and juveniles. Because high temperatures and evaporative demand characterize tall-grass prairies of the central United States (relative to forests), we predicted that the grassland-forest ecotone, by minimizing temperature extremes and moderating water stress, may function to facilitate the expansion of Quercus species into undisturbed tall-grass prairie. We assessed the carbon and water relations of juvenile Quercus macrocarpa and Q. muhlenbergii, the dominant tree species in gallery forests of northeast Kansas, in ecotone and prairie sites. To evaluate the potentially competitive effects of neighboring herbaceous biomass on these oaks, juveniles (< 0.5 m tall) of both species also were subjected to either: (1) removal of surrounding above-ground herbaceous biomass, or (2) control (prairie community intact) treatments. Herbaceous biomass removal had no significant effect on gas exchange or water relations in these oak species in either the prairie or the ecotone environment. Although the ecotone did alleviate some environmental extremes, photosynthetic rates and stomatal conductance were ca. 20 % higher (p < 0.05) in both oaks in prairie sites vs. the ecotone. Moreover, although leaf temperatures on average were higher in oaks in the prairie, high leaf temperatures in the ecotone had a greater negative effect on photosynthesis. These data suggest that the grassland-forest ecotone did not facilitate the growth of Quercus juveniles expanding into this grassland. Moreover, the carbon and water relations of juvenile oaks in the prairie appeared to be unaffected by the presence of the dominant C<sub>4</sub> grasses.
3235867|We measured the effects of annual variation in climate and experimentally augmented rainfall on patterns of distribution and above-ground productivity in annual plant communities at Carpinteria Salt Marsh in central California. In the driest year, Hutchinsia procumbens was codominant throughout much of the upper marsh; however, Hutchinsia was very rare or not present in the wetter years. Conversely, Juncus bufonius was common in the wettest year and absent in the driest year. Elevational distributions of other annual species also differed among years with different total precipitation. In 1989-1990, an exceptionally dry season, supplemental water decreased soil salinity, increased above-ground productivity of annuals, and caused significant changes in spatial patterns and relative density. In the lowest zone, Hutchinsia occurred only in watered plots and supplemental water increased the density of Spergularia marina. At intermediate elevations Lasthenia glabrata occurred only in watered plots and supplemental water increased the density of Spergularia, Hutchinsia, and Parapholis incurva. At upper elevations, Juncus occurred only in watered plots, and Lasthenia was the only species that increased significantly in density with watering. Unlike natural shifts in species abundance, no species declined significantly in cover in any zone in the watered treatment. Although climatic variation has complex affects on annual plant communities, our experiments isolated important affects of total annual rainfall on the structure of annual plant communities that were similar to those that occurred with natural variation in rainfall. We conclude that variation in total annual precipitation promotes dynamic community composition and spatial distributions among years, and thus increases overall species diversity in the salt marsh.
3236876|This paper deals with browsing and grazing as forces driving cyclic succession. Between 1989 and 1994 reciprocal transitions between the dwarf shrub Calluna vulgaris and the grass Deschampsia flexuosa were monitored in permanent plots in a cattle grazed grass-rich Dutch heathland on podsolic soils in which tree encroachment was prevented. Heather beetles killed Calluna in four of the nine plots during 1991/1992. The monitoring revealed reciprocal transitions and cycles between Calluna and Deschampsia on a subplot scale. Beetles and cattle had additional and complementary effects on the two competing species. Defoliation by beetles and trampling by cattle-killed Calluna and favoured grass invasion. Grazing and gap creation by cattle in Deschampsia favoured the establishment and recovery of Calluna. Analysis of the causal mechanisms suggests that indirect, resource-mediated herbivory effects may be as important for the replacement processes as direct effects of defoliation and trampling. Herbivory created differential light and nutrient levels in Calluna and Deschampsia gaps. Grazing and browsing improved the resource-capturing abilities of Calluna and its resistance to herbivory and abiotic disturbances. The emerged Calluna-Deschampsia cycle and its driving forces are summarized in a conceptual triangular resource-mediated successional grazing cycle (RSGC) model, a limit cycle involving herbivore-plant-plant resource interactions. It offers a deterministic equilibrium model as alternative for stochastic transitions between the meta-stable states with dominance of Calluna and Deschampsia respectively. The validity range of the RSGC model and its management implications are briefly discussed.
23012495|Question: How do species traits and abiotic factors influence the extent of hydrochorous dispersal into and out of a small floodplain area along a free-flowing river in The Netherlands? Location: The Kappersbult nature reserve (530728N, 63714E), which is a floodplain along the Dutch River Drentsche Aa. Methods: Seeds transported by the river were collected in fine mesh nets for 24 consecutive hours once or twice a week for 1 year, upstream and downstream of the studied floodplain. Data on the captured seeds were related to species traits and abiotic factors and species composition in the floodplain. Results: The floodplain functioned both as a seed source and sink. High levels of river water seemed to promote seed transport to or from the floodplain. Seeds of riverbank species occurred significantly more often in the river water than expected. Net source species had significantly higher seed production, taller stature and higher seed buoyancy, but lower site elevation than net sink species. Seed weight was significantly higher for sink species than for other species. Conclusion: Our study found that inundation, and therefore more natural river water management, is a prerequisite for seed transport to and from a floodplain. The restoration of target floodplain vegetation may be successful for common species that produce many seeds and grow in proximity to the river. Consequently, it is expected that the probability of restoring vegetation types that occur further from the river, such as wet grasslands, by hydrochorous dispersal is low.
3236426| A method is described for the determination of plant species cover in herbaceous plant communities by means of image analysis. It is a computerized extension of the quadrat-charting method. The method was tested with four different computer systems for three different vegetation types, a shady lawn, a pioneer vegetation and a forest floor. We compared the results with vertical point-intercept analyses of the same stands. Image analysis revealed a high accuracy of the method ranging from <  1 to about  2% cover depending on the dominance of the species being analysed. The method is particularly suitable for the analysis of low herbaceous or unsaturated vegetation, dominance stands of broad-leaved plant species and for the analysis of cover changes in permanent plots. 
3236835| Delimitation of vegetation units in phytosociology is traditionally based on expert knowledge. Applications of expert-based classifications are often inconsistent because criteria for assigning relevs to vegetation units are seldom given explicitly. Still, there is, e.g. in nature conservation, an increasing need for a consistent application of vegetation classification using computer expert systems for unit identification. We propose a procedure for formalized reproduction of an expert-based vegetation classification, which is applicable to large phytosociological data sets. This procedure combines Bruelheide's Cocktail method with a similarity-based assignment of relevs to constancy columns of a vegetation table. As a test of this method we attempt to reproduce the expert-based phytosociological classification of subalpine tall-forb vegetation of the Czech Republic which has been made by combination of expert judgement and stepwise numerical classification of 718 relevs by TWINSPAN. Applying the Cocktail method to a geographically stratified data set of 21 794 relevs of all Czech vegetation types, we defined groups of species with the statistical tendency of joint occurrences in vegetation. Combinations of 12 of these species groups by logical operators AND, OR and AND NOT yielded formal definitions of 14 of 16 associations which had been accepted in the expert-based classification. Application of these formal definitions to the original data set of 718 relevs resulted in an assignment of 376 relevs to the associations. This assignment agreed well with the original expert-based classification. Relevs that remained unassigned because they had not met the requirements of any of the formal definitions, were subsequently assigned to the associations by calculating similarity to relev groups that had already been assigned to the associations. A new index, based on frequency and fidelity, was proposed for calculating similarity. The agreement with the expert-based classification achieved by the formal definitions was still improved after applying the similarity-based assignment. Results indicate that the expert-based classification can be successfully formalized and converted into a computer expert system. 
25549236|Question: Can seeds in the seed bank be considered as a potential source of material for the restoration of European plant communities including forest, marsh, grassland and heathland? Methods: This study reviews seed bank studies (1990-2006) to determine if they provide useful and reliable results to predict restoration success. We formally selected 102 seed bank studies and analyzed differences between four plant community types in several seed bank characteristics, such as seed density, species richness and similarity between seed bank and vegetation. We also assessed the dominant genera present in the seed bank in each plant community. Results: We observed remarkably consistent trends when comparing seed bank characteristics among community types. Seed density was lowest for grassland and forest communities and highest in marshes, whereas species richness, diversity and evenness of the seed bank community was lowest in heathland and highest in grassland. Similarity between seed bank and vegetation was low in forest, and high in grassland. There was a lot of overlap of the dominant genera of seed bank communities in all studies. Conclusions: The absence of target species and the high dominance of early successional species, in particular Juncus spp., indicate that restoration of target plant communities relying only on seed germination from the seed bank is in most cases not feasible. The exceptions are heathland and early successional plant communities occurring after temporally recurring disturbances. Restoration of plant communities composed of late successional species, such as woody species or herbaceous species typical of woodland or forest rely mainly on seed dispersal and not on in situ germination.
3237326|The general objectives of this study were: (1) to investigate the importance of internal influences in regulating the tiller dynamics in natural populations of the warm-season perennial grasses Paspalum dilatatum and Sporobolus indicus, coexisting in Argentine flooded pampa, in as much as they act independently of the underlying external environment, and (2) to evaluate the extent to which interactions between internal and external factors affect the variation in tiller dynamics within such populations. Within-population variation in seasonal development of plants and tillers with different neighbour composition was studied for an annual growth cycle. Tiller survival and tillering were significantly influenced by tiller size. Tiller age influenced tiller fate, as suggested by the additive effects of age and size of tillers. These relationships varied with season and with species. Size and age of tillers showed additive effects with their neighbouring species on the tiller fate of P. dilatatum, but the effects of age and size of S. indicus changed according their neighbourhood. Tiller survival of S. indicus during the early growth season was more size-dependent when the cold-season species Poa lanigera, was the principal neighbour. Flowering and tillering probabilities were positively related through their common positive responses to tiller size. Tiller survival and recruitment between different seasons were strongly related. Independently of neighbour composition, tiller survival was generally inversely related to tiller recruitment in previous seasons. Therefore, significant density-dependent mortality of tillers was found for both species during the early summer when tiller density was expressed by basal area units.
3236803| In this study we investigated population dynamics of a perennial forb, Plantago media, in semi-natural grasslands in southeastern Sweden. Plantago media is a rather common inhabitant of grasslands in this region, but it has been shown to experience dispersal limitations both among managed grassland sites and at potential dispersal routes along road verges. The demography of P. media was studied in 22 permanent plots at two sites over five years. A seed sowing experiment was also performed at each site. The life-cycle of P. media includes seedlings, juveniles, small vegetative rosettes, large vegetative rosettes and flowering rosettes. The population growth rates (-values) were negative for both populations, with one exception: the first year transition matrix at one site. The projected life span for individuals surviving from seedlings to flowering rosettes varied between 19.6 yr and 227.8 yr. Elasticity analysis showed that remaining in the large rosette stages, both vegetative and flowering, was the most important factor influencing population growth rate. LTRE analysis gave similar results, indicating that spatial and temporal variation have similar effects on the population growth rate. The expected time to extinction in populations with an initial size of between 100 and 1000 individuals varied between 60 and 200 yr. The seed sowing experiment showed that seedling emergence was enhanced by both seed addition and disturbance, suggesting that recruitment is limited by seed and microsite availability. Recruitment was not found to have much impact on population growth rate. However, long-term population maintenance may depend on occasional smallscale disturbances that enhance pulses of recruitment. Fragmented landscape is likely to effect plant populations including rare and endangered species as well as more common species which have limited dispersal mechanisms. 
4096778|Question: How do wind and snow disturbances affect the successional replacement of Picea glehnii by Abies sachalinensis in a subalpine coniferous forest? Location: Cool temperate, northern Japan. Methods: Tree demography (growth, mortality and recruitment rates) was determined by repeated measurements of stem diameter and height, and multiple censuses in four Picea-Abies stands undergoing succession. Above-ground stand biomass, residence time and tree growth trajectories of the component species were estimated to examine successional changes in structure and dynamics. Individual based simulations were used to examine the effects of disturbances that slowed down succession. Multiple regression analyses were used to determine the relative importance of disturbance frequency and intensity on species composition during succession. Results: Above-ground biomass was larger in P. glehnii than in A. sachalinensis stands, whereas residence time, a proxy of productivity, was much shorter for A. sachalinensis than for P. glehnii populations. During successional replacement, both species increased in initial growth rate and decreased in size-dependency of growth in canopy gaps. These plastic growth responses were more prominent in P. glehnii than in A. sachalinensis. Disturbance frequency was the most important predictor of species composition in the simulations, and windstorms were more important than snowfall in terms of disturbance intensity. Conclusions: The frequency of natural disturbances does not have the potential to initiate stand dynamics but it does, however, slow down succession. When disturbance is locally frequent because of the direction and pitch of the topography, early-successional P. glehnii stands may persist for thousands of years.
3236602|Responses of plant communities to mammalian herbivores vary widely, due to variation in plant species composition, herbivore densities, forage preferences, soils, and climate. In this study, we evaluated vegetation changes on 30 sites within and adjacent to the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge (SNWR) in central New Mexico, USA, over a 20-yr period following removal of the major herbivores (livestock and prairie dogs) in 1972-1975. The study sites were established in 1976, and were resampled in 1986 and 1996 using line transect methods. At the landscape scale, repeated measures ANOVA of percentage cover measurements showed no significant overall net changes in total perennial plant basal cover, either with or without herbivores present; however, there was an overall increase in annual forbs and plant litter from 1976 to 1996. At the site scale, significant changes in species composition and dominance were observed both through time and across the SNWR boundary. Site histories varied widely, with sites dominated by Boutelona eriopoda being the most dynamic and sites dominated by Scleropogon brevifolius being the most persistent. Species-specific changes also were observed across multiple sites: B. eriopoda cover increased while Gutierrezia sarothrae greatly decreased. The non-uniform, multi-directional changes of the sites' vegetation acted to prevent detection of overall changes in perennial vegetation at the landscape level. Some sites displayed significant changes after removal of herbivores, while others appeared to respond primarily to climate dynamics. Certain species that were not preferred by livestock or prairie dogs, showed overall declines during drought periods, while other preferred species exhibited widespread increases during wetter periods regardless of herbivore presence. Therefore, the vegetation dynamics cannot be attributed solely to removal of herbivores, and in some cases can be explained by short- and long-term fluctuations in climate. These results emphasize the variety of responses of sites with differences in vegetation to mammalian herbivores under otherwise similar climatic conditions, and illustrate the value of site- and landscape-scale approaches to understanding the impacts of plant-herbivore interactions.
3236191|The progress in the floristic study of the circumpolar Arctic since the 1940s is summarized and a new floristic division of this region is presented. The treeless areas of the North Atlantic and North Pacific with an oceanic climate, absence of permafrost and a very high proportion of boreal taxa are excluded from the Arctic proper. It is argued that the Arctic deserves the status of a floristic region. The tundra zone and some oceanic areas are divided into subzones according to their flora and vegetation. Two groups of subzones are recognized: the Arctic group (including the Arctic tundras proper and the High Arctic) and the Hypoarctic group. The Arctic phytochorion is floristically divided into sectors: 6 provinces and 20 subprovinces reflecting the regional features of each sector in connection with flora history, physiography and continentality-oceanity of the climate. Each sector is described and differentiated by a set of differential and co-differential species. The peculiarities of the Arctic flora are manifest in different ways in the various sectors, and endemism is not the universal criterion for subdivision.
4499269| Question: Do vascular epiphyte species have a metapopulation structure? What are the qualitative and quantitative long-term changes of the complete vascular epiphyte vegetation in a particular host tree species? Location: Lowland forest on Barro Colorado Island (9 10' N, 7951' W), Republic of Panama. Methods: In 1994 and 2002 we conducted a census of all vascular epiphytes growing on more than 1000 Annona glabra trees (= patches). Epiphyte species abundances were recorded at the tree level in each census. Results: The number of epiphyte individuals increased from ca. 15 000 to ca. 23 700 individuals during the census interval while the species composition on Annona glabra as a whole was rather stable. There was a strong positive relationship between occurrence in patches and local abundance of the species, and between species richness and host tree stand size. The dynamics of local populations of a given species were uncorrelated to each other; small and large local populations of most species had the same probability to go extinct. The frequency distribution of species on all host trees was not bimodal, but on a subset of heavily colonized host tree stands it was. Numbers of species and individuals were correlated with tree size which was not due to a correlation of tree size and tree age. Conclusions: As far as the most abundant epiphyte species with metapopulation structures are concerned, these species belong to diverse families, e.g. Orchidaceae, Bromeliaceae and Polypodiaceae. Even ca. 80 years after the initial establishment of the host tree species in the study area epiphytes are still in the stage of initial colonization and have not reached a steady state as indicated by the strong increase in individuals and the ongoing colonization of empty trees. 
3246584|The vegetation of a mire in a medium-high rainfall area of South Island, New Zealand is described. The central part of the bog is raised 6 m above the surroundings, suggesting that it is ombrotrophic, and the species present are those of apparently ombrotrophic bogs elsewhere in New Zealand. pH of < 4.0 and Ca/Mg molar quotient of < 1.0 also indicates ombrotrophic conditions. Within the mire, these criteria provide effective discrimination between the fen (rheotrophic) and bog (ombrotrophic) communities. A bimodal distribution of ordination scores suggests that the change in pH and in Ca/ Mg quotients cause a switch to operate.
40925481|Questions: Are negative invasion-diversity relationships due to biotic resistance of the invaded plant community or to post-invasion displacement of less competitive species? Do invasion-diversity relationships change with habitat type or resident traits? Location/species: Lowlands and uplands of western and southern Germany, Heracleum mantegazzianum; mountain range in central Germany, Lupinus polyphyllus; and coastal dunes of northwest Germany, Rosa rugosa. Methods: We tested the significance and estimated regression slopes of invasion-diversity relationships using generalized linear (mixed effects) models relating invader cover and habitat type to species richness in different plant groups, stratified based on size, life cycle and community association. Results: We found negative, positive and neutral relationships between invader cover and species richness. There were negative linear correlations of invader cover with small plant species throughout, but no negative linear correlation with tall species. Invasion-diversity relationships tended to be more negative in early-successional habitats, such as dunes or abandoned grasslands, than in late-successional habitats. Conclusions: Invasion diversity-relationships are complex; they vary among habitat types and among different groups of resident species. Negative invasion-diversity relationships are due to asymmetric competitive displacement of inferior species and not due to biotic resistance. Small species are displaced in early-successional habitats, while there is little effect on persistence of tall species.
3235992|Structure, primary production and energy flow were studied in ungrazed and grazed alpine meadows in the Garhwal Himalaya, India. In grazed grasslands, the cover of graminoids increased, the biomass of palatable species was reduced by about 50%, but the biomass of unpalatable species increased, due to reduced competition from the better-foraged species. Generally, 32% of live shoot and root biomass was consumed during a growing season. Also, above-ground plant productivity increased as a result of plant regrowth, while below-ground productivity decreased. Flow and storage of energy in ungrazed and grazed alpine grasslands showed an accumulation of 10.1 and 8.5 kJ/yr with energy conversion efficiencies of 0.7 and 0.6% respectively. Ca. 46% of the net energy accumulated was consumed by herbivores on the grazed grassland. Only 26% of the net captured energy disappeared from the system in the growing season, mainly via root and litter decomposition.
4096666|The experimental study of the relationship between bio-diversity and ecosystem function has mainly addressed the effect of species and number of functional groups. In theory, this approach has mainly focused on how extinction affects function, whereas dispersal limitation of ecosystem function has been rarely discussed. A handful of seed introduction experiments, as well as numerous observations of the effects of long-distance dispersal of alien species, indicate that ecosystem function may be strongly determined by dispersal limitation at the local, regional and/or global scales. We suggest that it is time to replace biodiversity manipulation experiments, based on random draw of species, with those addressing realistic scenarios of either extinction or dispersal. Experiments disentangling the dispersal limitation of ecosystem function should have to take into account the probability of arrival. The latter is defined as the probability that a propagule of a particular species will arrive at a particular community. Arrival probability depends on the dispersal ability and the number of propagules of a species, the distance a species needs to travel, and the permeability of the matrix landscape. Current databases, in particular those in northwestern and central Europe now enable robust estimation of arrival probability in plant communities. We suggest a general hypothesis claiming that dispersal limitation according to arrival probability will have ecosystem-level effects different from those arising due to random arrival. This hypothesis may be rendered more region-, landscape- or ecosystem-specific by estimating arrival probabilities for different background conditions.
3235802|Alkaline xeric soils from SE Spain weathered from kakiritized dolomitic rocks and subjected to recurrent fires, show phosphorus immobilization, low nutrient availability and high cation content, which might affect plant nutrition. Currently, Ulex shrubland, with a variety of dolomitophilous endemics, is colonizing eroded areas and replacing the original shrubland communities. Variation in nutrient content during post-fire regeneration was studied in six species which differ widely in their successional status. All species showed a high consumption of nutrients immediately after the fire. A pattern of decline in internal nutrient levels, especially P, with time since fire was detected in mid-to-late successional shrubs: Juniperus oxycedrus, Genista spartioides, and to a lesser extent in Rosmarinus officinalis, a shrub species of intermediate successional status. This pattern of decline may represent a progressive change towards a metabolism with a low turnover along the age gradient. Early successional shrub species behaved in a different way. Cistus clusii showed a nutrient-cumulative strategy, especially for P, across the fire-age gradient. Ulex rivasgodayanus maximized internal N concentrations due to its symbiotic activity with N<sub>2</sub>-fixing bacteria. Cistus and Rosmarinus held high cation levels in their tissues. The nutritional characteristics of these shrub species are seen as advantageous adaptations to the specific soil properties and disturbance regime of the area.
3236597|Question: What changes in species composition and cover have occurred in chaparral as a function of fire history across an ecoregion? Location: San Diego County, California, USA. Methods: Stands in which 40 mid-elevation chaparral vegetation plots (each 400 m<sup>2</sup> in area) were located in the 1930s were resurveyed in 2001. We stratified the stands into Infrequently versus Frequently burned (0-1 versus 2 or more fires recorded in the 91-yr period), and Immature versus Mature ( leq yr versus >31 yr since last fire), resulting in four groups. Ten stands were randomly selected from each of these groups for survey. Results: There were no major shifts in life form composition, e.g., live oak trees were not invading chaparral that had experienced little or no fire, nor were subshrubs or herbaceous species replacing shrubs in areas that had experienced more frequent fires. However, there was a notable increase in the frequency of the subshrub Eriogonum fasciculatum across all fire history groups. In the mature stands with infrequent fire, average cover of resprouting shrubs increased (from 72 to 91%) and cover of obligate seeding shrubs (species with fire-cued germination) decreased (from 21 to 6%) significantly. Mature stands with frequent fire showed a significant decrease in resprouter cover (from 87 to 80%) and increase in obligate seeders (from 10 to 16%). Conclusions: While the tremendous changes in land use in southern California have been predicted to cause shifts in chaparral composition, these shifts are difficult to detect because species longevity and fire cycles are on the order of decades to a century. In this study, the expected trends could only be detected in groups that were mature at the time of the second survey.
4096660|Questions: 1. What are the distribution and habitat associations of non-native (neophyte) species in riparian zones? 2. Are there significant differences, in terms of plant species diversity, composition, habitat condition and species attributes, between plant communities where non-natives are present or abundant and those where non-natives are absent or infrequent? 3. Are the observed differences generic to non-natives or do individual non-native species differ in their vegetation associations? Location: West Midlands Conurbation (WMC), UK. Methods: 56 sites were located randomly on four rivers across the WMC. Ten 2 m x 2 m quadrats were placed within 15 m of the river to sample vegetation within the floodplain at each site. All vascular plants were recorded along with site information such as surrounding land use and habitat types. Results: Non-native species were found in many vegetation types and on all rivers in the WMC. There were higher numbers of non-natives on more degraded, human-modified rivers. More non-native species were found in woodland, scrub and tall herb habitats than in grasslands. We distinguish two types of communities with non-natives. In communities colonized following disturbance, in comparison to quadrats containing no non-native species, those with non-natives had higher species diversity and more forbs, annuals and short-lived monocarpie perennials. Native species in quadrats containing non-natives were characteristic of conditions of higher fertility and pH, had a larger specific leaf area and were less stress tolerant or competitive. In later successional communities dominated by particular non-natives, native diversity declined with increasing cover of non-natives. Associated native species were characteristic of low light conditions. Conclusions: Communities containing non-natives can be associated with particular types of native species. Extrinsic factors (disturbance, eutrophication) affected both native and non-native species. In disturbed riparian habitats the key determinant of diversity is dominance by competitive invasive species regardless of their native or non-native origin.
3236744|Are the dynamics of most ecological processes fundamentally increased in frequency or magnitude in fragmented habitats? Hyperdynamism could alter a wide range of population, community, and landscape phenomena, and appears to be evident in fragmented tropical, temperate, and boreal communities. I suggest some potential causes and consequences of hyperdynamism, and argue that the responses of many species and ecological processes to habitat fragmentation can be understood in this context.
3235991|We examined woody species composition and its relation to environmental variables in native forest growing on four limestone islands in the southern Cook Islands: Atiu, Mangaia, Ma'uke, and Miti'aro. Relative dominance (percent basal area) of woody species in 74 sites was sampled using the point-centered quarter method, and the data were analyzed using clustering and ordination techniques. These tropical forests have a relatively low diversity of native woody species (32 native and 10 introduced species occurred in our sites). Four forest types were recognized: Pandanus/Guettarda littoral forest (with several subtypes), Hernandia nymphaeifolia littoral forest, Barringtonia littoral forest, and makatea forest (dominated by Elaeocarpus tonganus and Hernandia moerenhoutiana). These types were related, using canonical correspondence analysis, to geographical attributes (wind-wardness, elevation, and proximity to the coast or roads) that served as surrogates for environmental variables (maritime influence, soil variation, and degree of human disturbance). The eigenvalues for this direct ordination were much lower than for indirect ordination (0.32 vs. 0.71 for the first axis), indicating that the measured geographical attributes could explain only a modest portion of the compositional variation.
3236804|The investigation of vegetation pattern and plant association by spatial statistics has become increasingly popular among plant ecologists. Recently, Individual-centered analysis (ICA) has been introduced as a new tool for analysis of multi-species co-occurrence patterns. We tested this new technique by applying it to spatial data from grazed and ungrazed shrub communities in the semi-arid Great Karoo, South Africa. There were substantial but complex and scale-dependent differences in pattern between grazed and ungrazed vegetation. Unpalatable species that increase in abundance in grazed vegetation possibly play a key role in the change of vegetation pattern. At small scales we found indications of aggregation (< 30 cm) at the ungrazed, but of repulsion (30 - 40 cm) at the grazed site. An additional non-random pattern at 60 - 170 cm at the grazed site was probably due to the clumped distributions of some species on broader scales. We show that the interpretability of ICA results is improved when the actual observed and expected frequencies of species combinations are added to the program output. The main strength of ICA is that it has the potential to detect association patterns that involve more than two species.
4096714|Question: What are the composition, conservation status, and structural and environmental characteristics of eight mature tropical forest plant communities that occur along an elevational gradient. Location: Northeastern Puerto Rico. Methods: We quantified the species composition, diversity, conservation status, and ecological attributes of eight mature tropical forest plant communities in replicated plots located to sample representative components of important forest types occurring along an elevational gradient. A suite of environmental and vegetation characteristics were sampled at each plot and summarized to characterize communities and analyse trends along the elevational gradient. Results: The set of communities included 374 species; 92% were native, 14% endemic, and 4% critical elements (locally endangered) to the island. All communities, occurring within a wide range of patch sizes and degree of conservation protection, showed a high percentage of native species (> 89% per plot). The lowland moist forest communities, occurring within a matrix of urbanization, agriculture, and disturbance, had the highest degree of invasion by exotics. Community descriptions were nested within a variety of hierarchies to facilitate extrapolation of community characteristics to larger ecosystem units. Basal area, above-ground biomass, canopy heights, and mean species richness peaked at mid elevations. Conclusions: It is significant that all of these forest communities continue to be dominated by native species while existing in a matrix of human and natural disturbance, species invasion, and forest regeneration from widespread agriculture. The lowland moist and dry forest types represent a minority of the protected forested areas in Puerto Rico, serve as unique genetic reservoirs, and should be protected.
3236883|The vegetation of central Arizona is a mosaic of four vegetation types: chaparral, chaparral grassland, woodland, and woodland grassland. We analysed ten environmental variables, three disturbance variables, and five disturbance indicators to answer the question: What is the relative importance of environment and disturbance in explaining the vegetation pattern of our study area? We found that chaparral, chaparral grassland, and woodland are differentiated primarily by environmental factors and have high stability in the landscape. In contrast, woodland grassland is differentiated primarily by disturbance and is likely an early-successional stage of woodlands. Although other researchers have indicated that semi-arid vegetation is generally unstable, the vegetation of central Arizona is composed of two systems: those with a more stable landscape position determined primarily by environmental factors and those with a less stable landscape position determined primarily by disturbance factors.
3237030|A new method of indicator species analysis is suggested that can be used to demonstrate changes in the species composition of forests resulting from atmospheric deposition of acidifying substances and nitrogen. The method is not dependent on an exact re-localization of sites. 2162 published releves of Fagus sylvatica and Quercus robur-Carpinus betulus forests from two study areas in Germany (S Niedersachsen and Nordrhein-Westfalen) were compiled and divided into releves from before 1975 and more recent releves. Weighted averages of Ellenberg indicator values for light (L), moisture (M), reaction (R), and nitrogen (N) were calculated and for each of the four data sets - mesic and dry sites in two areas - N was regressed on R to give a predicted value (N<sub>pred</sub>) for any given R. The differences between observed values N<sub>obs</sub> and N<sub>pred</sub> were calculated separately for old and new releves (N<sub>dev-old</sub> and N<sub>dev-new</sub>). The same analysis was applied to model data including 16 different scenarios of acidification and/or eutrophication. The model runs resulted in six different types of regression plots for N<sub>dev</sub> and R. All models had in common that the regression lines for N<sub>dev-new</sub> lay, completely or largely, above the zero line of no change and above the lines for N<sub>dev-old</sub>. Also, in the four data sets, N<sub>dev-new</sub> was generally larger than N<sub>dev-old</sub>, and particularly so in Nordrhein-Westfalen. The values of L<sub>dev-old</sub> and L<sub>dev-new</sub> indicate that the differences in N<sub>dev</sub> are unlikely to be caused by altered forest management, but must result from atmospheric pollution.
3235866|Forests dominated by Fagus (beech) occur widely in the Northern Hemisphere. Tree species dominant together with beech vary in tolerance of understorey conditions. They are deciduous broad-leaved, evergreen broad-leaved or evergreen coniferous. The frequency and intensity of events that reduce the forest canopy cover are important determinants of the ratio of beech to other species in the canopy. For trees in the understorey and the canopy, stem diameter growth rate is determined by light regime and growing space which in turn are determined by canopy cover. We evaluated increase in stem diameter growth rate as an indicator of sudden reductions in canopy cover and canopy dynamics. We used tree-ring chronologies and calculated an index of growth rate increase (GI) to compare the canopy dynamics of 11 natural beech forests. Per site, the annual average value of GI poorly reflected the effects of dry or cool summers, and it clearly reflected events like tornados and hurricanes that removed substantial canopy cover. Among groups of sites average values of GI were significantly different. In the sites with a lower level of average GI, the establishment of the more shade tolerant tree and shrub species in the understorey was favoured, and subcanopy layers became more dense. On the other hand, higher levels of average GI allowed for more light demanding tree species to reach the canopy.
4499274| Question: Does ecosystem engineering by small mammals have a significant influence on vegetation patterns in the arid steppe vegetation of southern Mongolia? Location: Gobi Altay Mountains, southern Mongolia. Methods: We assessed the impact of the small lagomorph Ochotona pallasi on plant community composition, nutrient levels and biomass production in montane desert steppes. Data were derived from vegetation relevs, harvests of aboveground standing crop and a bioassay, followed by analyses of soil and plant nutrient contents. Results: Although the local climate is arid with <150 mm annual precipitation, clear evidence of allogenic ecosystem engineering was found. Plant communities on burrows differed from those on undisturbed steppe in that they contained more species of annuals and dwarf shrubs, and a greater abundance of the important fodder grass Agropyron cristatum. Standing crop and nutrient concentrations were higher for plants growing on burrow soil. In situ measurements and a pot experiment showed that this effect was related to increased levels of soil nutrients (P, K, N) rather than moisture availability. Conclusions: The study confirms that O. pallasi positively influences soil nutrient levels on its burrows, which leads to increased grassland productivity even under dry conditions. Thus, O. pallasi does not deteriorate site conditions, and the need for presently applied pest control schemes aimed at this species should be reassessed. 
3237275|A conceptual model is presented as a guide to the maintenance and restoration of ecologically sustainable boreal forest. The model is based on the hypothesis that self-sustained forest ecosystems can be (re-)created, and their biodiversity developed, if forest management can simulate the composition and structure of boreal forest landscapes by introducing and maintaining disturbances leading to naturally dynamic spatial and temporal patterns of forest regeneration. The major explanatory variable in the model is the effect of wildfire on sites with different fuel characteristics and climates found in the European boreal forest. Four levels of fire intensity are distinguished, based on mean fire frequencies. These range from extremely low in some wet tall-herb sites or sites at high altitudes or latitudes with a humid climate, where fire is absent or rare, to dry lichen-rich sites where fire occurs often. The model is called ASIO, after the words Absent, Seldom, Infrequent and Often, indicating the four levels. Three main disturbance regimes are distinguished in the European boreal forest, based on the complex interactions between probabilistic (e.g. mean fire intervals at different site types) and random events (e.g. where and when a fire occurs): (1) gap-phase Picea abies dynamics; (2) succession from young to old-growth mixed deciduous/coniferous forest; and (3) multi-cohort Pinus sylvestris dynamics. The model stems mainly from studies in Fennoscandia, but some studies from outside this region are reviewed to provide support for a more general application of the model. The model has been implemented in planning systems on the landscape level of several large Swedish forest enterprises, and is also used as an educational tool to help private land owners with the location and realization of forest management regimes. Finally, the model can be used to develop an administrative system for the monitoring of biodiversity in boreal forest.
3236638|It has been suggested that ant nests are the most frequent small-scale disturbance that affect vegetation patterns. However, their effects on plant diversity are little studied. We document effects of nests of the leaf-cutting ant Acromyrmex lobicornis on physical-chemical soil properties and their influence on plant diversity near road verges in a desert steppe in NW Patagonia, Argentina. We analysed nest soils and controls for nitrogen, phosphorus, organic matter, moisture retention capacity and texture. We also analysed the vegetation on 42 nests (30 active and 12 abandoned or without life) and 42 areas without nests. Soil around nests had a greater nutrient content and capacity to retain moisture than control soils, which is mainly due to the presence of organic waste that the ants deposit on the soil surface. We found no association between the occurrence of nests and specific groups of plants, but plant diversity was higher at nest-sites than at nearby nonnest sites. This increased diversity - which is also found on abandoned nests - is mainly due to the occurrence of a larger number of native and exotic plant species on nest-sites that are uncommon elsewhere in the study area. The most abundant plant species showed similar cover values at nest and non-nest sites. This suggests that changes in diversity are associated to edaphic changes caused by nests rather than by changes in competitive balance caused by dominant species exclusion. We propose that the nests of Acromyrmex lobicornis, through increasing the availability of resources, generate favourable microsites that can function both as 'refuges' for less frequent native species, and as 'stepping stones' for less frequent exotic plant species.
3236751|Lake Uddjaur in northern Sweden was formed as a consequence of non-uniform glacio-isostatic uplift in which a forested valley was gradually flooded and high elevation areas became islands. We hypothesized that small islands in Lake Uddjaur burnt through lightning strike more frequently when they were part of a large forested area compared to when they became true islands, and that this reduction in fire impact has enhanced the domination of late successional species and humus accumulation. Fire history and vegetation dynamics were studied by analysis of macroscopic charcoal (> 0.5 mm) and pollen in humus profiles from two islands. According to a model of isostatic uplift, the islands became gradually isolated from the mainland between ca. 2000 to 1000 BP, i.e. during the same time that fire impact declined. Prior to that, both islands were part of a Pinus-Betula forest landscape affected by fires from ca. 5800 to ca. 1500 BP. Thereafter fire influence ceased and the islands became more strongly characterized by late successional species, e.g. Picea. This change was associated with substantial humus accumulation. The decreased fire influence on these islands contrasts with the regional increase in fire influence during the last 1000 yr. Long-term influence of wildfire is important in vegetation dynamics and humus accumulation and, thus, post-glacial isostatic land uplift can indirectly have a substantial influence on ecosystem development. Consequently, this effect should be further considered in long-time ecosystem studies of areas with large, non-uniform land uplift such as those found in northern Fennoscandia and eastern Canada.
3236533|The Northeast China Transect (NECT) has been used to study how water availability influences the composition of plant functional types, soil organic matter, net primary production, trace gas flux, and land-use patterns. We discuss relations of plant species number, soil C and N and aboveground biomass with a precipitation gradient and interactions with land-use practices (grassland fencing, mowing and grazing), on the basis of data from the west part of NECT. The results indicate: 1. The above-ground biomass of grassland communities has a linear relationship with precipitation under three land-use practices, while plant species number, soil C, and total soil N have linear relationships with precipitation under fencing and mowing; under grazing the relationships are non-linear. 2. Plant species number, soil C and total soil N have strong linear relationships with above-ground biomass under both fencing and mowing, while they seem to have non-linear relationships under grazing. 3. Land-use practices along the precipitation gradient result not only in changes in grassland communities but also in qualitative changes of their structure and function. 4. Grasslands are more vulnerable to changes in climate under mowing than under fencing, and are more capable to store C in soil and plants. 5. At a given precipitation level, number of plant species, above-ground biomass, and soil C are higher under low to medium intensity of human activities (mowing and grazing). A better understanding of how different intensities of human activities will affect the structure and function of grassland will require further research.
25549232|Question: Can mixing ratio and species affect the use of substrate-derived CO by Sphagnum? Location: Poor fen in south Sweden and greenhouse in Wageningen, The Netherlands. Methods: Two mixing ratios of Sphagnum cuspidatum and S. magellanicum were exposed to two levels of CO by pumping CO enriched and non-enriched water through aquaria containing the species mixtures in the greenhouse. Results: Enhanced CO stimulated the production of S. cuspidatum, but only in aquaria co-dominated by S. magellanicum, coinciding with higher CO concentrations in the water layer. The denser growing S. magellanicum seemed to reduce gas escape from the water, resulting in accumulation of dissolved CO. Adding CO did not affect species replacement. Conclusions: The use of substrate-derived CO for Sphagnum production depended on species identity and mixing ratio. The effect of mixing ratio on CO concentrations in the water layer suggests that species composition may affect both the efficiency with which substrate-derived CO is trapped and subsequently used. This could result in hitherto unexplored feedbacks between vegetation composition and gas exchange.
3237219| The strong environmental gradients and 'natural experimental design' of Mauna Loa volcano, Hawaii, provide an outstanding opportunity to study controls on ecosystem development. We measured above-ground vascular plant biomass and species composition on 42 sites on which precipitation, temperature, substrate texture, and substrate age varied substantially and largely independently. Biomass and species richness of live plants were strongly correlated with precipitation and lava flow age, but not with temperature or lava flow texture. Species composition, as measured by correspondence analysis, was likewise correlated with precipitation and flow age, but composition was also strongly influenced by temperature. Lava texture had a complex effect on vegetation, with 'a'a lava favoring vegetation development on wet sites and phoehoe favoring development on dry sites. Many locations remain virtually free of invasion by alien species; aliens appear where disturbance has facilitated invasion, either from stand-level dieback in rainforest or a grass-fire cycle on the dry, leeward side of the mountain. All four of the environmental factors studied here (precipitation, temperature, substrate texture, and substrate age) exert significant and independent control over vegetation biomass and/or species composition on Mauna Loa. 
23012747|Question: How does the composition and species richness of understorey vegetation associate with changing abundance of deciduous shrub canopies? What are the species-specific associations between shrubs and understorey plants? Location: Tundra habitats along an over 1000-km long range, spanning from NW Fennoscandia to the Yamal Peninsula in northwest Russia. Methods: The data from 758 vegetation sample plots from 12 sites comprised cover estimates of all plant species, including bryophytes and lichens, and canopy height of deciduous shrubs. The relationships between shrub volume and cover of plant groups and species richness of vegetation were investigated. In addition, species-specific associations between understorey species and shrub volume were analysed. Results: Shrub abundance was shown to be associated with the composition of understorey vegetation, and the association patterns were consistent across the study sites. Increased forb cover was positively associated with shrub volume, whereas bryophyte, lichen, dwarf shrub and graminoid cover decreased in association with increasing volume of deciduous shrubs. The total species richness of vegetation declined with increasing shrub volume. Conclusions: The results suggest that an increase of shrubs  due to climatic warming or a decrease in grazing pressure  is likely to have strong effects on plantplant interactions and lead to a decrease in the diversity of understorey vegetation.
3236484| Question: Which is the response of the evergreen Quercus ilex and the deciduous Q. cerrioides to repeated disturbances? Location: central Catalonia (northeastern Spain), in the areas affected by two of the largest historically recorded wildfires in NE Spain: the Bages-Bergued fire (24 300 ha forested area burned in July 1994), and the Solsons fire (14 300 ha burned in 1998). Methods: Survival and growth of individuals of Quercus ilex and Q. cerrioides were evaluated in plants subjected to different fire histories and experimental disturbances (burning, cutting or clipping) applied either before or after summer. Results: Survival was high (> 99%), with both species showing a similar high resistance to disturbances. Growth after experimental disturbance was positively related to the size of the individual before the latest forest fire occurred. Fire history had a large effect on resprout growth, as the repeated incidence of disturbances lowered the capacity of individuals to grow. The type and season of experimental disturbance experienced by plants had a large effect. Individuals that experienced total above-ground loss had lower growth rates than those with partial loss. A similar pattern was observed in individuals disturbed after the summer in relation to those disturbed before summer. Conclusions: The larger growth rates recorded in Q. cerrioides across all fire histories and experimental treatments, and the higher vulnerability of Q. ilex to increased fire frequency, intensity of experimental disturbance, and disturbance season, provide evidence for the relatively high susceptibility of the latter to repeated disturbances. This view disagrees with the larger resilience of this species compared to co-existing deciduous oaks, as reported. 
25549224|Question: What components of drought influence the drought limit of Fagus sylvatica forests? This study contributes to the ongoing discussion regarding the future of Fagus as a major component of central European forests. Location: The drought limit of F. sylvatica at its ecotone with forest dominated by Quercus pubescens, Q. petraea and their hybrids in two limestone regions (Klettgau, Schwbische Alb) in southwestern Germany was compared. Methods: Vegetation relevs were classified and a gradient analysis was performed. The vegetation pattern was analysed with several drought relevant variables. Classification trees were used to determine the drought limits of the Fagus forest. Results: The Fagus, Quercus and the ecotone forests were floristically characterized. The lower humidity in the submontane Klettgau, compared to the montane Schwbische Alb, was compensated for by greater soil moisture (ASWSC). Therefore, Fagus forest in the Schwbische Alb grew on sites with ASWSC values similar to those of ecotone forest in Klettgau. Conclusions: The interaction between climatic and edaphic drought related factors demonstrates that drought is a complex edaphic-climatic factor. Both components contribute to limiting the distribution of Fagus. For the two regions in southwestern Germany, and under the existing climatic conditions, it could be shown that Fagus is able to dominate forests on soils with very low ASWSC ( 68 l.m).
4096745|Question: Is the facilitative effect of nurse shrubs on early recruitment of trees mediated by a 'canopy effect' (microclimate amelioration and protection from herbivores), a 'soil effect' (modification of soil properties), or both? Location: Two successional montane shrublands at the Sierra Nevada Protected Area, SE Spain. Method: Seedlings of Quercus and Pinus species were planted in four experimental treatments: (1) under shrubs; (2) in open interspaces without vegetation; (3) under shrubs where the canopies were removed; (4) in open interspaces but covering seedlings with branches, mimicking a shrub canopy. Results: Both effects benefited seedling performance. However, microclimatic amelioration due to canopy shading had the strongest effect, which was particularly pronounced in the drier site. Below-ground, shrubs did not modify soil physical characteristics, organic matter, total N and P, or water content, but significantly increased available K, which has been shown to improve seedling water-use efficiency under drought conditions. Conclusions: We propose that in Mediterranean montane ecosystems, characterised by a severe summer drought, pioneer shrubs represent a major safe site for tree early recruitment during secondary succession, improving seedling survival during summer by the modification of both the above- and below-ground environment.
3235883|We present a Regional Ecosystem Simulation System (RESSys ) which uses satellite data to define vegetation properties, topographic and soil data to define site characteristics, and a climate generator program to build a topographically sensitive microclimate map. We use a 150-km<sup>2</sup> mountainous forested watershed in Glacier National Park to test the consequences of modeling various ecosystems processes using different versions of RESSys with increasing simplification of the landscape: (1) spatial scaling generated using 30 m x 30 m Landsat Thematic Mapper data versus 1 km x 1 km Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer data for vegetation definition; (2) modeling hydrologic dynamics produced by using a topographic routing model versus a simple soil 'bucket' model; (3) variable landscape partitioning based on patterns of topographic complexity; and (4) representation of annual net primary productivity (ANPP) using an absorbed photosynthetic active radiation (APAR) model. We evaluate results of these simulations by comparison with average values and areal distributions of photosynthesis, evapotranspiration, hydrologic outflow, and ANPP. Our primary goal is to test whether areal average flux of carbon and water can be scaled linearly over a complex landscape. We found that daily photosynthesis could be predictably estimated between modeling scales with correlation coefficients ranging between 0.89 to 0.99. ANPP was highly correlated among the modeling scales with maximum differences between ANPP prediction of ca. 0.5Mg C ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. Evapotranspiration was similarly predictable between scales but was influenced by differences associated with hydrologic modeling. Hydrologic outflow was not highly correlated between different modeling scales as a function of the different hydrologic models used at different scales.
4499240|Question: Is primary dormancy required for seed bank persistence of Leucopogon species? How does the distinction between dormancy and persistence affect our understanding of seed bank dynamics in fire-prone regions? Location: Sclerophyllous plant communities, Sydney region, southeastern Australia. Methods: Seed bank longevity of three morphophysiologically dormant species was ascertained using seed burial trials. Seeds of each species were buried in situ in replicate mesh bags and retrieved annually over three years. Laboratory germination trials and embryo growth measurements over time were used to establish in which order each component of dormancy was overcome, and whether seed banks persisted after the loss of primary dormancy. Results: All species had long-term persistent seed banks, with estimated half-lives between 3.5 and 5.5 years. Physiological dormancy was broken by stratification prior to embryo growth, during the first year of burial. Seeds were able to germinate after retrieval, in light and at warm temperatures. Only low levels of germination occurred in situ over three years of burial, and did not increase over time. During germination trials, embryos remained underdeveloped unless seeds germinated, indicating that seeds were committed to germination once embryo growth was initiated. Conclusions: Long-lived seed banks are an important trait of plants from fire-prone communities, but cues observed to promote germination in situ are not necessarily the ones that break dormancy. A failure to distinguish between these two factors can divert attention away from mechanisms actually controlling dormancy and seed bank dynamics.
3235595|The effect of fire intensity - both temperature and duration - on the resprouting pattern of the evergreen Mediterranean shrub Erica multiflora in relation to plant size, was experimentally investigated by subjecting plants to the flame of a propane torch, and observing mortality and resprouting after 5 and 20 months. Pre-treatment plant size was not important in determining post-fire plant survival, but it did influence the resprouting vigour, increasingly so with time. High temperatures induced higher mortality rates within populations, but duration of fire did not effect mortality. Biomass of resprouts was lower following more intense fire treatments, but this effect progressively disappeared over time, except in plants subjected to the most intense fire treatment. This is probably because of the increasing importance of the below-ground organs for the regeneration of the above-ground biomass. Some of the plants which were clipped but not exposed to fire also died 20 months after treatment. The effect of clipping on mortality and resprouting response, estimated as biomass of resprouts, was not significantly different from the effect induced by either low or medium temperature treatments, but was significantly different when compared with the effect of high-temperature treatments. Field observations show that the establishment of seedlings of E. multiflora is rare both after fire and between fires. Thus, our data support the idea that both a single fire or clipping can diminish the population size of a resprouting species. We conclude that fire may have a stochastic effect on E. multiflora populations, due to the variation in fire intensity existing within a single burning stand.
23012425|Question: Which thermal climate model performs best in predicting the combined effects of temperature and radiation on forest vegetation in the Bavarian Alps? Location: Bavarian Alps, Germany. Methods: In order to find the best model for effective thermal climate for the Bavarian Alps, we analysed models using the following predictors derived from climate data and/or a digital elevation model: (a) temperature variables only, (b) temperature plus slope aspect and inclination, and (c) temperature plus potential global solar radiation. Models were tested by linear regression against four response variables based on average Ellenberg indicator values for temperature (cover weighted/unweighted, with/without bryophytes), which were computed for 2280 georeferenced relevs from the vegetation database BERGWALD. We optimized (b) by empirically searching for thermally most favourable slope aspect and inclination. Results: Closest model fit was achieved for unweighted temperature values based on vascular plants without bryophytes. Model fit (adj. R2) increased from using temperature alone to temperatureradiation, to temperatureaspectinclination as predictors. The best spatially explicit model for predicting temperature values (adj. R2 = 0.57) was based on the variable combination mean temperature in the growing season (May to September), slope aspect (optimal aspect 195) and inclination (optimal slope 30). Conclusion: Combining mean temperatures and relief variables in GIS allows creation of predictive maps of mountain forest response to thermal climate. Applied to climate change scenarios, our model can forecast potential vegetation distribution in the future. The superiority of simple empirical relief factors over a widely used model of potential radiation casts doubt on the meaningfulness of the latter for vegetation studies.
40295802|Question: How variable is the pioneer plant community on glacier forelands in southern Norway, both in terms of species composition and geographical distribution? Location: The Jotunheim and Jostedalsbreen regions of southern Norway (61 -62 N, 6 -9 E). Methods: The relative frequencies of vascular plant species were recorded in the pioneer zones of 43 glacier forelands, with an altitudinal range of 80-1860 m (boreal to high alpine) and an east-west range of 100 km. Classification and ordination techniques were used to search for evidence of consistently recurring communities, variability along a continuum or stochasticity. Results: Mean variability in species composition between all glacier forelands sampled was 65% (Srensen dissimilarity). Poa alpina, Oxyria digyna, Deschampsia alpina and Festuca ovina had the highest frequency, occurring on over 80% of forelands. Non-metric multidimensional scaling did not reveal clear divisions between groups of sites, but cluster analysis, multi-response permutation procedures and indicator species analysis suggested two sub-communities: the Saxifraga cespitosa-Trisetum spicatum sub-community is restricted to forelands above 1100m in the Jotunheim region; whereas the D. alpina-O. digyna sub-community has a wider altitudinal range of 80-1780 m. Variance partitioning indicated that altitude alone accounts for 24%, distance east for 18%, and the component shared by altitude and distance east for 17% of the variance in species composition. Conclusions: At the broadest scale, pioneer vegetation on the glacier forelands can be viewed as a single P. alpina-O. digyna community of predominantly wind- and water-dispersed perennials. However, this community shows a high degree of variability, with dominant species missing from a number of sites, and is poorly structured, suggesting a degree of stochasticity. Furthermore, the pioneer vegetation can be dissected within a continuum of variation to produce two emerging sub-communities, reflecting the influence of environmental factors and, possibly, early successional development within the pioneer zone. Variance partitioning indicates that altitudinal and continentality gradients are important in accounting for a significant proportion of the variability within this dataset.
3235601|Species composition, above-ground biomass and diversity of herbaceous communities were recorded in 50 sites on the upper salt marsh of the Guadalquivir delta (SW Spain). Through Canonical Correspondence Analysis relationships were shown between plant-species characteristics abundance and environmental variables. Seven community types were distinguished and related to hydrological regime and physical and chemical soil parameters. The higher species richness was associated with moderate values of above-ground biomass (Biomass at maximum diversity, BMD = 302 g/m
3236387|Regular altitudinal sampling of the vascular plant species composition of treeless vegetation on Mount Sprent, Tasmania revealed gradual change between 510 and 820 m, and between 930 and 1050 m, but steep change between 830 and 920 m. The zone of sharp change was the boundary between lowland sedgeland dominated by Gymnoschoenus sphaerocephalus and alpine vegetation. Edaphic and topographic conditions varied relatively little along the transect. Two years of temperature and precipitation data were obtained from sites on either side of the boundary, a site near the summit and a site near the lower limit of the sedgeland. These data indicate that the phytosociological zone of change is coincident with a sharp change in mean temperature conditions between the two central sites. Variation in precipitation appears largely unrelated to phytosociological conditions at this scale. This climatic break appears to be consistent in its characteristics with a frequent subsidence inversion layer, and could explain the similar sharp boundaries found elsewhere on Tasmanian mountains. The phenomenon may be widespread in maritime mountains.
25173210|Questions: Sand storms from east Inner Mongolia are a major threat to the ecological safety of North China and actions are desirable to control further desertification. Small patches of relict Pinus tabulaeformis could play a major role in this. The climate signal recorded in the tree-ring widths and the dates of past regeneration episodes of these trees growing at the northern border of their natural distribution are considered here. Location: Ortindag Sand Land in North China. Methods: We collected increment cores from relict P. tabulaeformis trees at five sites, built a standard tree-ring chronology for each site and a regional tree-ring chronology from the three longest site chronologies, analysed the tree growth/climate relationships and determined the germination years of the trees to recognize past regeneration dynamics. Results: Monthly precipitation and relative air humidity in the previous and current growing seasons are the major limiting factors for the radial growth of P. tabulaeformis. Years with a high frequency of absent tree rings are characterized by particularly extreme dry conditions. These results are supported by negative correlations between radial growth and monthly maximum temperature and evaporation during the growing season. In a 163-year time series of precipitation from previous July to current June reconstructed from the tree rings, cycles with wave lengths of 2-3, 17.4 and 20.5 years are significant. Conclusion: P. tabulaeformis trees are reliable recorders of high and low frequency variations of dry/wet environmental conditions in the Ortindag Sand Land. Their age structures within the forest patches prove that they regenerate preferentially in less dry periods.
3236884|Facilitation by dispersal occurs if the nurse plant acts as a focus which is actively selected by seed dispersers and enhances the fitness of the facilitated plant. Sex-biased facilitation may be produced if seed dispersers tend to concentrate the seeds under female, fruit-bearing plants of dioecious species more often than under conspecific males. Juniperus sabina is a dioecious shrub with a prostrate growth form from Mediterranean high mountains that modifies many microhabitat characteristics related to seedling establishment and survival. Soil water availability, maximum soil temperature in summer, organic matter and total nitrogen content, were different on open ground as compared with beneath J. sabina shrubs, irrespective of its sex. Other studied characteristics such as soil bulk density and soil compaction after rain did not differ between the microhabitats considered. Some species, such as Juniperus communis, Pinus nigra, Helleborus foetidus and Euphorbia nicaeensis, are spatially associated to J. sabina shrubs, strongly suggesting a facilitative role. The anemochorous P. nigra and myrmechorous H. foetidus and E. nicaeensis did not associate preferentially to any sex of J. sabina. Only J. communis, an endozoochorous species sharing the same bird dispersers as J. sabina, presented a female-biased spatial association with the nurse plant. Seed dispersal mediated by birds attracted by the fruit-rewarding females of J. sabina explains the sex-biased spatial pattern of Juniperus communis.
3236626|Two prominent conceptual frameworks, environmental gradients and patch hierarchies, are used in combination to describe vegetation patterns along a riparian corridor in a semi-arid South African system. We adopt both approaches, since riparian corridors are characterized by both strong environmental gradients above, away from and along the river, as well as a mosaic of patches in the geomorphology at multiple hierarchical scales. Constrained and unconstrained ordinations were used to determine the variability in vegetation pattern accounted for by the gradient and the geomorphic patch hierarchy data sets. The gradient data set consisted of vertical, lateral and longitudinal dimensions of the macro-channel, while the patch hierarchy data set consisted of substratum type, morphological unit and channel type. Elevation up the macro-channel bank, of the gradient data set, explained the main variation in vegetation pattern, and alluded to overriding processes of flooding frequency and water availability as determinants of vegetation pattern. Along the fluvially dynamic macro-channel floor (lower elevation range), patchiness at the scale of the morphological unit best explained vegetation pattern. This relationship with morphological units suggests that the formation of well developed alluvial bars, and the degree of bedrock influence are important processes. The nested hierarchical framework used provided a good basis for identifying scale specific pattern in a relational manner. In systems characterized by strong environmental gradients as well as a patch mosaic at different spatial and temporal scales, the combined use of both perspectives to develop a fuller understanding of vegetation pattern is imperative and is encouraged.
3236786|Four herbaceous plant species of a sand dune area and several herb species of an open early-successional patch were investigated for the occurrence of a simple relationship between aboveground biomass and plant cover. Without exception linear regressions of aboveground biomass on plant cover were found with slope factors depending on the growth form of the species. These results suggest that (early) growth of herbaceous plants in low and (temporarily) open vegetation is not affected by possible constraints caused by a decreasing ratio of plant cover to aboveground biomass. The obtained linear relationships could be used for rapid non-destructive determination of aboveground biomass by image-analysis of cover data.
3237330|This study analyses the effects of recurrent cutting and rainfall pattern on sprout and genet growth in the resprouting shrub Erica arborea. Three different intervals between consecutive clear-cutting events were applied: 30, 5 and 2 yr. Above-ground genet biomass after 2 yr of treatment application was correlated with burl size and decreased with increasing recurrence of cutting, indicating that more than 5 yr were needed to re-establish the resprouting potential of genets. The effect of rainfall on growth was evaluated through the correlations between sprout RGR and several variables related to the rainfall pattern at different regeneration stages. The effect of the rainfall pattern on sprout RGR was dependent on the regeneration age, suggesting that water availability becomes more limiting after two years of regrowth.
40295824|Question: Can a new cost-distance model help us to evaluate the potential for accessibility bias in ecological observations? How much accessibility bias is present in the vegetation monitoring plots accumulated over the last three decades in Great Smoky Mountains National Park? Location: Great Smoky Mountains National Park, North Carolina and Tennessee, USA. Methods: Distance, slope, stream crossings, and vegetation density were incorporated into a least-cost model of energetic expenditure for human access to locations. Results: Estimated round-trip energy costs for the park ranged from 0 to 1.62x 10 Jkg. The estimated roundtrip energetic expenditure for the surveys ranged from 53 to 1.51 x10 Jkg. Their distribution was more accessible than the random expectation. Ten (17%) of the vegetation types in the park are significantly undersampled relative to their area, and 16 (29%) are oversampled. Plots in 18 of the 40 vegetation types exhibited a significant positive correlation with accessibility. Conclusions: The least-cost model is an improvement over previous attempts to quantify accessibility. The bias in plot locations suggests using a least-cost model to test for bias in cases in which human accessibility is confounded with other sources of ecosystem variation.
40295852|Question: Edaphically severe habitats commonly support edaphic endemics, specialized plant species that do not occur elsewhere. The endemism of native plant species in edaphically specialized habitats suggests either (a) that these native endemic species are uniquely specialized to survive and grow better under the conditions prevalent in these harsh areas, or (b) that these areas represent refuges from competition with other (often exotic) species. Location: Central Valley, California, USA. Methods: We surveyed the vegetation distribution in alkali sinks and carried out a reciprocal transplant greenhouse experiment crossed with a competition treatment to examine the interplay between interspecific competition and edaphic factors in determining relative performance of an alkali endemic forb (Hemizonia pungens ssp. pungens) and its exotic grass competitor (Lolium multiflorum). Results: Lolium consistently performed better in nonalkali soil. In contrast, Hemizonia, in the absence of competition, performed significantly better on the nonalkali soils, but in competition with Lolium, performed equally well on alkali and non-alkali soils. Conclusions: These results suggest that Hemizonia does not inherently prefer harsh alkali soil, but is better able to tolerate alkali soil and may be excluded from more moderate soils by competition. Therefore, edaphic and biotic effects may interact to determine the spatial distribution of this edaphic endemic. Our data suggest a mechanism by which competition between native and exotic species on impoverished soils leads to dominance of native species and creation of refugia for native species where exotic species are unable to thrive.
3236604|In a glass house experiment, we investigated the effect of both the frequency of water pulses and the total amount of water supplied on individual performance in the absence and presence of neighbors. We used monocultures and all combinations of pairs of seedlings of three species of perennial grasses, characteristic of different points along a soil moisture gradient within a semi-arid grassland in New Mexico, USA. In the absence of neighbors, higher total water or more frequent (but smaller) pulses significantly increased growth of all three species. The species with the fastest intrinsic growth rate, and from the most productive habitat, exhibited the largest increase in absolute and relative growth in response to higher total water quantity. Competitive effects were highly significant overall and there were significant hierarchies of competitive ability. Under frequent pulses, the fast-growing species from the most productive environment was the best competitor in terms of both ability to suppress other plants and ability to tolerate the presence of neighbors. However, under infrequent pulses, the slowest growing species from the least productive environment became a much stronger competitor, again in terms of both suppression and tolerance of neighbors. While differences in total water availability had greater effects than differences in pulsing regime on individual plant performance in the absence of competition, pulsing regime had much stronger effects on relative competitive abilities and thus may be more likely to influence field distribution patterns.
3237116|This paper reports on species changes which occurred in plots in a Uruguayan grassland after 55 yr of continuous grazing. The study was based on the pioneering work of B. Rosengurtt who sampled 10 plots in 1935; in 1990 we resampled five of them. Comparative studies were based on rank-frequency, diversity, evenness and multivariate analyses. Diversity was measured as species richness S, Shannon's index H and its exponential form N = e<sup>H</sup>, evenness E = N/S and Gini's coefficient of hierarchy G. Species-richness of the plots increased significantly. Species which entered the sites are mostly weedy species, while those that have decreased are mostly palatable forage species. Evenness, however, remained constant. Floristic change was chiefly associated with time, and secondarily with plot soil-type. During the 55 yr that elapsed between both observation periods, a dramatic floristic change has occurred in this grassland site.
3237085| This study attempts to identify Plant Functional Types (PFTs) within the scrub vegetation of the stabilized sand dunes of the Doana National Park (southwestern Spain) and to explore possible links with ecosystem function. Two 10-km long transects were sampled along a gradient of water table depth from elevated and dry dunes to a border area close to the salt marsh. A matrix of cover values for 20 woody species x 58 plots and a matrix of 24 morphological and physiological traits x 20 species were analysed by means of DCA and TWINSPAN to identify the main vegetation types and PFTs. In order to know the predominant plant traits, the matrix of 20 species x 58 plots was multiplied by the 24 traits x 20 species matrix. The resulting 24 traits x 58 plots matrix was analysed by means of DCA. The main vegetation types coincide with the previous descriptions of the Park with Juniperus phoenicea woodland and xerophytic species dominating the top of the dunes and hygrophytic species with isolated Quercus suber trees in the depressions. Previous classifications of Mediterranean woody plants resulted in two main PFTs. The present analysis confirmed these two groups: maquis versus garrigue, but added four new groups. The analysis of the traits x plots matrix revealed that the main trend of variation is related to the water table gradient, while the traits related to the species of mature plant communities had little weight in the analysis because these communities are restricted to isolated patches. 
3237147|Bryophyte dynamics after fire in the Mediterranean macchia of Southern Italy was studied both by diachronic and synchronic approaches. Changes of bryophyte cover and species composition were found in relation to both age and fire intensity. During the first 2 yr after fire, bryophytes dominated the plots which had experienced the highest fire intensity while herbs were dominant in plots affected by lighter fires. Pioneer species, such as Funaria hygrometrica, Barbula convoluta and Bryum dunense, characterized recent intense fires, whereas Bryum torquescens, B. radiculosum and B. ruderale were dominant after less intense burning. Pleurochaete squarrosa, Tortula ruraliformis and Tortella flavovirens dominated intermediate successional stages. Pleurocarpous mosses were dominant only in the older closed stands. Different patterns of regeneration strategies were described: spores dominated early stages of intense fire, while vegetative propagules characterized later successional stages and less severely burned areas. Although bryophytes usually have a low abundance in Mediterranean vegetation, their role in post-fire vegetation dynamics may be locally enhanced according to burning conditions.
3236283|A system of easily defined plant functional types for a dry savanna is presented and related to climate data. To predict possible changes of vegetation in response to climate change, a system of functional attributes is developed. The attributes are based on both structural and functional characteristics and are chosen to be related to climatic conditions. plant functional types are defined as assemblages of plant species having similar combinations of plant functional attributes. Direct and indirect gradient analyses of a test data set show that the plant functional types as well as the vegetation described from them are strongly associated with total annual precipitation, precipitation of the wettest month and a moisture index (all related to soil moisture) and with temperature of the coldest month.
3236697|Effects of grazing and environment on vegetation structure have been widely acknowledged, but few studies have related both factors. We made 57 floristic samples in a highly variable landscape of mountain grasslands in central Argentina; 26 sample were in fence-lines with contrasting vegetation. For each sample, we recorded topographic and edaphic parameters, as well as grazing intensity indicators. Floristic gradients were analysed with DCA and relations with abiotic and grazing-related variables were detected with DCCA. Floristic axis 1 was explained by edaphic parameters associated to topography, ranging from communities in well drained soils on upper topographic positions to hydromorphic vegetation in poorly drained soils on lower topographic positions. Species richness decreased as soil moisture increased. Floristic axis 2 was associated with present and long-term grazing indicators, and reflected shifts in vegetation physiognomy and species evenness. Tall tussock grasslands, with low species evenness and evidences of low or null grazing intensity were located at one extreme. Tussocks were gradually replaced by short graminoids and forbs towards the centre of the gradient, as grazing increased, and evenness reached a maximum. In degraded sites with heavy long-term grazing intensities, short perennial species were replaced by an annual species, and evenness decreased. The magnitude of changes in floristic composition produced by grazing decreased with increasing soil moisture, and vegetation-environment relationships were stronger in moderate to highly grazed situations than in lightly or non grazed situations.
3236630|This paper describes the successional status of the vegetation in a clear-felled dry oak woodland at the edge of the Hungarian forest-steppe zone on the basis of a vegetation map. Due to a varied geomorphology of the colline landscape several so-called landscape units can be distinguished. The patchwork on the vegetation map is evaluated using several, morphology-based attributes (static morphological indices) traditionally applied in landscape ecology. In the ca. 100 years that elapsed since forest clear-cut, xeric grassland species and steppe elements became more abundant and the forner xeromesophilous vegetation - containing even some woodland components-is slowly turning into xeric grassland communities. The vegetation units mapped can be arranged into a hypothetical succession scheme in which successional distances (the number of steps between two stages) are determined. Based on the distances thus obtained, a new dynamic morphological index is introduced. This is applied to each landscape unit for the dynamic evaluation of successional vegetation, its results being compared with those obtained by static morphological indices.
3236670|We modelled forest composition and structural diversity in the Uinta Mountains, Utah, as functions of satellite spectral data and spatially-explicit environmental variables through generalized additive models. Measures of vegetation composition and structural diversity were available from existing forest inventory data. Satellite data included raw spectral data from the Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM), a GAP Analysis classified TM, and a vegetation index based on raw spectral data from an advanced very high resolution radiometer (AVHRR). Environmental predictor variables included maps of temperature, precipitation, elevation, aspect, slope, and geology. Spatially-explicit predictions were generated for the presence of forest and lodgepole cover types, basal area of forest trees, percent cover of shrubs, and density of snags. The maps were validated using an independent set of field data collected from the Evanston ranger district within the Uinta Mountains. Within the Evanston ranger district, model predictions were 88% and 80% accurate for forest presence and lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta), respectively. An average 62% of the predictions of basal area, shrub cover, and snag density fell within a 15% deviation from the field validation values. The addition of TM spectral data and the GAP Analysis TM-classified data contributed significantly to the models' predictions, while AVHRR had less significance.
3236480|Question: We studied the development and persistence of the effects of nutrient pulses on biomass production and species composition in a fen meadow. Location: Nature reserve, central Netherlands, 5 m a.s.l. Methods: Single pulse fertilization with N and P in a factorial design on an undrained central and a drained margin site in a species-rich fen meadow (Cirsio dissecti-Molinietum). Biomass production and species composition were monitored during four years. Results: At the central site, N addition boosted biomass production, but only during one year. The species composition was not changed. P fertilization increased the biomass production and changed the species composition from a vegetation dominated by Carex panicea to a grassland community with abundant Holcus lanatus, but not before the second year. At the margin site, P fertilization changed the species composition in a similar way, but biomass production was not increased. N fertilization had no effect. At both sites the P induced shift in species composition persisted for four years although the P effect declined during the experiment. Conclusions: The biomass responses show that N was limiting in the central site. Another nutrient, besides N and P (probably K) must have been limiting in the marginal site. The fast decline of the N effect on biomass is ascribed to increased denitrification and biomass removal. The delay in the P effect on biomass and species composition and the persistence of the P effect on species composition are ascribed to fast immobilisation and subsequent slow release of fertilizer P in the peat soil. Recurrence of the P pulses is expected to cause permanent changes in species composition.
4499211|Questions: 1. Do different management types (i.e. hay meadow, silage meadow, meadow-pasture, pasture) have different impact on the size and composition of the seed bank of mesic grassland (Arrhenatheretalia)? 2. How strong is the effect of management on the seed bank in relation to above-ground vegetation, edaphic factors and land-use history? 3. Are there differences in C-S-R plant strategy types and seed longevity under different management regimes? Location: Lahn-Dill Highlands in central-western Germany. Methods: Above-ground vegetation and the soil seed bank of 63 plots (at 21 sites) in mesic grasslands were studied. Differences between management types in quantitative seed bank traits and functional characteristics were tested by ANOVA. The impact of management, above-ground vegetation, site conditions and land-use history on seed bank composition were analysed by partial CCA. Results: Management had no significant impact on species richness and density of the seed bank but significantly influenced their floristic composition and functional characteristics. CCA revealed that even after adjustment for soil chemical parameters and above-ground vegetation management still had significant impact on seed bank composition. ANOVA revealed that silage meadows contained higher proportions of R-strategy compared to hay meadows. In contrast, in hay meadows and meadow-pastures proportions of S-strategy were higher than in silage meadows. Conclusions: The type of grassland management has little impact on quantitative seed bank traits. Management types with a high degree of disturbance lead to an increase of species following a ruderal strategy in the seed bank. Irrespective of management type only a limited proportion of characteristic grassland species is likely to re-establish from the seed bank after disappearance from above-ground vegetation.
25173176|Question: The quantification of functional traits in natural communities can be difficult (e.g. root traits, RGR). Can functional traits measured on pot grown plants be reliably applied to natural communities? Alternatively, can below-ground plant traits be predicted from above-ground traits? Location: Southeastern Australia. Methods: We compared 17 shoot, root and whole-plant morphological traits measured on 14 plant species in a native grassland community to those measured under two different pot conditions: unfertilised and fertilised. Results: The majority of trait values for pot grown plants differed to plants in the field, however, species ranking remained consistent for most leaf traits between the field and the two pot growing conditions. In contrast, species ranking was not consistent for most whole plant traits when comparing field plants to fertilised pot grown plants, providing a caution against the tendency to grow plants in controlled conditions at 'optimal' (high) resource levels. Moderate to strong correlations were found between below-ground and above-ground plant traits, including between root dry matter content and leaf dry matter content, and between specific root area and specific leaf area. Conclusions: The utility of pot grown plants to quantify traits for field plants is highly dependent on the selection of the growing conditions in the controlled environment. The consistency we observed between above-ground and below-ground trait strategies suggests that below-ground traits may be predictable based on above-ground traits, reducing the need to quantify root traits on cultured plants.
23012742|Question: Can investigations of subfossil bog-pine woodlands contribute to the understanding of mire development, especially the influence of climate fluctuations on the fenbog transition? Location: Lowlands of northwest Germany. Methods: We investigated pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) tree remains (stumps and trunks) buried in peat deposits. Dendrochronology was used to date each sampled tree to calendar years and to reconstruct population dynamics of the pine woodlands. Ecological changes, especially changes in site hydrology during the pine woodland phases were inferred from peat stratigraphic analyses and investigations of stem and root morphology of the tree remains. Results: The subfossil pine woodlands occurred mostly during the transition from fen to raised bog conditions within the mire development. The population dynamics are strikingly wave-like whereas woodland phases of 100 to 250 years duration are separated by much shorter (1050 years) phases of high germination and dying-off rates (GDO phases). Such GDO phases are often synchronous at different sites and are also linked to growth depressions of the independent regional oak master chronology (LSBOC), indicating a climate trigger. Conclusions: The development of raised bogs started about 7000 BC and had a main phase between 5100 and 3600 BC in northwest Germany. The subfossil bog-pine woodlands document the transitional phase towards the onset of raised bog formation, as characterized by initial dry conditions that were followed by increasing wetness of the sites, whereas this development is at least partly the result of climate variations.
3236863|Arthrocnemum macrostachyum is a perennial species acting as a primary colonizer of salt pans in Mediterranean high salt marshes. Salicornia ramosissima, an annual, occurs in salt pans under Arthrocnemum canopies and in open areas. The aim of this study was to analyse, in wild populations and a transplant experiment, how S. ramosissima population dynamics and growth are affected by A. macrostachyum. The environmental conditions within the patches of Arthrocnemum were less stressful than in the open areas, with lower radiation levels and salinity concentrations. In the inner areas of A. macrostachyum patches, density-dependent mortality processes of S. ramosissima seedlings led to low densities of adult individuals with greater morphological development and reproductive success than in open areas. However, at the edges of Arthrocnemum patches facilitation of seedling survival favoured high densities. Environmental stress hindered development, decreased reproduction and premature death. These results are in agreement with the general theory of factors controlling vegetation distribution that biotic interactions dominate in low stress environments, while abiotic interactions dominate under harsher environmental conditions. A. macrostachyum plays an essential role in the succession in these salt pans, facilitating seed production and stimulating nucleation processes in S. ramosissima.
4096651|Question: Which fraction of the decrease in species richness under fertilization can be explained by assemblage-level thinning? Location: An alpine meadow on the eastern Tibet plateau. Methods:
3236722|A main floristic coenocline is extracted from a Danish forest vegetation data set with Detrended Correspondence Analysis. Huisman-Olff-Fresco (HOF) modelling of 262 species occurrences relative to site scores along the coenocline is compared with Gaussian and Generalized Linear Modelling. HOF models allow for responses of variously skewed forms, which may result from interspecific interactions. Most species have symmetric (60%) or skewed (29%), and only few species have flat or monotone response curves. This provides evidence for the generality of unimodal plant species response curves, provided the gradient in question comprises a sufficient amount of compositional turnover. The Gaussian niche width is correlated with density of optima and probability of occurrence of the species. Detailed analysis of HOF estimates for 28 woody species indicates that early succession species such as Pinus sylvestris and Populus tremula have wider niches than middle to late successional canopy species such as Alnus glutinosa, Carpinus betulus, Fagus sylvatica, Fraxinus excelsior, Quercus robur and Tilia cordata. A marked overlap in niche range along the coenocline is interpreted in terms of species competition. Rubus idaeus intrudes into the niches of all other shrub species. Several canopy tree species, such as Fagus sylvatica, Fraxinus excelsior and Quercus robur overlap more than 60% of the ranges of all other species, while their internal overlaps are fairly equal, presenting evidence for their likely co-existence given more natural forest conditions. The combined analysis of coenoclines with HOF modelling of species behaviour is the most robust among the compared methods for estimating model parameters and niche characteristics of plant species. It is recommended for future ecological studies.
3235637| In Western Australia - a relatively arid portion of the continent - wet environments are only occasionally vegetated, but well-developed communities occur in winter-wet habitats in sandplain depressions, along water courses and on rock (mostly granite) outcrops. These communities are composed of small-sized annuals, mostly belonging to the Centrolepidaceae, Asteraceae, Cyperaceae, Juncaginaceae, and Stylidiaceae. Multivariate analysis was carried out on 46 phyto sociological relevs; four associations are recognized with a distinct floristic composition and ecology. Species occurring in this vegetation are mostly therophytes (66 %) and many are endemics; a new vegetation class Centrolepidi-Hydrocotyletea alatae, endemic for Australia, is proposed and described. 
3236601|We review patterns of plant species richness with respect to variables related to resource availability and variables that have direct physiological impact on plant growth or resource availability. This review suggests that there are a variety of patterns of species richness along environmental gradients reported in the literature. However, part of this diversity may be explained by the different types and lengths of gradients studied, and by the limited analysis applied to the data. To advance in understanding species richness patterns along environmental gradients, we emphasise the importance of: (1) using variables that are related to the growth of plants (latitudinal and altitudinal gradients have no direct process impact on plant growth); (2) using multivariate gradients, not single variables; (3) comparing patterns for different life forms; and (4) testing for different shapes in the species richness response (not only linear) and for interaction between variables.
4096679| Questions: Does a reduced nutrient load in open water increase species richness and the importance of regional and local site characteristics for species abundance and spatial distribution? Can we build lake-specific models of macrophyte abundance and distribution based on site characteristics in order to prepare a cost-efficient framework for future surveys? Location: Lake Constance, 4739' N, 918' E. Methods: Generalized additive models (GAMs) were used to predict the potential distributions of eight species and overall species richness. Submersed macrophyte distribution in 1993 was compared with corresponding data from 1978, when eutrophication was at its maximum. Results: Spatial predictions for eight species and overall species richness were relatively accurate and independent of water chemistry. Depth was confirmed as a main predictor of species distribution, while effective fetch distance was retained in many models. Mineralogical variables of sediment composition represent allogenic and autogenic sediment sources and their east-west gradient in Lake Constance corresponded to east-west gradients of species distribution and richness. GAMs appeared more efficient than generalized linear models (GLMs) for modelling species responses to environmental gradients. Conclusions: Reduced trophic status increases species richness and the importance of regional and local site characteristics for species abundance and distribution. Our models represent a spatio-temporal framework for future lake monitoring purposes and allow the development of effective monitoring; this could be generalized for many ecosystem types and would be particularly efficient for large lakes such as Lake Constance. 
3236949| In this field study we analysed the regional and local scale effects of disturbance and climate on altitudinal treelines dominated by Nothofagus pumilio in northern Patagonia. We compared two regions west and east of the Andes at 40 S, slopes with warm vs cool aspects and undisturbed vs locally disturbed treelines. This spatial framework allowed us to test (1) for differences among treelines affected by different types of local disturbance and (2) the traditional hypothesis that low temperature limits treeline. Contingency tables and ANOVA showed that local disturbance occurred more frequently than expected on slopes with cool aspects, steep slope angles and concave slope configuration. Disturbed treelines were locally lowered with longer ecotones and lower krummholz growth rates and vegetation cover than undisturbed treelines. Three-way ANOVA showed the significant influences of study area (regional climate) and aspect (local climate) on treeline elevation, krummholz growth rates and density, tree density and vegetation cover, while accounting for local disturbance. Treeline elevations were higher east of the Andes reflecting the more continental climate in Argentina than in Chile, plus regional impacts of volcanic eruptions. Tree density and vegetation cover were greater west of the Andes reflecting greater precipitation in Chile. Within study areas, local climate had different influences on treeline elevations and krummholz growth rates west and east of the Andes. We predict that increased tree growth and upslope advance of treeline in response to global warming is more likely in Chile than in Argentina near 40 S, unless precipitation increases east of the Andes. To test these predictions, we recommend research be stratified to account for the influences of local disturbance, which may confound climatic impacts. In northern Patagonia, suitable control (undisturbed) study sites will most likely be found at upper slope positions with low slope angles, simple microtopography and straight topographic configuration. 
3237168|Total inertia (TI), the sum of eigenvalues for all ordination axes, is often used as a measure of total variation in a data set. By use of simulated data sets, I demonstrate that lack-of-fit of data to the response model implicit in any eigenvector ordination method results in polynomial distortion ordination axes, with eigenvalues that normally contribute 30 - 70 % to TI (depending on data set properties). The amount of compositional variation extracted on ecologically interpretable ordination axes (structure axes) is thus underestimated by the eigenvalue-to-total-inertia ratio. 1 recommend that the current use of total inertia as a measure of compositional variation is discontinued. Eigenvalues of structure axes can, however, be used with some caution to indicate their relative importance. I also demonstrate that when the total inertia is partitioned on different sets of explanatory variables and unexplained variation by use of (partial) constrained ordination, (35) 50 - 85 % of the variation 'unexplained' by the supplied explanatory variables represents lack-of-fit of data to model. Thus, the common interpretation of 'unexplained variation' as random variation ('noise') or coenoclinal variation caused by unmeasured explanatory variables, is generally inappropriate. I recommend a change of focus from the variation-explained-to-total inertia ratio and 'unexplained' variation to relative amounts of variation explained by different sets of explanatory variables.
4096697|Questions: What is the relationship between alpine vegetation patterns and climate? And how do alpine vegetation patterns respond to climate changes? Location: Tibetan Plateau, southwestern China. The total area is
3237077|Previous work on trait correlation patterns has contributed to the identification of broad patterns of plant distribution along environmental gradients in vegetation. However, these general trends may conceal subtle mechanisms of response that are specific to particular types of disturbance. To address this, we propose a generic methodology for the analysis of traits, using herb-dominated vegetation as a model. Hypothetical biological traits are identified for testing against disturbance gradients. The traits were selected for their perceived relevance to disturbance response generally, but also include a specific focus on domestic livestock grazing. The analysis is structured hierarchically to enable attributes to be analysed within major life forms. A different selection of traits is identified as being relevant to each major life form. Flexible adaptation in the use of the trait set is suggested as a way of comparing functional response to disturbance over a series of locations. For example, assemblages will vary in their representation of the major life forms, and it may be relevant to analyse traits within a subset of these life-form groups. Because individual studies encompass a limited range of environmental variation, and local floras may be constrained by their evolutionary context, similar approaches need to be tested over a range of vegetation types and geographic situations. A significant advance in functional trait analysis could be achieved if individual studies provide explicit descriptions of their evolutionary and ecological context from a global perspective.
3235998|We analysed the influence of fire on species composition, floristic diversity and indicator values of the vegetation in forests of the Canton Ticino (South Switzerland). Both frequency of fire and time since last fire were taken into account using variance analysis. Results show a strong interaction of these two parameters, i.e. the reaction of the vegetation after a fire depends on the frequency of past fires. A rapid recovery is generally observed after fire, involving both herbaceous and woody species. However, a long-term tendency towards floristic and edaphic impoverishment is observed with increasing frequency of fires. This phenomenon appears to be linked to the progressive dominance of a few fire-tolerant species.
23012500|Question: What is the role of functional group identity in determining community composition and dynamics? Location: A natural grassland in Yukon Territory, Canada. Methods: We selectively removed single plant functional groups (graminoids, forbs, legumes) to examine their effects on biomass compensation, the distribution of biomass among common and rare colonizing species, and plant species richness and diversity. Removals were conducted across two environmental treatments (fertilization and fungicide) to test if biomass compensation was context-dependent. Biomass was estimated non-destructively using point-intercept sampling. Results: When graminoids or legumes were continuously removed, there was full biomass compensation by the remaining functional groups after 5 years, but only partial compensation when forbs were removed. Biomass compensation depended on the colonizing functional group; forbs showed no increase in biomass until 5 years after the removal of any functional group, but graminoids colonized quickly after removals. After any removal, the dominant species within each remaining functional group showed no compensatory growth, whereas the first subdominant forb and graminoid both increased in biomass. Rare species had a delayed response to removals; rare species biomass only increased beginning 5 years after removals. Context dependence was observed only in the response of subdominant species to removals, and these responses did not translate into context-dependent effects on total estimated biomass. Conclusion: We show that the effects of losing a plant functional group depends both on the identity of the group removed and on the species remaining. In this northern grassland, most compensatory growth was by the subdominant species, which may determine the direction of community development in the long term.
25173144|Question: Is the seed bank in dune slacks during the whole successional range mainly composed of early successional species or does it vary according to the changing vegetation? Location: Belgium, western part of the coast. Methods: We investigated the soil seed bank composition using a seedling germination method in a chronosequence of 20 dune slacks, ranging in age from five to 55 yr. Results: Both seed density and species richness in the seed bank were very low in the first successional stages and increased with age, mainly as a result of increasing seed production. The similarity between seed bank and vegetation was higher in older slacks. A comparison of characteristics between seed bank and vegetation showed that the seed bank was, to a large extent, composed of later successional species. Occurrence patterns of individual species also showed that seeds become incorporated in the soil after the species has established in the vegetation. Conclusion: The seed bank is not likely to be the driving force for successional changes in the vegetation, and successional changes rely on dispersal. Some early successional species persist in the seed bank, but generally only in low numbers. The results also confirm that most typical dune slack species do not form persistent seeds, so that re-establishment from the seed bank is not to be expected when the species has disappeared from the vegetation.
25173174|Question: Is post-fire, medium-term vegetation dynamics determined by land-use or fire history prior to fire? Location: South-facing slope in the Gallinera valley, Alicante province, eastern Spain. Methods: After mapping the land-use and fire history of the study site using photo-interpretation, we sampled vegetation structure on a set of plots representing the most frequent land-use and fire history combinations on an area burned six years before sampling. We studied the effects of land-use history, comparing the one-fire land-use trajectories. We analysed the effects of fire history; comparing one- and two-fire plots for both previously cropped and uncropped areas. Results: Most variables were not significantly different between the earliest abandoned plots (abandoned at least 38 years before the fire) and the uncropped plots. On the most recently abandoned plots (abandoned between one and four years before the fire), the therophyte richness and the ratio of seeder:resprouter richness were significantly greatest. Different fire recurrences did not determine different post-fire vegetation on either the uncropped or the early abandoned plots (all dominated by fire-recruited seeder shrubs). The most recently abandoned plots had a lower resilience to fire. Conclusions: Land-use history and recent pre-fire land use, in particular, determined the post-fire vegetation in the medium term. The vegetation composition converged during secondary succession among land-use histories. Increasing fire recurrence had a small effect on mature plant communities, due to the combination of life-history traits determining the response to fire of the dominant species.
3236307|The syntaxonomy of the perennial nitrophilous vegetation assigned to the Artemisietea vulgaris of the northern part of the Iberian Peninsula (Basque Country and surrounding areas) was revised. The study area is of biogeographic importance due to its transitional character - here, the ruderal vegetation of the Mediterranean and that of temperate Europe meet. Numerical ordination of the communities was performed in order to reveal systematic relations between the syntaxa. Two subclasses, Artemisienea vulgaris and Onopordenea, encompassing five orders, Convolvuletalia, Galio-Alliarietalia, Artemisietalia, Onopordetalia, Carthametalia lanati, and seven alliances with 12 associations and two rankless communities were distinguished.
4096799|Question: How have the spatial and temporal aspects of past disturbance shaped the current structure and composition of old-growth Picea rubens forests? Location: Northern Maine, USA. Methods: We established three 50 m x 50 m plots in old-growth Picea rubens forests and mapped the location of trees and saplings. We extracted increment cores from canopy trees, and recorded growth releases indicating past disturbance. By linking spatial data (tree positions) and temporal data (dated growth releases), we reconstructed the location and size of former canopy gaps back to 1920, and determined a more general disturbance chronology extending as far back as 1740. Results: We found no evidence of stand-replacing disturbances. The disturbance dynamic includes pulses of moderate-severity disturbances caused by wind storms and host-specific disturbance agents (spruce budworm, spruce bark beetle) interposed upon a background of scattered smaller canopy gaps. Consequently, rates of disturbance fluctuated considerably over time. Reconstructed canopy gaps were temporally and spatially scattered; during disturbance peaks, they were both larger and more numerous. Conclusions: Despite peaks in disturbance, several of which created relatively large gaps, this system has experienced no significant change in species composition. Instead, the shade-tolerant Picea rubens has maintained canopy dominance. The patch dynamics described here consist of dramatic structural, not compositional, changes to the forest. The persistence of Picea rubens is attributed to a combination of traits: (1) abundance of advance regeneration; (2) ability to endure suppression and respond favourably to release; and (3) longevity relative to ecologically similar species.
40925528|Questions: Exotic plant invasion may be aided by facilitation and broad tolerance of environmental conditions, yet these processes are poorly understood in species-rich ecosystems such as riparian zones. In the southwestern United States (US) two plant species have invaded riparian zones: tamarisk (Tamarix ramosissima, T. chinensis, and their hybrids) and Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia). We addressed the following questions: (1) is Russian olive able to tolerate drier and shadier conditions than cottonwood and tamarisk? (2) Can tamarisk and cottonwood facilitate Russian olive invasion? Location: Arid riparian zones, southwestern US. Methods: We analyzed riparian tree seedling requirements in a controlled experiment, performed empirical field studies, and analyzed stable oxygen isotopes to determine the water sources used by Russian olive. Results: Russian olive survival was significantly higher in dense shade and low moisture conditions than tamarisk and cottonwood. Field observations indicated Russian olive established where flooding cannot occur, and under dense canopies of tamarisk, cottonwood, and Russian olive. Tamarisk and native riparian plant species seedlings cannot establish in these dry, shaded habitats. Russian olive can rely on upper soil water until 15 years of age, before utilizing groundwater. Conclusions: We demonstrate that even though there is little evidence of facilitation by cottonwood and tamarisk, Russian olive is able to tolerate dense shade and low moisture conditions better than tamarisk and cottonwood. There is great potential for continued spread of Russian olive throughout the southwestern US because large areas of suitable habitat exist that are not yet inhabited by this species.
3236924| Dynamics of a Sequoia sempervirens forest in northern California were studied with long-term plot data (1.44 ha) and recent transect data. The study was conducted in an old stand (> 1100 yr) on alluvial flats. Over three decades (1972-2001), changes in the composition and structure of the tree stratum were minor. Sequoia maintained a broad distribution of stem diameters throughout the period. Annual rates of Sequoia mortality (0.0029) and ingrowth (0.0029) were low, reflecting the great longevity of Sequoia and the slow canopy turnover of the study forest. Transect data also indicated a low frequency of canopy gap disturbance ( 0.4% of total land area per yr), but gap size was potentially large (> 0.1 ha) and the fraction of area in gaps (ca. 20%) was similar to other temperate forests. Regeneration quadrats sampled along transects, in gap centers, and on logs revealed that Sequoia regeneration is elevated at gap edges. The longevity of Sequoia and its response to gap disturbances ensure that it will remain a dominant species in the study forest. 
3236970|Plants associated with traditional agricultural landscapes in northern Europe and Scandinavia are subjected to drastic habitat fragmentation. In this paper we discuss species response to fragmentation, against a background of vegetation and land-use history. Recent evidence suggests that grassland-forest mosaics have been prevalent long before the onset of human agriculture. We suggest that the creation of infield meadows and outland grazing (during the Iron Age) increased the amount and spatial predictability of grasslands, resulting in plant communities with exceptionally high species densities. Thus, distribution of plant species in the present-day landscape reflects historical land-use. This holds also when traditional management has ceased, due to a slow response by many species to abandonment and fragmentation. The distribution patterns are thus not in equilibrium with the present habitat distribution. Fragmentation influences remaining semi-natural grasslands such that species density is likely to decline as a result of local extinctions and invasion by habitat generalists. However, species that for a long time have been subjected to changing mosaic landscapes may be more resistant to fragmentation than is usually believed. Conservation should focus not only on 'hot-spots' with high species richness, but also consider species dynamics in a landscape context.
40925569|Questions: Does fuzzy clustering provide an appropriate numerical framework to manage vegetation classifications? What is the best fuzzy clustering method to achieve this? Material: We used 531 relevs from Catalonia (Spain), belonging to two syntaxonomic alliances of mesophytic and xerophytic montane pastures, and originally classified by experts into nine and 13 associations, respectively. Methods: We compared the performance of fuzzy C-means (FCM), noise clustering (NC) and possibilistic C-means (PCM) on four different management tasks: (1) assigning new relev data to existing types; (2) updating types incorporating new data; (3) defining new types with unclassified relevs; and (4) reviewing traditional vegetation classifications. Results: As fuzzy classifiers, FCM fails to indicate when a given relev does not belong to any of the existing types; NC might leave too many relevs unclassified; and PCM membership values cannot be compared. As unsupervised clustering methods, FCM is more sensitive than NC to transitional relevs and therefore produces fuzzier classifications. PCM looks for dense regions in the space of species composition, but these are scarce when vegetation data contain many transitional relevs. Conclusions: All three models have advantages and disadvantages, although the NC model may be a good compromise between the restricted FCM model and the robust but impractical PCM model. In our opinion, fuzzy clustering might provide a suitable framework to manage vegetation classifications using a consistent operational definition of vegetation type. Regardless of the framework chosen, national/regional vegetation classification panels should promote methodological standards for classification practices with numerical tools.
3237375|Many Mediterranean species have evolved strategies that allow them to survive periodic wildfires. Quercus suber trees resprout after fire, some from stem buds and others from basal buds only. In the former case the canopy recovers quickly. In the latter case the stem dies but the tree survives and regrows from basal sprouts. The probability of stem death and the degree of height recovery were studied after a fire in a Q. suber forest in NE Spain using logistic regression analysis. The results suggest that most trees survive after fire; the probability of stem death is negatively related to tree diameter; and recovery is positively related to tree diameter and to bark thickness. Implication for management and conservation of cork-oak forests are discussed.
4499275|Question: Does overyielding of tree species mixtures in vertically stratified forests depend on complementary light use? Location: Andes of south-central Chile. Methods: Basal area data were obtained from 80 circular plots distributed regularly throughout old-growth stands with an emergent Nothofagus dombeyi tier over a canopy composed mainly of Laureliopsis philippiana and Saxegothaea conspicua. Radial growth was measured from cores obtained from trees at the centre of each plot. The effects of competition on growth were evaluated through a competition index (CI) based on distances to and diameters of the two nearest neighbours. Results: Overall, basal area of the canopy species was only weakly affected by the number of N. dombeyi per plot, and with basal area of N. dombeyi. However, the two main canopy species responded differently: whereas basal area of S. conspicua was negatively correlated with that of N. dombeyi, that of L. philippiana showed no response. Radial growth of S. conspicua was negatively correlated with CI calculated from canopy trees and more weakly so from emergent N. dombeyi. In contrast, radial growth of L. philippiana was not affected by competition with either canopy or emergent neighbours. Conclusions: Results indicate that emergent N. dombeyi tend to depress growth and basal area of S. conspicua, but not of the more shade-tolerant L. philippiana. This supports the proposal that enhancement of wood production in stratified mixtures will be greatest when component species have strongly contrasting light use traits.
4096639| Question: What are the changes in vegetation structure, soil attributes and mesofauna associated with grazing in mesic grasslands? Location: Southern Campos of the Ro de la Plata grasslands, in south-central Uruguay. Methods: We surveyed seven continuously grazed and ungrazed paired plots. Plant and litter cover were recorded on three 5-m interception lines placed parallel to the fence in each plot. We extracted soil fauna from a 10 cm deep composite sample and analysed the oribatids. Soil attributes included bulk density, water content, organic carbon (in particulate and mineral associated organic matter) and nitrogen content and root biomass at different depths. Changes in floristic, Plant Functional Types and mesofauna composition were analysed by Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling. Results: Species number was lower in ungrazed than in grazed plots. Of 105 species in grazed plots only three were exotics. Shrub and litter cover were significantly higher inside the exclosures, while the cover of Cyperaceae-Juncaceae was lower. Grazing treatments differed significantly in plant and oribatid species composition. Grazing exclusion significantly reduced soil bulk density and increased soil water content. Carbon content in particulate organic matter was lower in the upper soil of ungrazed sites, but deeper in the profile, grazing exclosures had 8% more carbon in the mineral associated organic matter. Conclusions: Our results generally agree with previous studies but deviate from the results of previous analyses in (1) the increase of shrub cover in ungrazed sites; (2) the redistribution of the soil organic carbon in the profile and (3) the low invasibility of the prairies regardless of grazing regime. 
3235594| A syntaxonomic study of penumbral (open-shade) communities in small rock caves in five campo rupestre sites in Minas Gerais, Brazil, was carried out according to the Braun-Blanquet method. On the basis of 41 relevs, the following new syntaxa were described: the associations Doryopterido ornithopodis-Eriocauletum cipoensis, Coccocypselo erythrocephali-Anemietum oblongifoliae in the alliance Coccocypselo erythrocephali-Eriocaulion cipoensis, and the Trichomano pilosi-Anemietum elegantis in the alliance Trichomano pilosi-Anemion oblongifoliae, both order Coccocypselo erythrocephali-Anemietalia elegantis and class Coccocypselo erythrocephali-Anemietea elegantis. Additional synecological observations and measurements of environmental factors were correlated to the zonation and distribution of plant species within the caves. Relevant literature on South American penumbral plant communities is virtually non-existent and restricted to floristic data and usually superficial habitat descriptions. 
3236851|It has been proposed that resprouting after a disturbance would be favoured under conditions of low soil resource availability. In lignotuberous plants of Mediterranean-type areas, successful resprouting after disturbances such as fire depends on the size of the lignotuber, but little is known about the role of soil resources in determining the relative size of this organ. In this work we tested whether the relative size of the lignotuber in the resprouting shrub Erica australis is related to the availability of soil resources. At each of 13 different sites in Spain, 10 plants were chosen and the sizes of their various parts (above- and below-ground) measured. Additionally, at each site we evaluated soil fertility, foliar N and P concentrations and plant water potential in the middle of the summer. The relationships between lignotuber dimensions and the various plant parts were assessed. In all cases, significant differences between sites were found indicating consistent differences in lignotuber size across the range of plant sizes. This was particularly the case when lignotuber dimensions were expressed as a function of foliar biomass. Lignotuber dimensions relative to foliar biomass were positively correlated with soil pH and negatively with plant water potentials in mid-summer. There were, however, no clear relationships between lignotuber relative dimensions and soil N and P contents or other measures of site productivity. In summary, lignotubers were not smaller at more productive sites, in fact they were relatively larger at sites where soils were less acidic, but where plant water conditions were less favourable. These findings contradict predictions made based on current theory on the role of soil fertility allocation to resprouting.
3236945|Variation partitioning by (partial) constrained ordination is a popular method for exploratory data analysis, but applications are mostly restricted to simple ecological questions only involving two or three sets of explanatory variables, such as climate and soil, this because of the rapid increase in complexity of calculations and results with an increasing number of explanatory variable sets. The existence is demonstrated of a unique algorithm for partitioning the variation in a set of response variables on n sets of explanatory variables; it is shown how the 2n - 1 non-overlapping components of variation can be calculated. Methods for evaluation and presentation of variation partitioning results are reviewed, and a recursive algorithm is proposed for distributing the many small components of variation over simpler components. Several issues related to the use and usefulness of variation partitioning with n sets of explanatory variables are discussed with reference to a worked example.
3236718|Clonal plants play important roles in maintaining wetland ecosystems in China. By analysing 108 wetland quadrats distributed throughout China, we evaluated (1) the importance of clonal growth forms in different Chinese wetlands, (2) how the abundance of clonal plants is related to climatic and geographical conditions, and (3) how plant species diversity is related to the abundance of clonal plants. Significant differences in clonal plant importance values were found between different regions of China. Clonal plants were more important in wetland ecosystems located towards the West and North and at higher elevations and, accordingly, experiencing a colder and drier climate. Plant species diversity showed a significant inverse correlation with the importance value of 'guerilla'-type plants in most of the wetland regions. However, we found no significant correlation between plant species diversity and importance values of 'phalanx'-type plants. In most Chinese wetlands, plant species diversity decreased with increasing importance of guerilla plants and also with an increase of the entire guild of clonal plants. In wetlands with low species richness, however, plant species diversity increased with increasing importance of guerilla plants and of all clonal plants together, suggesting that in these disturbed habitats clonal growth may facilitate the establishment of other, non-clonal wetland plants.
3236510|The use of plant functional types (PFTs) to describe patterns and processes in plant communities has become essential to study and predict consequences of global change on vegetation and ecosystem processes. A PFT is a group of plants that, irrespective of phylogeny, are similar in a given set of traits and similar in their association to certain variables, which may be factors to which the plants are responding or effects of the plants in the ecosystem. To define PFTs relevant traits must be selected and an appropriate method must be used to classify plants into types. We critically review methods used for the analysis of PFT-based data and describe a new recursive algorithm to numerically search for traits and find optimal PFTs. The algorithm uses three data matrices: describing populations by traits, communities by these populations and community sites by environmental factors or effects. It defines PFTs polythetically by cluster analysis, revealing plant types whose performance in communities is maximally associated to the specified environmental variables. We test the method with data from natural grassland communities of southern Brazil, which were experimentally subjected to combinations of grazing levels and N-fertilizer. The new method is found to be better than similar analytical procedures previously described. Redundancy among traits is discussed and a procedure for comparing alternative solutions is presented based on the similarity in terms of PFT responses between different trait subsets. The concept of PFT response group is illustrated by example.
3236225|Species richness of selected alpine plant communities in the Teberda Biosphere Reserve (Northwestern Caucasus) and the Davos area (Central Alps) was compared in series of plots from 0.0025 to 100 m<sup>2</sup>. Communities developing under similar ecological conditions and with similar syntaxonomic positions were compared in order to estimate the role of recent environment versus regional historical factors in determining plant community structure and diversity. The floristic richness of the Caucasian and Alpic fens was very similar. The Grasslands and Meadows were quite similar as to floristic richness for plots > 25 cm x 25 cm, but the Caucasian communities had fewer species in smaller plots. The Lichen heath at Teberda was richer than the Caricetum curvulae cetrarietosum for all plot sizes, except the two smallest ones. On the other hand, the plots of the Salix Snowbed community were richer in species than the Caucasian snowbeds for all plot sizes. The Rhododendron Shrubland plots were very similar as to floristic richness in larger plots (4-100 m<sup>2</sup>). Generally, most Alpic communities near Davos were richer in species at small plot sizes than the corresponding communities from Teberda. Caucasian communities were floristically less similar to each other - and thus more discrete - than the Alpic ones. The possible role of different factors controlling floristic richness of the communities is discussed. Our results suggest that recent ecological conditions have a big influence on local floristic diversity and may lead to high similarities between ecologically similar communities from different regions. In addition, the general floristic richness of a regions as well as island effects should be taken into account.
3235952|Changes in the composition of a Fagus-Acer (Beech-Sugar maple) forest in southeastern Wisconsin over a 16-yr period from 1971 to 1987 are analyzed in relation to a severe glaze (ice) storm disturbance occurring within the census period. Landscape topography created 'windward' and 'leeward' forest aspects with respect to storm severity, which resulted in greater canopy opening on the windward aspect. In the tree stratum, most species remained stable in density and most of the common species increased in basal area into larger size classes. However, Fagus grandifolia, Ulmus rubra, and the small tree Ostrya virginiana suffered net losses that suggest synergistic effects between glaze storm disturbance and other factors upon tree mortality. In the sapling stratum, canopy opening strongly promoted release of shade-tolerant Acer saccharum. On the windward forest aspect, sapling densities of less shade-tolerant species also increased, in contrast to the absence of such increases on the leeward forest aspect. In the shrub (regeneration) stratum, species responses were heterogeneous. Regeneration of most species increased over the 16-yr period, and some less shade-tolerant species showed increased regeneration differentially on the windward forest aspect. Overall, disturbance appears to have accelerated forest succession toward increased dominance by A. saccharum and persistence of both Fagus and Tilia americana through their capacities for root sprouting. However, forest succession was retarded somewhat on the windward aspect through increased recruitment of less-shade tolerant species. These results parallel those of other studies of glaze storm disturbance, and they illustrate how spatially heterogeneous disturbance intensity may contribute to maintenance of forest diversity.
3235624|358 vascular plant species occurring in the deciduous oak woods of Italy were subdivided into 18 phytogeographical groups (chorotypes) through a numerical classification of their total ranges. The distribution patterns of the chorotypes are illustrated by chorograms, i.e. isopleth maps showing the joint distribution of species in Europe and surroundings regions. Except for Mediterranean species, which occur only occasionally in deciduous forests, the oak-wood flora of Italy consists of four main phytogeographical elements, which have a similar incidence (ca. 25 % each): (a) narrow-ranging, southern European species, (b) southeastern European species of submediterranean woodlands, (c) central-European species, (d) widely distributed European species. The oak woods of Italy differ from their central-European counterparts as to the relatively high floristic diversity, and in the presence of several narrow-ranging taxa, centred in different refugial areas for forest vegetation during the glacial period. There is a relation between the distribution patterns of the chorotypes and their relative frequencies in different communities; the latitudinal and longitudinal extensions of the ranges reflect the thermic and hygric conditions of the communities. The oak woods of northern and southern Italy are phytogeographically well-characterized; the former have a maximum of wide-ranging, central European species, the latter host several narrow-ranging taxa. The woodlands of central Italy have intermediate phytogeographical features, which is one of the main reasons for the difficulties in their syntaxonomical arrangement.
3236054|The natural Mediterranean maquis and forest vegetation of Israel is commonly considered to be composed mainly of four, roughly equal components: Pinus halepensis, deciduous oak, evergreen oak, and Ceratonia - Pistacia communities. They represent the past climax and subclimax of this region. Evidence accumulated from pollen analysis and wood remnant research in geological and archaeological excavations, as well as from written historical sources, shows that this view is wrong: the ancient vegetation in this area was dominated by Quercus calliprinos.
4499276|Question: Are competitive hierarchies, which are typically based on the results of pair-wise competition experiments, sensitive to the level of species interaction in the underlying competition experiments? Location: Controlled greenhouse study using vegetation typical of old-fields in East Tennessee, USA. Methods: We extend traditional competitive effect/response methods to incorporate data from competition experiments featuring any level of species interaction (i.e., 2, 3,..., n species interacting simultaneously) and develop an ordinal technique that makes hierarchies more robust to variation in the numerical values of relative yield. We apply these methodological techniques to empirical data from a greenhouse experiment wherein four old-field plant species were grown in pair-wise and tri-wise combination. We also demonstrate how resampling can be used to determine the variability of data and its consequences for development of competitive hierarchies. Results: Different hierarchies were produced when we used different evaluation methods, different levels of species interaction, and different levels of replication. More acute resampling distributions and wider ranges of target/neighbor scores revealed that higher levels of species interaction lead to more distinct hierarchies. Conclusions: Hierarchies developed from interactions among subsets of species may inadequately characterize relationships among the full community because of indirect or higher-order interactions within multi-species assemblages. Different evaluation methods can yield different hierarchies, and resampling is an effective tool to determine the sensitivity of resultant hierarchies to the level of replication. In sum, our new methodology can be used to control uncertainty in poorly-replicated experiments.
4499201|Question: What are the edge effect responses of epiphytic lichen communities in Mediterranean Quercus pyrenaica forest? Location: Central Spain. Methods: We established ten transects perpendicular to a road dissecting a well conserved remnant of Q. pyrenaica forest into two sections. Transects extended from the forest/road edge to 100 m into the forest. Data were collected from seven plots in each transect at different distances from the edge. Variables were grouped into stand scale variables (distance to edge, number of trees per plot, mean diameter per plot, irradiance) and tree scale variables (diameter and height of sampled trees, aspect of the sampled square and relative height of the square). We used General Mixed Linear Models and constrained ordination techniques to test the hypothesis that the spatio-temporal heterogeneity of light and water controls the occurrence of lichens and bryophytes along the edge-interior gradient in the Q. pyrenaica forest. Results: Microclimatic parameters vary in a non-linear way; edge and interior stands showed the most divergent and extreme values. Although the micro-environment within Mediterranean forests is heterogeneous, interior conditions are apparently suitable for the performance of some specific forest epiphytes. Consequently, species richness does not show significant differences along the gradient. Total epiphytic cover increases towards the forest interior, but distance to the edge together with other predictors at the tree scale (aspect and height of the square) are the most relevant predictors for the composition and structure of these communities. Conclusions: Composition and structure of epiphytic communities in a Mediterranean semi-deciduous forest are affected by the edge between the forest and the road constructed. Since some extremely rare lichens only occur at interior stands, the conservation of these threatened elements requires urgent conservation measures because well preserved and unmanaged forests in the Mediterranean region are very rare.
3235978|Species richness was studied in the understorey of natural Pinus sylvestris forest in the eastern Pyrenees. Understorey plant species were grouped in three structural groups as woody species, herbs and mosses. The response curves of total species richness and species richness of each structural group were fitted against environmental and stand-structural parameters, using Generalized Linear Models. The results suggested that, to predict species richness, environmental parameters were more important than tree-canopy structural parameters, in particular incoming radiation and soil nutrient concentration. The species richness response curve was often humped in relation to soil nutrient concentration. Different patterns of species richness were found for each structural group.
3235572|We compared vegetation establishment in 25 treefall pits and mounds along a hillside elevational gradient in a fourth-year catastrophic windthrow in eastern North America. Plant communities differed greatly between pits and mounds, with pit microsites having significantly greater species richness, total biomass, and total tree stem density. Species richness in pits and on mounds decreased with increasing elevation from the bottom of the hillside, although the effect of elevation on mound species richness was less than that of elevation on pit species richness. Biomass of Erechtites hieraciifolia decreased significantly, while that of Betula alleghaniensis increased significantly with elevation. However, total biomass of both pit and mound microsites was unrelated to elevation. Total stem density decreased with elevation in pits, but was unaffected by elevation on mounds. This study shows that both small-scale (microsite) effects and intermediate-scale effects influence the reestablishment of plant communities within this catastrophic windthrow. Consideration of both microsite and position along intermediate-scale gradients may allow more precise prediction of plant community composition and dynamics in recovery of disturbed areas.
40925466|Question: Are vines light-demanding species? Location: Temperate evergreen rain forest of southern Chile (4039S, 7211W). Methods: In 45 plots of 25 m distributed in treefall canopy gaps, secondary forest stands and old-growth forest (15 plots per light environment), all climbing and non-supported vines were counted and identified to species level, and canopy openness was quantified using hemispherical photographs. Vine abundance and diversity (species richness and Simpson's index) were compared in the three light environments and similarity between vine communities was estimated using Jaccard's similarity coefficient. We also determined the relationship between light niche breadth and local dominance at the species level. Results: In total there were 2510 vine individuals of 14 species. Canopy openness was significantly different in the three light environments. Species richness, diversity, community composition and density of vines were similar in treefall gaps, secondary and old-growth forest. Of the seven more common vine species, which accounted for 91% of all vines, three had even distribution, two were more abundant in the shaded understorey, and two had higher density in well-lit sites. Local dominance of vine species and niche breadth were not significantly associated. Conclusions: Our study in a temperate rain forest questions the widespread notion of vines as pioneer-like species, which may be a consequence of the abundance of some lianas in disturbed sites of tropical forests. Functional arguments are needed to justify a general hypothesis on light requirements of vines, which constitute a vast group of species.
23012504|Question: Dutch fen areas have become embedded in intensively used landscapes, resulting in biodiversity loss. Hence, plant species that colonize open water inducing the formation of species-rich floating peat mats have disappeared. Despite many restoration efforts, they have not returned. Is natural succession towards floating mats impeded by site conditions, dispersal limitations or changed biotic interactions? Location: Six Dutch fen reserves: De Deelen, De Weerribben, De Wieden, Westbroek, Molenpolder and Terra Nova. Methods: In 62 fen ponds we determined plant species richness and expansion into open water. We related these to habitat quality (chemical composition of soil and surface water, pond morphology), dispersal potential (distance to remnant populations, likelihood of dispersal) and biotic interactions (presence of muskrats [Ondatra zibethicus L.] and the keystone species Stratiotes aloides). Results: Factor analysis showed that plants expanded further into open water and bank vegetation had higher species richness in areas with older ponds and lower muskrat densities. Locally, high turbidity hampered colonization. Whenever the water was clear, colonization was higher in shallow ponds, and in deep ponds only if Stratiotes was present. Species richness was negatively correlated to nutrient availability in soil and positively correlated to hydrological isolation (decreased sulphate concentrations). We also found that species richness was higher in sheltered banks. Conclusions: Multiple habitat characteristics (turbidity, water depth, nutrient and sulphate concentrations) and the influence of muskrats and Stratiotes all play a role in the lack of restoration success in Dutch fen ponds. Dispersal limitations seem to be overruled by habitat limitations, as colonization often fails even when sufficient propagule sources are present, or when connectivity is high.
3236659|Four classes of functional and morphological plant traits - established strategies (the CSR scheme sensu Grime 1979), life-forms (sensu Raunkiaer 1934), morphology, and regenerative strategies - are used as tools for explaining vegetation gradients at summer farms in the mountains of western Norway. These farms are assembly points for free-ranging domestic grazers, and differ floristically and ecologically from the surrounding heath or woodland vegetation. DCA and TWINSPAN are used to relate major gradients in a floristic data set from 12 summer farms to two sets of explanatory variables: (1) environmental variables representing physical factors, plot position, soils, and land use, and (2) the 4 classification schemes. The main floristic gradient parallels a spatial gradient from the centres of the farms to the surrounding vegetation. A functional interpretation based on the concurrent use of the 2 sets of explanatory variables suggests that the gradient is one of decreasing disturbance and increasing environmental stress caused by decreasing grazing and manure effects away from farms. Partial CCA is used to investigate the relationships between the 4 functional/morphological plant trait classes. The 4 classification schemes are partially redundant, and do not represent different trends of specialization within the landscape. There is no strong evidence for decoupling of the traits of the vegetative and regenerative phases within the data. The combination of general process-based theories and specific plant attribute responses enhances the generality and interpretability of the study.
23012730|Question: How frequent and variable were fire disturbances in longleaf pine ecosystems? Has the frequency and seasonality of fire events changed during the past few centuries? Location: Kisatchie National Forest, Western Gulf Coastal Plain, longleaf pinebluestem ecosystem, in relatively rough topography adjacent to the Red River, Louisiana, USA. Methods: Cross-sections of 19 remnant pines exhibiting 190 fire scars were collected from a 1.2-km2 area. Tree-rings and fire scars were precisely dated and analysed for the purpose of characterizing past changes in fire and tree growth. Temporal variability in fire occurrence and seasonality was described for the pre- and post-European settlement periods. Seasonality of historic fires was determined by the scar position within the rings. The relationship between fire and drought was investigated using correlation and superposed epoch analysis. Results: The mean fire return interval for the period 1650-1905 was 2.2 years (range 0.5 to 12 yr). Significant new findings include: evidence for years of biannual burning, temporal variability in fire seasonality, an increase in fire frequency and percentage of trees scarred circa 1790, and synchronous growth suppression and subsequent release of trees coinciding with land-use changes near the turn of the 20th century. Drought conditions appeared unrelated to the occurrence of fire events or fire seasonality. Conclusions: Multi-century fire history records from longleaf pine ecosystems are difficult to obtain due to historic land-use practices and the species high resistance to scarring; however, our results indicate potential for reconstructing detailed fire histories in this ecosystem. Fire scars quantitatively documented one of the most frequent fire regimes known. Fire regime information, such as the temporal variability in fire intervals, prevalence of late-growing season fire events and biannual burning, provide a new perspective on the dynamics of longleaf pine fire regimes.
4499253|Questions: Primary succession, measured by changes in species composition, is slow, usually forcing a chronosequence approach. A unique data set is used to explore spatial and temporal changes in vegetation structure after a 1980 volcanic eruption. On the basis of data from a transect of 20 permanent plots with an altitudinal range of 250 m sampled through 2005, two questions are asked: Do changes along the transect recapitulate succession? Do plots converge to similar composition over time? Location: A ridge between 1218 and 1468 m on Mount St. Helens, Washington, USA. Methods: Repeat sampling of plots for species cover along a 1-km transect. Floristic changes were characterized by techniques including DCA, clustering and similarity. Results: Species richness and cover increased with time at rates that decreased with increasing elevation. The establishment of Lupinus lepidus accelerated the rate of succession and may control its trajectory. Diversity (H') at first increased with richness, then declined as dominance hierarchies developed. Primary succession was characterized by overlapping phases of species assembly (richness), vegetation maturation (diversity peaks, cover expands) and inhibition (diversity declines). Each plot passed through several community classes, but by 2005, only four classes persisted. Succession trajectories (measured by DCA) became shorter with elevation. Similarity between groups of plots defined by their classification in 2005 did not increase with time. Similarity within plot groups converged slightly at the lower elevations. Despite similarities between temporal and spatial trends in composition, trajectories of higher plots do not recapitulate those of lower plots, apparently because Lupinus was not an early colonist. Any vegetation convergence has been limited to plots that are in close proximity.
23012426|Questions: Species rarefaction curves have long been used for estimating the expected number of species as a function of sampling effort. Nonetheless, sampling species based on standard plant inventories represents an effort-intensive approach. Hence, rarefaction based on remotely sensed information can provide a rapid tool for identifying regions with exceptional richness and turnover. The aim of this paper is to examine (i) if the rates of spectral and species accumulation are positively correlated with one another at different spatial scales, and (ii) if the strength of this correlation differs between regions of varying landscape complexity. Location: Switzerland, Europe. Methods: The plant species data were derived from the Swiss "Biodiversity Monitoring" programme. Seven Landsat ETM+ images covering the whole study area were acquired. We applied species and spectral rarefaction for five biogeographical areas ranging from flat to mountainous zones. The relative increments (rates) of the species and spectral rarefaction curves were compared using Pearson correlation together with locally weighted scatterplot smoothing (LOWESS). Results: The biogeographic regions differed from one another in both their spectral and species diversity. The relationship between spectrally- and species-derived rates of accumulation was non-significant in simple landscapes, but we observed a significant positive correlation in complex landscapes over fine-to-intermediate spatial scales. Conclusions: Spectral rarefaction represents a powerful tool for measuring landscape diversity and potentially predicting species diversity at regional to global spatial scales. Based on remotely sensed information, more efficient diversity-based monitoring programmes can be developed.
3237309|The growth and survival of coniferous trees (particularly Abies sachalinensis) and broad-leaved trees (particularly Quercus crispula) were followed over a 15-yr period in a 15.5-ha area in a northern mixed forest in Japan, and the coexistence of the two groups was simulated by a densitydependent projection matrix model. The density-dependent model assumes that the density effect of mother trees due to one-sided competition for light on smaller-sized tree regulates the demographic functions. The mother tree densities of conifers and broad-leaved trees have stronger negative effects on the recruitment and survival of seedlings of their own group than of the other group. These results support the idea of reciprocal replacement for conifer and broad-leaved trees. Simulations using the density-dependent model showed that the two groups will co-exist within a particular range of recruitment rates. However, the density of both groups did not affect the growth rate of any tree, and equilibrium DBHdistributions from density-dependent matrices were quite different from present distributions both for conifers and broadleaved trees. On the other hand, equilibrium DBH-distributions of conifer and broad-leaved trees from density-independent matrices were quite distinct from each other, reflecting different survivorship curves of the two dominants. These results suggest that density-dependent processes are not so important for shaping population structures in this northern mixed forest.
3237090|The soil seed bank composition was determined at four sites in the dune slack 'Koegelwieck' on the Dutch Wadden Sea island of Terschelling. At three different sites in the slack, where sod-cutting experiments down to the mineral sand had been carried out, the established vegetation and seed bank were assessed after 5, 9 and 39 yr of undisturbed development, respectively. In addition, a fourth site in the slack was investigated, where vegetation development had proceeded for 80 yr since plant colonization of bare soil and where nowadays a vegetation dominated by Calamagrostis epigejos and Salix repens occurs. Together these four sites can be regarded as a chronosequence of dune slack formation. Clear time sequences were detected in the seed bank data. Many late successional species showed a significant increase in the number of seeds during the succession. Some of the early successional basiphilous pioneer species such as Anagallis minima, Centaurium littorale, Littorella uniflora, Radiola linoides and Samolus valerandi, showed either a decrease during the time of succession or an optimum in the vegetation while remaining present in the seed bank in low but detectable numbers. They could, therefore, play a role in re-establishment of the vegetation after sod-cutting. One of the target species, Schoenus nigricans, established within a few years after removal of the sod. However, no seeds of this species have been detected in the soil below either of the successional stages. Based on the species disappearance from the established vegetation and based on the independent data of Thompson et al. (1997) an estimation of seed longevity could be made for several Red List species of wet dune slacks.
4096652|Question: How does groundwater input affect plant distribution in Alnus glutinosa (black alder) carrs? Location: Alder carrs along the river Meuse, SE Netherlands. Methods: Three types of site, characterized by groundwater flow, were sampled in 17 A. glutinosa carrs. Vegetation and abiotic data (soil and water chemistry) were collected and analysed using a Canonical Correspondence Analysis. Based on the results, a laboratory experiment tested the effect of groundwater input (Ca
40925471|Question: How can the coexistence of savanna and forest in Amazonian areas with relatively uniform climates be explained? Location: Eastern Maraj Island, northeast Amazonia, Brazil. Methods: The study integrated floristic analysis, terrain morphology, sedimentology and C of soil organic matter. Floristic analysis involved rapid ecological assessment of 33 sites, determination of occurrence, specific richness, hierarchical distribution and matrix of floristic similarity between paired vegetation types. Terrain characterization was based on analysis of Landsat images using 4(R), 5(G) and 7(B) composition and digital elevation model (DEM). Sedimentology involved field descriptions of surface and core sediments. Finally, radiocarbon dating and analysis of C of soil profile organic matter and natural ecotone forest-savanna was undertaken. Results: Slight tectonic subsidence in eastern Maraj Island favours seasonal flooding, making it unsuitable for forest growth. However, this area displays slightly convex-up, sinuous morphologies related to paleochannels, covered by forest. Terra-firme low-land forests are expanding from west to east, preferentially occupying paleochannels and replacing savanna. Slack, running water during channel abandonment leads to disappearance of varzea/gallery forest at channel margins. Long-abandoned channels sustain continuous terra-firme forests, because of longer times for more species to establish. Recently abandoned channels have had less time to become sites for widespread tree development, and are either not vegetated or covered by savanna. Conclusion: Landforms in eastern Maraj Island reflect changes in the physical environment due to reactivation of tectonic faults during the latest Quaternary. This promoted a dynamic history of channel abandonment, which controlled a set of interrelated parameters (soil type, topography, hydrology) that determined species location. Inclusion of a geological perspective for paleoenvironmental reconstruction can increase understanding of plant distribution in Amazonia.
40925484|Question: Do beech and hornbeam differ in undergrowth species diversity, and could these differences be explained by mass of the organic layer, pH or soil moisture? Could species richness under beech and hornbeam be explained by differences in N dynamics? Location: Ancient forests dominated by beech and hornbeam in Luxembourg, on decalcified and limerich parent material. Methods: Species composition and soil characteristics, i. e. mass of the organic layer, pH, moisture content, bulk density and air-filled pore space, were determined under beech and hornbeam on decalcified marl and limestone, and analysed with cluster analysis, correspondence analysis and ANOVA, with tree species and parent material as independent factors. Net N mineralization, nitrification and N in soil and microbial biomass were determined in a laboratory incubation experiment over a pH gradient, and correlated with species richness. Results: Species richness was lower under beech than under hornbeam on both decalcified marl and on limestone. Mass of the organic layer was higher under beech in all cases, but pH and soil moisture only differed between tree species on decalcified marl. Species richness increased with soil N, microbial N and nitrification in the mineral topsoil, but was not correlated with net N mineralization, and was negatively correlated with nitrification in the organic layer and with efficiency of N mineralization per unit microbe. Conclusion: Litter quality affected species richness on both limestone and decalcified marl via the organic layer, but only on decalcified marl in terms of pH or soil moisture. Species richness did not seem to be stimulated by high overall net N mineralization or high nitrate availability in the organic layer, but only by high nitrate in the mineral topsoil.
25173146|Question: What is the relative influence of forest continuity, environmental differences and geographical context on vegetation and species richness in ancient and recent forests? Location: Himmerland and Hornsherred in Denmark. Methods: Lists of forest species from deciduous forests were subjected to CCA with variation partitioning to quantify the relative amount of variation in species composition attributable to historical, present geographical and environmental variables. GLM was used to estimate the importance of the variables to species richness. Results: The importance of temporal forest continuity in one region was negligible but was considerable in the other. The variation in species composition explained by geographical, environmental and historical variables showed little overlap in both regions, particularly at the fine scale. Conclusions: This paper does not support the idea that differences in the flora between ancient and recent forests is mainly caused by environmental differences. Furthermore, species richness seemed unaffected by isolation and forest connectivity.
3236284|We propose and test a classification of plant functional types for tropical trees based on demography, growth form, phenology, and moisture requirements, using data from a 50-ha forest dynamics plot in Panama. Correlations among demographic variables for individual species - mortality, growth, and the tendency to colonize light gaps - were strong, and a single principal component (PC) accounted for a large fraction of the demographic variability. Most species - shade-tolerants - were clustered at the low end of the PC axis (low growth, low mortality), while the rest were continuously distributed over a wide range. Three demographic guilds could be defined from scores on this axis: we call these pioneer, building phase, and shade-tolerant trees, following earlier terminology. Leaf lifetime correlated negatively with the demographic axis, and there was a weak relationship between demography and moisture-preference: no species with high demographic scores also had high moisture requirements. There was no significant relationship between deciduousness and the demographic axis, but deciduousness was negatively correlated with leaf lifetime and moisture index. Altogether, 11 different combinations of demographic variables, deciduousness, moisture needs, and growth form (canopy vs. understory species) were identified. We evaluated how these functional types changed in abundance between 1982 and 1995. Because of a recent run of dry years and long dry seasons, we predicted that deciduous species, canopy species, pioneers, and drought-tolerant species would be increasing at the expense of their counterparts. Only one aspect of this prediction was borne out: moisture-demanding species declined sharply in abundance relative to drought-tolerant species. Neither deciduousness nor growth form was associated with population change, and pioneer species declined in abundance more often than shade-tolerants. The overall structure of the forest - the density of deciduous, pioneer, and understory species - did not change much, but the decline of the moisture-demanding guild indicates that a change in composition is preceding a structural change.
40925521|Question: Can useful realised niche models be constructed for British plant species using climate, canopy height and mean Ellenberg indices as explanatory variables? Location: Great Britain. Methods: Generalised linear models were constructed using occurrence data covering all major natural and semi-natural vegetation types (n = 40683 quadrat samples). Paired species and soil records were only available for 4% of the training data (n = 1033) so modelling was carried out in two stages. First, multiple regression was used to express mean Ellenberg values for moisture, pH and fertility, in terms of direct soil measurements. Next, species presence/absence was modelled using mean indicator scores, cover-weighted canopy height, three climate variables and interactions between these factors, but correcting for the presence of each target species in training plots to avoid circularity. Results: Eight hundred and three higher plants and 327 bryophytes were modelled. Thirteen per cent of the niche models for higher plants were tested against an independent survey dataset not used to build the models. Models performed better when predictions were based only on indices derived from the species composition of each plot rather than measured soil variables. This reflects the high variation in vegetation indices that was not explained by the measured soil variables. Conclusions: The models should be used to estimate expected habitat suitability rather than to predict species presence. Least uncertainty also attaches to their use as risk assessment and monitoring tools on nature reserves because they can be solved using mean environmental indicators calculated from the existing species composition, with or without climate data.
3237060|This paper describes patterns of below-ground components in grassland ecosystems. It provides estimates of the contribution of below-ground organs to the total phytomass of the community and of different species to the below-ground phytomass; it describes the distribution of above- and below-ground organs of different species and the spatial and temporal correlation between above-ground and below-ground phytomass - both total standing crop and net primary production. 10 Siberian grasslands (meadows and steppes) were investigated during 15 yr. Ca. 70 % of the living phytomass is located in the soil and no less than 70 % of the net primary production is allocated in below-ground organs. Phytomass distribution in the soil layer is more homogeneous than above-ground. For some species the spatial distribution within 1-m<sup>2</sup> plots of the green and below-ground phytomass is similar, for others it is quantitatively or qualitatively different. According to the dominance-diversity curve, the above-ground size hierarchy is much stronger than the below-ground one. The active growth of above- and below-ground organs of a species may occur at different times of the season and it varies from year to year. Allocation of organic substances to rhizomes and roots occurs simultaneously and with proportional intensity.
25173175|Question: The prominent role of wind dispersal in alpine habitats has been recognized early but has rarely been quantified. The aim of this study is to compare wind dispersal under alpine and lowland conditions and to analyse whether differences are caused by species traits, e.g. terminal velocity of seeds
4096774| Question: The aim of the present study is to examine how a rare flowering and massive die-off event of a dominant understorey bamboo affected tree regeneration processes in a subalpine Nothofagus forest. In particular, we assess the effects of the die-off event on tree seedling demography (establishment and survival) and on the height growth of previously established juveniles, and we determine how these effects vary in relation to stand age and canopy conditions. Location: Carirrie Pass and Choshuenco Volcano at 1200 m a.s.l. in a mixed subalpine temperate forest in northern Patagonia (40S, 71W), spanning the Chilean and Argentinian border. Methods: Regeneration processes in Nothofagus pumilio and N. dombeyi were examined under different canopy conditions (closed or gap), in both young and old stands, and in patches of flowered and non-flowered Chusquea bamboo during the first three growing seasons following the simultaneous flowering and die-off of Chusquea montana f. montana in November-December 2001. We installed permanent plots under all forest conditions and measured seedling and sapling height growth and new seedling establishment following the bamboo die-off. To assess potential variation in tree seed sources, seed fall was collected and seed viability was measured. To assess for potential variation in the understorey light conditions and infer its influence on tree regeneration, hemispherical photographs of the canopy were taken at each plot. Results: Bamboo die-off triggered accelerated growth in height of Nothofagus seedlings and saplings in gaps in old stands. Bamboo die-off did not result in new tree seedling establishment; however, die-off did increase the survival of newly established seedlings. Conclusion: The predominant response of Nothofagus spp. to the bamboo die-off event was the accelerated height growth of previously established juveniles (i.e. a re-organization response). Successful recruitment into the canopy of these relatively shade-intolerant tree species appears to be dependent on previously existing canopy gaps. It is likely that the release in height of previously established juveniles of Nothofagus after the bamboo die-off will eventually result in development of even-sized and relatively even-aged, patches of canopy trees. 
3235727|Plant sexual systems were evaluated in a tropical shrubland community of Venezuelan Guayana. Of 89 plant species, 73.0 % were hermaphrodite, 12.4 % monoecious, 10.1 % submonoecious, and 4.5 % dioecious. Temporal variation of sexual expression showed that hermaphrodite species were mostly adichogamous and monoecious, submonoecious species dichogamous (protandrous and protogynous). Herkogamy was an important mechanism promoting cross-pollination. Of 38 hermaphrodite species, 39.5 % were herkogamous. Plant sexual systems were not associated with life form. Most species were pollinated mostly by large and medium-size bees. Pollinator specificity and pollen load transportation, were higher for monoecious species than for hermaphrodite, submonoecious and dioecious ones. Both pollinator specificity and pollen transportation were not significantly different among representatives of the latter three sexual systems. Plant sexual systems were significantly associated with dispersal syndromes; dioecious species had bird-dispersal syndromes, the other sexual systems mostly anemochory, epizoochory and endozoochory; but many hermaphrodites were anemochorous.
4096746|Question: What are the relative influences of human impact, macroclimate, geographic location and habitat related environmental differences on species composition of boreal epiphytic macrolichen communities? Location: Troms county in northern Norway. Methods: Detrended Correspondence Analysis revealed the main gradient structure in lists of epiphytic macrolichen species from deciduous forests. By Canonical Correspondence Analysis with variance partitioning, the relative amount of variance in macrolichen species composition attributable to human impact, macroclimate, spatial context and environmental differences was quantified. Results: There was no significant effect of human impact on species composition of epiphytic macrolichens of deciduous forests. Macroclimate was the most important factor determining epiphytic macrolichen communities, which were also strongly influenced by ecological differences such as forest stand properties. Conclusions: Epiphytic macrolichen communities are determined by a macroclimatic gradient from the coastline to the interior of central north Norway. In marked contrast, the species composition of epiphytic macrolichen communities seems to be unaffected by human impact in the study area, where air pollution was marginal.
3236926|The upland moorlands of Wales are situated on the oceanic fringe of western Europe, and have experienced a long history of pastoral management. Recent vegetation data are analysed to assess the relative contribution of abiotic and anthropogenic factors to variation in habitat composition among the major upland ranges of this region. From a numerical analysis of plant community cover data, recorded from 65 sites covering 260 000 ha, a six-cluster site classification emerged with striking biogeographical coherence. Direct gradient analysis and variance partitioning revealed strong correlation between vegetation composition and spatially-structured climatic gradients, in particular temperature, rainfall and oceanicity; differences in bedrock geology appear to have a lesser role. The analysis also indicates a close correlation between habitat variation and anthropogenic parameters, especially grazing intensity, burning frequency, and sulphur and nitrogen deposition levels. At this regional scale, anthropogenic impacts appear to have accentuated, rather than obscured, vegetation patterns which are primarily determined by climate and other abiotic variables. The findings have considerable relevance for conservation planning and also for predictive studies on the consequences of climatic change for the biota of the uplands of southern Britain.
4096628|Question: In floodplain forests, does frequent flooding allow for self-replacement of shade-intolerant tree species or do small canopy gap openings lead to replacement by shade-tolerant tree species? Location: Cache River, Arkansas, US; 55 m a.s.l. Methods: The species, diameter-at-breast height, and elevation of primary gap-maker trees were determined for new gaps from 1995-1998. The size and species of gap-filler trees were identified and placed into three classes: definitive, edge, or interior. Transition probabilities were determined. Results: The dominant shade-intolerant species Quercus texana is being replaced primarily by the more shade-tolerant A. rubrum var. drummondii, Fraxinus spp. and Ulmus americuna. Only 20 of 2767 gap fillers were Q. texana. Replacement probabilities are not constant across elevations, however, as the least shade-tolerant of the three most common species of definitive gap fillers, Fraxinus spp., occurred at lower elevations than A. rubrum var. drummondii. and U. americana. Conclusions: The contention that frequent flooding would allow for self-replacement of shade-intolerant species was only partially supported. The small canopy gaps undoubtedly influenced canopy replacement processes.
3236979|A spatially explicit model was developed to study the relationships between the dynamics and spatial structure of forest stands. The objective was to test whether tree spatial structure can be used as an indicator of stand dynamics. The model simulates the growth, mortality and recruitment of trees in a multi-specific and uneven-aged stand. It includes deterministic and stochastic processes so that repeated simulations do not lead to the same stand but provide several possible results for a given dynamic (defined by a set of parameters). Second-order neighbourhood analyses were used to characterize the resulting spatial structures. They showed a high variability for a given set of parameters. Only the main trends in the spatial structure can be interpreted. Sensitivity analyses, concerning the influence of competition on spatial structure, showed that in heterogeneous stands confounding effects can hinder the interpretation of the spatial structure if all the trees are considered. The spatial structure of the canopy trees alone proved easier to interpret as it is directly linked to post recruitment competition. Inference on the dominant modality of competition (one-sided or two-sided) based on the spatial structure proved difficult.
3236689|In the Wet Chaco region of Argentina, increasing shrub encroachment in savannas over the last few decades has led to important changes in the structure and functioning of the landscape. Some sectors of this territory are characterized by the appearance of circular clusters of woody patches, dispersed throughout the grassland matrix. The increasing size of these patches leads to a gradual change from grassland to dense shrubland. We studied these circular woody patches in the eastern region of the Argentine province of Formosa and characterized the variation in terms of floristic composition, diversity and predominant seed dispersal mode in different size patches. We observed an increase in species richness, diversity and compositional heterogeneity among patches with increasing patch size. Seed dispersal by animals, especially birds, is an important factor in the expansion of these woody vegetation patches within the grassland matrix.
3236655| Statistical measures of fidelity, i.e. the concentration of species occurrences in vegetation units, are reviewed and compared. The focus is on measures suitable for categorical data which are based on observed species frequencies within a vegetation unit compared with the frequencies expected under random distribution. Particular attention is paid to Bruelheide's u value. It is shown that its original form, based on binomial distribution, is an asymmetric measure of fidelity of a species to a vegetation unit which tends to assign comparatively high fidelity values to rare species. Here, a hypergeometric form of u is introduced which is a symmetric measure of the joint fidelity of species to a vegetation unit and vice versa. It is also shown that another form of the binomial u value may be defined which measures the asymmetric fidelity of a vegetation unit to a species. These u values are compared with phi coefficient, chi-square, G statistic and Fisher's exact test. Contrary to the other measures, phi coefficient is independent of the number of relevs in the data set, and like the hypergeometric form of u and the chi-square it is little affected by the relative size of the vegetation unit. It is therefore particularly useful when comparing species fidelity values among differently sized data sets and vegetation units. However, unlike the other measures it does not measure any statistical significance and may produce unreliable results for small vegetation units and small data sets. The above measures, all based on the comparison of observed/expected frequencies, are compared with the categorical form of the Dufrne-Legendre Indicator Value Index, an index strongly underweighting the fidelity of rare species. These fidelity measures are applied to a data set of 15 989 relevs of Czech herbaceous vegetation. In a small subset of this data set which simulates a phytosociological table, we demonstrate that traditional table analysis fails to determine diagnostic species of general validity in different habitats and large areas. On the other hand, we show that fidelity calculations used in conjunction with large data sets can replace expert knowledge in the determination of generally valid diagnostic species. Averaging positive fidelity values for all species within a vegetation unit is a useful approach to measure quality of delimination of the vegetation unit. We propose a new way of ordering species in synoptic species-by-relev tables, using fidelity calculations. 
3236693|In seasonally dry regions of the world fire is a recurring disturbance but little is known of how fire interacts with granite outcrop vegetation. We hypothesize that the floristic composition in granite vegetation, usually attributed to the edaphic environment, may also reflect the impact of disturbances such as fire. Dramatic differences in floristic composition and cover over 13 years and two fires were observed in vegetation on a Western Australian granite outcrop. This was very marked in the first year following the two fires, with annuals and geophytes showing the greatest turnover of species. Even among the perennial shrubs there was considerable turnover in a number of obligate seeders. After the first fire the number of species declined for woody perennials, herbaceous perennials and annuals, remained unchanged for perennial grasses and sedges, and varied with highest richness 4 yr after fire for geophytes. Demographic studies of two endemic woody obligate seeders and three endemic mallee eucalypt resprouters similarly showed dramatic differences within and between species in seedling recruitment following the two fires. Fire does have a significant impact on the floristic composition of semi-arid granite outcrop vegetation communities. Studies on other granite outcrop systems are needed to test the generality of this conclusion.
40295817|Question: What are tree mortality rates and how and why do they vary in late-successional Picea tf& zes-dominated forests? Do observed tree mortality patterns allow comparative assessment of models of long-term stand development? Location: Northern boreal Fennoscandia. Methods: We measured stand structure in 10 stands in two different areas. We determined age distributions and constructed a chronology of tree deaths by cross-dating the years of death of randomly sampled dead trees. Results: The stands in the two areas had contrasting tree age distributions, despite similar live tree structure. In one area, stands were relatively even-aged and originated following a stand-replacing fire 317 years earlier. The stands in the second area had an uneven age structure and virtually no signs of past fires, suggesting a very long period since the last major disturbance. The younger stands were characterized by a high mortality rate and inter-annual variation, which we attributed to senescence of the relatively even-aged stands approaching the maximum age of P. abies. In contrast, the tree mortality rates in the older stands were low and relatively stable. Conclusions: Patterns of tree mortality were, to a large extent, dependent on the time since the last stand-replacing disturbance, suggesting that northern boreal P. abies stands eventually reach a shifting mosaic state maintained through small-scale dynamics, but the time needed to reach this state appears to be lengthy; even 300 years after a forest fire stands showed changes in patterns of tree mortality that were related to the developmental stage of the stands.
3236763|Logistic Multiple Regression, Principal Component Regression and Classification and Regression Tree Analysis (CART), commonly used in ecological modelling using GIS, are compared with a relatively new statistical technique, Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines (MARS), to test their accuracy, reliability, implementation within GIS and ease of use. All were applied to the same two data sets, covering a wide range of conditions common in predictive modelling, namely geographical range, scale, nature of the predictors and sampling method. We ran two series of analyses to verify if model validation by an independent data set was required or cross-validation on a learning data set sufficed. Results show that validation by independent data sets is needed. Model accuracy was evaluated using the area under Receiver Operating Characteristics curve (AUC). This measure was used because it summarizes performance across all possible thresholds, and is independent of balance between classes. MARS and Regression Tree Analysis achieved the best prediction success, although the CART model was difficult to use for cartographic purposes due to the high model complexity.
3236217|Above-ground grass biomass, necromass and tree litter were measured monthly over a vegetation cycle under tree clumps and in the open, in a humid savanna in Cote d'Ivoire. Grass production was calculated using several methods to better discriminate the contribution of the different grass compartments. Above-ground grass biomass is higher in the open than under canopies during the second part of the growing season, but there is no difference in grass necromass dynamics. Physical protection of grass necromass by tree litter against decaying under tree canopies was assumed to explain this discrepancy. Grass production, calculated as the sum of positive increments of biomass and necromass, equals 1073 g m<sup>-2</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup> in the open, against 74% underneath trees. However, basal ground cover is only 50% of that in the open. Comparison with other savanna studies as a whole does not show any significant effect of rainfall on the relationship between under-canopy and outside-canopy grass production. However, in arid conditions, grass production tends to increase under light-canopied trees (mostly Acacia legumes) which hardly affect grass photosynthesis, but add high quality litter to the soil surface.
3235781|Physiognomic patterns may vary significantly during succession despite a tendency for larger-growth forms to gradually replace smaller ones. Development of understory structure was observed for 25 yr after harvest of Pseudotsuga forests on two sites in the western Cascade Range, Oregon. We examine the influences of disturbance intensity and initial vegetation structure on the origin, direction, and rate of physiognomic change. Broad-scale changes in vegetation structure differed between sites. On Watershed 1, herbs dominated for 11 yr, after which shrubs became co-dominant. In contrast, Watershed 3 never exhibited a distinct, transitional shrub phase - herbs dominated for 18 yr, after which trees assumed co-dominance. The pattern and rate of physiognomic succession also varied among pre-disturbance plant communities and with disturbance intensity. Differences among communities largely corresponded with initial vegetation structure, reflecting the disturbance tolerance of forest herbs and shrubs. Canopy closure occurred most rapidly in the initially depauperate, but tree-dominated Coptis community. Along the disturbance gradient, shifts from herb to shrub dominance occurred earlier on burned than on unburned sites due to rapid development of invading shrubs, whose germination and establishment were stimulated by fire. However, subsequent transitions to tree dominance showed no clear relationship with disturbance intensity. These long-term trends suggest that pre-disturbance community structure and disturbance intensity are major determinants of physiognomic succession, but that their effects may be modified by historical or stochastic factors such as limited seed availability or local fluctuations in weather.
4499208|Trees on small islands formed when a new hydroelectric dam was filled are said to have been killed by leaf-cutter ants that were no longer regulated by their armadillo predators. This top-down hypothesis is questioned and an alternative bottom-up hypothesis is proposed: the trees died because their roots were flooded.
4096735|Question: How do Coriaria arborea, an N-fixing native shrub, and Buddleja davidii, a non-N-fixing exotic shrub, affect N:P stoichiometry in plants and soils during early stages of primary succession on a flood-plain? Location: Kowhai River Valley, northeast South Island, New Zealand. Methods: We measured soil and foliar nutrient concentrations, light levels, plant community composition and the above-ground biomass of Coriaria and Buddleja in four successional stages: open, young, vigorous and mature. Results: Coriaria occurred at low density but dominated above-ground biomass by the vigorous stage. Buddleja occurred at
3235655|Seasonal patterns of stem diameter changes in evergreen and deciduous species of a tropical montane forest in the Central Himalayas (300-2250 m a.s.l.) were investigated in relation to leaf development. Ca. 75 % of the annual rainfall in this region occurs in a short period, from mid-June to mid-September and the remaining months are dry. It was assumed that changes in stem diameter are correlated with changes in water stress. Each evergreen species could be characterized by leaf longevity of about one year; each species showed pronounced summer leaf drop and simultaneous new leaf formation. Winter stem shrinkage was more pronounced in deciduous species than in evergreen ones. The deciduous species also showed a greater proportional loss of leaf mass (before abscission) than the evergreen species. Winter leaf fall in deciduous species was related to the pronounced stem shrinkage. The leaf fall enabled these species to control further water loss. Being more resistant to desiccation, the evergreen species retained their leaves throughout the winter but showed gradual loss of leaf mass, presumably in order to control water loss. In all species, leaf expansion was completed before the onset of the rainy season, when water stress was high. This strategy has definite advantages in a climate with a monsoon pattern of rainfall. Evergreen species, showing pronounced leaf drop in summer, have advantages over deciduous species; hence their preponderance in the region.
3236321|Changes in the vegetation of lakes and wetlands were investigated over a period of 18 years. It was assumed that changes in vegetation were related to changes in agricultural land use resulting in increased phosphate levels in surface waters. Data were collected in 1975, 1988 and 1993. Multivariate techniques were used to relate changes in vegetation to changes in environmental factors. With the use of a Markovian chain model, vegetation development was projected into the future. Projections based on vegetation dynamics between 1975 and 1988 were compared with actual changes in the vegetation. The vegetation dynamics appeared stable on a regional scale but quite dynamic on a local scale. A continuous decline in species diversity was noted as well as an overall increase of phosphate level. However, only minor changes in vegetation could be attributed to this increase of phosphate. Major changes were a result of fluctuations in water level. These changes coincide with periods of drier and wetter climate. Because of the fluctuating nature of these changes, predicted vegetation change did deviate from the observed change.
3237025|Based on 115 samples collected throughout the western portion of Great Smoky Mountains National Park, southern Appalachian Mts., and on spatial data derived in a GIS (Geographical Information System), the distribution of the disease dogwood anthracnose affecting Cornus florida (flowering dogwood), caused by the fungus Discula destructiva in this portion of the Park was assessed, and factors contributing to the disease's severity were identified through correlation and multiple linear regression analysis. The degree of infection varies considerably locally, and is influenced by elevation, slope curvature, slope position, and potential soil moisture. However, the abundance of C. florida (stem density) alone explains 25 % of the variation in disease severity. Factors contributing to disease severity do not change significantly between disturbed and undisturbed sites. The highest mortality rates are restricted to dense stands in damp, sheltered sites at low slope positions, implying that surviving populations of flowering dogwood may represent a biased genetic subset of the original population.
3236554|We studied the effects of windthrow on the understory plant species composition of a pine forest (dominated by Pinus strobus) and an oak forest (dominated by Quercus ellipsoidalis). We recorded the presence of vascular plant species in randomly located quadrats in the two forests, and in three microsite types associated with tipup mounds (pit, old soil and new soil) in the pine forest at irregular intervals over the course of 14 years. The understories of the two forests remained distinct throughout the study. The frequency of occurrence of a number of forest floor species considerably increased; few species decreased. The disturbance specialists Rubus idaeus and Polygonum cilinode increased in frequency throughout the study in the pine forest, but are beginning to decline in the less disturbed oak forest. Annuals and biennials preferentially colonized the disturbed soil of microsites on tipups, and declined in frequency after about 7 yr. Both forests have increased in understory species richness, but have not changed substantially in the distribution of growth forms. Despite early differences in species composition, microsite types associated with tipup mounds became more similar through time. Although small in magnitude, there was a directional change in understory composition at both forests, with no apparent sign of a return to pre-disturbance conditions.
3237181|The effect of spatial scale on species evenness has not previously been investigated. As the area of each sample of vegetation (i.e. the spatial grain) increases, evenness could in theory increase, decrease, or stay the same, though the simplest model predicts an increase. We use biomass data from four dune slack sites and two semi-arid grasslands, sampled to allow calculation of evenness at a range of spatial grains. In all six sites, evenness decreases as grain size increases, almost monotonically. It is hypothesized that such a pattern is a result of a general feature of plant species abundance distributions and of vegetation response to environmental microheterogeneity.
3235619|The concentrations and contents of organic matter and nutrients in organic deposits on the forest floor were estimated along a 231-yr chronosequence following fire at the southern limit of the boreal forest in eastern Canada. The sampling design was stratified to take into account the variability related to the presence of the principal tree species as well as to the presence of large gaps created by a recent spruce budworm (Choristoneura fumiferana) outbreak. The forest floor showed a steady accumulation of organic matter and total nutrients with time-since-fire and a 50 % decrease in the concentrations of available P and K, but not N (as determined by aerobic incubation). The increase in forest-floor weight was accompanied by an increased storage of available N, Ca and Mg. The availability of N and Ca was more strongly affected by tree species and gaps than by time-since-fire. A high N-availability was observed under Betula papyrifera and in gaps, while high a Ca-availability was found near Populus tremuloides and Thuja occidentalis. In old sites, the forest floor of gaps, created by a recent spruce budworm outbreak, had a necromass similar to that of a young forest, but the low concentrations of available P and K of an old forest.
4096624|Question: Does interspecific variation in leaf phenology among grassland species help to explain the differences in species' performance under contrasting disturbance regimes. Location: Merishausen, northern Switzerland. Methods: Seasonal variations in leaf production and mortality were assessed for three species of nutrient-poor limestone grasslands: Brachypodium pinnatum, Bromus erectus and Salvia pratensis; each of these species tends to become dominant under a contrasting form of management. Their phenological characteristics were compared with their performance in plots differently managed for 21 years: (1) mowing in July; (2) mowing in October; (3) controlled burning in February; and (4) no biomass removal. Results: The species-specific phenological patterns of leaf production and leaf mortality are associated with the abundance of the three species under the different management regimes. B. erectus, with relatively short-lived leaves and leaf production late in the season dominates plots mown annually in June; it has almost disappeared from plots with winter burning. B. pinnatum, with production maxima of the longlived leaves early in the season, does not tolerate June mowing but is most abundant in plots burnt in winter when the species has no living leaves. S. pratensis, a species with long-lived leaves but fast senescence of all the leaves in autumn, dominates plots mown in October. In unmown plots, all species are equally abundant. Conclusions: The seasonal pattern of leaf production and mortality strongly influence biomass and nutrient loss due to the management, and the growth that can be realized between the disturbances. A species may become dominant if it 'fits' into the particular management regime, whereas a mismatch between phenological pattern and disturbance regime leads to its elimination from the community.
25173192|Question: Since increases in altitude and grazing intensity generally result in decreases in height growth of alpine grasslands, plant height may integrate effects of environmental stress and grazing disturbance and provide better assessments of the variation in root:shoot (R:S) biomass ratio than other variables. However, it is unclear if there is a general relationship between plant height and R:S ratio across grassland ecosystems. Such knowledge would be helpful for root biomass estimation in grasslands. Location: An altitudinal transect in the Gonghe Basin (2880-4040 m a.s.l.), northeast Tibetan plateau. Methods: We measured standing biomass both above-ground and below-ground, maximum plant height (MPH) and soil variables across 43 plots. Results: Climatic variables explained the variations in MPH and R:S ratio of undegraded grasslands better than soil variables (46-50% vs &lt;19%), while those of degraded grasslands generally showed insignificant correlations with climatic and soil variables. There was a general relationship between R:S ratio and MPH (negative, R=0.76, P&lt;0.001) across degraded and undegraded grasslands. The relationship was used to predict R:S ratio in 13 additional plots in steppe grasslands of Inner Mongolia, and good agreement of expected and observed values has been found (R=0.87, P&lt;0.001). Conclusions: MPH, that is relatively easy to measure, can be used to predict R:S ratio at plot to regional scales. It is promising to develop a new method for large-scale estimation of root biomass in grasslands using MPH and shoot biomass avoiding tedious procedures of physical measuring of above and below-ground biomass.
3235825|The concept of trajectory of a vegetation type is used as a tool to study the position of vegetation types in a multidimensional climatic space. This space was obtained by Principal Component Analysis based on climatic data - based on monthly means. The positions of the main vegetation types distinguished in China were plotted in the climatic space and trajectory lengths and shapes of the types were compared. Three main groups were found, which correspond to: (1) cold and temperate, (2) alpine and mountain, and (3) subtropical and tropical conditions. Within each main category sub-categories were distinguished on the basis of trajectory length and direction. In total, seven trajectory shapes were defined. Based on the correlation between climatic variables and PCA-axes temperature is suggested to be the overriding factor in determining the trajectory shape. But, trajectories can also be affected by the combination of other climatic variables.
3235980| The typology and distribution are discussed of hitherto poorly known Mediterranean-type maquis vegetation from the eastern stretch of the coastal fringe of the Cantabrian Mountains. 51 phytosociological relevs of maquis with Arbutus unedo ('madroales') and Quercus coccifera (kermes oak shrubland or 'coscojares') were submitted to Correspondence Analysis and table rearrangement. The results are discussed and interpreted in the light of actual biogeographical and palaeohistorical knowledge. A sharp division between (uniform) acidophilous and (diversified) basophilous communities was revealed. On the basis of the phytosociological classification four new syntaxa are described: the associations Ulici gallii-Arbutetum unedonis, Phillyreo latifoliae-Arbutetum unedonis - with two subassociations: arbutetosum unedonis and viburnetosum tini - and the association Genisto occidentalis-Quercetum cocciferae. 
3236982|We examined the changes in prevalence of nine plant traits - including the presence of woody stem tissue, leaf longevity, nitrogen fixation, seed longevity, dispersal vector, pollination vector, and clonal growth form - across a riparian/ forest-understory ecotone. This ecotone, found along headwater streams in boreal mixed-wood forests, supports four distinct vegetation zones: streambank, riparian, transition, and upland forest understory. The objective of this study was to identify specific trait patterns that may indicate functional responses to the changes in environmental factors such as nutrient availability and wind exposure that occur across the ecotone. The suites of plant species traits found in each zone were distinct, with a strong change in the prevalence of several traits. Wind and insect pollination, wind and vertebrate diaspore dispersal, and deciduous and evergreen leaves showed the greatest change in prevalence between the vegetation types. Some traits, including insect pollination and vertebrate diaspore dispersal, were strongly correlated within species. The consistent co-occurrence of pairs of traits in the same species suggests common responses by very different traits to the same environmental factor. This study demonstrates that an ecotone can be characterized not only as a discontinuity in species distributions or environmental factors, but also as a discontinuity in the trait spectrum. Examining ecotones from a trait perspective has strong potential for identifying the environmental factors and associated species functional responses that encourage the development of distinct vegetation boundaries.
3235616|Age and size structures of saplings of Picea abies, Pinus sylvestris and Betula pubescens were examined in a 26yr old forest fire area in a Picea abies-Vaccinium myrtillus forest in northern Sweden. Picea, which is a shade-tolerant species, had its maximum regeneration prior to the shade-intolerant Pinus. The shift from Picea to Pinus regeneration in the late 1970s, did not seem to be related to variations in summer temperature. Instead, it is suggested that Picea established in the shade created by dead trees and, that increased reindeer browsing of Betula in combination with a simultaneous thinning of the tree layer, favoured Pinus recruitment. These regeneration patterns do not confirm conventional views of post-fire succession in Sweden.
3237346|Sinking boreholes to tap groundwater supplies facilitated expansion of all-year round livestock production into the semi-arid Kalahari. Increased grazing and trampling pressure around the boreholes often caused vegetation changes and range degradation. The long-term influences of cattle grazing on vegetation pattern around watering points in the southern part of the semi-arid Kalahari are investigated using a grid-based simulation model. Shrub-grass dynamics are modelled for two regimes with high and low rainfall and under various stocking rates. Results indicate the formation of distinct vegetation zones ('piosohere' zones) at the high rainfall site. Under all tested stocking rates distinct zones of bare soil, woody shrubs and a mixed grass-shrub savanna develop. The piosphere zones expand outwards at a rate correlated with the grazing pressure. At the lower-rainfall site zone development is limited and influenced by rainfall. Under abnormally high stocking rates an increase in shrub cover occurs within 50 yr under the low rainfall regime, leading to less distinct zones than under the high rainfall scenario. Modelling results suggest that the recovery potential of shrub-encroached piosphere zones after withdrawal of cattle is negligible in a time span of 100 yr.
23012427|Question: Habitats are characterized by their plant species composition. Therefore, climate change impacts on habitats can be assessed by two complementary statistical approaches: either directly by modelling the climate envelope of the habitat, or indirectly by modelling the habitat in terms of its plant species. How do these approaches differ in their projected habitat distribution? What are the consequences for nature conservation? Location: Europe. Methods: Potential climate change impacts on the distribution of European protected Natura 2000 sites were modelled for five natural and semi-natural grassland habitat types, defined by the EU Habitats Directive, using data from the Atlas Florae Europaeae and reports on Natura 2000 sites. We used random forests (RF) and logistic regression (GLM) to model current and potential future distributions for 2050. Results: All habitats are projected to lose between 22% and 93% of their range in the `no dispersal' scenario. In the `unrestricted dispersal' scenario, almost all habitats gain suitable climate space, between 5% and 100% of their current range. In the direct habitat approach, both model algorithms have high discriminatory performance on test data and are well calibrated. In the indirect species approach, only GLM shows high model performance; RF models are overfitted. Projections of occurrence probabilities differ more strongly between model approaches (`direct' versus `indirect') than between model algorithms (GLM versus RF). Conclusions: Habitats are complex entities. Because of their dynamic nature, particularly in the face of climate change, we suggest modelling the future distribution of habitat types not exclusively based on their current definitions and mapped distributions, but also based on their constituent elements, and in particular their characteristic plant species.
3236109| Phytosociological investigations of the undergrowth in vineyards in the southern part of the Upper Rhine region, southwestern Germany, over many years are briefly reported. Besides my own data collected over nearly a decade, appropriate relevs of earlier authors have been included for comparison. The cultivation regimes have changed more drastically in the course of time - and continue to do so - than they have in other types of agricultural types. The principal cultivation methods are: mechanical soil movement by tilling, herbicide application, and mulching (see Fig. 1). These three types of measures tend to be applied in alternation, both temporally and spatially. Their effects are very different in intensity and time of action, and consequently they cause varying species combinations to build plant communities (Table 1). The concept of strategy-type is discussed and the approach of 'key characters' in the sense of Grubb is stressed. Such traits of adaptive value for important species in the vineyard undergrowth are presented in Table 2, for the aspects life form, developmental rhythm, and diaspore formation and dispersal. The combination of such population biological parameters yields a number of strategy-types. In the community description the concept of agroform is used, i.e. a subtype of a plant community brought about by a special agricultural technique. Frequent soil movement results in the dominance of therophytes: the Stellaria media'agroform' of the Geranio rotundifolii-Allietum Tx. 50; mulching promotes perennials with runners, leading to a Poa trivialis-Lolio-Potentillion community (Wilmanns 1989); moderate spraying with herbicides promotes geophytes, winter annuals, woody plants and succulents: Bromus sterilisagroform of the Geranio-Allietum. As examples of characteristic species, Allium vineale and Geranium rotundifolium are analysed. 
3237109|The form of the relationship between local species richness and the number of species in the surrounding region can be used as a test between competing theories of community structure. For 32 canopy gaps in New Zealand Nothofagus forest, we examined the relationship between the number of vascular plant species in 0.2-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats within the gap and the species richness of the whole gap. We found no evidence that competition for a limited number of niches placed an upper limit on the number of locally co-occurring species. Rather, the mean number of species in quadrats within canopy gaps increased in direct proportion to gap species richness. This relationship held after we controlled for potentially confounding factors, including variation in forest floor substrate, and gap size, age, shape and orientation. Our results suggest that even over relatively small spatial scales, local species richness can be constrained by the size of the species pool in the immediately surrounding region.
25549265|Questions: We addressed two poorly understood aspects of plant response to climate change: the impact of extreme climatic events and the mediating role of biotic interactions, through a study of heatwave effects on tree seedling survival rates and ability of the tree canopy to alter seedling responses. Location: Mountain belt of the northern French Alps (Maurienne Valley). Methods: The survival rates of two seedling cohorts from four tree species (Abies alba, Acer pseudoplatanus, Fraxinus excelsior and Picea abies) were measured during both the 2003 European heatwave and an average summer (2004) in deciduous broadleaf mountain forests. Seedlings were transplanted into two soil moisture conditions, and in experimental gaps or under the tree canopy. Results: The heatwave strongly decreased tree seedling survival rates, while there was an important species-specific mediating role of biotic interactions. In the wettest conditions, the tree canopy strongly increased survival of Abies, buffering the negative impact of the heatwave. In contrast, in the driest conditions, the tree canopy decreased survival of Picea and Acer, amplifying the negative impact of the heatwave. We found evidence of increasing soil water stress in the understorey of the driest community, but further studies including vapour pressure deficit measurements are needed to elucidate the driving mechanism of facilitation. Conclusions: The high species specificity of the mediating role of biotic interactions and its variation along stress gradients leads to questions on our ability to predict large-scale responses of species to climate changes.
3236776|Moisture and nutrient gradients consistently explain much of the variation in plant species composition and abundance, but these gradients are not spatially explicit and only reveal species responses to resource levels. This study links these abstract gradients to quantitative, spatial models of hill-slope assembly. A gradient analysis in the mixed-wood boreal forest demonstrates that patterns of upland vegetation distribution are correlated to soil moisture and nutrient gradients. Variation in species abundance with time since the last fire is removed from the gradient analysis in order to avoid confounding the physical environment gradients. The physical-environment gradients are related to qualitative positions on the hill slope i.e. crest, mid-slope, bottom-slope. However, hill-slope shape can be quantitatively described and compared by fitting allometric equations to the slope profiles. Using these equations, we show that hill-slope profiles on similar surficial materials have similar parameters, despite coming from widely separated locations. We then quantitatively link the moisture and nutrient gradients to the equations. Moisture and nutrients significantly increase as distance down-slope from the ridgeline increases. Corresponding vegetation composition changes too. These relationships characterize the general pattern of vegetation change down most hill slopes in the area. Since hill slopes are a universal feature of all landscapes, these principles may characterize landscape scale spatial patterns of vegetation in many environments.
3235731|Soil factors responsible for the inability of Viscaria vulgaris to colonize or survive on calcareous soils in Scandinavia were studied using experiments with plant establishment from seeds and re-establishment of mature plants, in soils of naturally differing or artificially varied chemical properties. Limestone soil proved less suitable for re-establishment of mature plants, and establishment from seeds was not possible in this soil. The plants grown on limestone had a very low phosphorus content and displayed deficiency symptoms. Acid leptite soil and soil from the A-horizon of a dystric cambisol were suitable for plant establishment from seeds and re-establishment of adult individuals, respectively. However, growth increased significantly when pH-KC1 was raised to 7.6 by adding CaCO<sub>3</sub>. Establishment from seeds was successful in the Archaean and Ordovician limestone soils only when CaHPO<sub>4</sub> was added. The calcifuge behaviour of Viscaria vulgaris is not due to negative effects of a high pH or a high Ca concentration in the soil. Inability to utilize the native phosphorus of such soils is the most evident explanation.
3236947|We studied the relationship between plant N:P ratio, soil characteristics and species richness in wet sedge and tussock tundra in northern Alaska at seven sites. We also collected data on soil characteristics, above-ground biomass, species richness and composition. The N:P ratio of the vegetation did not show any relationship with species richness. The N:P ratio of the soil was related with species richness for both vegetation types. Species richness in the tussock tundra was most strongly correlated with soil calcium content and soil pH, with a strong correlation between these two factors. N:P ratio of the soil was also correlated with soil pH. Other factors correlated with species richness were soil moisture and Sphagnum cover. Organic matter content was the factor most strongly correlated with species richness in the wet sedge vegetation. N:P ratio of the soil was strongly correlated with organic matter content. We conclude that N:P ratio in the vegetation is not an important factor determining species richness in arctic tundra and that species richness in arctic tundra is mainly determined by pH and flooding. In tussock tundra the pH, declining with soil age, in combination with Sphagnum growth strongly decreases species richness, while in wet sedge communities flooding over long periods of time creates less favourable conditions for species richness.
3235679|The effects of grazing, physical disturbance, interspecific competition, and fire on populations of individual species and on the structure and diversity of grassland communities were investigated in short-, mid-, and tall-grasslands in the Serengeti National Park, Tanzania. The treatments included deep and shallow artificial disturbances, early dryseason burning, and removal of dominant grass species from 2m<sup>2</sup> plots located inside and outside of large-mammal-proof exclosures. Species-cover data were collected for five years and analyzed by analysis of variance and diversity indices. In all three communities, protection from grazing and physical disturbance had greater impacts on species cover and diversity than removal of dominant species or fire. More species were significantly affected (positively and negatively) by disturbance and protection from grazing (50 - 100%) than by species removals and fire (< 41%). In most cases, the cover of tall, perennial species increased following protection from grazing while the cover of annual and short, perennial species decreased. Over the five years of the study, vegetatively reproducing species benefited more than sexually reproducing species from protection from grazing, and tall rhizomatous species benefited more than tall stoloniferous species. Disturbance caused annual and short perennial species to increase and tall perennials to decrease in cover. Following species removals, tall species were either unaffected or they increased in cover while some short species increased and others decreased in cover. Species diversity in two of the three communities decreased when the communities were protected from grazing but increased when disturbed, when dominant species were removed, and when burned.
3236873|A common explanation for the changes in species abundance following a fire is a shift in competitive ranking. However, experimental tests have been inconsistent and generally do not support this explanation. I examined the competitive ability of an abundant C<sub>4</sub> grass, Andropogon gerardii, and a C<sub>3</sub> forb, Ratibida pinnata, in a prairie remnant in northern Ohio, USA, for each of three years following a spring burn in 1996. While the abiotic environment directly influenced both species similarly, relative competitive abilities in terms of growth changed markedly: in 1996 Andropogon was less inhibited by neighbors; in 1997 both Andropogon and Ratibida had similar competitive abilities; and in 1998 Ratibida was less inhibited by neighbors. This shift in competitive response ranking paralleled the changes in relative abundance for the two species. In contrast, the effect of neighbors on survival changed markedly over time but did not differ among the two species. Thus, fire may influence species abundance through changing species competitive response ranking, at least in terms of growth.
3236080|The composition of the seed bank was compared with that of the above-ground vegetation in two British salt marshes. Vegetation and seed banks were sampled in autumn and spring. There was a relatively low correlation between seed bank and vegetation in most perennial-dominated zones. Percentage annual plant cover was significantly positively correlated to percentage similarity value between vegetation and seed bank. Cluster analysis indicated that the zones dominated by annuals and by Suaeda vera on the ungrazed Nod Marsh in Norfolk formed groups between seed bank and vegetation, whereas on the Llanrhidian Marsh in Wales the seed bank of four of the six zones formed a group.
3237334|Pollen, plant macrofossils and charcoal from a small forest hollow were analyzed to determine the formation and dynamics of a Pinus strobus-dominated forest stand on outwash soil in northern New York. P. strobus, Betula papyrifera and Abies balsamea colonized the upland surrounding the hollow following a major disturbance that occurred ca. 360 yr ago. Pre-disturbance vegetation consisted of shade-tolerant Tsuga canadensis, Fagus grandifolia and Picea rubens. The size-class distribution of modern vegetation suggests continuing recruitment of A. balsamea and Acer rubrum at the site. The status of P. strobus and B. papyrifera in the stand is uncertain, but there is no evidence for recolonization of T. canadensis, F. grandifolia or P. rubens. Frequent windthrow has probably played a role in stand dynamics since ca. 310 yr BP due to the high wind-susceptibility of overstory and understory tree taxa in the modern forest patch. Vegetation change that occurred following fire(s) ca. 310 yr BP was recorded by plant macrofossils but not by pollen, indicating that the pollen assemblage was insensitive to vegetation change within at least 30 m (and potentially 60 m) of the hollow. The apparent insensitivity of this small-hollow pollen assemblage to local vegetation change may be related to the relatively large size of the hollow (75 m2) and/or to its close proximity to a 0.24 ha kettle pond.
40925533|The positive relationship between spatial environmental heterogeneity and species diversity is a widely accepted concept, generally associated with niche limitation. However, niche limitation cannot account for negative heterogeneity-diversity relationships (HDR) revealed in several case studies. Here we explore how HDR varies at different spatial scales and provide novel theories for small-scale species co-existence that explain both positive and negative HDR. At large spatial scales of heterogeneity (e.g. landscape level), different communities co-exist, promoting large regional species pool size and resulting in positive HDR. At smaller scales within communities, species co-existence can be enhanced by increasing the number of different patches, as predicted by the niche limitation theory, or alternatively, restrained by heterogeneity. We conducted meta-regressions for experimental and observational HDR studies, and found that negative HDRs are significantly more common at smaller spatial scales. We propose three theories to account for niche limitation at small spatial scales. (1) Microfragmentation theory: with increasing spatial heterogeneity, large homogeneous patches lose area and become isolated, which in turn restrains the establishment of new plant individuals and populations, thus reducing species richness. (2) Heterogeneity confounded by mean: when heterogeneity occurs at spatial scales smaller than the size of individual plants, which forage through the patches, species diversity can be either positively or negatively affected by a change in the mean of an environmental factor. (3) Heterogeneity as a separate niche axis: the ability of species to tolerate heterogeneity at spatial scales smaller than plant size varies, affecting HDR. We conclude that processes other than niche limitation can affect the relationship between heterogeneity and diversity.
3236234|The Argentine Chaco is a mosaic of grassland and open forest habitats maintained by natural disturbance activities such as fire. Since the introduction of domestic livestock and other human activities, the balance of this mosaic has been significantly altered, both in plant species and structural composition. This study focuses on the impact of such changes on the diversity of ground-dwelling arthropods within semi-arid Chaco forest. Quantitative measures of habitat structure and arthropod diversity were taken in forest areas previously subjected to grazing, logging and ploughing. Results indicated that arthropod diversity was smaller on sites with reduced structural complexity, with marked changes in arthropod family composition. The habitat components relating to plant architectural and vertical diversity were particularly influential on arthropod diversity. The guild size ratio of predatory to non-predatory arthropods also differed significantly between habitats suggesting a change in the resource base available to some groups. The latter suggests a shift in the functional organisation of the forest ecosystem which could have important repercussions for the diversity of other trophic levels.
3236756|Climate-related increases in terrestrial vegetation activity in the northern regions of the Northern Hemisphere have been identified by recent satellite based studies. However, evidence for this increase from ground observations is very limited. In the current study, we used a time series data set for the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) for the growing season (April to October) from 1982 to 1999, along with historical climate data, to analyse year to year variations in vegetation activity and to explore the relationship between the growing season NDVI and climatic variables in China. Vegetation activity, as measured by NDVI, increased in 81% of the study area, with significant gains in 27% of the region. The magnitude of the mean growing season NDVI for the 1980s and the 1990s was not significantly different. The increase in NDVI corresponded to an increase in temperature on the national scale, while regional variations in NDVI appeared to be related to precipitation. The NDVI trend showed a large spatial heterogeneity, possibly associated with changes in regional climate, land use and vegetation type. Our study suggests that agricultural practices caused an increase in NDVI in some regions, and rapid urbanization on the cast coast resulted in a sharp decrease in NDVI since the 1980s.
3235776|The three most extensive spinifex alliances in arid Australia are characterised across a spectrum of post-fire successional states by their plant species, soil chemical characteristics and rainfall. Mean annual rainfall and some nutrients are correlated with the distributions of the alliances; the Triodia pungens alliance occurs in the highest rainfall region with the highest nutrient levels, the Plectrachne schinzii alliance in the mid-rainfall region with medium nutrient levels, and the T. basedowii alliance in the lowest rainfall region with a wide range of nutrient levels. This control on distribution can be over-ridden by topographic position. Where the T. pungens alliance occurs in low rainfall areas it is on sites favoured by soil moisture concentrations higher than the surrounding areas. Non-spinifex plant species are weakly associated with these alliances and their distributions relate to mean rainfall. Soil nutrient levels are generally low and, except for carbon, do not differ significantly between alliances. Soil grain sizes do not differ between alliances.
3236823|In the mesic grasslands of the central United States, the shrub Cornus drummondii has undergone widespread expansion in the absence of recurrent fire. We quantified alterations in light, water and N caused by C. drummondii expansion in tall-grass prairie and assessed the hypothesis that these alterations are consistent with models of resource enrichment by woody plants. Responses in graminoid species, particularly the dominant C<sub>4</sub> grass Andropogon gerardii, were concurrently evaluated. We also removed established shrub islands to quantify their legacy effect on resource availability and assess the capability of this grassland to recover in sites formerly dominated by woody plants. The primary effect of shrub expansion on resource availability was an 87% reduction in light available to the herbaceous understorey. This reduced C uptake and N use efficiency in A. gerardii and lowered graminoid cover and ANPP at the grass-shrub ecotone relative to undisturbed grassland. Shrub removal created a pulse in light and N availability, eliciting high C gain in A. gerardii in the first year after removal. By year two, light and N availability within shrub removal areas returned to levels typical of grassland, as had graminoid cover and ANPP were similar to those in open grassland. Recovery within central areas of shrub removal sites lagged behind that at the former grass-shrub ecotone. These results indicate that the apparent alternative stable state of C. drummondii dominance in tall-grass prairie is biotically maintained and driven by reductions in light, rather than resource enrichment. Within areas of shrub removal, the legacy effect of C. drummondii dominance is manifest primarily through the loss of rhizomes of the dominant grasses, rather than any long-term changes in resource availability. C. drummondii removal facilitates grassland recovery, but the effort required to initiate this transition is a significant cost of woody plant expansion in mesic grasslands. Prevention of woody plant expansion in remnant tall-grass prairies is, therefore, a preferred management option.
4096709|Questions: To what extent can spatial structure and its causes be determined in a highly disturbed environment? What are the main determinants of pattern and are these species-specific? How much do spatial patterns change over generations? Location: Wimmera region of southern Australia. Methods: Broad-leaved weeds were counted in 225 000 contiguous 20-cm square quadrats. A substantial number of these quadrats were recorded again after two and four years. An hierarchical 'adaptive analysis' approach was used to select spatial analytical methods to examine specific aspects of pattern and variation in pattern from year to year. Results: Patterns varied among species and included both dense and sparse patches surrounded by areas of zero density, diffuse gradations of density and clear anisotropy. Patterns in Erodium botrys and Oxalis pes-caprae persisted over years, whereas patterns in Arctotheca calendula were less pronounced and varied over time. Edaphic factors appeared to have only a minor influence over the spatial distribution of the weed community as a whole. In Oxalis pes-caprae, whose patches were hypothesized to have been shaped by cultivation, there was no spread in four years, despite further tillage. Outlying plants of O. pes-caprae failed to establish new patches, even in the year of greatest population increase. Little evidence of localised recruitment events was found. Conclusions: Despite repeated annual disturbances by natural and anthropogenic mechanisms, clear and interpretable spatial structure develops in annual weeds over a range of spatial resolutions. Adaptive analysis is a useful approach to the characterization of such patterns.
3236532|Both ecosystem carbon gain and nutrient availability are largely constrained by the magnitude and seasonality of precipitation in arid and semi-arid ecosystems. We investigated the role of precipitation on ecosystem processes along an International Geosphere Biosphere Programme (IGBP) transect in temperate South America. The transect consists of a contiguous precipitation gradient in the southern region of Argentinean Patagonia (44 - 45 S), from 100 mm to 800 mm mean annual precipitation (MAP) and vegetation ranging from desert scrub to closed canopy forest. Gravimetric soil water content tracked changes in seasonal and annual precipitation, with a linear increase in soil water content with increasing MAP. Above-ground net primary production (ANPP) increased linearly along the gradient of precipitation (ANPP = - 31.2 + 0.52 MAP, r<sup>2</sup> = 0.84, p = 0.028), supporting the relationship that carbon assimilation is largely controlled by available water in these sites, and was in general agreement with regional models of ANPP and rainfall. However, inorganic soil nitrogen was also highly linearly correlated with both MAP ([N] = 0.19 MAP - 32, r<sup>2</sup> = 0.96, p = 0.003) and ANPP (ANPP = 2.6 [N<sub>inorganic</sub>]+59.4, r<sup>2</sup> = 0.79, p = 0.042), suggesting a direct control of precipitation on nitrogen turnover and an interaction with nitrogen availability in controlling carbon gain. The asynchrony of precipitation and changes in dominant vegetation may play important roles in determining the carbonnitrogen interactions along this rainfall gradient.
3236650|The species pool concept has been used as a theoretical framework for understanding local community richness. A significant problem in putting the concept into practice is the lack of methods for determining the size of the species pool. We tested the hypothesis that species composition of recent forests is primarily determined by the species composition of neighbouring older forests against the null-hypothesis that species are a random sample of the species occurring in the study area. Forest plant species composition of recently established fragments was significantly correlated with species composition in neighbouring older forests (i.e. the local species pool). When older forest within a neighbourhood of 1000m radius is considered, seed dispersal sources can be found for 91% of the flora in the recent forests. For an individual fragment, dispersal is a much more important determinant of species presence than the environment, with an average of 46% of the total pool excluded from local pools by dispersal limitation and only 8% excluded by environmental limitations. The species richness of recent forests is on average 23% of the local species pool. Several hypotheses are proposed for this low percentage, such as asymmetric competition due to the early successional state or the limited colonization period.
4096671| Question: How to refine simulations based on a global vegetation model in order to apply it to regional scale? Location: Europe from 35 N to 71 N and 25 W to 70 E. Methods: Geographical ranges of European plants were georeferenced and used with monthly mean climatic data (diurnal temperature ranges, ground frost frequencies, precipitation, relative humidity, rain frequencies, amount of sunshine hours and temperature) and growing degree days to infer climatic boundaries for 320 taxa. We performed a discriminant analysis to define their potential geographic ranges. Hierarchical clustering was computed on potential ranges. Results: Clustering provided 25 Bioclimatic Affinity Groups (BAG) of plants consisting of 13 tree, seven shrub and five herb groups. These BAGs are characterized by different geographical ranges and climatic tolerances and requirements. Conclusion: The use of monthly data instead of annual values improved the prediction of potential distribution ranges and highlighted the importance of climate seasonality for defining the plant groups with accuracy. The BAGs are detailed enough to provide finer reconstructions and simulations of the vegetation at the regional scale. 
25173169|Question: Are there spatial structures in the composition of plant communities? Methods: Identification and measurement of spatial structures is a topic of great interest in plant ecology. Univariate measurements of spatial autocorrelation such as Moran's I and Geary's c are widely used, but extensions to the multivariate case (i.e. multi-species) are rare. Here, we propose a multivariate spatial analysis based on Moran's I (MULTISPATI) by introducing a row-sum standardized spatial weight matrix in the statistical triplet notation. This analysis, which is a generalization of Wartenberg's approach to multivariate spatial correlation, would imply a compromise between the relations among many variables (multivariate analysis) and their spatial structure (autocorrelation). MULTISPATI approach is very flexible and can handle various kinds of data (quantitative and/or qualitative data, contingency tables). A study is presented to illustrate the method using a spatial version of Correspondence Analysis. Location: Territoire d'Etude et d'Exprimentation de Trois-Fontaines (eastern France). Results: Ordination of vegetation plots by this spatial analysis is quite robust with reference to rare species and highlights spatial patterns related to soil properties.
3236422|The aim of this study was to evaluate the critical phases of the life cycle of Gentiana pneumonanthe, the marsh gentian, a threatened species of the Bohemian flora. The effect of various conditions on germination and seedling establishment and the possible effect of competition on the performance of the species were tested. Seeds were sown in plots which were subjected to four treatments in a randomized complete blocks experiment: unmanaged meadow, mown meadow, burned meadow, and meadow with cut sod. The significantly highest recruitment was found in plots with cut sod, the lowest in the unmanaged control plots. Seedling survival also differed among the treatments. In the following year surviving individuals were only found in plots with cut sod. The influence of neighbouring vegetation on target gentian individuals was evaluated by removing the surrounding vegetation and comparing the performance of these individuals with controls. The initial height of each individual was measured and used as a covariable. No significant effect of neighbouring vegetation on performance was detected. Thus, the establishment phase appears to be critical for population persistence and is also more influenced by the management regime than other stages of the life cycle.
3237308|Size-structure dynamics and co-existence of the conifers Abies sachalinensis and Picea glehnii in subalpine forests in Japan, in relation to the understorey dwarf bamboo Sasa, were examined using a simulation model. This model explicitly incorporated recruitment rate, size growth rate and mortality. Recruitment and growth rates were assumed to be suppressed by the cumulative basal area of taller trees and the density of Sasa. As for the one-sided crowding effect, two types of model were examined. The total basal area of the two species suppresses the growth and recruitment rates in an additive model, while the basal area of each species has a separate effect included in a specific model. Two types of recruitment process were examined, i.e. open and closed systems; recruitment rates of open and closed systems are independent of, and proportional to, the basal area of the same species within the plot, respectively. Parameters were estimated from data of plot censuses for four years. The parameters of the specific model showed that recruitment and size growth rates were more suppressed by the same species than the other species. Recruitment of A. sachalinensis was more sensitive to suppression by Sasa compared with P. glehnii. The stationary size structure of the two species, generated from both the models with the open system, fitted well to the observed size structures across various Sasa densities. A. sachalinensis and P. glehnii dominated at lower and higher densities of Sasa, respectively. However, the closed-system simulation showed that the stable co-existence of the two species with a good fit to the observed size structure occurred only in the specific model. These results suggest that within-species interference, which is more severe than between-species interference, is important for the co-existence of the two species and that the relative dominance of the two species readily explained the differential responses to Sasa abundance.
3235841|The book review process for multi-authored volumes such as symposia proceedings and compendia is analysed and discussed. The criteria used in book reviewing as listed by Keddy (1991) as well as a set of new ones have been screened in a selection of 142 multi-authored volumes reviewed in Ecology, Journal of Ecology, Vegetatio, and Journal of Vegetation Science. Too often many important book review criteria have not been taken into account at all. Use of a standard set of book review criteria is suggested to avoid personal bias as much as possible.
3235759|A review is presented on the literature about the distribution of savannas in humid climates in Africa and Asia and their vegetation dynamics. Sections are devoted to African lowland and montane savannas (the latter divided into southern, eastern, western and northern African), Madagascar, Indian subcontinent, SE Asia and New Guinea. It is concluded that the extension of savannas under humid climatic conditions and the relation to the distribution of forests is a function of cultivation, grazing by domestic and wild animals, present and previous climate, geomorphology and soil characteristics. Once established, savannas are often maintained by fires, both natural and man-made. Montane savannas are generally brought about by man's clearing, cultivation and burning. Fire is a stochastic variable; it creates an ecotone sensu stricto (an environmentally stochastic stress zone) at the forest/savanna border. On the other hand, if geomorphology and soil are the determinants, the transition between forest and savanna would have the character of an ecocline (a gradient zone) with fundamentally different conditions. In humid African lowland climates forests expand into savannas if the latter are not maintained by man. Whether forests also expand in less humid climates is disputed. In montane areas forest expansion may be delayed on degraded soils and when diaspores are lacking.
3236673|To determine the relationship between vegetation and environmental parameters in a desert-savanna ecotone, vegetation in the Naukluft Mountains of Namibia (southern Africa) was described and analysed in terms of environmental parameters determining the observed patterns. 12 plant communities, largely characterized by low shrubs, were described on the basis of a classification. Through ordination altitude, clay, potassium content of the substrate and, to a lesser extent, habitats were identified as underlying environmental factors determining the composition of these plant communities. The edaphic parameters showed some correlation with subsurface geology, but microclimatic conditions, water availability and level of disturbance appeared to override the effect of nutrient composition provided by different substrate. Communities of conservation importance, such as plant communities composed of Karoo shrubs, are prevalent on the mountain plateau, presenting an isolated outpost of Nama Karoo vegetation. The transitional status between desert and savanna, remnant patches of Nama Karoo and the high habitat diversity mark the importance of this high altitude area for biodiversity conservation.
3236520|Insights into the ecology of historic invasions by introduced species can be gained by studying long-term patterns of invasions by native species. In this paper, we review literature in palaeo-ecology, forest-stand simulation modelling, and historical studies of plant species invasions to illustrate the relevance of biological inertia in plant communities to invasion ecology. Resistance to invasion occurs in part because of environmental, demographic, and biotic factors influencing the arrival and establishment of invading species. We propose that biological inertia within the resident community is a fourth component of resistance to invasion, because of the lag time inherent in eliminating resident species and perhaps their traces after environmental conditions become suitable for invasion by immigrating species. Whether or not an introduced species invades can be conditioned by the presence of the pre-existing community (and/or its legacy) in addition to the other biotic and abiotic factors.
3236809| Several measures of biodiversity were calculated (species richness SR, species diversity H, species evenness J, mean similarity, mosaic diversity and factorial diversity) in vascular plant communities along a landscape gradient in the Seine valley, Normandy, France. For these communities, we also recorded environmental and management data. Species and environmental data were analysed simultaneously by Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) in order to study their relationships. CCA identifies one main landscape gradient linked to a set of highly linked ecological factors. Three community types were identified along this gradient: calcicolous communities on chalk slopes, mesophilous communities on colluvium and hydrophilous communities on alluviums. The measures of biodiversity between these groups and their variations along the landscape gradient indicate similar patterns for H, J and SR. Between-community biodiversity measures allow consideration of the distribution of species among communities in the landscape. Factorial diversity accounts for the organisation of the communities with reference to the basic mechanisms of species coexistence. Affinity analysis (similarity and mosaic diversity) measures the compositional pattern diversity, which is the function of the variation in species richness. We discuss the indicative versus the predictive value of these measures of biodiversity as regards ecological factors and processes and their application for conservation purposes. 
3236999|Reduced weights in reindeer that graze in pastures with high reindeer densities have raised the question if coastal summer pastures are modified by grazing. To evaluate this, the impact of reindeer grazing on standing crop was measured by the plant intercept method inside and outside grazing exclosures in the understorey of a coastal mountain birch forest in northern Norway. The understories of coastal birch forests are dominated by vascular plants and are important summer pastures to reindeer. Based on the literature, we made a priori categorization of the vascular plant species into functional groups of preferred forage, less preferred forage and forage of unknown value to reindeer. Intercept frequency was measured within the same plots on three occasions in the summer of 1996. At the end of the grazing season, total standing crop was 33% lower in open plots compared to plots protected by exclosures. However, the reduction varied between the functional groups, with only preferred forage plants being significantly reduced in standing crop (by 49%). Results suggest that reindeer have a strong annual impact on most of the preferred forage species. However, some of the preferred graminoids are tolerant of grazing and dominate the understorey despite decades of high grazing pressure. We suggest that current grazing pressure is favouring the establishment of a few grazing tolerant graminoids, and that this reduces the forage plant variability. The results are discussed in relation to the grazing optimization hypothesis and the potential importance of plant variability for pasture quality.
4096617|Question: Is quantile regression an appropriate statistical approach to estimate the response of fen species to single environmental factors? Background: Data sets in vegetation field studies are often characterized by a large number of zeros and they are generally incomplete in respect to the factors which possibly influence plant species distribution. Thus, it is problematic to relate plant species abundance to single environmental factors by the ordinary least squares regression technique of the conditional mean. Location: Riparian herbaceous fen in central Jutland (Denmark). Methods: Semi-parametric quantile regression was used to estimate the response of 18 plant species to six environmental factors, 95% regression quantiles were chosen to reduce the impact of multiple unmeasured factors on the regression analyses. Results of 95% quantile regression and ordinary least squares regression were compared. Results: The standard regression of the conditional mean underestimated the rates of change of species cover due to the selected factor in comparison to 95% regression quantiles. The fitted response curves indicated a general broad tolerance of the studied fen species to different flooding durations but a narrower range concerning ground water amplitude. The cover of all species was related to soil exchangeable phosphate and base-richness. A relationship between soil exchangeable potassium and species cover was only found for 11 species. Conclusion: Considering the characteristics of data sets in vegetation science, non-linear quantile regression is a useful method for gradient analyses.
3235999|The demography of the long-lived clonal dwarf-shrub Linnaea borealis was studied during four years in a coniferous forest in central Sweden. The main object was to infer patterns of temporal variation in population dynamics of this species. The shoot population is organized in fragments, i.e. physically connected systems of shoots partly covered by the moss carpet. The age and size structure of the fragment population is described, but shoots are more convenient units for a study of population dynamics. A stochastic model of shoot population dynamics was constructed, and simulations indicated a considerable temporal variation in population size and flowering. Hence, variability as such is an essential aspect of the dynamics of established populations of Linnaea. Simulations of extinction risks revealed that small-sized shoot populations (ca. 250 shoots) are likely to be long-lived when experiencing environmentally induced demographic variation of the range observed. Mortality agents for established genets, such as large-scale disturbances, were not incorporated in the models. Some implications of variable population growth rates in clonal plants in woodlands are discussed.
3237123| A potentially important organizing principle in arid and semi-arid systems is the inverse-texture hypothesis which predicts that plant communities on coarse-textured soils should have higher above-ground net primary productivity (ANPP) than communities on fine-textured soils; the reverse is predicted to occur in humid regions. Our objectives were: (1) to test predictions from the inverse-texture hypothesis across a regional precipitation gradient, and (2) to evaluate changes in community composition and basal cover on coarse- and fine-textured soils across this gradient to determine how these structural parameters may affect ANPP. Sites were located along a precipitation gradient through the Central Grassland region of the United States: mean annual precipitation ranges from 311 mm/y to 711 mm/y, whereas mean annual temperature ranges from 9 C to 11 C. For both coarse- and fine-textured sites in 1993 and 1994, August - July precipitation in the year of the study explained greater than 92% of the variability in ANPP. Soil texture did not explain a significant proportion of the variability in ANPP. However, soil texture did affect the proportion of ANPP contributed by different functional types. Forbs and shrubs made up a larger proportion of total ANPP on coarse- compared to fine-textured sites. Shrubs contributed more to ANPP at the drier end of the gradient. Basal cover of live vegetation was not significantly related to precipitation and was similar for both soil textures. Our results revealed that across a regional precipitation gradient, soil texture may play a larger role in determining community composition than in determining total ANPP. 
3235807| At ca. 40 S in northern Patagonia, Andean rain forests are replaced eastwards by woodlands and shrublands and eventually by steppe. Along this gradient we examined stand dynamics by analyzing tree population age structures and tree growth patterns. We also examined spatial and temporal characteristics of disturbance regimes by dating disturbances and mapping stands of differing disturbance history. From west to east, the ecological importance of earthquake-related disturbance decreases, whereas that of fire, logging, and livestock increases. Abrupt changes in rates of tree growth correspond with earthquakes in 1837, 1939 and 1960. In the mesic western forests earthquakes can result in massive new tree establishment on landslide-affected sites and increased rates of treefall. Fire, however, is the more pervasive disturbance over most of the gradient and creates extensive even-aged patches dominated by the regionally dominant trees, Nothofagus and Austrocedrus. Although some lightning-ignited and aboriginal-set fires occurred in these forests prior to European settlement, much of the present forest structure may be attributed to the massive burning associated with European settlement of this area near the turn of the present century. In contrast to the settlement-related increase in fire frequency in the western forested district, at the woodland/steppe ecotone the demise of the native American population resulted in a decrease in fire frequency. Heavy browsing and grazing following fire can seriously impede post-fire tree regeneration. These preliminary results document the important influences of varying disturbance regimes along a major environmental gradient in creating landscape-scale vegetation patterns. 
3235948|24 treefall gaps accumulated over a 10 year period along an altitudinal transect covering 4.6 ha on Mt. Hauhungatahi, Tongariro National Park, New Zealand were described quantitatively in terms of the area of damage ('expanded gap'), the canopy opening ('light-gap') and the size of the root mound. Tree mortality and branch loss following cyclone Bola, 1988, were recorded. In each gap saplings were ranked by species according to their vigour. Pre-gap and post-gap vertical and horizontal branch growth rates were calculated. Effects in the subalpine forest (> 1050 m) were compared with those in the montane zone. Tree mortality was highly episodic, associated with major storms, and patchy. Falling canopy trees destroyed, on average, 1.3 additional trees (> 10 cm diameter at 1 m). About half the trees were uprooted and the remainder broken off. Uprooted angiosperm (canopy) trees frequently resprouted from their bases, gymnosperms rarely. Expanded gap area averaged 56 m<sup>2</sup> in the sub-alpine forest and 88 m<sup>2</sup> in the montane zone. Median expanded gap areas were about twice those of light gaps. Gap size frequency distribution was highly skewed. The largest gap was formed by a single Dacrydium cupressinum which destroyed six other trees creating a gap of ca. 0.03 ha. Expanded gaps, light gaps, and root mounds comprised 4.5, 2.8 and 0.1 % of the forest area in the sub-alpine zone, and 3.8, 2.5 and 0.06 % in the montane forest. These values represent 10 years of accumulation, and imply light gap 'return times' of 360 years for the sub-alpine and 400 years for the montane forest. These periods are in agreement with the known longevities of the canopy and emergent trees. Vertical shoot growth rate was about twice that in the horizontal plane, and both increased following gap formation. The relative increase was greatest in the subalpine forest. Using the measured growth rates it is estimated that gaps of median dimensions are filled by lateral extension growth in 31 - 44 yr. Saplings require longer to reach the mean canopy height and consequently require large (multiple tree) gaps or sequential gap events.
25173195|Questions: 1. Does random colonization predominate in early stages of primary succession? 2. Do pioneer species facilitate the establishment of later arriving species? 3. Does an initially random distribution change to an aggregated pattern with ongoing succession? Location: Lignite mining region of Lower Lusatia, eastern Germany. Methods: Individual plants were mapped along a 2 m  28 m transect during three successive years and classified into two groups (1) the pioneer Corynephorus canescens and (2) 'all other species'. Using the pair-correlation function, univariate point pattern analysis was carried out by applying a heterogeneous Poisson process as null model. Bivariate analysis and a toroidal shift null model were applied to test for independence between the spatial patterns of the two groups separately for each year, as well by exploring spatiotemporal patterns from different years. Results: In the first year Corynephorus and 'all other species' showed an aggregated pattern on a spatial scale &gt;40 cm and in the second and third years a significant attraction for distances between 4 and 12 cm, with an increasing radius in the third year. The analyses of interspecific spatiotemporal dynamics revealed a change from independence to attraction between distances of 4 cm and 16 cm when using Corynephorus as focal species. However, applying 'all other species' as focal points results in a significant attraction at distances up to 60 cm in the first year and a diminishing attraction in the second and third years with distances  6 cm. Conclusions: Facilitative species-species interactions are present in early stages of primary succession, resulting mainly from pioneer species acting as physical barriers and their ability to capture diaspores being drifted by secondary dispersal along the substrate surface. However, due to gradual establishment of perennial species and their ability of lateral extension by vegetative dispersal, facilitation may influence spatial pattern formation predominantly on short temporal and fine spatial scales.
3236062|The performance of certain indices of sample similarity was explored with respect to variation in species matching, species ranking and dominance of simulated samples. An index of similarity is suggested which accounts for variation in species matching and ranking rather than for differences in dominance.
3235950|Seed banks in rare shoreline communities (Nova Scotia, Canada), were examined in order to determine their role in the persistence of rare plant species. A pristine shoreline which supports globally and nationally significant Atlantic coastal plain species averaged 8500 seeds/m<sup>2</sup>. Seeds were most abundant high on the shore and where standing crop was greatest. Rare species, which made up 22% of the standing crop and litter of the adult vegetation, comprised only 4% of the seed bank. Common rushes such as Juncus canadensis and J. filiformis, were not well represented in the adult vegetation (5% of the standing crop and litter) but were abundant in the seed bank (52% of all seeds). Seed densities were on average, much lower on an intensely disturbed shoreline (1000 seeds/m<sup>2</sup>), where heavy all-terrain vehicle traffic had destroyed the adult vegetation. These results suggest that intense disturbances will destroy both existing vegetation and the seed bank and moderate disturbances will alter community composition so that common rushes will replace already endangered Atlantic coastal plain species.
3236288|A five-year experimental study was carried out to examine the combined effects of grazing and atmospheric nitrogen deposition on the vegetation of three dry dune grasslands: one short species-rich, one short species-poor, and one predominated by tall graminoids. Additional fertilization with nitrogen had no significant effect, neither in grazed nor in non-grazed plots. Exclusion of grazing by rabbits resulted in an increase in the frequency of perennial graminoids and a decrease in the frequency of annual graminoids and herbs. Nevertheless, species diversity remained the same in the species-rich grassland. During the experiment, the above-ground biomass increased in all non-grazed plots and the amount of bare soil and mosses decreased. The vegetation changes occurred mainly within one year after the exclusion of grazing. An exception is the grass-dominated site where the amount of Calamagrostis epigejos increased gradually from ca. 20 % in the first two years to about 50 % in the fourth and fifth year. Grazing by rabbits seems essential to prevent graminoids to become predominant in the dry dunes. If graminoids are dominant, grazing by horses can be an appropriate method to restore the original grassland vegetation. After six months of grazing by horses the grass-dominated site showed a decrease of the frequency of perennial graminoids, from 95 % to 80 %, and an increase of the frequency of perennial herbs, from 2.5 % to between 13 and 20 %.
25173158|Krner's recent paper provided an excellent initial discussion of the term 'limitation' in ecology. I accept most of his arguments but would argue that there are some circumstances in applied ecology where the concept of limitation can be useful; these are (1) where there is a deficiency of a factor that prevents growth, and (2) where there is a need to manage an ecosystem so that a limitation is enforced.
3237366|Univariate and bivariate distribution patterns of small shrubs on abandoned land in semi-arid southeastern Spain were investigated by second-order spatial analysis (Ripley's K-function). All shrubs (Anthyllis cytisoides and subdominant Artemisia barrelieri) were either randomly distributed or clumped at scales of 0.25 - 1.0 m. The pattern shown by A. cytisoides shrubs alone changed from clumped to random with decreasing density. Pattern analysis and demographic data suggest a successive replacement of A. barrelieri, which had high proportions (44 - 86 %) of dead shrubs, by the dominant A. cytisoides. In two of three plots there was a positive association between A. cytisoides and A. barrelieri at a scale of 0.25 - 0.5 m. In the third plot, believed to represent a more advanced stage of colonization, there was a negative association (repulsion) between the two species, presumably as a result of interspecific competition from A. cytisoides. Dead shrubs present in spring 1994 were randomly distributed in all plots. Living and dead A. cytisoides shrubs were positively associated at a scale of 0.5 m, suggesting that the shrubs died as a result of intraspecific competition in small clumps. The shrubland previously dominated by A. barrelieri is changing to A. cytisoides shrubland with increasing biomass and ground cover.
3237144| Bryum argenteum, B. pseudotriquetrum and Ceratodon purpureus are the predominant mosses in Victoria Land, continental Antarctica. All have cosmopolitan distributions and are widespread throughout Antarctica with wide ecological amplitudes resulting in considerable morphological variation. They are well adapted to tolerate the physiological stresses imposed by the severe environment. This study investigates aspects of their growth, physiology and survival in response to habitat constraints, especially hydrology. Their distribution is controlled almost exclusively by moisture availability. Each species tends to predominate in a specific zone along hydrological gradients, with B. pseudotriquetrum on moist soil, C. purpureus on drier soil, and B. argenteum on unstable stream margins, fluvial deposits and the marginal capillary zone. Where conditions are optimal, each species can form a turf 6-10 cm thick. Nutrient status of the soil does not appear to be an important determinant in the distribution pattern within communities. The thermal regime of the moss turf varies according to its moisture content; for a period of ca. six weeks during the summer, with the frequent long spells of 24-h sunshine, temperatures remain above 0 C for much of the time even though air temperatures are frequently below the freezing point. This allows growth and metabolic activity to proceed continuously at a relatively rapid rate for quite long periods. Annual shoot incremental growth can exceed 3.5 mm in each species. Growth of B. argenteum may be inhibited by UV- B radiation. The optimal temperature for photosynthesis in each species is around 15 C, but significant carbon fixation occurs at 5 C. Photosynthetic rates at 5, 10 and 20 C were B. argenteum > B. pseudotriquetrum > C. purpureus. 
40295800|Question: How does responsiveness to water and Nitrogen (N) availability vary across the compositional and functional diversity that exists in a mesic California annual grassland plant community? Location: Northern California annual grassland. Methods: A mesocosm system was used to simulate average annual precipitation totals and dry and wet year extremes observed in northern California mesic grasslands. The effects of precipitation and N availability on biomass and fecundity were measured on three different vegetation types, a mixed grass forb community, and a forb and a grass monoculture. The treatment effects on plant community composition were examined in the mixed species community. Results: While growth and seed production of the three vegetation types was inherently different, their responses to variation in precipitation and N were statistically similar. Plant density, shoot biomass, and seed production tended to increase with greater water availability in all vegetation types, with the exception of a consistent growth reduction in high precipitation (1245 mm) plots in the first year of the study. Shoot biomass responded positively to N addition, an effect that increased with greater water availability. Nitrogen addition had little effect on plant density or seed production. In the mixed grass-forb community, biomass responsiveness to water and N treatments were consistently driven by the shoot growth of Avena barbata, the dominant grass species. Conclusions: Vegetation responses to changes in precipitation and N availability were consistent across a range of composition and structural diversity in this study. Plant growth and seed production were sensitive to both increased and decreased precipitation totals, and the magnitude of these responses to N availability varied depending on soil moisture conditions. Our results suggest the impacts of changing precipitation regimes and N deposition on annual productivity of California grasslands may be predictable under different climate scenarios across a range of plant communities.
4096713|Questions: What is the mechanism of bog ground layer colonization post-fire? Is species colonization stochastic or does facilitation occur? Location: Boreal bog peatland near Crow Lake, Alberta, Canada. Methods: Diaspore-addition treatments were applied in 2003 to autoclaved peat samples from high and low microtopographic positions within a recently burned bog. Colonization was assessed within the plots in 2005 and compared to control plots to determine treatment success and patterns of colonization. Results: A significant degree of ground layer colonization was found two years after fire, with Polytrichum strictum dominating the site. Colonization was greater in low (wet) plots, although only P. strictum and Sphagnum angustifolium had significant colonization. No effect of diaspore addition was observed and Sphagnum was only found in conjunction with P. strictum. Conclusions: Environmental conditions and species life history strategy are more important than diaspore availability for post-fire colonization. True mosses (e.g. P. strictum) appear to facilitate Sphagnum colonization.
3237210|The Rothamsted Park Grass Experiment was established in 1856, with experimental plots subjected to annual applications of fertilizer and twice-yearly cutting of hay. There were two major responses to fertilizer, one reflecting high ammonium-nitrogen and increased acidity and the other reflecting high herbage yield without increased acidity. We calculated mean Ellenberg indicator values for N (nitrogen) and R (soil reaction) for the hay harvested between 1948 and 1975, using both unweighted and abundance-weighted means. Plot Ellenberg values were compared with herbage yield and with fertilizer application rates and published soil data. Annual yield of hay varied from 1.5 to 7.4 t/ha and was well predicted by the unweighted mean Ellenberg N-values (r = 0.91). Relatively large negative residuals from the relationship were found in plots whose soil combined low K and low pH. Soil pH was poorly predicted by the unweighted mean R-value, but showed a moderately good relation with weighted mean R (r = 0.73). The fact that Ellenberg N-values correlated better with yield than with applied nitrogen suggests that they might rather be called productivity values.
40925495|Question: How does regeneration response to a hostspecific, high-severity, infrequent Dendroctonus rufipennis outbreak differ from our conceptualization of high-severity, infrequent/low-severity, frequent disturbance regimes in Picea engelmannii-Abies lasiocarpa communities? Location: Southern Utah, USA. Methods: One hundred and seven plots across a highelevation P. engelmannii forest were sampled to reconstruct pre-outbreak overstory and seedling bank densities, and calculate their associated metrics of diversity. Decade of establishment by seedling bank trees indicated "chronic" and "pulse" regenerators. Results: The post-outbreak overstory and seedling bank were dominated by A. lasiocarpa. Although Pinus flexilis, Pinus ponderosa, Picea pungens, and Psuedotsuga menziesii were present in the overstory, they were virtually absent in the seedling bank. Seedling bank recruitment of A. lasiocarpa and P. engelmannii has been occurring chronically for at least the last ~205 and ~152 years, respectively. A pulse response of seedling bank Populus tremuloides was apparent; however, results were complicated by intense ungulate browsing. Conclusions: Despite some similarities to the highseverity, infrequent/low-severity, frequent conceptualization of regeneration response to disturbance, the high-severity D. rufipennis outbreak is best described by explicitly considering host specificity and severity. Although, the outbreak simultaneously promoted both a pulse of P. tremuloides and a release of chronically regenerated A. lasiocarpa, the P. tremuloides response was generally masked by ungulate browsing, and the regeneration response came overwhelmingly from the A. lasiocarpa seedling bank. In this landscape, once dominated by P. engelmannii, the chronically regenerating seedling bank, typically thought to take advantage of canopy gaps associated with low-severity disturbances, is poised to dominate forest reorganization in response to the host-specific outbreak.
3237286|Growth of coniferous trees at alpine treeline locations has traditionally been viewed as primarily temperature dependent. In this study, we use a physiologically mechanistic process model, ATE-BGC (Alpine Treeline Ecotone - BioGeochemical Cycles), to study the effects of a suite of environmental variables on the carbon balance of krummholz growth forms of subalpine Abies lasiocarpa under environmental conditions representative of treeline locations in Glacier National Park, Montana, USA. We perform a sensitivity analysis of ATE-BGC to determine the relative effects of temperature, insolation, snow, rain, soil depth, leaf area index, winter injury and elevation on krummholz carbon balance. Our results indicate that ATE-BGC carbon balance estimates are most highly influenced by temperature and winter injury. Leaf area index, soil depth, rainfall, insolation and snowfall follow temperature and winter injury in their effect on carbon balance. Due to the sensitivity of the model to moisture related variables, we propose that local irregularities in the location of the alpine treeline ecotone are the result of localized xeric conditions.
4096721| Question: What is the relative importance of fire-induced canopy mortality, soil burning and post-fire herbivory on tree seedling performance? Location: Subalpine Nothofagus pumilio forests at Challhuaco valley (4113'S, 7119'W), Nahuel Huapi National Park, Argentina. Methods: We fenced and transplanted soils of three burning severities along a fire severity gradient produced by a fire in 1996. Over two growing seasons we monitored soil water, direct incoming solar radiation, seedling survival, final seedling total biomass and root/shoot ratio. Additionally, we assessed severity-related changes in soil properties. Results: Incoming radiation (an indicator of the amount of canopy cover left by the fire) was the primary factor influencing spring and summer top soil water availability, first and second-year seedling survival and seedling growth. While seedling survival and soil water content were negatively affected by increased radiation, seedling final biomass was highest in very open microsites. Burned soils showed lower water holding capacity and soil carbon; however these changes did not affect topsoil water, and, contrary to expectation, there was a slight tendency toward higher seedling survival on more heavily burned soils. Herbivory significantly reduced seedling survival, but only under high-radiation conditions. While the effect of radiation on final seedling biomass was not affected by herbivory, R/S ratios were significantly reduced by herbivory in high radiation microsites. Conclusions: Despite inducing faster aerial growth, increased radiation and herbivory in severely burned sites may effectively prevent post-fire regeneration in north Patagonian subalpine forest where seed sources are not limiting. 
3236235| Altitudinal and latitudinal distribution limits of trees are mainly controlled by temperature. Therefore climate warming is expected to induce upslope or poleward migrations. In the Swiss Central Alps, summers in the period 1982 - 1991 were on average 0.8 C warmer than those of the period 30 yr before. We investigated whether populations of conifers at the montane Pinus sylvestris-Pinus cembra ecocline exhibit demographic trends in response to that warming. We found no evidence for this. Young seedlings of Pinus sylvestris, the species which is expected to expand its range upward in a warmer climate, were virtually absent from all sites, whereas large fractions of Pinus cembra populations were observed in the seedling and juvenile categories even below the present lower distribution limit of adult trees. This suggests that there are no major altitudinal shifts in response to the recent sequence of warmer summers. Germination and seedling survival trials with Pinus sylvestris suggest that temperature per se would not exclude this species even from establishing at the current treeline in the Swiss Central Alps. Similar results were found at the polar treeline. Phytotron tests of seedling survival showed much less drought resistance in Pinus sylvestris than in Pinus cembra which is in contrast to their phytogeographic distributions. Thus, the montane pine ecocline in the Swiss Central Alps seems to be stabilized by species interactions and may not be directly responsive to moderate climatic change, which needs to be taken into account in predictive attempts. 
25549247|Question: We present a study of positive and negative interactions between the invasive grass Schismus barbatus (Poaceae) and Ambrosia dumosa (Asteraceae). Ambrosia facilitates seedling establishment, and such facilitation may accelerate invasion of exotic species, which, in turn, may reduce establishment of native plants. Location: Joshua Tree National Park, California, USA. Methods: During 2003-2004, we used field surveys to characterize the natural spatial distribution of Schismus in relation to native shrubs, and experimentally manipulated seed rain of Ambrosia and Schismus at three distances from adult Ambrosia canopies. We measured percentage germination and individual performance of both species. Field data were complemented by a greenhouse experiment that measured competition between Ambrosia seedlings and Schismus planted at three densities and five relative abundances under controlled conditions. Results: Field surveys showed that the density of Schismus is independent of Ambrosia shrubs, but growth is enhanced near shrub canopies. In our field experiment Schismus is facilitated by adult Ambrosia. Under controlled conditions, Schismus does not respond to the density of Ambrosia seedlings, but changes in density of Schismus decreased performance of Ambrosia seedlings. Conclusion: Schismus invasion may be detrimental to native perennial plant populations. Although a reduction of seedling establishment is not usually expected to slow population growth of long-lived perennials, recent unprecedented adult mortality in this community, and the well-documented facilitative role of Ambrosia, suggest that Schismus invasion may be of high ecological significance.
3235897| On the granite outcrops of the southeastern United States, soil accumulates in shallow depressions on the rock surface. A specific sequence of vascular plants characterizes the temporal development of these systems. The edaphic end point of the succession is apparently attained with a herb-shrub-tree stage with Pinus taeda as the dominant tree. We studied the characteristics of this stage and the population structure of P. taeda on outcrop islands in order to specify the successional status of the species in this habitat. We compared the radial growth pattern of outcrop and Piedmont populations of P. taeda, and of two outcrop sub-populations. We checked whether trees on outcrops experience more limiting conditions than trees on the Piedmont, and studied the recent change in the relationship between growth and stress (e.g. drought and atmospheric deposition) reported for loblolly pine in the southeastern United States. We also attempted to identify the climatic variables most critical for tree growth on outcrops. On outcrop soil islands, P. taeda maintains populations that are of irregular age distribution, possibly in response to irregular recruitment and survival. There are no signs of loblolly pine replacement by hardwood species on any of the islands studied, although an understory of shrubby oak appears to characterize larger and deeper-soil islands. Although trees on the Piedmont were growing at a higher rate than those on the outcrop in the first part of the 1950-1988 period, their growth declined at a higher rate than that of trees on the outcrop. As a result, at the end of the period considered (1950-1988), the differences in radial growth between outcrop and Piedmont populations were relatively small. On the outcrop, trees  22 yr old in 1989 were growing at a rate somewhat lower than that of trees of similar age, 40 yr ago. Differences were apparent in the initial growth patterns between the two outcrop subpopulations (1989 and 1949 stems), and these could have resulted from differences in competition regime, stress or climatic conditions, or a combination thereof. However, a repeated-measures ANOVA failed to reveal a significant recent decrease in the radial growth of loblolly pine in the system studied. The identification of numerous signature years (years with  80 % of the trees with similar increasing or decreasing trend in their radial growth) suggests that similar environmental variables control the growth of loblolly pine in both outcrop and Piedmont habitats. High temperature and low precipitation in the first part of the summer (June-July) seem to limit radial growth. Those pines growing on outcrop soil islands, however, appear more sensitive to climatic fluctuations. 
3235904|44 forest stands, including 42 stands with Pinus gerardiana Wall. ex Lamb dominant and two stands with broad-leaved trees, were sampled in the Suleiman Range in Balouchistan. Density of Pinus gerardiana trees ranged from 24 to 930 trees / ha with a mean of 266 individuals / ha; the average basal area was 25.5 m<sup>2</sup> ha<sup>-1</sup>. Adequate recruitment of Pinus seedlings was observed; higher seedling density is recorded from east-facing slopes, while tree density was higher on west-facing slopes. The average growth rate was estimated as 0.08 cm / yr radial growth. However, trees on high elevations and cooler slopes grow faster. Soil variables showed no correlation with density, basal area or importance values. It is suggested that the present degraded stage of the forests in the study area is of anthropogenic origin.
25549276|Question: How do broadleaf tree species affect humus characteristics, herb layer composition and species diversity through their leaf litter quality and canopy structure? Location: Mixed broadleaf forests in Brandenburg, NE Germany. Methods: We studied the herb and tree layer composition in 129 undisturbed stands using a 10-degree cover-abundance and percentage scale, respectively. The main floristic gradients were extracted by non-metric multidimensional scaling. Effects of tree species on the herb layer were analysed with partial Spearman rank correlation. We assessed affinities for specific tree species using indicator species analysis. Results: Both beech and oak influenced herb layer composition mainly through their litter quality, which resulted in deep Ol and Of horizons, respectively. The less dense canopy of oak, in contrast to the dense beech canopy, enhanced species diversity in favour of indifferent herb species (species not closely tied to forests). Lime was correlated with a distinct floristic gradient, but a direct effect on the herb layer cannot be proven with the available data. Effects of hornbeam were less pro nounced. Conclusions: The relationship between the tree and herb layer must be partly attributed to pH differences. However, tree species effects on humus characteristics and on light flux to the ground were largely responsible as well. The results suggest that tree species can influence herb layer composition and diversity, but the missing correlation with lime and hornbeam raise questions requiring further detailed investigation.
40925470|Question: How does willow-characterised tundra vegetation of western Eurasia vary, and what are the main vegetation types? What are the ecological gradients and climatic regimes underlying vegetation differentiation? Location: The dataset was collected across a wide spectrum of tundra habitats at 12 sites in subarctic and arctic areas spanning from NW Fennoscandia to West Siberia. Methods: The dataset, including 758 vegetation sample plots (relevs), was analysed using a TWINSPAN classification and NMDS ordination that also included analyses of vegetation-environment correlations. Results: Based on the TWINSPAN classification, eight vegetation types characterised by willow (cover of upright willows > 10%) were discerned: (1) Salix glauca-Carex aquatilis type, (2) Aulacomnium-Tomentypnum type, (3) Salix-Betula-Hylocomium type, (4) Salix lanata-Brachythecium mildeanum type, (5) Salix-Pachypleurum type, (6) S. lanata-Myosotis nemorosa type, (7) Salix-Trollius-Geranium type and (8) Salix-Comarum palustre-Filipendula ulmaria type. Willow-characterised vegetation types were compositionally differentiated from other tundra vegetation and were confined to relatively moist valley and sloping tundra sites, from mire to mineral soils. These vegetation types were encountered across a broad latitudinal zone in which July mean temperature ranged from 6 to 10C. Conclusions: Willow-characterised tundra vegetation forms a broad category of ecologically and geographically differentiated vegetation types that are linked to dwarf shrub tundra, shrub tundra or mire. Because of complex ecological gradients underlying compositional differentiation, predicting the responses of willow-characterised tundra vegetation to a warming climate may be complicated.
3236635| Persistence and colonization of submersed aquatic plant species were studied in permanent plots (20 cm x 20 cm) at three shallow sites adjacent to Ask island, in the northern Baltic Sea. The study started in 1991 at two of the sites, in 1992 at a third site and continued until 1997. Two major weather-induced disturbances occurred during the study: a long, stormy period during a mild winter and a cold winter with extreme low water levels. The stormy period caused a large loss of species from plots (95  5 % SE) at the most waveexposed site, resulting in a low species number per plot (0.8  0.2) the following summer. During the three following years the mean species number increased to 3.6  0.2. The cold winter caused high species turnover and increased species number per plot at the two most wave-exposed sites. The species turnover at the sheltered site was highest in the two years with low water level in May, possibly due to increased waterfowl herbivory. Annuals, loosely anchored and highly reproductive species had significantly higher plot colonization rates and lower persistence than perennials, well-anchored species and species with none or low reproduction. The extent of lateral growth had no significant effect on colonization or persistence. Although these disturbances have a large effect on the dynamics, species mobility was also high in other years. Relative to other, similar, studies in terrestrial vegetation mean persistence in plots was remarkably low and mean mobility and species turnover rates were very high. 
3236592|Question: The optimal use of the point intercept method (PIM) for efficient estimation of plant biomass has not been addressed although PIM is a commonly used method in vegetation analysis. In this study we compare results achieved using PIM at a range of efforts, we assess a method for calculating these results that are new with PIM and we provide a formula for planning the optimal use of PIM. Location: Northern Norway. Methods: We collected intercept data at a range of efforts, i.e. from one to 100 pins per 0.25 m<sup>2</sup> plots, on three plant growth forms in a mountain meadow. After collection of intercept data we clipped and weighed the plant biomass. The relationship between intercept frequency and weighed biomass (b) was estimated using both a weighted linear regression model (WLR) and an ordinary linear regression model (OLR). The accuracy of the estimate of biomass achieved by PIM at different efforts was assessed by running computer simulations at different pin densities. Results: The relationship between intercept frequency and weighed biomass (b) was far better estimated using WLR compared to the normally used OLR. Efforts above 10 pins per 0.25 m<sup>2</sup> plot had a negligible effect on the accuracy of the estimate of biomass achieved by PIM whereas the number of plots had a strong effect. Moreover, for a given level of accuracy, the required number of plots varied depending on plant growth form. We achieved similar results to that of the computer simulations when applying our WLR based formula. Conclusion: This study shows that PIM can be applied more efficiently than was done in previous studies for the purpose of plant biomass estimation, where several plots should be analysed but at considerably less effort per plot. Moreover, WLR rather than OLR should be applied when estimating biomass from intercept frequency. The formula we have deduced is a useful tool for planning plant biomass analysis with PIM.
4096692|Questions: How do physical microsite conditions of microsites affect germination and seedling survival in different successional stages? Do different species germinate in similar microsites in a given successional stage? Location: Coleman Glacier foreland, Mount Baker, Washington State, USA. Methods: Two methods were used to characterize safe sites. 1. Grids of 300 10 cm x 10 cm plots were located in four different age classes on the foreland. 2.105 pairs of plots, with and without seedlings of Abies amabilis, were located in each age class. For each plot we identified all seedlings and all individuals < 1 m tall. Microsite characteristics such as topography and presence of rocks or woody debris were noted for each plot. Microsite characteristics were compared between plots with and without each species. In addition we examined the effect of distance from seed sources on the presence of Alnus viridis seeds and seedlings in a newly disturbed area. Results: In early successional sites, seedlings of several species were positively associated with depressions and presence of rocks, and negatively associated with ridges. Patterns were generally consistent among species. In later succession, seedlings were not significantly associated with any microsite characteristics. For Alnus viridis, seed density decreased with distance from seed sources but seedling density did not. Conclusions: Because of harsh conditions in early succession, physical microsites are important, and most species have similar microsite requirements. In later succession, physical microsites characteristics are not as important and are more variable. Microsites appear to be more important than seed rain in controlling the distribution of Alnus viridis in early succession.
41059624|Question: To what degree does the regeneration of understorey forest species depend on gaps of different age and on gap-induced and non-gap-induced microsites? Do species preferences for a specific microsite change with the developmental stage of the gap? How do different species in the understorey interact over time? Location: Near-natural spruce forest on Mt. Brocken in the Harz National Park, Germany. Methods: We established 90 study plots, stratified according to different gap age classes and undisturbed forest and including subplots with three different gap-induced types of microsites (logs, stumps and root plates) and two non-gap-induced microsites (moss-covered rocks and ordinary forest ground). Results: Significant interactions of species were encountered with gap age as well as with microsite type, light availability and competition. While shoot densities of Vaccinium myrtillus were highest at intermediate gap age, Calamagrostis villosa and Trientalis europaea showed highest densities in the oldest gaps. The species preferred different microsites but had higher densities on non-gap-induced microsites, and their preferences changed over time. Unexpectedly, species shoot densities were not always negatively affected by densities of competing species. Conclusion: The results confirmed the importance of gaps for regeneration of forest herb layer species, but pointed to a much higher importance of microsites that were not induced by gaps compared to gap-induced microsites. Niche differentiation between different herb layer species can be conceived as species-specific preferences for microsite types that change with gap age, as a result of light conditions, degree of decay of logs and root plates and presence of competitors.
25173203|Question: What floras are typically associated with domestic gardens in cities? Location: The urban areas of the cities of Belfast, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Leicester and Oxford, UK. Methods: The composition and diversity of plant species in 267 urban domestic gardens in the five cities was recorded by complete census and quadrat sampling. Results: The entire garden flora consisted of 1056 species, of which 30% were native and 70% alien. 34% of the 50 most frequently recorded species in gardens were native, a number of them being weeds. Although plant species richness in individual gardens varied with garden area, the above breakdowns held true when the cities were considered individually. The only exception was Belfast where, overall, plant species richness was slightly lower than in any of the other cities. Comparing quadrat samples, species richness was found to be greater in the garden habitats of each of the cities than in a number of other habitats, with species accumulation curves showing no sign of reaching saturation at 120 quadrats. This is due to the high proportion of alien species found in gardens, and in particular those surviving at low densities as a result of human intervention. Conclusion: There was surprisingly little difference in plant species richness, diversity or composition between the cities, despite the variation in geographical and climatic factors. This suggests that human factors such as plant availability, garden management and social/economic status of individual householders had an overriding influence.
4096793| Question: Does the interplay of life-history strategy and tree competition promote tree species co-existence? Using a growth dynamics model, we investigated mechanisms of co-existence among major tree species in a sub-alpine old-growth coniferous forest. Location: Sub-alpine old-growth coniferous forest at 1850-1920 m a.s.l. in the Ontake Forest Reserve of central Japan. Methods: We investigated the growth and mortality rates of trees  5.0 cm stem DBH and recruitment processes in a 2-ha study plot, and developed a model for individual growth that incorporated both intra and interspecific competition and analysed the direction and degree of competitive effect. Results: Four species, Picea jezoensis var. hondoensis, Tsuga diversifolia, Abies mariesii and Abies veitchii co-occurred as dominant species in the canopy layer. P. jezoensis var. hondoensis and T. diversifolia had low stem densities and bell shaped DBH distributions. In contrast, A. mariesii and A. veitchii had high stem densities and inverse J-shaped DBH distributions. The growth of the species with inverse J-shaped DBH distributions (Abies spp.) was governed by the abundances of the species with bell shaped DBH distributions (Picea and Tsuga). However, Picea and Tsuga were inferior to Abies spp. in terms of recruitment rate (the number of juveniles that grow up to 5.0 cm DBH per year). Therefore, it was suggested that there was a trade-off between recruitment pattern and interspecific competition for species co-existence. Conclusions: Picea and Tsuga, with inferior recruitment, co-existed with Abies spp., with superior recruitment, by suppressing the growth of potential successors of Abies spp. The interplay of life-history strategies (recruitment and longevity) and interspecific competition therefore plays an important role in promoting species co-existence in this sub-alpine old-growth coniferous forest. 
3235799|Semiarid gypsum karstlands in north central Mexico are characterized by a mosaic of shrubland and endemic gypsophile grassland community types. Proximal physical factors affecting community patterns on a local scale were investigated at an undisturbed site south of Matehuala, San Luis Potosi. Soil surface characteristics associated with depth of calcareous alluvium overlying gypsum base material were strongly correlated with distribution of desert shrub and endemic grass species. Muhlenbergia purpusii was dominant on bare gypsum soils with indurated crusts, while Bouteloua chasei was dominant where a thin veneer of alluvium permitted development of a cryptogamic crust. A high-diversity mixed shrub-succulent community occupied gypsum overlain by 5 - 20 cm of alluvium, whereas Larrea tridentata was the principal species on gypsum overlain by > 20 cm of alluvium. Open sink walls were occupied mostly by species of the Muhlenbergia grassland, while closed sinks supported more mesophytic mixed shrubland vegetation. Physical factors operating mostly at the establishment stage are probably more important in mediating local species patterns on gypsum than factors associated with mineral nutrition. Gypsum material was much less fertile than alluvial material but did not exclude widely distributed species unless exposed at the surface.
4096740| Question: How do functional types respond to contrasting levels of herbage use in temperate and fertile grasslands? Location: Central France (31' E, 4543' N), 870 m a.s.l. Methods: Community structure and the traits of dominant plant species were evaluated after 12 years of contrasted grazing and mowing regimes in a grazing trial, comparing three levels of herbage use (high, medium and low). Results and Conclusions: Of 22 measured traits (including leaf traits, shoot morphology and composition, phenology), seven were significantly affected by the herbage use treatment. A decline in herbage use reduced individual leaf mass, specific leaf area and shoot digestibility, but increased leaf C and dry matter contents. Plants were taller, produced larger seeds and flowered later under low than high herbage use. Nine plant functional response types were identified by multivariate optimization analysis; they were based on four optimal traits: leaf dry matter content, individual leaf area, mature plant height and time of flowering. In the high-use plots, two short and early flowering types were co-dominant, one competitive, grazing-tolerant and moderately grazing-avoiding, and one grazing-avoiding but not -tolerant. Low-use plots were dominated by one type, neither hardly grazing-avoiding nor grazing-tolerant, but strongly competitive for light. 
3237164|Pollen, spores and fungal remains in moss cushions along a transect, traversing a Betula-Quercus forest and a surrounding heathland, were analysed in order to study the relation between present-day vegetation and recent pollen deposition. Pollen and spores are divided into local types from plant species encountered along the transect and regional types, not present along the transect. Relative percentages and absolute concentration of the palynomorphs were estimated. Radiocaesium activity in the moss was measured to assess the minimal duration of palynomorph accumulation (i.e. the age of the moss samples). The absence of simultaneous trends in the regional pollen types indicates that the samples do not have major differences in age. The moss represents the later stages in the heath mosaic cycle. This is supported by the radiocaesium content of the moss. Thus, in this case the concentration values of regional pollen approach deposition values. The values of the local pollen types calculated on such a rather constant regional pollen flux is considered to represent real differences in the local deposition. The local pollen types can be arranged topographically into five groups characteristic of the local vegetation types and their ecotones. The arrangement of the curves of types from phyco-, zoo-, and myco-coenoses suggests their possible origin, either locally from the heath area or from the Betula-Quercus forest, or regionally from elsewhere. Analyses and topographical arrangement of the curves of unknown types contribute in this way to their identification and their possible source of origin.
4096673|Questions: How long may it take for desert perennial vegetation to recover from prolonged human disturbance and how do different plant community variables (i.e. diversity, density and cover) change during the recovery process? Location: Sonoran Desert, Arizona, USA. Methods: Since protection from grazing from 1907 onwards, plant diversity, density and cover of perennial species were monitored intermittently on ten 10 m x 10 m permanent plots on Tumamoc Hill, Tucson, Arizona, USA. Results: The study shows an exceptionally slow recovery of perennial vegetation from prolonged heavy grazing and other human impacts. Since protection, overall species richness and habitat heterogeneity at the study site continued to increase until the 1960s when diversity, density and cover had been stabilized. During the same period, overall plant density and cover also increased. Species turnover increased gradually with time but no significant relation between any of the three community variables and precipitation or Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI) was detected. Conclusions: It took more than 50 yr for the perennial vegetation to recover from prolonged human disturbance. The increases in plant species richness, density, and cover of the perennial vegetation were mostly due to the increase of herbaceous species, especially palatable species. The lack of a clear relationship between environment (e.g. precipitation) and community variables suggests that site history and plant life history must be taken into account in examining the nature of vegetation recovery processes after disturbance.
25173187|Questions: 1. Indicator values, such as those of Ellenberg, for different environmental factors are seen as independent. We tested for the presence of interactions between environmental factors (soil moisture and reaction) to see if this assumption is simplistic. 2. How close are Ellenberg indicator values (IVs) related to the observed optima of species response curves in an area peripheral to those where they have been previously employed and 3. Can the inclusion of bryophytes add to the utility of IVs? Location: South Uist, Outer Hebrides, Scotland, UK. Methods: Two grids (ca. 2000 m  2000 m) were sampled at 50-m intervals across the transition from machair to upland communities covering an orthogonal gradient of both soil pH (reaction) and soil moisture content. Percentage cover data for vascular plants, bryophytes and lichens were recorded, along with pH and moisture content of the underlying sand/soil/peat. Reaction optima, derived from species response curves calculated using HOF models, were compared between wet and dry sites, and moisture optima between acidic and basic samples. Optima for the whole data set were compared to Ellenberg IVs to assess their performance in this area, with and without the inclusion of bryophytes. Results: A number of species showed substantially different pH optima at high and low soil moisture contents (18% of those tested) and different soil moisture optima at high and low pH (49%). For a number of species the IVs were poor predictors of their actual distribution across the sampled area. Bryophytes were poor at explaining local variation in the environmental factors and also their inclusion with vascular plants negatively affected the strength of relationships. Conclusions: A substantial number of species showed an interaction between soil moisture and reaction in determining their optima on the two respective gradients. It should be borne in mind that IVs such as Ellenberg's may not be independent of one another.
4499195|Questions: Does grazing have the same effect on plant species richness at different spatial scales? Does the effect of spatial scale vary under different climatic conditions and vegetation types? Does the slope of the species-area curve change with grazing intensity similarly under different climatic conditions and vegetation types? Location: Pastures along a climatic gradient in northeastern Spain. Methods: In zones under different regimes of sheep grazing (high-, low-pressure, abandonment), plant species richness was measured in different plot sizes (from
4499293|Question: How is pattern detected and spatial scale defined in a manner that is meaningful to management? Location: Protected areas to the west of the Kruger National Park, South Africa. Methods: A Two-Way Indicator Species Analysis (TWINSPAN) based on composition and structure was applied to woody survey data. The resulting TWINSPAN classes for individual monitoring sites were used in a supervised classification of Landsat
3237080|This paper deals with theoretical concepts, methodological steps, and case studies related to the use of plant functional traits in the assessment of vegetation responses to climate and land use. Trait-environment links are considered, and special emphasis is put on the links between vegetation structure and ecosystem function, and on the role of disturbance history in determining vegetation responses to land use at present. As a basis for discussion, published and new case studies from central-western Argentina are presented. Similar plant traits measured with different levels of precision are utilized in the description of ecosystem structure in different land-use situations along a steep regional climatic gradient. The general protocol followed in the case studies represents a data-driven, non-hierarchical, low-tech approach, that can be applied to a wide range of spatial scales, from plots to regions. Climatic factors (including extreme events and seasonality), disturbance frequency and intensity, and disturbance history are suggested as key factors to be considered in global comparisons of vegetation responses to land use and in predictive models of ecosystem dynamics.
3236521|We report the successional trends of the major life-forms (graminoids and forbs) in natural grasslands of Uruguay over a 9-yr period after the removal of domestic herbivores. For the whole community, species richness and diversity decreased over the successional period. In graminoids we observed clear temporal trajectories in floristic composition; the rate of floristic change decreased with time and was associated with a shift in plant traits. The exclusion of large herbivores promoted erect and tall grasses with narrow leaves and greater seed length, vegetative growth constrained to the cool season and increased frequency of annual species. Forbs did not show a clear temporal trend in species composition, but there was, nevertheless, a plot-specific species turnover of this functional group that was reflected in their attributes. Species spreading by means of rhizomes, with vegetative growth restricted to the warm season. Species with larger seeds increased under grazing exclusion, as did annual and nitrogen-fixing forbs. The floristic changes induced by cattle exclusion occurred early in the succession. This early high rate of change has practical implications for management and conservation programs of the natural grasslands of Uruguay. Additionally, the shift in plant traits may be helpful in devising simple indicators of grazing impact.
3237126|Within the last century there has been widespread establishment of trees in mountain meadows of the Pacific Northwest. We reconstructed patterns of tree invasion at 17 meadow sites in the central Cascade Range of Oregon, USA sites representing diverse physical environments and vegetation types and experiencing different histories of recent anthropogenic disturbance (sheep grazing). Spatial distributions and age structures of invasive tree populations were analysed with respect to climatic records and grazing history. Patterns of establishment varied considerably among meadows, reflecting strong differences in environment and grazing history. In montane hydric meadows, tree establishment was spatially clumped beneath large old trees and on elevated microsites; however the timing of invasion differed between sites with stable versus fluctuating water tables. In upland mesic/dry montane meadows, timing of invasion corresponded with cessation of sheep grazing (early 1940s) and the onset of wetter summers (mid 1940s). In the subalpine zone, climate and aspect interacted to produce contrasting histories of invasion on north- and south-facing slopes. Establishment on north-facing slopes, concentrated in heath-shrub communities, coincided with regional warming (ca. 1920-1945) when snowpacks were lighter and melted earlier. Recruitment of trees onto south-facing slopes occurred later, when conditions were wetter (1945-1985). In many environments, the spatial distribution of recruitment suggests that once trees have established, autogenic factors become increasingly important as individual trees or groups of trees alter the physical or biotic conditions that once inhibited establishment. Knowledge of the factors that influence invasion, and of their varying importance across gradients in environment and vegetation, is critical to predicting future changes in these dynamic systems.
3236504|In applying randomization tests to hierarchical cluster analyses, we have noted a potentially misleading result: within a significant group, linkages are often identified as significant even when species are randomly distributed among the group's sites. We demonstrate this through a cluster analysis of a constructed matrix with two groups of 20 sites that share no species, and within each group species are randomly distributed among sites. A randomization test identified both of the groups and all linkages within them as significant, while the same test found all linkages non-significant in the cluster analysis of a matrix containing just one of the two groups of 20 sites. In general, a non-random distribution of species within a data set shortens linkages relative to distances in null distributions derived from randomized versions of the data. This confounds efforts to identify significant sub-groups within a significant group. However, the significance of sub-groups possibly could be tested by comparing linkage distances to a null distribution derived from the randomization and clustering of a sub-matrix containing only the sites within the larger group. In essence, this comparison tests the null hypothesis that within the significant group, sites represent random assemblages of species. When applied to actual data sets, an approach involving sequential randomization tests could allow the evaluation of all nodes in a classification, increasing the utility of randomization tests and strengthening the interpretation of groups produced by cluster analysis.
41059625|Question: How do stand age and environmental factors affect the species-specific photosynthesis of ground vegetation? Location: Five different aged pine forests in Southern Finland. Methods: We measured photosynthesis of common species of ground vegetation during the growing season of 2006. Results: The measured vascular species, especially those with annual leaves, had a clear seasonal cycle in their measured photosynthetic activity $(P_{\max }^i )$ . A simple model that uses site-specific temperature history, soil moisture and recent frost as input data was able to predict the changes in photosynthetic activity in dwarf shrubs with perennial leaves. The $(P_{\max }^i )$ values of mosses did not have a clear seasonal cycle, but low values occurred after rain-free periods and high values after precipitation. We modified the model for mosses and included temporary rain events. The model was able to predict most of the large changes in $(P_{\max }^i )$ of mosses resulting from varying weather events but there was still some uncertainty, which was probably due to difficulties in measuring fluxes over a moss population. Conclusions: Temperature history, recent frosts and soil moisture determine the changes in $(P_{\max }^i )$ of dwarf shrubs with perennial leaves. The $(P_{\max }^i )$ of mosses depends mostly on recent precipitation.
3236213|The variation in structure and floristic composition of the vegetation of Tenerife is related to different environmental factors. 200 sample plots, stratified according to altitude, exposure to wind, kind and age of parent rock, inclination and degree of disturbance were analysed throughout the island. The resulting data were analysed using univariate statistics (altitudinal distribution profiles of the more frequent species) and multivariate methods (Correspondence, Cluster and Pattern Analysis). Altitude, exposure to wind and, to a lesser extent, disturbance were found to be the major determinants of vegetational variation, whereas parent rock and inclination were less important. Ordination results show a continuum in structural and floristic variation of the vegetation with species distributions varying continually along the altitudinal gradient. Nevertheless, altitudinally bound plant community types were recognized with Cluster Analysis. Vegetational discontinuities, which were also detected by pattern analysis, are more evident on the windward slope of the island; they have been attributed to the existence of a major underlying environmental discontinuity the 'cloud sea'- which is associated with a climatic inversion. On the leeward slope, beyond the influence of the cloud sea, discontinuities are less evident and vegetational variation seems to be closer to a coenocline, i.e. a vegetational continuum.
3235895|A new, computerized method is presented for the survey and analysis of phenological data on the vegetative cycle of tree species in complex forest structures. It is based on the principles of classical phenology, phytosociological sampling techniques and the main concepts of growth analysis. The method considers the development of phenological phases as a stochastic process, and allows a quantitative and mathematical-statistical comparison between phenorhythms of trees and crown sections, and correlations with environmental variables.
3236105|Influences of neighbouring plants on seedling establishment of six dicotyledonous species was investigated in a nutrient-poor limestone grassland (Mesobrometum) in northern Switzerland. Microsites with different vegetational structure were created and seeds sown in them. The fate of emerging seedlings was followed for one or two years. A plant surviving its first growing season was regarded as established. Shelter by neighbouring plants appeared to be necessary for the establishment of Arabis hirsuta and Primula veris. Because of drought and frost heave, hardly any seedlings of these species established in gaps (4-21 %). In microsites with vegetation, their survival was significantly higher (40-57 %). Neighbouring plants slightly reduced the survival of Plantago lanceolata and Sanguisorba minor, but these species established well both in gaps (74-81 %) and in vegetated microsites (54-67 %). Medicago lupulina established well in all microsites in one year (71-79 %), but poorly in the next year (18-32 %). Linum catharticum emerged poorly in one year and was completely extinguished by a fungal pathogen the following year. The overall conclusion is, that gaps are of minor importance for recruitment of these species in this grassland. Physical hazards and pathogens control seedling establishment to a greater extent than competition by neighbouring plants. Some species are hardly able to establish without shelter of vegetation. Seed size is an important factor for success of establishment, especially in gaps. It is suggested, that the relatively low productivity and the absence of litter accumulation (due to mowing and biomass removal) are important conditions for the observed behaviour of the seedlings and juvenile plants in this community.
3236421| Mainland salt marshes in Schleswig-Holstein (northern Germany) have been grazed intensively by sheep for several decades. In 1988 experimental sites were established in the lower and middle salt marsh of Snke-Nissen-Koog and subjected to different grazing intensities. From 1989 to 1993 the impact of sheep grazing on the composition and structure of the salt marsh vegetation was studied through the yearly analysis of permanent plots, vegetation mapping and measurements of the vegetation height. The intensively grazed site (10 sheep/ha) is covered by a short monotonous Puccinellia maritima sward with Salicornia europaea and Suaeda maritima. Halimione portulacoides and Aster tripolium, especially flowering plants, are rare. On the sites with 1.5 and 3 sheep/ha Puccinellia maritima remained dominant. The population density of Salicornia europaea decreases after reduction of the grazing intensity, whereas Suaeda maritima finds optimal growing conditions. Stands of Halimione portulacoides and flowering Aster tripolium plants are rare near the sea dike but their cover and size increases further away from the dike. In the plot with 1.5 sheep/ha the height of the vegetation increases along the gradient from the dike towards the tidal flats, due to local differences in actual grazing intensity. When grazing is stopped, Puccinellia maritima is successively replaced by Festuca rubra, Halimione portulacoides and Aster tripolium. High variability of vegetation height indicates structural diversity. Patches of higher and lower vegetation correspond with the distribution pattern of different plant species. In terms of nature conservation cessation of grazing is recommended. 
3236303|The Channel Tunnel workings on the UK side have yielded nearly 4 million m<sup>3</sup> of chalk-marl spoil which now forms a 36 ha landscaped reclamation platform. To establish vegetation of amenity and conservation interest on the spoil, seed mixtures of native wild flowers and grasses were sown with Lolium perenne (perennial rye grass) as a nurse species. Potentially, L. perenne is a suitable nurse species for grassland creation on infertile substrates as it provides rapid initial cover and stability, but it is non-persistent and declines in vigour with time, allowing wild flower species sown alongside to expand their cover and spread in the longer term. On very low fertility substrates like chalk marl, an initial application of fertilizer is needed to encourage plant growth. Results are reported of a fertilizer experiment on Channel Tunnel spoil to determine appropriate levels of fertilizer for establishment of species-rich grassland vegetation. An area hydroseeded with L. perenne and wild flowers in autumn 1992 was subjected to factorial treatment of four levels each of N and P in spring 1993. The results the following summer showed significant positive effects of nitrogen and phosphorus on L. perenne biomass and a negative impact of nitrogen on densities of wild flower species, especially legumes, establishing in the L. perenne sward. In general, low fertilizer applications encouraged low productivity and maximal species richness in the vegetation. Conversely high applications encouraged high productivity and competitive exclusion of sown wild flower species. Fertilizer applications must therefore balance encouragement of the stabilising nurse grass sward, while preventing competitive exclusion of wild flowers by the nurse grass.
3237202|In this study, combining the Braun-Blanquet phytosociological approach with numerical methods (cluster analysis and principal coordinate ordination), woody climax associations of western North America are described, ranging from NW Baja California (Mexico) to Alaska (USA), and including some interior zones of Idaho and Montana (USA). Alberta, British Columbia and the Yukon Territory (Canada). 95 floristic associations are identified, and each is characterized by floristic combination, biogeographical range, and bioclimatic conditions.
40925512|Questions: Did fire regimes in old-growth Pinus ponderosa forest change with Euro-American settlement compared to the pre-settlement period? Do tree age structures exhibit a pattern of continuous regeneration or is regeneration episodic and related to fire disturbance or fire-free periods? Are the forests compositionally stable? Do trees have a clumped spatial pattern and are clumps even-or mixed-age? How might information from this oldgrowth forest inform current restoration and management practices? Location: A 235-ha old-growth forest in the Ishi Wilderness, southern Cascade Mountains, California. Methods: Age, size, and spatial pattern of trees were quantified in seven stands. Fire history was reconstructed using fire scar dendrochronology. The influence of fire on stand structure was assessed by comparing fire history with age, size, and spatial structure of trees and identifying and measuring trees killed by two recent fires. Results: Species composition in plots was similar but density and basal area of tree populations varied. Age structure for P. ponderosa and Quer cus kelloggii showed periods of episodic recruitment that varied among plots. Fire disturbance was frequent before 1905, with a median period between fires of 12 years. Fire frequency declined after 1905 but two recent fires (1990, 1994) killed 36% and 41% of mostly smaller diameter P. ponderosa and Q. kelloggii. Clusters of similar age trees occurred at scales of 28-1018 m but patches were not even-aged. Interactions between tree regeneration and fire promoted development of uneven age groups of trees. Conclusions: Fire disturbance strongly influenced density, basal area, and spatial structure of tree populations. Fire exclusion over the last 100 years has caused compositional and structural changes. Two recent fires, however, thinned stands and created gaps favorable for Q. kelloggii and P. ponderosa regeneration. The effects of infrequent 20th century fire indicate that a low fire frequency can restore and sustain structural characteristics resembling those of the pre-fire suppression period forest.
4499214| Question: Is soil hydrology an important niche-based driver of biodiversity in tropical forests? More specifically, we asked whether seasonal dynamics in soil water regime contributed to vegetation partitioning into distinct forest types. Location: Tropical rain forest in northwestern Mato Grosso, Brazil. Methods: We investigated the distribution of trees and lianas  1 cm DBH in ten transects that crossed distinct hydrological transitions. Soil water content and depth to water table were measured regularly over a 13-month period. Results: A detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) of 20 dominant species and structural attributes in 10 x 10 m subplots segregated three major forest types: (1) high-statured upland forest with intermediate stem density, (2) medium-statured forest dominated by palms, and (3) low-statured campinarana forest with high stem density. During the rainy season and transition into the dry season, distinct characteristics of the soil water regime (i.e. hydro-indicators) were closely associated with each vegetation community. Stand structural attributes and hydro-indicators were statistically different among forest types. Conclusions: Some upland species appeared intolerant of anaerobic conditions as they were not present in palm and campinarana sites, which experienced prolonged periods of saturation at the soil surface. A shallow impermeable layer restricted rooting depth in the campinarana community, which could heighten drought stress during the dry season. The only vegetation able to persist in campinarana sites were short-statured trees that appear to be well-adapted to the dual extremes of inundation and drought. 
3237225| Primary succession was studied on recently deglaciated areas in front of the Ampre Glacier, Kerguelen Islands (49 30 S, 69 30 E). Vegetation, colonization processes and soil development were investigated on seven sites on the outwash plain over a distance of 5 km and representing a > 200-yr old chronosequence. Seven species are involved in the succession, showing four patterns of change: (1) 'pioneer' (Poa kerguelensis, Poa annua, Colobanthus kerguelensis and Cerastium fontanum); (2) 'intermediate' (Festuca contracta); (3) 'late colonizer' (Azorella selago); and (4) 'fluctuating' (Agrostis magellanica). Two of the pioneers are introduced species (Poa annua and Cerastium). The total plant cover increases significantly with the age of the sites but never exceeds 4.2 %. The plant succession pattern observed in this study appears to be related to soil development. Root architecture and fine particle dynamics in the soil may explain the behaviour of the different species along the chronosequence. The pioneer species have a very shallow root system whereas the intermediate and late colonizers are deeper and longer rooted. The dominance of Azorella selago (Apiaceae) in the oldest community may be attributed to its unique root system in relation to the vertical distribution of silt cappings in the soil. 
3235717|Spatial patterns of vegetation on an ephemeral lake bed (playa) in the northern Chihuahuan desert were closely correlated with elevation. Distributions of species along a 265 m transect from the center to the edge of the playa showed abrupt boundaries at 110 m and 220 m. These boundaries seem related to the maximum elevation covered with standing water following complete flooding, and to an edaphic boundary between heavy clay soils at the center of the playa and adjacent soils. The complete turnover in species composition across this transect, with an elevation change of only 85 cm, indicates that environmental gradients resulting from flooding and soil development are steep. Vegetative patterns within the lowest part of the playa were patchy, with patch diameters ranging from 2 to 5 m. These patches appear to be produced by differences in the duration and frequency of flooding between small knolls and depressions resulting from gilgai microtopography.
3236197| Two main types of snowbed habitat with their typical vegetation in far NE Asia are described. In extreme snowbeds, snow depth is  5 m; the vegetation is sparse and characterized by Salix polaris and arctic and arctic-alpine taxa adapted to a very short growing season. In moderately snow-rich habitats, with a snow depth of 1.5 - 5 m, the environment is more favourable for plant growth as compared to both extreme snow-rich and mesic habitats, because of snow protection in winter, little permafrost, high organic matter accumulation, and no major reduction of the growing season. Within each snowbed habitat there are two series of community types for lime-rich and lime-poor habitats. Along with a large number of pH-amphitolerant species including the dominants Salix polaris, Cassiope tetragona, Artemisia tilesii which occur in both habitat types, acidic sites usually also have stenoacidophytes (Salix nesophila, Loiseleuria procumbens), and hemiacidophytes (Salix chamissonis, Artemisia arctica). Differential taxa of circumneutral and basic soils are the stenobasiphytes Salix rotundifolia and Dendranthema integrifolium and the hemibasiphytes Salix reticulata and Carex scirpoidea. Ten Chukotka snowbed associations are provisionally described and a diagnostic table is presented according to the Braun-Blanquet approach. The syntaxonomy and evolution of Beringian snowbed vegetation are discussed. 
3235680|This paper reports on vegetation development on permanent experimental plots during five years of succession. Nine (1 m<sup>2</sup>) plots were filled with three typical substrates from man-made habitats of urban and industrial areas in the region of Berlin. The three substrates (a commercial 'topsoil', a ruderal 'landfill' soil and a sandy soil), differ in organic matter and nutrient contents. Releves of species composition and percent cover of each species present were made monthly during the growing season from the start of vegetation development. This paper describes the different successional pathways on topsoil and ruderal soil and the colonization process on sandy soil. On topsoil, ruderal annuals are dominant in the first year and are replaced by short-lived perennials from the second year. Those species were replaced by long-lived perennial herbs (Ballota nigra or Urtica dioica) from the third year of succession onwards. On the ruderal land-fill soil the early successional stages are less sharp and the perennial Solidago canadensis is able to dominate within one year after the succession was initiated. On sandy soil there is still an ongoing colonization process, where pioneer tree species like Betula pendula and Populus nigra play a main role. The importance of 'initial floristic composition', the role of substrate for community structure and the peculiarities of successional sequences on anthropogenic soils in the context of primary and secondary successions are discussed.
3236104|Meteorological patterns have a decisive influence on the inter-annual dynamics of therophyte pastures under Mediterranean climatic conditions. The germination behaviour of annual pasture species was studied by subjecting two collections of seeds taken from plants and soil-seed banks to two phytotron-simulated weather patterns: early and late autumn rains. Species from these pastures were arranged along a gradient of sensitivity to temperature on the arrival of the first persistent rain. This sensitivity was manifested in both the total germination success of the species and the germination time profile. The different germination patterns of the species can provide competitive advantages depending on the autumn weather conditions.
3237329|In this study we used species inventory data collected in 1970 and 1993 from 132 plots in a 14.5 ha deciduous forest to examine local extinction and colonization processes among 45 field layer species. Local colonization rate was positively related to both seed size and seed dispersal features. Local extinction rate was negatively related to seed size. Growth form (clonal vs. non-clonal) and presence of a seed bank were not found to be associated with local dynamics. Despite an overall constancy in species composition during this period, plants exhibited a considerable mobility among the 132 plots. This pattern conformed to a suggested 'carousel model' of species mobility in grasslands. A tentative suggestion is that this mobility acts on a comparatively broader spatio-temporal scale in deciduous forests as compared with grasslands. Additional data are presented indicating that species abundance (frequency) among field layer plants in deciduous forest communities is consistent among forest fragments, and when comparing local and regional scales. The main conclusion is that life history features of the seed dispersal/recruitment phase, particularly seed size, are causally associated with abundance patterns at least at a local scale, but possibly also on a broader regional scale.
25173212|Questions: What factors influence tree species diversity of mangrove forests, an example of species-poor systems? What are the respective importance and interactions of these factors? Is the intermediate disturbance hypothesis applicable to such systems? Methods: We used the spatially explicit individual-based model KiWi to investigate the effects on species diversity of perturbation frequency and intensity, different abiotic conditions, and interspecific competition simulated at the individual level. The simulation system considered the three dominant Caribbean mangrove species: Rhizophora mangle, Avicennia germinans and Laguncularia racemosa, applying species-specific growth and mortality characteristics. Firstly, effects on species dominance of the abiotic conditions nutrient availability and porewater salinity were tested with two competition scenarios. Secondly, the effect of perturbation frequency and intensity were investigated with selected abiotic conditions. Results: Abiotic conditions influenced species dominance and, in extreme cases, excluded one or two species. Abiotic and competition settings controlled the successional dynamics and the response of species dominance to perturbation regimes. A response consistent with the intermediate disturbance hypothesis was observed only with a configuration of plant interaction in which one species behaved as a pioneer so that succession occurred by competitive exclusion. Conclusions: We suggest that successional dynamics interact with the intensity and timing of perturbations and determine whether or not mangrove tree diversity conforms to predictions of the intermediate disturbance hypothesis. For mangroves, these successional dynamics are site-specific depending on abiotic conditions and species configurations.
3237231|We compared the effects of late dormant-season and late growing-season prescribed fires on herbaceous species in restored shortleaf pine- (Pinus echinata) grassland communities in the Ouachita Highlands of western Arkansas. Herbaceous species richness, diversity, and total forb and legume abundance increased following fire. Late growing-season burns reduced distribution and abundance of panicums (primarily Panicum boscii, P. dichotomum, and P. linearifolium) while late dormant-season burns increased Panicum distribution and abundance. Density of legumes (such as Stylosanthes biflora) increased following frequent or annual dormant-season fires. However, season of fire influenced the distribution and abundance of fewer than 10 % of the species. Fire plays an essential role in pine-grassland communities by creating and maintaining open canopy conditions that perpetuate understory herbaceous plant communities.
3236150| Natural regeneration of Pinus resinosa (red pine) seedlings around mature trees was studied in burned and unburned stands. Growth inhibitory effects of the forest organic matter on red pine seedlings was tested by a stair-step experiment using leachate of forest soil monoliths and also by a seed germination bio-assay using forest floor substrates. To test if higher burning temperatures can remove the allelopathic effects of red pine-Kalmia organic matter, a laboratory bioassay was conducted by germinating red pine seeds on the organic matter burned at 200, 400, 600 and 800 C. Deposition of dry needles and a thick duff layer under red pine stands affected seedling establishment. Red pine seedling establishment increased with the decreasing thickness of duff layer away from the stump of the seed-bearing trees. Wildfire helped in removing the duff layer and increased seedling establishment. A high fuel load within a 0 - 1 m radius around the tree stump caused a deep burn of the organic matter including part of the soil seed reserve. On a burned-over surface, more seedlings established in a band between 1 and 2 m around the stump than inside and outside the band. Primary root growth of red pine was severely inhibited when the seedlings were grown in unburned forest floor organic matter where Kalmia was the principal understory species. Water leachate of a Pinus resinosa-Kalmia soil monolith was inhibitory to red pine seedling growth. In greenhouse conditions, the seedlings grew well in burned-over soil from a Pinus resinosa stand. Burned organic matter from a red pine forest showed an increase in pH with a burning temperature of 600 C. Primary root growth of red pine seedlings was similarly increased with increasing temperature up to 600 C; at higher temperatures the root length of seedlings did not increase any further. 
3236005|Changes in size and spatial arrangement of plant populations established on an initially bare peat surface were described over a period of 5 yr by following plant individuals on a 1-cm grid in an area of 10 m x 25 m. The spatial pattern of populations and association between species was analyzed statistically. The study site was very slowly colonized by 14 perennial plant species. The early successional stage was dominated by Carex rostrata, with a clumped spatial distribution, and the homogeneously distributed Eriophorum vaginatum and Pinus sylvestris. Both the growth in size of populations and changes in their spatial distribution were interpreted as a result of species dispersal ability, tolerance to severity of the substrate and pattern of reproduction.
3237244|Resprouting from underground structures is one of the main regeneration strategies of Mediterranean shrubs after aerial biomass disturbance such as fire or clear-cutting to reduce fire risk. In order to study the effect of root competition and shading (simulated shoot competition) on Erica multiflora, growth, morphology, flowering performance and sprout size variability during resprouting, a factorial field experiment was conducted in which neighbours around target plants were eliminated and plants were shaded with mesh for two years. Root competition reduced sprout recruitment and sprout density (number of sprouts per unit stump area) more strongly than did shading. The negative effect of root competition on sprout biomass was constant with time, while the reduction due to shading increased with time. There was an interaction between root competition and shading on the biomass of sprouts 22 months after treatment: genets without root competition and shading were four times larger than in any other treatment. Both shading and root competition also decreased percentage branching but did not modify maximum sprout height. Only shading decreased the leaf/shoot biomass ratio and the percentage of flowering genets. One year after resprouting, root competition counteracted the effect of shading on inducing sprout biomass variability within the genet because it decreased sprout density. 22 months after treatment, sprout biomass variability was not affected by any main effect. The results suggest that competition among sprouts within the genet is asymmetric. However, shading by genet neighbours may not always increase sprout biomass variability if root competition is also severe.
3235758|The physiognomy of dry savannas is described as a combination of discontinuous woody perennials and a continuous grassland matrix. Interactions between these two components are of vital importance for the persistence of a savanna landscape. Earlier savanna models have emphasized competitive interactions for water between the two components. Recent studies have argued that small-scale facilitating interactions between woody perennials and the herbaceous understorey are also important. This phenomenon has been given little theoretical consideration in the savanna literature, but it has been an important topic in agroforestry and arid-grassland ecology. This paper reviews some of the evidence for micro-site effects of trees and shrubs, and attempts to integrate their interactions with the surrounding open grassland. Woody perennials modify the microclimate by interception of solar radiation and rainfall. Their root systems extract nutrients horizontally and vertically, which are concentrated in the sub-canopy soil from litter decomposition and root turnover. Legumes are abundant in dry savannas, and may have symbiotic relationships with Rhizobium bacteria. This symbosis increases the availability of nitrogen in the soil. Isolated trees and shrubs initiate feedback mechanisms in their interactions with other organisms, and contribute to an uneven distribution of water and nutrients in dry savanna. This influences the species composition, and community diversity. Small-scale facilitating interaction between the woody and herbaceous components and competitive interaction on larger scales, are complementary processes which together explain a dynamic coexistence.
3236963|The clonal sedge Carex humilis forms rings of densely aggregated ramets in a dry grassland community in Central Europe. We describe the small-scale spatial variation, both in abiotic factors and vegetation, in relation to these rings. Compared to the surrounding vegetation the cover of plants, other than C. humilis, was significantly lower both in the central area of rings and within the rings themselves. The vegetation structure was also different. The soil was more fertile in the central area and within the ring than in the surroundings, measured both directly and by the abiotic response values of the vascular plants. We conclude that neither resource depletion nor competition from other plants were likely to be responsible for the low ramet density in the central area of C. humilis rings. Instead, we suggest that the ring form is caused either by the deposition of growth inhibiting substances or by intrinsic morphological rules.
3236699|The decline of species-rich semi-natural calcareous grasslands is a major conservation problem throughout Europe. Maintenance of traditional animal husbandry is often recommended as an important management strategy. However, results that underpin such management recommendations were derived predominantly from lowland studies and may not be easily applicable to high mountain areas. In this study we analyse the importance of traditional low-intensity summer farming (cattle grazing) for vascular plant species diversity of a subalpine region in the northern calcareous Alps in Austria by resampling from an existing dataset on its vegetation. Results indicate a significant long term decline of plant species diversity following abandonment at the landscape scale. In contrast, within-community effects of pasture abandonment on plant species diversity are equivocal and strongly depend on the plant community. We suppose these differences to be due to diet preferences of cattle as well as to the differential importance of competition for structuring the respective communities. From our results we infer that the main mechanism by which pasture abandonment affects vascular plant species diversity, at least during the first ca. 100 yr documented here, are not local-scale competitive exclusion processes within persisting communities. Instead, post-abandonment successional community displacements that cause a landscape scale homogenization of the vegetation cover seem to be primarily responsible for a decline of species diversity. We conclude, that successful management of vascular plant species diversity in subalpine regions of the Northeastern Calcareous Alps will depend on the maintenance of large scale pasture systems with a spatially variable disturbance regime.
3236440|In order to explore whether seed size affects plant response to elevated CO<sub>2</sub>, plants grown from red oak (Quercus rubra L.) acorns were studied for differences in their first year response to CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations of 350 and 700  l/ 1. Overall, at final harvest, total biomass of plants grown in elevated CO<sub>2</sub> were 47 % larger than that of plants grown in ambient CO<sub>2</sub>. There were significant interactions between CO<sub>2</sub> treatments and initial acorn mass for total biomass, as well as for root, leaf, and stem biomass. Although total biomass increased with increasing initial acorn mass for both high and ambient CO<sub>2</sub> plants, high CO<sub>2</sub> plants exhibited a greater increase than ambient CO<sub>2</sub> plants, as indicated by a steeper slope in high CO<sub>2</sub> plants. However, CO<sub>2</sub> levels did not affect biomass partitioning traits, such as root/shoot ratio, leaf, stem, and root weight ratios, and leaf area ratio. These results suggest that variation in seed size or initial plant size can cause intraspecific variation in response to elevated CO<sub>2</sub>.
3236296|Field observations in sod-cut wet Molinia caerulea dominated heathlands revealed information on the revegetation process in relation to plot age and soil variables. Data on the most common species; Erica tetralix, Molinia caerulea, Drosera intermedia and Rhynchospora fusca show that Molinia tends to dominate again within a few years. Whereas the other species are affected in their development by either groundwater regime, soil acidity, nutrient availability or cut depth, Molinia caerulea is highly competitive in all situations. Soil acidity is the major factor affecting species diversity.
3236869|Counter intuition, an analysis of tree-line position across the Swiss Alps based on a geographical information system (GIS) with a spatial resolution of 100 m (2.5 million points) revealed no difference in climatic tree line altitude with slope exposure. Through step wise discrimination procedures our analysis accounts for anthropogenic tree-line depression. Any land cover bias affects the frequency of GIS-points corresponding to tree-line forests rather than the mean elevation of such points, captured by our analysis. We explain this phenomenon (1) by the absence of significant drought effects in the Alps (no disadvantages for southwest slopes), (2) by the fact that tree tops, unlike low stature vegetation, do not profit from greater radiation warming on south slopes during the growing season but are thermally coupled to free air circulation, and (3) by preliminary data for root zone temperatures during the growing season, which do not differ between south and north slopes, as long as the soil is screened by a closed forest canopy. The overall difference in season length and snow cover, often seen between south and north slopes, does not seem to affect tree-line position but explains greater natural forest fragmentation on north slopes. It is this greater fragmentation and patchiness (avalanche tracks, snow beds etc.) which seem to have nourished the idea of a generally lower limit of tree growth and tree lines at northern slopes. These results are in line with a recently developed theory, which suggests that tree-line elevations in humid climates correspond to similar isotherms, irrespective of latitude and thus, season length.
3235919|Estimates of colonisation of plant species were made at three spatial scales in an old-field on limestone subject to five experimental sheep grazing regimes. Local extinctions within grazing treatments were estimated in 1-m<sup>2</sup> permanent quadrats. These data were used to assess the effects of grazing treatment and spatial scale on the process of species change over a period of six years. Colonisation of the 10 ha field was virtually a random draw of plant species from adjacent vegetation, irrespective of plant life-history traits including dispersal strategy. The effects of grazing on colonisation increased at smaller spatial scales. Colonisation rates changed little during the study on the 10 ha scale, but declined steeply with time at smaller scales. Colonisation rates of short-lived species declined more than those of perennials, and short-lived species were subject to erratic episodes of extinction which did not affect perennials. Short periods of grazing enhanced colonisation rates of all species, but extinction rates were the same as in ungrazed controls. Grazing for longer periods further enhanced colonisation rates, but also increased extinction rates. This produced diversity patterns consistent with a 'hump-backed model', except that no grazing treatment was heavy enough to decrease diversity. Ungrazed controls had low species diversity, but areas grazed for longer periods were no more diverse after six years than those grazed for short periods.
3237307|Patterns of mortality, recruitment, and forest turnover were investigated using permanent plot data from temperate forests in 14 localities throughout New Zealand. Tree mortality and recruitment rates were calculated from tagged trees  10 cm diameter at 1.4 m on individual 400 m<sup>2</sup> plots, and turnover rates were calculated as the mean of mortality and recruitment rates. Turnover rates (1.4% per year) were very similar to those recorded for tropical forests (i.e. 1.5% per year). As was shown in tropical forests, we also found significant relationships between forest turnover and species richness. In New Zealand forests there was also a decrease in species richness and turnover rates with increasing latitude. Although species richness is well known to decline with latitude, our study provides support for a possible link between seasonality and disturbance with tree turnover and species diversity. While tree mortality and recruitment rates were approximately in balance at some localities, in others there were imbalances between mortality and recruitment rates.
4499161| Question: Can lichen diversity of an earlier succession stage be restored in dune grassland after fire in a region with high nitrogen deposition? Location: Calcium-poor coastal dunes in the Wadden district, The Netherlands. Methods: We sampled dune grassland by using a large continuous transect of 4 m x 4 m blocks on both a south slope and a west slope. The sampling was conducted in the lichen-rich Violo-Corynephoretum in 1966, in the vegetation dominated by tall graminoids in 1990 and in the recovering vegetation for eight years after a wildfire in 1993. Vegetation succession in the blocks is visualised in stacked bar graphs and ordination diagrams (DCA). In 1966 relevs were made within the blocks, and from 1990 until 2001 permanent quadrats were studied. Results: Between 1966 and 1990 the lichen-rich open grassland became dominated by tall graminoids and developed partly into a dwarf-shrub heath, resulting in a severe loss of lichen diversity. After the fire a lush vegetation of tall graminoids with an abundant moss cover developed. In 2001 the vegetation was still very different from the lichen-rich vegetation in 1966. Conclusions: Fire alone will not change dunes dominated by tall graminoids into open lichen-rich grasslands in an area with high aerial nitrogen deposition. After fire, additional intervention is recommended, such as large-scale clearing of the burned vegetation and actively promoting deposition of sand, either blown in from foredunes, from re-activated blow-outs or artificially brought to the site. 
3236228|The co-occurrence of Larix olgensis var. changpaiensis, Picea jezoensis and Abies nephrolepis in the coniferous forest of Mount Changbai, northeastern China, is discussed, and the regeneration pattern of these taxa compared on the basis of the analysis of the age structure and the age-height relationship of the three conifers. The presence of tall individuals (ca. 30 m in height) of Larix olgensis var. changpaiensis, which does not show any regeneration, was related to the large eruption of Mount Changbai up to ca. 400 yr ago. Picea jezoensis compensates its small recruitment by a large stem size and long life span together with a continuous height growth. Abies nephrolepis recruits well, but its small stem size and short life span do not result in its dominance in the forest.
3237165|The impact of herbivorous insects on the growth and reproduction of Picris hieracioides (Compositae) was followed in three consecutive years by comparing plants treated with an insecticide and untreated plants in an old-field population abandoned for 15 yr (P15). In the third year the interactions between herbivory and competition were analysed as well. Pre-dispersal seed predation of seed heads was investigated in three adjacent old-fields abandoned for one (P1), 15 (P15) and 40 yr (P40) in the region of Montpellier, France. Fields differed in vegetation cover and floristic composition and also in density and above-ground biomass of Picris hieracioides plants (from 246 g per plant in P1, 13.3 g in P15, down to 3.3 g in P40, for the first year of study). The cumulative rainfall between January and July, the period of Picris growth, decreased from 1992 to 1994. Moreover, in 1992, three times as much rainfall occurred in May and June - the period of stem elongation - as in 1993 and 1994. As a consequence, environmental stress increased during the study period. Herbivorous invertebrates had a negative effect on the growth and reproduction of individual plants of Picris hieracioides in P15. The effect was not constant with time, being apparent in only two years out of three. These two years (1992 and 1994) had contrasting climatic characteristics, whereas the year with no apparent effect (1993) was climatically intermediate. When herbivory had effects on growth, the insecticide-treated plants had a significantly higher above-ground biomass and produced twice as many seed heads as the control plants. There was no interaction between herbivory and competition. The percentage of damaged seed heads was significantly lower in the P1-field than in the P40-field. The P15-field had intermediate levels of predation. Predation on seed heads increased whereas biomass and reproductive output decreased between 1992 and 1994 in the three old-fields. Therefore, the results on seed predation (but not for above-ground biomass and reproduction) tend to confirm 'the environmental stress hypothesis' of Mattson & Haack (1987) that states that plants under stress are more liable to be attacked by grazers.
23012420|Question: How can quantitative data from vegetation surveys best be assembled in a large regional vegetation database? What effects have intellectual property rights concerns of individual and institutional data holders on data contribution and how can incentives to contribute data be generated? Location: West Africa, with discussion of a possible approach to dealing with property rights concerns being of wider interest. Methods: The management of data property rights in the West African Vegetation Database was developed based on consultations with institutions and scientists in five West African countries over 2 years. It was agreed in two successive Memoranda of Understanding. Results: The West African Vegetation Database addresses property rights concerns by leaving the control over data access with the data owners, and provides incentives to build a distributed research community by fostering data sharing. Conclusion: We present a potential solution to the problem of intellectual property rights issues being an impediment to data sharing and the compilation of large regional vegetation databases. The data property rights management approach implemented in the West African Vegetation Database provided incentives for the contribution of recently acquired and unpublished data. Numerous phytosociological and dendrometric vegetation surveys have been made available by institutions and individual researchers for regional-scale analyses. The structures developed may serve as a model for regional-scale vegetation databases in collaborative settings involving multiple data owners.
40295793|Question: How can statistical modelling tools (GLMM) and GIS be used as an aid in understanding complex ecological patterns? This general question was approached by using bryophyte demography data as an example. More specifically, we asked what is the contribution of terrain shape to explaining the performance and fate of plant individuals, controlling for all other known relationships? Location: Norway. Methods: Information on demography was obtained for 140 populations of the perennial clonal bryophyte Hylocomium splendens in Norway spruce forests during an 11-year period (1992-2002). Performance (size and branching pattern) was recorded for mature segments and fate was recorded for growing points. Positions of each of the more than 30 000 recorded bryophyte ramets were coupled with (micro-) topographic characteristics (slope and convexity) derived from fine-scale digital elevation models in a GIS framework. Carefully planned sequences of generalised linear mixed models (GLMM) were performed to test predictions from a conceptual path model. Results: We demonstrate strong dependence of size on branching, fate and on vertical position in the bryophyte carpet, and an effect of vertical position on branching pattern. Micro-topography contributed to explaining plant performance by four different mechanisms: (1) a direct effect of slope on the segment's vertical position in the carpet; (2-3) direct effects of both slope and convexity on fates of individuals via controls on risk of burial; and (4) an indirect effect of convexity on branching pattern via a direct effect on size. No indication of a direct effect of terrain on branching was found. Conclusions: Our study exemplifies the usefulness of GLMM for disentangling complex ecological relationships. Specifically, we recognise micro-topography as a potentially important factor for plant demography in general and for performance and fate of individuals in particular.
23012725|Question: How can we disentangle facilitation and seed dispersal from environmental heterogeneity as mechanisms causing spatial associations of plant species? Location: Semi-arid savanna in the Kimberley Thorn Bushveld, South Africa. Methods: We developed a two-step protocol for the statistical differentiation of association-promoting mechanisms in plants based on the Acacia erioloba-Grewia flava association. Individuals of the savanna shrub G. flava and the tree A. erioloba were mapped on four study plots. Disentangling the mechanism causing the association of G. flava and A. erioloba involved tests of three spatial and one non-spatial null model. The spatial null models include homogeneous and heterogeneous Poisson processes for spatial randomness based on the bivariate spatial point patterns of the four plots. With the non-spatial analysis, we determined the relationship between the canopy diameter of A. erioloba trees and presence or absence of G. flava shrubs in the tree understorey to find whether shrub presence requires a minimum tree canopy diameter. Results: We first showed a significant positive spatial association of the two species. Thereafter, the non-spatial analysis supported an exclusion of environmental heterogeneity as the sole cause of this positive association. We found a minimum tree size under which no G. flava shrubs occurred. Conclusions: Our two-step analysis showed that it is unlikely that heterogeneous environmental conditions caused the spatial association of A. erioloba and G. flava. Instead, this association may have been caused by seed dispersal and/or facilitation (e.g. caused by hydraulic lift and/or nitrogen fixation by the host tree).
3237203|Microhabitats for seedling establishment and gap regeneration in subalpine forests of northern Japan were studied for two conifers, Abies sachalinensis and Picea glehnii. The abundance of understorey dwarf bamboo (Sasa spp.) was different for the four plots examined. Two types of microhabitats were recognized for the two conifers: ground and elevated woody substrates (fallen logs and buttresses). Picea regenerated mostly on elevated sites, while Abies regenerated on both ground and elevated sites. The densities of Picea were independent of those of Sasa, but Abies densities decreased with increasing abundance of Sasa because Sasa reduced regeneration on the ground. Density of Abies on elevated sites was higher than that of Picea, irrespective of Sasa and of the density of adult trees. There was no significant difference in growth in sapling trunk height between the two conifers, but Picea grew more slowly under the canopy than Abies and was aggregated into gaps. Thus, in forests with less Sasa, the recruitment capacity of Abies was greater than that of Picea. The long life span of Picea compensated for its low density on elevated sites. Examination of a dynamic system model showed that Picea was excluded by Abies in forests without Sasa because regeneration on the ground is more advantageous than on elevated sites, but the two conifers could coexist in forests with Sasa because of the increased relative success of regeneration on elevated sites by Picea saplings.
3236027|This paper describes a defoliation experiment on saplings of the gap-colonizing pioneer tree Heliocarpus appendiculatus in the tropical rain forest of Los Tuxtlas (Southeast Mexico). Four levels of defoliation (0. 25, 50, and 75% of the leaf area removed) were applied to naturally established plants in a medium-sized forest gap. Records were made of growth (height, diameter, and leaf production) and of whole-plant and leaf survival. Statistical comparisons for all variables showed that plants that had not been defoliated grew better than defoliated ones, but there were no statistically significant differences between the defoliation levels. The risk of death was significantly lower for control plants than for defoliated plants at any level of damage. Leaf survivorship was highly irregular. The most consistent pattern was that the leaves of intact plants always showed higher survivorship, while the most heavily defoliated ones always had the poorest survival. The survivorship pattern of leaves at intermediate defoliation levels was irregular. The results illustrate the lack of a monotonic response to a wide range of defoliation levels, and suggest the potential effect of herbivores as reducers of vegetative growth and survival in pioneer tropical species, and as limiting agents of plant establishment in regenerating forest gaps.
4096704|Questions: 1. Are trees in a Bornean tropical rain forest associated with a particular habitat? 2. Does the strength of habitat association with the species-specific optimal habitat increase with tree size? Location: A 52-ha plot in a mixed dipterocarp forest in a heterogeneous landscape at the Lambir Hills National Park, Sarawak, East Malaysia. Methods: Ten species from the Sterculiaceae were chosen as representative of all species in the plot, on the assumption that competition among closely related species is more stringent than that among more distantly related taxa. Their habitat associations were tested using data from a 52-ha plot by a torus-translation test. Results: The torus-translation test showed that eight out of the ten species examined had significant association with at least one habitat. We could not find negative species-habitat associations for rare species, probably due to their small sample sizes. Among four species small trees were less strongly associated with habitat than large trees, implying competitive exclusion of trees in suboptimal habitats. The other four species showed the opposite pattern, possibly owing to the smaller sample size of large trees. A habitat had a maximum of three species with which it was significantly positively associated. Conclusions: For a species to survive in population equilibrium in a landscape, habitats in which 'source' subpopulations can be sustained without subsidy from adjacent habitats are essential. Competition is most severe among related species whose source subpopulations share the same habitat. On the evidence of source subpopulations identified by positive species-habitat association, species-habitat association reduces the number of confamilial competitors. Our results therefore indicate that edaphic niche specialization contributes to co-existence of species of Sterculiaceae in the plot, consistent with the expectations of equilibrium hypotheses.
3236784|This paper describes the species composition of remnant grasslands in the aspen parkland region of Alberta and its relation to soil characteristics and small-scale disturbance. Our findings are consistent with the centrifugal model of communities with Festuca hallii dominating undisturbed 'core' habitat and the composition of more 'peripheral' habitats varying in soil properties and in the magnitude of disturbance. Invasive non-native species are not present in the core habitat and are present only in the disturbed sites, most abundantly in those with the highest soil nitrogen. The centrifugal model, as it applies to these remnant grasslands, differs from its previous application to wetlands and forests in that the core communities are not on the most fertile sites, but on the least disturbed. These findings have implications for the management of prairie remnants to exclude invasive exotic species.
3235864|Effects of milling, mowing and sod cutting on productivity in a Deschampsia grass heath and a Molinia-Deschampsia grass heath were studied from 1977 to 1986. The sum of above-ground biomass, litter and accumulated humified matter (TOM) in both types was ca. 70 ton/ha and the primary productivity 3-5 ton ha<sup>-1</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup>. Mulching did not affect the annual production. Sod cutting reduced the productivity to 1-2 ton ha<sup>-</sup>1yr<sup>-1</sup>; on the Molinia-Deschampsia site this reduction lasted for at least a decade, while the Deschampsia heath started to recover from sod cutting soon and increased in productivity again. Annual mowing both with and without removal of hay reduced the production as well, particularly on the Molinia-Deschampsia heath. Lower production was either the result of phosphorus depletion - Molinia-Deschampsia site - or nitrogen depletion - Deschampsia site. In the mowing treatments there was also a depletion of carbohydrate reserves.
3235647|A new method is described for measuring tree eight in tropical forest with a dense undergrowth, the so-called angles-measure method, which is related to the height-matching method formerly used by British foresters.
3237160|The Vava'u island group, Tonga, comprises ca. 60 limestone islands on a single submarine platform overlain with rich soils derived from tephra deposits from nearby volcanic islands. The island group has moderate topographic relief (215 m) and is characterized by plateaus and steep cliffs. Humans settled in Tonga ca. 3000 yr ago and have exploited the flatter terrain for agriculture since that time. We conducted the first survey of forest composition in Vava'u, sampling remnant patches of late-successional forest as well as stands in various stages of secondary succession following agricultural abandonment. Plant species composition did not vary greatly with elevation over this short gradient, in contrast with patterns found on 'Eua, a higher island in Tonga. The most significant environmental gradient affecting species composition was coastal or maritime influence. However, the greatest variation in species composition and structure appeared to be related to species turnover during secondary succession, and we hypothesize a sequence of species replacements. Secondary forest begins to resemble late-successional forest in 30 - 50 yr in terms of structure and native species richness and therefore is of significant conservation value.
40925508|Question: What are the differences in trait compositions that enable native plants to colonise comparable natural and man-made habitats? Are these traits independent of phylogenetic relationships between species? Location: Czech Republic. Methods: The relative importance of biological, ecological and distributional traits of native species was studied, using a dataset of 75 species growing in rock and wall habitats in the Czech Republic. Species preferences for individual habitats due to climatic conditions and proportions of different vegetation types in their surroundings were partialled out using partial canonical correspondence analysis. The pattern of plant traits along a gradient from natural rock habitats to secondary wall habitats was analysed using regression trees and generalized linear models with and without phylogenetic correction. Results: The most common native species colonising rock habitats are phanerophytes, mostly woody juveniles, with a CSR life strategy and most are adapted to epizoochory. Summer green leaves, annual life span, CR life strategy, reproduction mostly by seeds and dispersal by ants are all traits positively associated with the ability of species to colonise wall habitats. These species are also characterised by their high demand for nutrients, temperature, baserich substrates and light. Biological and ecological traits are more important for colonising new habitats than traits related to species dispersal ability or phylogenetic relationships between species. Biological and ecological traits alone explained 29.3% of variability in the species dataset, while dispersal characteristics and phylogeny alone explained 9.1% and 4.8%, respectively. Conclusions: We outline how the process of environmental filtering determines native species assemblages and identify a set of species traits that enable them to persist in particular habitats. We conclude that although urbanisation generally results in loss of natural habitats, there are new, manmade habitats potentially suitable for native species.
3236708| Patterns of -diversity in a highly diverse tropical dry forest tree community are described; the contribution of environmental heterogeneity and distance to -diversity was assessed. Significant differences in elevation, insolation, slope and soil water holding capacity (p<0.01), variables related to water availability, were found among 8 30 m x 100 m transects laid along contrasting slopes of a system of three parallel microbasins. A gradient in elevation and insolation was found within north-facing transects, among 10 m x 10 m sites; south-facing transects showed an elevation gradient while crest transects showed a gradient in water holding capacity. In total 119 species were registered, with 27 to 64 species per transect, and 4 to 16 species per site. A large -diversity was found among and within transects; two indices of -diversity consistently showed a higher -diversity within transects than among them. Among transects, 64% of the variance in species composition could be attributed to the environmental variables; an additional 22% to the spatial distribution of sites. Within transects, 42% of the deviance in -diversity values was explained by insolation, and 19% by distance. -diversity increased with distance and with difference in insolation among sites; north-facing transects, those with most contrasting insolation conditions, had the steepest increase in -diversity with distance. Such increase was clearly associated with changes in species composition, not with changes in species richness. 
3236832|Functional diversity has been seen as the key to predicting the stability, invasibility, resource capture, nutrient cycling and productivity of communities. However, it has been unclear how to estimate it. Ten criteria for an index of functional diversity are developed. These include that it should reflect the range of characters present and the abundance of the species with those characters in the community, and be unaffected by the measurement units used or by the number of species. An index that meets all ten criteria, FD<sub>var</sub>, is investigated. It is based on the variance in characters, weighted by the abundance of the species with those characters. Tested with artificial and randomly generated data, it showed reasonable use of the 0 - 1 range (mean 0.60, range 0.0009 - 0.975) and intuitive behaviour. Tested with field data from eight sites in New Zealand, it gave a good spread of values (mean 0.65, range across sites 0.34 - 0.84), showed good ability to distinguish between the communities and its performance was ecologically intuitive. Illustrative correlations are made with mean annual temperature and soil fertility, determined by a bioassay. FD<sub>var</sub> is recommended for general use.
4096653|Question: What is the value of using Rhinanthus minor in grassland restoration and can restrictions on its establishment be overcome? Location: England (United Kingdom). Methods: Two experiments were established to determine the efficacy of inoculating R. minor on a suite of four agriculturally improved grasslands and the efficacy of using R. minor in grassland restoration. In Experiment 1, the effect of herbicide gap creation on the establishment and persistence of R. minor in grasslands ranging in productivity was investigated with respect to sward management. In Exp. 2, R. minor was sown at
3236241| The spatial distribution of seedlings in fertilized and non-fertilized grassland patches (1 m x 2 m) was examined in alvar vegetation on the island of land, Sweden. We established whether variation in seedling distribution in grassland patches reflects the distribution of conspecific adults. We also established the significance of microsite turf attributes for prediction of seedling distribution at a small scale (10 cm x 10 cm), and the significance of conspecific adults abundance, assemblage of adult species and cover of lichens, mosses, litter and bare ground. Our results indicate that fertilization reduces the importance of regeneration by seed of perennial species and enhances seedling recruitment of winter annuals and biennials. At the patch scale, enrichment does not affect species richness. Community patchiness contributes to the maintenance of diversity by providing a variety of environments with differential regeneration of the component species. Cover of lichens, mosses, litter and bare ground, accounts, in part, for the spatial variation in seedling numbers of certain species. The strong association of seedlings of some species with conspecific adults indicates that limitations in dispersal and/or the occurrence of a more suitable environment for emergence and/or establishment close to conspecific adult plants are likely to constrain the spatial distribution of new individuals in many cases. For other species, the lack of association of seedling densities with the cover of their conspecific adults, suggests that long-distance dispersal or a long-lived seed bank can play a role in counteracting the effect of short-distance dispersal. 
3236397|The role of gap dynamics in shaping the spatial and size distributions of the gap specialist Solidago sempervirens (seaside goldenrod) were examined on the primary dune grassland (Ammophila breviligulata, American beachgrass) of an Atlantic barrier island. Results suggest that coastal dune blowouts are patchy disturbances that allow S. sempervirens to temporarily establish and disperse seed. Natural measurements and clipping experiments demonstrated that A. breviligulata competitively dominated S. sempervirens in undisturbed grasslands. Coastal dune blow-outs reversed this dominance by temporarily burying A. breviligulata and increasing densities and above-ground biomass of S. sempervirens. Examination of size/density distributions of S. sempervirens suggested that blow-outs were seed sources but not regeneration sites. Regeneration was found primarily in neighboring transition and undisturbed grassland areas. Comparison of lateral growth by A. breviligulata on blow-out margins suggested that disturbances were closed by lateral encroachment from gap edges. After blow-out recovery, greater densities and skewed size distributions of S. sempervirens could still be detected for a number of years after blow-out recovery.
3236479|Question: Is light available for subcanopy individuals of Fagus crenata spatiotemporally heterogeneous across patches with closed canopies of different foliage phenologies and gaps? Is local abundance of Sasa influenced by the composition of the canopy layer? If so, does the Sasa layer also affect the amount of light available to small F. crenata saplings? Is variation in F. crenata population structure consistent with the hypothesis that light is important? Location: Mt. Kurikoma, Japan 780 m a.s.l. Methods: Population structure of subcanopy individuals of Fagus crenata and importance of Sasa were examined in five patch types. The patch-types were Fc (F. crenata only in the crown), Qm (Quercus mongolica var. grosseserrata only in the crown), Mo (Magnolia obovata only in the crown), Fc' (periphery of F. crenata) and Gap. Seasonal changes in light availability above and below the Sasa layer was examined by using hemispherical photographs and quantum sensors. Results: Subcanopy individuals of F. crenata began unfolding their leaves approximately one month earlier than canopy trees of Q. mongolica var. grosseserrata and M. obovata, but a few days later than those of adult F. crenata. Accumulated photosynthetic photon flux density above the Sasa layer was greatest in Qm and Mo, and lowest in Fc. Importance of Sasa was highest in Gap. Maximum height and the number of subcanopy individuals of F. crenata were greatest in Qm, followed by Mo, and lowest in Fc. Conclusions: Differences in canopy layer composition probably influence the regeneration of F. crenata both directly through their foliage phenologies, and also indirectly by determining the importance of Sasa.
3237119|Evergreen broad-leaved forest was studied in a transect on the northwestern slope of Mount Lopei in order to reveal altitudinal zonation in structure and floristic composition and the decisive environmental factors. 20 plots of 20 m x 20 m at altitudes from 540 m to 1320 m were analysed. 144 woody species were found. The results of a DCA ordination clearly pointed to a single dominant altitudinal gradient. Nevertheless, wind-exposure associated topography was found to account for additional variation for a given altitudinal range. Along the altitudinal gradient, four dominance-based forest types were recognized. Tree density, species diversity and evenness of the four types differed significantly but total basal area and tree volume were not significantly different. The 95 % turnover range for woody species as measured by the Community Coefficient was calculated as 1030 m, and the 50 % turnover range as 238 m. For the understorey, the change in species composition with altitude was less obvious. Species population structures of 57 sufficiently abundant species revealed four characteristic patterns, but most species showed a good fit to the negatively exponential or power function distribution and thus appeared to have good reproduction and regular recruitment. Both ANOVA and Redundancy Analysis (RDA) showed that significant differences among forest types were found for most soil variables. Organic C, exchangeable Na and K tended to increase with altitude, while pH and available N showed a reverse trend. There was little evidence that the differences in soil pH and available N were responsible for the variation in forest growth.
4499202| Questions: In a system of five annual plant species restricted to nest-mounds of the ant Lasius flavus in a perennial grassland: 1. Are the population dynamics influenced by ant disturbance? 2. Is the survival of the annuals at the scale of the whole grassland possible under the observed conditions of disturbance dynamics? 3. Which phases in the annuals' life cycle and patch types contribute most to population growth? Location: Bore hill, northern Czechia, 5031' N, 1359' E, 446 m a.s.l. Methods: Local population dynamics of the annuals were analysed separately for five patch types that differed in the proportion of bare soil. Vitality rates were assessed directly in the field, but also in a garden experiment, during 2000-2001 and 2001-2002. Population dynamics at the scale of the whole grassland was analysed with a megamatrix approach, combining patch dynamics of the nest-mounds with patch-specific population dynamics. Contributions of different phases and patch types to growth rate were estimated by elasticity analysis. Results: Nest-mounds differed in the percentage of bare soil. Increasing moss cover significantly reduced germination and seed production of all studied annuals and decreased their population growth rates (). Although successional processes dominated over ant disturbance, populations of all species could survive well (  1) in the grassland according to the 2000-2001 megamatrix dynamics. Based on the dynamics from the following period, two species would not survive in a long-term perspective due to random environmental variation. Whereas the A-A transition (adult plants originating from adults of the previous year) had the highest elasticity under open conditions and 'good period' demography, the importance of persistent seeds increased under reverse conditions. This, however, differed among species. Conclusions: Ant-disturbance was shown to be critical for the population survival of five annual species in the studied grassland. The fate of the annual populations in the grassland system also depends on random environmental variation, which may override the effect of ant activity. 
3236218|The age structure and growth patterns of 53 young conifer-hardwood stands on upland, south-facing sites of interior Alaska were analyzed to determine the length of time for stand establishment after disturbance, the composition of early-successional stands compared to existing stands, and the potential for late-successional stands dominated by conifers. Mixed stands of Picea glauca, Populus tremuloides and Betula papyrifera represented five plant community types and developed as single cohorts after stand-replacement fires. In the Populus tremuloides/Arctostaphylos uva-ursi and Populus tremuloides/Shepherdia canadensis community types, hardwoods established rapidly and Picea glauca established slowly. In contrast, stands in the Betula papyrifera-Populus tremuloides/ Viburnum edule, Betula papyrifera-Populus tremuloides/Alnus crispa, and Picea glauca-Betula papyrifera/Hylocomium splendens community types generally developed as a result of rapid, concurrent establishment of conifers and hardwoods. These single-cohort, mixed species development patterns are not consistent with continual establishment of conifers and are likely the result of unique life-history traits and frequent stand-replacement fires.
3236181| Four humid grassland communities at three different locations in Meghalaya, India were analysed during 1988 and 1989 for species and life-form composition, diversity and dominance in relation to altitude, soil and prevailing disturbances. Due to the adverse interactive influences of exceptionally high annual rainfall (> 10 000 mm), topography and human interference on soil fertility, the grassland at Cherrapunji, at 1300 m altitude, had a low species diversity (H = 1.74) and was dominated by three perennial grass species. Similar grasslands, at both higher and lower altitudes on fertile soil and with lower rainfall (ca. 2000 mm), showed higher diversity values (H = 2.28 at Burnihat and 2.31 at Upper Shillong). The proportion of perennial species and chamaephytes increased with elevation. At the high altitude site a grassland under short-term protection from fires and grazing had a higher species richness, density and basal cover than an unprotected grassland. All grasslands show a clear seasonality, albeit with different patterns, with a maximum in density and basal cover in August. The differences in structure and seasonality are discussed in terms of different levels of stress. 
4499178|Question: How many years must elapse for freshly fallen Picea abies stems to be transformed into a substrate for P. abies recruitment? Location: Natural sub-alpine spruce forest, 1200-1300 m a.s.l., western Carpathians, Poland. Methods: Coarse woody debris (CWD) was measured on nine plots with a total area of 4.3 ha. All individuals of P. abies regeneration growing on dead wood were counted and their age was estimated. Decay rate of logs was determined using dendrochronological cross-dating of samples from logs in different decay stages. Results: Although CWD covered only 4% of the forest floor, 43% of the saplings were growing on decaying logs and stumps. The highest abundance of P. abies recruitment occurs on logs 30-60 years after tree death, when wood is in decay stages no. 4-7 (on an 8 degree decay scale). However, much earlier colonization is possible. The first seedlings may germinate on a log during the second decade after tree death and survive for decades. Their slow growth is possibly due to the gradual progressive decomposition of wood. Conclusions: This study confirms the importance of decaying wood for P. abies recruitment. The decaying logs exhibit continuous and favourable conditions for the germination of P. abies seeds throughout their decay process. Logs, irrespective of their decay stage and age, are colonized by young seedlings. This recruitment bank is constantly renewed.
3237360|Two graphical models of plant competition, the 'ghost of competition past' and the 'hierarchical' model are compared using a greatly simplified individual-based forest dynamics simulation. Assumed fundamental niche shapes are used to determine the basic growth responses of the species, but competition alters the realized niche. Differences in the two models, amount of niche overlap, disturbance, and removal and invasion of species are examined in simulation experiments. Without disturbance, the realized niche responses reveal abrupt boundaries between species in all cases, and thus the responses are generally platykurtic to rectangular with little overlap. In some cases overlap through the extension of abundance of weaker competitors into the area of greater resources - dominated by better competitors but still within their fundamental niche - creates skewed distributions, as have been observed and simulated in the past. When species are removed or invade, the abrupt boundaries and the lack of difference in final response shape indicate that past removals may be difficult to detect. This difficulty may be important because former species may be influencing the responses that are observed in common non-equilibrium distributions. Even when assumptions favor the illustration of a competitive hierarchy, actual distributions and dynamics do not differentiate between it and a model of the ghost of competition past.
4096796|Question: Two questions were posed: 1. Can an independent measure of relative competitive ability be used to predict the abundance of species in mixtures? 2. Is the success of those predictions affected by low fertility (stress simulation) or clipping (disturbance simulation)? Location: Greenhouse at Carleton University, Ottawa, Canada. Methods: We collected adult plant ramets of 11 species from the field and transplanted one ramet of each species into 56 containers of 60 L. We applied a 4 x 2 factorial combination of fertilization (none, full nutrients except N, full nutrients except P, full nutrients) and clipping (no clipping, clipping to 10 cm above soil) with seven replicates of each treatment. After two growing seasons the above- and below-ground biomass of each species was determined. Results: Regression analyses uncovered a significant positive relationship between plant biomass (measured in this study) and relative competitive ability (as measured in an independent study) under all experimental conditions. Both the mean slope and mean R
3235924|Above-ground productivity of dominant freshwater, brackish, and salt-marsh species from the U.S. Gulf Coast was evaluated using both gas exchange techniques and harvest methods. Both techniques showed significant differences in productivity among the study species which represent major components of their respective communities. Estimates of net aerial primary productivity using the harvest method yielded 3683 g dw (dry weight) m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> for Spartina alterniflora (tall), 2008 g dw m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> for S. alterniflora (short), 3677 g dw m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> for S. patens and 1641 g dw m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> for Panicum hemitomon. Carbon balance estimated from gas exchange calculation yielded values approximately equivalent to a biomass accumulation of 6024 g dw m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> for S. alterniflora (tall), 3047 g dw m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> for S. alterniflora (short), 5702 g dw m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> for S. patens, and 2912 g dm<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> for P. hemitomon. The net aerial primary production was estimated to be approximately 61 % of total productivity in S. alterniflora (tall-form) and 66%o of total productivity in short-form, 64% in S. patens and 56% in P. hemitomon. The assimilation data also indicated that Spartina alterniflora and S. patens continue carbon fixation throughout the year while assimilation in Panicum hemitomon is absent due to lack of live leaves during the winter. Various aspects of harvest and gas exchange techniques are discussed.
3236348|This study evaluates the processes of recolonization of abandoned fields by native vegetation under conditions of intensive human activity (fire, intensive grazing, firewood cutting) in a semi-arid tropical region savanna of northern Cameroon. Secondary plant succession was studied in two series of formerly cultivated fields 1-35 yr after the beginning of the fallow period. Floristic changes and the dynamics of woody plant populations were compared between areas with vertisols (clay texture) and sandy soils, as a function of length of fallows. Vegetation changed continuously during the 35 years following field abandonment. However, a very abrupt break occurred between 6 and 10 yr, due to increasingly intense human pressure during this period. Up to that point, ecological models and mechanisms of succession presented in the literature are more or less confirmed by our results. Usually, secondary succession is blocked at a stage of wooded grassland as a result of human activities.
4499182|Question: How do spatial patterns and associations of canopy and understorey vegetation vary with spatial scale along a gradient of canopy composition in boreal mixed-wood forests, from younger Aspen stands dominated by Populus tremuloides and P. balsamifera to older Mixed and Conifer stands dominated by Picea glauca? Do canopy evergreen conifers and broad-leaved deciduous trees differ in their spatial relationships with understorey vegetation? Location: EMEND experimental site, Alberta, Canada. Methods: Canopy and understorey vegetation were sampled in 28 transects of 100 contiguous 0.5 m x 0.5 m quadrats in three forest stand types. Vegetation spatial patterns and relationships were analysed using wavelets. Results: Boreal mixed-wood canopy and understorey vegetation are patchily distributed at a range of small spatial scales. The scale of canopy and understorey spatial patterns generally increased with increasing conifer presence in the canopy. Associations between canopy and understorey were highly variable among stand types, transects and spatial scales. Understorey vascular plant cover was generally positively associated with canopy deciduous tree cover and negatively associated with canopy conifer tree cover at spatial scales from 5-15 m. Understorey non-vascular plant cover and community composition were more variable in their relationships with canopy cover, showing both positive and negative associations at a range of spatial scales. Conclusions: The spatial structure and relation of boreal mixed-wood canopy and understorey vegetation varied with spatial scale. Differences in understorey spatial structure among stand types were consistent with a nucleation model of patch dynamics during succession in boreal mixed-wood forests.
23012732|Question: Knowledge of the interaction between understorey herb and overstorey tree layer diversity is mostly restricted to temperate forests. How do tree layer diversity and environmental variables affect herb layer attributes in subtropical forests and do these relationships change in the course of succession? Do abundance and diversity of woody saplings within the herb layer shift during succession? Location: Subtropical broad-leaved forests in southeast China (29818291729N, 1182141181112E). Methods: A full inventory of the herb layer including all plants below 1-m height was done in 27 plots (10  10 m) from five successional stages ( < 20, < 40, < 60, < 80 and 80 yr). We quantified the contribution of different life forms (herbaceous, woody and climber species) to herb layer diversity and productivity and analysed effects of environmental variables and tree layer diversity on these attributes. Results: Herb layer composition followed a successional gradient, as revealed by non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS), but diversity was not correlated to the successional gradient. There was no correlation of diversity across layers. Herb layer productivity was neither affected by tree layer diversity nor by herb layer diversity. Although abundance of woody species in the herb layer decreased significantly during succession, woody species contributed extraordinarily to herb layer species diversity in all successional stages. All environmental factors considered had little impact on herb layer attributes. Conclusions: The subtropical forest investigated displays an immense richness of woody species in the herb layer while herbaceous species are less prominent. Species composition of the herb layer shows a clear successional pattern, however, the presence or absence of certain species appears to be random.
3236072|Salinity and water regime have previously been recognised as the main environmental factors controlling the abundance of coastal submerged macrophytes in temporarily-flooded marshes in the Camargue. The effects of these environmental variables, which are considered interrelated, are tested experimentally by subjecting experimental macrophyte communities from six temporarily flooded marshes to different levels of salinity (from 0 to 6 g/l Cl<sup>-</sup>). Communities subjected to high salinity levels (4 and 6 g/l Cl<sup>-</sup>) showed a decrease in species richness and in biomass of all species involved. The species that most frequently dominate these communities, Chara aspera and Zannichellia pedunculata, are tolerant of salt and dominate over the entire salinity range. Three species groups can be distinguished based on the distribution of their biomass and centre of gravity of distribution over the salinity range: (1) non-salt-tolerant species, 'glycophytes', (2) moderately salt-tolerant species and (3) very tolerant species ('halophytes'). A species ordination based on the experiments appeared to give results close to those previously obtained from field data.
3236048|Conventional levels of organization in ecology can be hierarchically ordered, but there is not necessarily a time or space scale-dependent difference between the classes: cell, organism, population, community, ecosystem, landscape, biome and biosphere. The physical processes that ecological systems must obey are strictly scaled in time and space, but communities or ecosystems may be either large or small. Conventional levels of organization are not scale-dependent, but are criteria for telling foreground from background, or the object from its context. We erect a scheme that separates scale-ordered levels from the conventional levels of organization. By comparing landscapes, communities and ecosystems all at the same scale, we find that communities and ecosystems do not map onto places on the landscape. Rather, communities and ecosystems are wave interference patterns between processes and organisms interfering with and accomodating to each other, even though they occur at different scales on the landscape, and so have different periodicities in their waved behavior. Population members are usually commensurately scaled and so do not generally interact to give interference patterns. Populations are therefore tangible, or at least can be assigned a location at an instant in time.
3235570|This paper describes secondary revegetation and biological turnover development on coal-mining spoils. Qualitative and quantitative changes in species composition, rate of succession, formation of plant biomass structure and net primary production are described for revegetation stages with an undisturbed meadow system as a reference. The development of biological turnover in grasslands has four stages. The first stage is characterized by the growth of weedy species, high above-ground standing crop and production and low below-ground production. The second stage includes the establishment of perennial grasses, a decrease in the above-ground plant biomass and production, an increase of the below-ground living and dead root mass, formation of the plant material structure (distribution of plant material among the compartments of the ecosystem) close to steady-state pattern, the approach to the balance between net primary production and organic matter decomposition. During the third stage a mature species composition is formed and below-ground production increases up to the steady-state level. At the fourth stage the humus storage reaches its steady-state value.
25173148|Question: Are soil properties and topographic variation related with palm (Arecaceae) species composition and distribution patterns? If so, are species distribution patterns consistent across sites? Location: 100-200 m a.s.l, non-inundated Amazonian rainforest, NE Peru. Methods: One 0.65-ha line transect divided into 5 m by 5 m subunits was inventoried for all palm individuals at each site. Soil samples were collected, and topography was measured. Results: A total of 56 palm taxa were recorded. Floristic similarity among transects clearly corresponded with similarity in soil cation content when species abundances were taken into account, but less so when only presence-absence data were used. Taxon-wise distribution analyses were done for the 37 most abundant palm taxa. Quite a few of these taxa proved not to be randomly distributed along the transects, but instead were clearly more abundant in some topographic positions than in others. However, the consistency of the distribution patterns across study sites proved to be rather low, and many of the palm taxa showed different distribution patterns at different sites. Conclusions: The ambiguity in distribution patterns across study sites may partly be due to the complexity of topography as a measure of ecological conditions, and the probability that it is related to the variation in different environmental variables at different sites.
3235755|Savanna-grassland ecosystems are highly interactive due to effects among interconnected trophic elements. This can cause disturbance at one level in the trophic web to be propagated through that web to have effects far removed from the initial locus of disturbance. The reconstructed effects of rinderpest upon African savannas, acting directly upon susceptible grazers and browsers but indirectly upon many other ecosystem components, are used as a case history illustrating the propagation of disturbance in savanna ecosystems.
3236568|Although ordinal data are not rare in ecology, ecological studies have, until now, seriously neglected the use of specific ordinal regression models. Here, we present three models - the Proportional Odds, the Continuation Ratio and the Stereotype models - that can be successfully applied to ordinal data. Their differences and respective fields of application are discussed. Finally, as an example of application, PO models are used to predict spatial abundance of plant species in a Geographical Information System. It shows that ordinal models give as good a result as binary logistic models for predicting presence-absence, but are additionally able to predict abundance satisfactorily.
3237008|An integrated analysis of the colonization patterns of forest plant species was carried out in a 34-ha, mixed deciduous forest in northern Belgium. First, we sought to describe the relationships between land use history and environmental conditions. Land use history and soil type were related and negative correlations between pH and secondary forest age were found. The density of the shrub layer increases with secondary forest age. Litter quantity and cover of Urtica dioica were mainly indirectly influenced by land use history. Litter starts accumulating at low pH values and high shrub density and Urtica dioica grows vigorously on nutrient enriched soils where much light can reach the ground. Next, the importance of these human-altered environmental conditions for the colonization of forest plant species was assessed relative to the importance of dispersal limitation. Therefore, the distribution of 16 forest species was mapped and species-specific spatio-temporal isolation measures were calculated. The analysis revealed that the colonization patterns of the slowly colonizing species (i.e. 'ancient forest plant species') are best explained by a combination of spatio-temporal isolation, soil type, pH and the (non-)cover of Urtica dioica. By contrast, spatio-temporal isolation was never a limiting factor for good colonizing forest species. Our results suggest that colonization of 'ancient forest plant species' is hampered by a combination of dispersal and recruitment limitation and that the relative importance of both factors is species-specific.
3236660|Piovesan & Adams (2000) criticized the EUROFLUX network of carbon flux measurements based on the assumption that the results were 'surprising', as they appeared to contradict the generally accepted relationship that rates of soil and plant respiration increase with increasing temperature. The EUROFLUX studies showed an overall opposite trend, with higher rates of ecosystem respiration at the cooler, northern latitudes. In this paper the concept of 'surprising' results in ecology is reviewed and the original claims of Piovesan & Adams reassessed. It is concluded that results from the EUROFLUX network do not contradict the established respiration/temperature relationship for at least two reasons. First, ecosystem respiration is the net outcome of a wide range of underlying processes and a simple respiration/ temperature relationship may not be observed if other non-temperature dependent processes dominate. Second, relatively higher temperatures at the northern hemisphere sites during the period over which the EUROFLUX observations were made are consistent with the hypothesis that the measured fluxes reflect a non-equilibrium, transient loss of carbon. It is further concluded that the potential importance of inter-year variability for determining short-term patterns of carbon flux may provide the key to reconciling the temperature/respiration relationship highlighted by Piovesan & Adams, and the latitudinal respiration trends evident in the EUROFLUX results.
3236132|Empirical ecological response surfaces were derived for eight dominant tree species in the boreal forest region of Canada. Stepwise logistic regression was used to model species dominance as a response to five climatic predictor variables. The predictor variables (annual snowfall, degree-days, absolute minimum temperature, annual soil moisture deficit, and actual evapotranspiration summed over the summer months) influence the response of plants more directly than the annual or monthly measures of temperature and precipitation commonly used in response surface modeling. The response surfaces provided estimates of the probability of species dominance across the spatial extent of North America with a high degree of success. Much of the variation in the probability of dominance is apparently related to the species' individualistic response to climatic constraints within different airmass regions. A forest type classification for the Canadian boreal forest region was derived by a cluster analysis based on the probability estimates. Five major forest types were distinguished by the application of a stopping rule. The predicted forest types showed a high degree of geographic correspondence with the distribution of forest types in the actual vegetation mosaic. The distribution of the predicted types also bears a direct relationship to seasonal airmass dynamics in the boreal forest region.
3235921|An experiment was set up in a Quercus coccifera garrigue in southern France to analyze the effect of burning frequency and season on phytomass production. Fire regimes consisted of late spring or early autumn burns, every 6 yr, every 3 yr, or every 2 yr. The experiment started in 1969 and lasted for 19 yr. In May 1981 and May 1987, 10 samples, each 1 m<sup>2</sup>, were harvested per treatment. Fire frequency had an effect on the quantity of phytomass which was produced: above-ground phytomass decreased with increasing fire frequency. This was mainly due to the lower biomass of woody plants. In all burning treatments the phytomass of herbs was higher than in the unburned vegetation. Within each burning frequency, the total phytomass of the spring-burned vegetation was always higher than that of the autumn-burned community. Generally, the herb phytomass produced was higher in the autumn-burned plots. There were two fairly distinct phases in the period following fire, each with a different level of annual phytomass production. For the first six years it was about 300 g m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>, falling thereafter to about 50 g m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. This and other studies on Q. coccifera garrigue indicate that this community is very resilient with respect to fire, but possesses a low productive capacity and does not show any sign of degeneration up to 30 yr old.
25173159|A recent perspective paper offered by Krner essentially argued that 'limitation' and 'stress' are functionally useless terms for ecology except perhaps within limited contexts such as plant physiology or agriculture. We strongly disagree, and to this end argue that, although stress is not as precise as other concepts in ecology and is probably more difficult to apply to communities than to individuals, if ecologists want to communicate in a meaningful and interesting way about the distribution and abundance of species, we have to use multi-purpose terminology that allows us to scale from reductionistic, strictly quantifiable levels of analysis to more general conceptual levels. Here, we revisit the main arguments presented against these concepts and use three lines of counter-argument to support our conclusion that limitation and stress are necessary concepts for organizing and integrating general ecological inquiry. We discuss (1) the role of interactions between individuals in changing the limitation experienced by a species, (2) the importance of delineating whether stress is being applied to individuals or to the community, and (3) the evolutionary argument that fitness is never perfect since even adapted species are likely limited to some degree by the environment.
3236562|This paper discusses the use of Plant Functional Types to describe vegetation types - from plant communities to formations - in order to understand the ecological constraints of plants and plant communities on a higher level of abstraction. The terminology around plant functional types, traits and strategies is in need of further clarification and unification. The use of the term plant functional type is recommended. We are in need of a total environmental framework in which, hierarchically or reticulately, plant functional types can be compared and interpreted.
25549255|Questions: Have forest dynamics changed significantly in intact Amazon rainforests since the early 1980s? If so, what environmental drivers might potentially be responsible? Location: Central Amazonia, north of Manaus, Brazil. Methods: Within 20 1-ha plots scattered over 300 km, all trees ( 10 cm diameter at breast height) were marked, identified, and measured five times between 1981 and 2003. We estimated stand-level dynamics (mortality, recruitment, and growth) for each census interval and evaluated weather parameters over the study period. Results: We observed a widespread, significant increase in tree mortality across our plots. Tree recruitment also rose significantly over time but lagged behind mortality. Tree growth generally accelerated but varied considerably among census intervals, and was lowest when mortality was highest. Tree basal area rose 4% overall, but stem number exhibited no clear trend. In terms of climate variation, annual maximum and minimum temperatures increased significantly during our study. Rainfall anomalies were strongly and positively associated with ENSO events. Conclusions: The increasing forest dynamics, growth, and basal area observed are broadly consistent with the CO fertilization hypothesis. However, pronounced shorter-term variability in stand dynamics might be associated with climatic vicissitudes. Tree mortality peaked, and tree recruitment and growth declined during atypically wet periods. Tree growth was fastest during dry periods, when reduced cloudiness might have increased available solar radiation. Inferences about causality are tenuous because tree data were collected only at multi-year intervals. Mean temperatures and rainfall seasonality have both increased over time in central Amazonia, and these could potentially have long-term effects on forest dynamics and carbon storage.
3236148|As part of a wider study examining regeneration pathways in monsoon rain forest vegetation in northern Australia, the dormant component of the soil seed bank was assessed by storing soil samples for over six dry season months, before watering in shade-house trials. Six soil samples were collected from each of 34 sites broadly representative of the range of regional monsoon rain forest vegetation. Four floristic seed bank groups were derived through TWINSPAN classification. Mean group densities of germinants ranged from 25-144/m<sup>2</sup>. Dormant seed banks were least dense, and most sparsely distributed, in sandy soils. Seed bank samples were dominated by woody pioneer monsoon rain forest species, especially figs; exotic weeds and savanna taxa (e.g. Poaceae) were relatively more common at seasonally dry sites. Dormant seed banks comprised species mostly present in the standing vegetation, although a small number of germinants represented species not growing at half the sites. Regeneration of woody pioneers from dormant seed banks is least likely to be of importance on infertile, seasonally dry sites.
3237359|Analysis of pollen, charcoal and loss-on-ignition in peat cores from a Picea abies-dominated swamp forest in central Sweden show the vegetation changes and disturbance patterns over 9500 yr. Six major sequences of local vegetation development are identified: (A) Pinus period, ca. 9500 - 7000 cal. BP; (B) Open mire period (ca. 7000 - 4500 cal. BP; (C) Betula period, ca. 4500 - 2300 cal. BP; (D) Picea period (ca. 2300 - 1000 cal. BP; (E) Human impact period (ca. 1000 - 100 cal. BP); and (F) Period of human abandonment during the last ca. 100 yr. The swamp forest has been highly dynamic in response to various natural and anthropogenic disturbance agencies. Several fires have heavily influenced the vegetation development. During the last ca. 900 yr human influence has been important, initially from grazing and trampling by domesticated animals (ca. 1000 - 500 cal. BP), and subsequently small-scale cereal growing (ca. 400 - 100 BP). Cutting, burning and animal browsing influenced the structure and dynamics of the swamp forest by creating a more open stand and suppressing tree regeneration. Recent cessation of human impact has led to increased tree regeneration and a denser swamp forest stand. The present high biodiversity, and subsequent conservation interest does not result from long-term stability or absence of fire and human impact. However, in spite of repeated disturbances, a continuity of old and senescent trees produced a forest type with abundant dead wood. With the relatively minor importance of fire over long periods of time, the swamp forest developed a structure maintaining a high biological diversity. An important issue for maintaining long-term biodiversity in the boreal landscape must be to create a mosaic where different forest types are present, with a variety of structures, substrates and processes, to provide a certain degree of freedom for species to move around in the landscape.
4499299|Question: We studied the interactive effects of grazing and dwarf shrub cover on the structure of a highly diverse annual plant community. Location: Mediterranean, semi-arid shrubland in the Northern Negev desert, Israel. Methods: Variation in the biomass and plant density of annual species in the shrub and open patches was monitored during four years, inside and outside exclosures protected from sheep grazing, in two contrasting topographic sites: north and south-facing slopes that differed in their dominant dwarf shrubs species: Sarcopoterium spinosus and Corydothymus capitatus, respectively. Results: Above-ground biomass, density and richness of annual species were lower under the canopy of both shrub species compared to the adjacent open patches in the absence of grazing. Grazing reduced the biomass of annuals in open patches of both topographic sites, but not in the shrub patches. On the north-facing slope, grazing also reduced plant density and richness in the open patches, but increased plant density in the shrub patches. At the species level, various response patterns to the combined effects of grazing and patch type were exhibited by different annuals. Protection against the direct impacts of grazing by shrub cover as well as species-specific interactions between shrubs and annuals were observed. A conceptual mechanistic model explaining these interactions is proposed. Conclusion: In semi-arid Mediterranean shrublands grazing and dwarf shrub cover interact in shaping the structure of the annual plant community through (1) direct impacts of grazing restricted to the open patches, (2) species-specific facilitation/interference occurring in the shrub patches and (3) subsequent further processes occurring among the interconnected shrub and open patches mediated through variation in seed flows between patches.
3236345|Seed heteromorphism in annual Geigeria alata in the Namib Desert was investigated in relation to environmental conditions. Geigeria alata shows heteromorphism in seed dispersal distance depending on the position of the seeds on the parent plant. Seeds produced in capitula on branches (aerial) travel long distances, while seeds produced at the base of the plant remain in the vicinity of the parent plant. The ratio of aerial to basal seed production was investigated under different environmental conditions following an aridity gradient. Although there were significant differences in seed and capitula production between seasons and between different positions on the plant, no overall trend was found with increasing aridity.
3236805|Succession was studied on plots with the upper soil horizon removed in an area affected by acidic air pollution in the Krusne Hory Mts., Czech Republic. 10 permanent 1-m<sup>2</sup> plots were marked and vegetation recorded annually using a grid of 100 subplots from 1989 to 1995. Constrained ordination analyses showed that soil texture is the most important environmental factor influencing the course of succession. Its effect on species composition increases with successional age of the plant community. On fine-grained soils species-poor communities dominated by grasses (Calamagrostis villosa, Deschampsia flexuosa) and on coarse-grained soils species-rich communities dominated by heather (Calluna vulgaris) developed. Succession proceeded from communities where species composition was determined by diaspore availability towards communities where species composition depended on environmental conditions. Successional communities after 10 yr are more dependent on soil characteristics and consequently environmental determination increases over the course of succession and causes the communities to diverge.
4499165|Questions: What are the most relevant environmental variables influencing the distribution and the species richness of epiphytic lichens in heterogeneous areas of the Mediterranean region? What is the relative importance of substrate- vs. environmental-related variables? How do climatic and disturbance factors interact? Location: The study was carried out in the Liguria region (northwestern Italy). This is a complex region where steep environmental gradients occur over a few kilometres of longitude and latitude. Methods: Data on lichen species frequencies, collected on the basis of stratified random sampling, were analyzed using non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMS) and DCA. Indicator Value Analysis (IVA) analysis was used to find indicator species for the environmental predictors. Results: In the survey area, epiphytic lichen distribution depends on both substrate- and environment-related factors. Climatic variables (in particular average yearly temperature and rainfall), anthropogenic pressures (particularly harvesting and atmospheric pollution), bark pH and texture were associated with the main axes of variability in the dataset. Mean annual rainfall is the best predictor for epiphytic lichen richness in the survey area. The particular effects of the Mediterranean region (e.g. the influence of forest fires) and of heterogeneous areas (the variability of diversity in relation to habitat) were pointed out. Several indicator species, closely linked to particular ecological conditions, were found for both substrate- and environment-related variables. Conclusions: The main variables involved seemed to be the same reported for other areas, but their relative importance and their spatial scale of action were in some cases different, probably due to the geomorphological and climatic heterogeneity of the survey area. The significant influence of climatic predictors and disturbance factors on epiphytic lichens was confirmed, suggesting that these organisms may be used successfully to describe ecological trends in natural environments, also providing practical information at ecosystem level.
4096691| Question: What is the composition, ecology and distribution of the main plant communities on Santiago Island? Location: Santiago Island (Cape Verde archipelago). Methods: 308 plots were established using a stratified sampling system according to habitat type; random sampling was employed in each habitat type. Floristic and ecological (topographic, edaphic, climatic and land use) data were collected and analysed using classification and ordination methods and regression analysis. Results: The classification results led to the recognition of ten plant communities. Ordination pointed to the importance of altitudinal gradient, slope angle and soil moisture in vegetation variation, as well as some categories of land use, land form or soil type. Regression analysis of sample distributions in ordination space and altitude, according to the two main types of slope aspect - leeward vs. windward - produced altitude differences of ca. 100 m. Variation in rainfall proved more effective at lower altitudes, resulting in the differentiation of more vegetation belts. Slope angle proved to be more important for vegetation differentiation when values exceeded 40, particularly at medium and higher altitudes. Plant communities are mainly dominated by herbaceous annual species, many of which are exotic. Conclusions: Two main phyto-ecological zones can be distinguished: a xerophilous zone (up to 300/400 m) and a mesophilous zone (above 300/400 m). The zonal communities (four mesophilous and three xerophilous) were distributed in altitudinal belts (mainly reflected in a precipitation gradient); different altitudinal ranges were estimated for these communities according to aspect. The two hygrophilous and one psammophilous communities presented an azonal distribution. 
3237206| We studied the differentiation diversity (-diversity or species turnover) patterns of the three main cactus growth forms (columnar, opuntioid and globose) in 318 (1 x 1) squares covering Argentina. We analysed the degree of association between species turnover of each growth form with the spatial variation of a set of 15 environmental variables. Species turnover was estimated in two ways: (1) by calculating species turnover along latitudinal and longitudinal gradients and (2) by evaluating the species turnover between each square and its eight surrounding neighbouring grid cells. For the three growth forms, species turnover in latitudinal transects was mostly related to the mean within-transect values of certain environmental variables, while in longitudinal transects it was related to the variation of some environmental variables within the transect rather than to their mean values. For columnar species, transect species turnover was mainly associated with variation in temperature, confirming the temperature-sensivity of this growth form. For opuntioid species, turnover along transects was mainly related to topographic variables. In the case of globose cacti, transect turnover was associated with variation in temperature and rainfall. For the three growth forms, areas of high turnover coincided with marked transitions between different biogeographic provinces, while the areas with lowest species turnover coincide with topographically and climatically uniform plains. Species turnover between individual squares was positively associated with the proportion of summer rainfall in globose cacti, the variation of mean annual temperature in columnar cacti and was negatively related to mean annual temperature in opuntioid cacti. Compared to the other growth forms, globose cacti presented a much larger proportion of squares with a high species turnover. In general, differentiation diversity was lower for the opuntioid and the columnar species, two growth forms with higher dispersal ability and was highest for the globose cacti, which have the lowest dispersal capacity. Environmentally heterogeneous areas, where large-scale transitions between biomes occur, have exceptionally high species turnover, and are important target areas for the conservation of biodiversity. 
3236692|We compared the species composition and species density of vascular plants in the understorey vegetation of boreal forest between Picea mariana (Black spruce) and Populus tremuloides (Trembling aspen) stands in British Columbia, Canada, and related differences in species composition and species density between the two forest types to dominant canopy tree species as well as a wide variety of environmental factors. We analysed 231 stands, distributed in three different climatic regions representing drier, wetter, and milder variations of montane boreal climate. Of these stands 118 were dominated by P. mariana and 113 by P. tremuloides. P. tremuloides stands had higher species density than P. mariana stands in all climatic regions, but species density of each dominance type varied among climatic regions. The floristic composition of the understorey vegetation was markedly different for P. mariana and P. tremuloides dominated stands. A detailed study on the effect of canopy dominance and local environmental factors on the understorey vegetation of the boreal forest was conducted using 88 stands from one of the three climatic regions. Using a combination of ordination and variation partitioning by constrained ordination we demonstrated a small but unique effect of canopy dominance type on the understorey vegetation, while a larger amount of compositional variation was shared with other factors. Our results accord with a scenario in which differences in primary environmental factors and humus form properties, the latter accentuated by the canopy dominants themselves, are the most important causes of higher species density in P. tremuloides stands than in P. mariana stands, as well as differences in species composition among the two canopy dominance types. Processes and time scales involved in the small but significant direct and indirect effects of the canopy dominant on understorey species composition are discussed.
3235812| Within different stands of the white-water inundation forest (vrzea forest) in the Central Amazon region, composition, abundance, frequency and basal area of tree species were recorded. Determinations of age and radial growth rates were conducted using dendrochronological methods. Results show significant differences in age, history and species composition between stands as well as different growth strategies among dominant species. Assignment of tree species to growth strategies by means of anatomical and morphological features together with quantitative aspects of vegetational analysis permit the further differentiation of successional stages of vrzea forests. General features of successional stages were quantitatively described and compared with forest types from outside the vrzea. Many tree species of the vrzea forests are widespread in South America, and not limited to floodplains. Their occurrence on sites with distinct dry seasons suggests that they are not specifically adapted to flooding but are tolerant to seasonality in general. 
3235728| A new scheme of altitudinal and latitudinal vegetation zonation is proposed for eastern Asia. The latitudinal patterns of mountain vegetation zonation show a clear boundary at ca. 20 - 30 N. For the tropical mountains south of 20 N, the altitudinal series includes tropical lowland, tropical lower montane, and tropical upper montane zones. For the temperate mountains north of 30 N, the series includes temperate lowland, temperate lower montane, and temperate upper montane zones. The mountains located between 20 and 30 N show a transitional zonation pattern; the lower two zones are comparable to the lower two of the tropical zonation (tropical lowland and tropical lower montane), and the upper two zones are comparable to those of the temperate zonation (temperate lower montane and temperate upper montane). The tropical upper montane zone is not found north of 20 - 30 N, while the tropical lower montane zone reaches down to sea level and constitutes the temperate lowland zone. Thus the zonation between 20 and 30 N includes tropical lowland, tropical lower montane/temperate lowland, temperate lower montane, and temperate upper montane zones. The latitudinal series of lowland rain forests follows the scheme of climatic division into tropical, subtropical/warmtemperate, cool-temperate and cold-temperate, with a shift of the respective life forms, evergreen, evergreen notophyllous, deciduous, and evergreen needle-leaved. The tropical lower montane forest can be correlated to the horizontal subtropical/ warm-temperate zone. The temperate altitudinal and latitudinal zonations above 30 N are correlated and show an inclined parallel pattern from high altitudes in the south to low altitudes down to sea level in the north. 
3236958|In late successions of the boreal forest of northern Sweden the evergreen dwarf shrub Empetrum hermaphroditum forms an extensive cover and is believed to spread mainly vegetatively through layering. To analyse the process of population establishment and the relative importance of sexual vs asexual reproduction and the spatial clonal distribution of this species we selected one mainland and two island sites of different post-fire successional ages (145, 375 and 1720 yr since last fire, respectively). Using 61 polymorphic RAPD markers, we found 96 genotypes in a total of 133 samples. All three populations showed high levels of genetic variation. AMOVA analysis revealed that 33% of the total variation resided among sites, 26% resided among plots within sites and 41% was due to variation within plots. The youngest population had only 14% clonal fraction. In contrast, the oldest population had > 30% clonal fraction and many genets had dimensions of 10-40 m and were intermingled. It appears that E. hermaphroditum establishes by seeds to a larger extent than previously thought and that the clonal spread by layering is rather slow.
40925547|Question: Is there a pattern in growth of annual rings in roots of perennial forbs in relation to climate and climate extremes in grassland ecosystems? Location: Semi-arid grassland in Duolun (4227'N,11641'E, 1380m a.s.l.), central Inner Mongolia, China. Methods: Main roots of three perennial species, Potentilla anserina L., Cymbaria dahurica L. and Lespedeza daurica Schindl., were sampled. Crosssections (10-15-m thick) were produced from the proximal end of sampled roots using a sledge microtome.Annual growth rings in the main roots were identified and measured by differentiating between earlywood and latewood in the secondary xylem.Relationships between annual growth rings and monthly mean temperature and total monthly precipitation were identified using correlation analysis. Differences in an annual ring width to the previous and following years were examined by calculating a distinctness score. Results: The three perennial forbs showed clearly demarcated annual growth rings in all individuals and the same fluctuation patterns. Their ring widths were generally positively correlated with precipitation from April to October (except for August) and with temperature from February to June (except June for L. daurica), September to October, and the annual mean. Strong deviations of annual ring widths from their neighbour rings were observed in 1998 and 2000. The trend of absolute distinctness scores (D m ) increased significantly from 1988 to 2003, indicating an increase in the frequency of annual ring width variation. Conclusions: Annual growth rings in the main roots of three perennial forb species can be used as an indicator of the influence of climate on belowground grassland growth. The change in belowground conditions and effects on the functioning of grassland should receive more attention in future studies.
3236750|We calculated annual mean stem volume increment (AMSVI) and total litter fall to produce forest net primary production (NPP) maps at 1-km<sup>2</sup> and half-degree resolutions in Finland and Sweden. We used a multi-scale methodology to link field inventory data reported at plot and forestry district levels through a remotely sensed total plant biomass map derived from 1-km<sup>2</sup> AVHRR image. Total litter fall was estimated as function of elevation and latitude. Leaf litter fall, a surrogate for fine root production, was estimated from total litter fall by forest type. The gridded NPP estimates agreed well with previously reported NPP values, based on point measurements. Regional NPP increases from northeast to southwest. It is positively related to annual mean temperature and annual mean total precipitation (strongly correlated with temperature) and is negatively related to elevation at broad scale. Total NPP (TNPP) values for representative cells selected based on three criteria were highly correlated with simulated values from a process-based model (CEVSA) at 0.5 x 0.5 resolution. At 1-km<sup>2</sup> resolution, mean above-ground NPP in the region was 408 g/m<sup>2</sup>/yr ranging from 172 to 1091 (standard deviation (SD) = 134). Mean TNPP was 563 (252 to 1426, SD = 176). Ranges and SD were reduced while the mean values of the estimated NPP stayed almost constant as cell size increased from km<sup>2</sup> to 0.5 x 0.5, as expected. Nordic boreal forests seem to have lower productivity among the world boreal forests.
40295801|Questions: How do species composition and abundance of soil seed bank and standing vegetation vary over the course of a post-fire succession in northern heathlands? What is the role of seed banksdo they act as a refuge for early successional species or can they simply be seen as a spillover from the extant local vegetation? Location: Coastal Calluna heathlands, Western Norway. Methods: We analysed vegetation and seed bank along a 24-year post-fire chronosequence. Patterns in community composition, similarity and abundances were tested using multivariate analyses, S0rensen's index of similarity, vegetation cover (%) and seedling counts. Results: The total diversity of vegetation and seed bank were 60 and 54 vascular plant taxa, respectively, with 39 shared species, resulting in 68% similarity overall. Over 24 years, the heathland community progressed from open newly burned ground via species rich graminoid-and herb-dominated vegetation to mature Calluna heath. Post-fire succession was not reflected in the seed bank. The 10 most abundant species constituted 98% of the germinated seeds. The most abundant were Calluna vulgaris (49%; 12018 seeds m ) and Erica tetralix (34%; 8 414 seeds m ). Calluna showed significantly higher germination the first 2 years following fire. Conclusions: Vegetation species richness, ranging from 23 to 46 species yr showed a unimodal pattern over the post-fire succession. In contrast, the seed bank species richness, ranging from 21 to 31 species yr showed no trend. This suggests that the seed bank act as a refuge; providing a constant source of recruits for species that colonise newly burned areas. The traditional management regime has not depleted or destroyed the seed banks and continued management is needed to ensure sustainability of northern heathlands.
4499232| Question: Our study aimed at testing to what extent water and/or nutrients affect community composition in sub-alpine heath. We hypothesized that nutrient addition will have an overall positive effect on heath vegetation but water addition will have greater effects and will probably reinforce the effects of fertilization in drier habitat conditions. Location: Monte Rondinaio, northern Apennines, Italy (4408' N; 1035' E, ca. 1850-1930 m a.s.l.). Methods: Nutrients and water were added during five growing seasons in two communities (HV community, moister; EV community, drier) and the biomass of all species was estimated non-destructively by the point-quadrat method. Results: Total above-ground biomass increased in both communities with fertilization due to increased graminoid biomass and decreased moss biomass, but was unaffected by irrigation. In the HV community species richness decreased as an effect of fertilization while in the EV community species richness was raised by irrigation. Conclusions: Our study partly supported our hypothesis since water addition had a stronger effect in the drier community. However, this effect was not revealed by changes in above-ground biomass but rather by differing responses of individual species in the two communities. 
3236715|The decline of deciduous woodland populations of Anemone hepatica L. in southern Sweden is documented and possible causes are discussed. The study was based on (1) reinvestigations of 6.25 km<sup>2</sup> grid-squares first studied in 1938-1970, (2) distribution of A. hepatica in woodland sites with well-known soil chemical properties and (3) a detailed study over 12 consecutive years into the relationships between biological characteristics of the species (number of individuals, vegetative development, flowering frequency) and environmental variables (temperature, precipitation), soil chemistry and time. There was a close relationship between soil acidity (pH, solubility of Al<sup>3+</sup>) and both distribution and biological characteristics. The biological variables declined significantly over time but were not related to climatic variability. Increasing soil acidity and Al<sup>3+</sup> solubility are concluded to be the main factors responsible for the decline of A. hepatica in S. Swedish deciduous woodlands.
3237304|Several species of Araucaria and Agathis (Araucariaceae) occur as canopy emergents in rain forests of the western pacific region, often representing major components of total stand biomass. New data from permanent forest plots (and other published work) for three species (Araucaria hunsteinii from New Guinea, A. laubenfelsii from New Caledonia, and Agathis australis from New Zealand) are used to test the validity of the temporal stand replacement model proposed by Ogden (1985) and Ogden & Stewart (1995) to explain the structural and compositional properties of New Zealand rain forests containing the conifer Agathis australis. Here we propose the model as a general one which explains the stand dynamics of rain forests with Araucariaceae across a range of sites and species in the western Pacific. Forest stands representing putative stages in the model were examined for changes through time in species recruitment, growth and survivorship, and stand richness, density and basal area. Support for the model was found on the basis of: 1. Evidence for a phase of massive conifer recruitment following landscape-scale disturbances (e.g. by fire at the Huapai site, New Zealand for Agathis australis); 2. Increasing species richness of angiosperm trees in the pole stage of forest stand development (i.e. as the initial cohort of conifers reach tree size; > 10 cm DBH); 3. A high turnover rate for angiosperms (< 100 yr), and low turnover for conifers (>>100 yr) in the pole stage, but similar turnover rates for both components (50-100 yr) as forests enter the mature to senescent phase for the initial conifer cohort; 4. Very low rates of recruitment for conifers within mature stands, and projected forest compositions which show increasing dominance by angiosperm tree species; 5. A low probability of conifer recruitment in large canopy gaps created by conifer tree falls during the initial cohort senescent phase, which could produce a second generation low density stand in the absence of landscape scale disturbance; 6. Evidence that each of the three species examined required open canopy conditions (canopy openness > 10 %) for successful recruitment. The evidence presented here supports the temporal stand replacement model, but more long-term supporting data are needed, especially for the phase immediately following landscape level disturbance.
3235896|Dominance/diversity curves, displaying the relative abundances of the species within a community, have often been constructed from field data. Several ecological and statistical models of dominance/diversity have been proposed, to explain the curves. Yet, rarely have curves of different models been fitted to field data. In this paper the appropriate parameters and methods of curve fitting for plant communities are described for the General Lognormal, Canonical Lognormal, Geometric, Broken Stick, Zipf and Zipf-Mandelbrot models. Distinction is made between fixed and optimised parameters, to clarify parameterisation of the models. It is concluded that all should be fitted by minimising the deviance in a ranked-abundance plot. Statistical tests of goodness of fit are discussed. It is concluded that consistency of fit between replicate quadrats of a community provide the best test. Curves of all the models discussed are fitted to data from a species-rich Spanish hay meadow, and to data from a New Zealand intertidal algal community. The Spanish meadow data are best fitted by General Lognormal. The New Zealand algal data are best fitted by Geometric or General Lognormal. Goodness of fit for a sample is usually relatively good or poor for all models, since much of the deviance comes from steps in the curve which none of the models can fit closely.
3237301|In 1964 a census of all trees > 9.7 cm diameter at breast height (DBH) was conducted on 22 plots totalling 13.2 ha in lowland tropical evergreen rain forest on Kolombangara, Solomon Islands. Over the following 30 yr (1964-1994), populations of all individuals > 4.85 cm DBH of the 12 most common tree species and amounts of disturbance have been monitored on a declining number of these plots (in 1994, nine plots totalling 5.4 ha were still being recorded). Between November 1967 and April 1970, Kolombangara was struck by four cyclones, although only two of these caused substantial amounts of damage to the canopy structure. Multivariate analysis has identified six forest types on Kolombangara (Greig-Smith et al. 1967). The species richness and diversity of trees in the 1964 census, turnover rates of the populations monitored over 1964-1975, and the amount of disturbance sustained during a cyclone in 1970, were all positively correlated across five of the forest types. The sixth forest type was a consistent outlier in these analyses and is believed to have been seriously disturbed by humans about a century ago. The floristics, turnover and disturbance data support Connell's intermediate disturbance hypothesis. The most species-rich forest types contained a higher proportion of fast-growing individuals and species that are early-successional and which have low density timber. Properties of these species rendered them more susceptible to damage when struck by the 1970 cyclone. they showed higher turnover rates because disturbance-dependent species are also characterised by higher mortality and recruitment rates. Thus, periodic cyclones appear to favour the maintenance of differences in species diversity and composition between forest types.
3236781|We examined the vegetation of the Southeast Saline Everglades (SESE), where water management and sea level rise have been important ecological forces during the last 50 years. Marshes within the SESE were arranged in well-defined compositional zones parallel to the coast, with mangrove-dominated shrub communities near the coast giving way to graminoidmangrove mixtures, and then Cladium marsh. The compositional gradient was accompanied by an interiorward decrease in total aboveground biomass, and increases in leaf area index and periphyton biomass. Since the mid-1940s, the boundary of the mixed graminoid-mangrove and Cladium communities shifted inland by 3.3 km. The interior boundary of a low-productivity zone appearing white on both black-and-white and CIR photos moved inland by 1.5 km on average. A smaller shift in this 'white zone' was observed in an area receiving fresh water overflow through gaps in one of the SESE canals, while greater change occurred in areas cut off from upstream water sources by roads or levees. These large-scale vegetation dynamics are apparently the combined result of sea level rise - ca. 10 cm since 1940 - and water management practices in the SESE.
40295789|Question: While it is well known that species richness depends on plot size, it is not generally recognised that the same must be true for constancy. Accordingly, many authors use varying plot sizes when classifying vegetation based on the comparison of constancies between groups of plots. We ask whether the constancy-area relationship follows a general rule, how strong the effect of plot sizes is on constancies, and if it is possible to correct constancies for area. Location: For empirical evaluation, we use data from plant communities in the Czech Republic, Sweden and Russia. Methods: To assess the potential influence of differences in plot size on constancies, we develop a mathematical model. Then, we use series of nested plot species richness data from a wide range of community types (herbaceous and forest) to determine the parameters of the derived function and to test how much the shape of the constancyarea relationship depends on taxa or vegetation types. Results: Generally, the constancy-area relationship can be described by
3237006|Indices of -diversity are of two major types, (1) those that measure among-plot variability in species composition independently of the position of individual plots on spatial or environmental gradients, and (2) those that measure the extent of change in species composition along predefined gradients, i.e. species turnover. Failure to recognize this distinction can lead to the inappropriate use of some -diversity indices to measure species turnover. Several commonly-used indices of -diversity are based on Whittaker's <sub>W</sub> (<sub>W</sub> = /, where  is the number of species in an entire study area and  is the number of species per plot within the study area). It is demonstrated that these indices do not take into account the distribution of species on spatial or environmental gradients, and should therefore not be used to measure species turnover. The terms '-diversity' and 'species turnover' should not be used interchangeably. Species turnover can be measured using matrices of compositional similarity and physical or environmental distances among pairs of study plots. The use of indices of -diversity and similarity-distance curves is demonstrated using simulated data sets.
3236085|The present study analyses the vegetation of canals and drains in the Nile Delta in relation to environmental factors. 30 clusters were generated by the TWINSPAN technique. A DCA (DECORANA) ordination revealed a moisture gradient, and, less clearly, a salinity and a fertility gradient. The resultant clusters were assigned to seven vegetation types arranged according to moisture preference as follows: Imperata cylindrica - Desmostachya bipinnata, Phragmites australis, Panicum repens - Cynodon dactylon, Echinochloa stagninum - Polygonum salicifolium, Echinochloa stagninum, Eichhornia crassipes, and Ceratophyllum demersum - Potamegeton crispus. Their species diversity is discussed in view of the disturbance and heterogeneity hypotheses.
3236539|The Kalahari sand sheet occupies 2.5 million ha in southern Africa. It is an area with relatively similar deep aeolian soils, and a strong south to north gradient in rainfall, from 200 to 1000 mm mean annual precipitation (MAP) in the region studied. This provides an excellent basis for gradient studies at the subcontinental scale. This paper briefly reviews the literature on the vegetation of the Kalahari and describes the vegetation structure and composition at 11 new sites. There is a clear gradient in woody plant biomass (as indexed by basal area) from south to north. Above the minimum level of 200 mm MAP, the woody basal area increases at a rate of ca. 2.5 m<sup>2</sup>.ha<sup>-1</sup> per 100 mm MAP. Mean maximum tree height also increases along the gradient, reaching 20 m at ca. 800 mm MAP. The number of species to contribute > 95% of the woody basal area increases from one at 200 mm to 16 at 1000 mm MAP. Members of the Mimosaceae (mainly Acacia) dominate the tree layer up to 400 mm MAP. They are replaced by either the Combretaceae (Combretum or Terminalia) or Colophospermum mopane of the Caesalpinaceae between 400 and 600 mm MAP, and by other representatives of the Caesalpinaceae above 600 mm MAP. The vegetation is largely deciduous up to 1000 mm MAP, except for species that apparently have access to groundwater, which may be locally dominant above about 600 mm MAP.
3236588| Question: In the same landscape context - at a desert grassland-shrubland transition zone, how does subdominant plant abundance vary in microsites around dominant grasses and shrubs? Location: Sevilleta LTER, New Mexico, USA (3421 N; 10653W; 1650 m a.s.l.). Methods: We compared the distribution of subdominant plants in canopy, canopy edge and interspace microsites around individual shrubs (Larrea tridentata) and grasses (Bouteloua eriopoda) at a transition zone that has been encroached by shrubs within the past 50 - 100 a. Plots of variable size according to microsite type and dominant plant size were sampled. Results: Subdominant abundance was higher in microsites around L. tridentata shrubs than in microsites around B. eriopoda. Furthermore, differences in species abundance and composition were higher among microsites around grasses than among microsites around shrubs. The distribution of subdominants was mostly explained by their phenological characteristics, which indicates the importance of temporal variation in resources to their persistence. Conclusions: This study of coexistence patterns around dominants revealed ecological contrasts between two dominant life forms, but other factors (such as disturbances) have to be taken into consideration to evaluate landscape-scale diversity. 
23012722|Questions: How does the abundance and richness of plant assemblages with different functional (regeneration and nutrient acquisition) traits vary with fire regime, moisture availability and substrate fertility? What is the role of different functional traits in maintaining plant diversity under changing environmental conditions in seasonally dry and fire-prone environments? Location: Southwest Western Australia. Methods: Plant species abundance and soil nutrients were determined at 16 forest sites with variable fire histories across an aridity gradient. All plant species were classified based on their functional traits as (1) perennial or annual, (2) ectomycorrhizal, arbuscular mycorrhizal, ericoid mycorrhizal, orchid mycorrhizal, proteoid or other non-mycorrhizal, (3) resprouters or seeder, and (4) nitrogen fixer or non-fixer. We used a multivariate (fourthcorner) technique to simultaneously test the significance and direction of the relationship between each of these traits and fire frequency, fire interval length, aridity, and soil N, P and C fractions. Results: The functional response of the vegetation to fire regime was minor and restricted to annual species, which comprised only 4% of taxa. Proteoid and ectomycorrhizal species dominated over species with arbuscular and orchid mycorrhizal roots, N-fixers dominated over non-fixers, and seeders dominated over resprouters when N fertility was low but organic labile P was high. Further, proteoid and ectomycorrhizal species richness increased with aridity, while arbuscular mycorrhizal species richness decreased. Conclusions: While the functional composition of southwest Australian vegetation is largely insensitive to changes in fire regime, nutrient acquisition and, to a lesser extent, regeneration traits provide mechanisms for the vegetation community to adjust to changes in resource availability. Thus, diversity responses to environmental change in seasonally dry and fire-prone ecosystems are likely to be primarily mediated by the composition of nutrient acquisition traits in the vegetation community.
25173177|Questions: 1. Is there a trade-off between gap dependency and shade tolerance in each of the life-history stages of three closely related, coexisting species, Acer amoenum (Aa), A. mono (Am) and A. rufinerve (Ar)? 2. If not, what differences in life-history traits contribute to the coexistence of these non-pioneer species? Location: Ogawa Forest Reserve, a remnant (98 ha), species-rich, temperate deciduous forest in central Japan (3656' N, 14035' E, 600 - 660 m a.s.l.). Methods: We estimated the demographic parameters (survival, growth rate and fecundity) by stage of each species growing in gaps and under closed canopy through observations of a 6-ha permanent plot over 12 years. Population dynamics were analysed with stage-based matrix models including gap dynamics. Results: All of the species showed high seedling and sapling survival rates under closed canopies. However, demographic parameters for each growth stage in gaps and under closed canopies revealed inter-specific differences and ontogenetic shifts. The trade-off between survival in the shade and growth in gaps was detected only at the small sapling stage (height &lt; 30 cm), and Ar had the highest growth rate both in the shade and in the gaps at most life stages. Conclusions: Inter-specific differences and ontogenetic shifts in light requirements with life-form differences may contribute to the coexistence of the Acer species in old-growth forests, with Aa considered a long-lived sub-canopy tree, Am a long-lived canopy tree, and Ar a short-lived, 'gap-phase' sub-canopy tree.
25173223|Questions: 1. Is there a primary role of disturbance at local scale and of environmental stress at regional scale? 2. Does disturbance increase or decrease environmental stress at local scale? Location: The Atlantic coastal dune system of the Aquitaine Region (France). Methods: Species biomass and 16 environmental variables were sampled in 128 quadrats along a local beach-inland gradient and a regional North-South gradient. Environmental data were analysed with ANOVAs and vegetation-environment relationships with Canonical Correspondence Analysis. Results: At the local scale community composition was primarily driven by disturbance due to sand burial, whereas water and nutrient stress better explained regional differences. However, random biogeographical events are very likely to also affect community composition at the largest scale. The main interaction between environmental stress and disturbance was the mitigation of nutrient stress induced by disturbance at a local scale. This was due to a positive direct effect of sand burial and a positive indirect effect of wind (decrease in VPD by ocean spray). Although wind had also a significant effect on soil conductivity and pH, there was no evidence that these factors had any role in community composition. Conclusions: Our results support the hypothesis that disturbance had a primary role at local scale and environmental stress at regional scale but further research is needed to separate the effect of stress from that of dispersal at regional scale. We also demonstrated that environmental stress in primary succession may not always decline with decreasing disturbance.
3236200|Evidence is presented from a variety of tundra cover types under human disturbance at three sites in the Canadian High Arctic to indicate that higher plants may be insufficient to differentiate among the apparently distinct geobotanical signatures of discrete surface disturbances. Unlike in the Low Arctic, woody growth forms are often minimal or lacking on heavily disturbed ground and several prominent species of ruderal herbs and especially graminoids occur on a wide variety of substrates. Therefore, cryptogams, particularly bryophytes, are important indicator taxa. Presence-absence data on bryophytes from minerotrophic and oligotrophic soils, combined with vascular cover-abundance data, enhanced detection of patch-level floristic gradients within and among disjunct coastal lowlands. However, the pool of ruderal bryophytes is limited, and ultimately factors such as frequency and abundance should be considered.
23012750|Questions: Are lianahost interactions structured at the community level? Do lianahost interactions differ between species, growth form guilds or habitats? Location: Otari-Wilton's Bush, on the southern tip of North Island, New Zealand. The forest contains 75 ha of mature and regenerating coniferbroadleaf forest. Methods: Nine liana species were quantified among 217 trees to test for negative co-occurrence patterns. We also conducted additional analyses within and among compartments embedded in the community-level matrix. Liana and host abundance distributions were assessed across two contrasting habitats. Results: Community-level analyses revealed negative co-occurrence patterns. Positive, neutral and negative co-occurrence patterns were found among compartments within the community-level matrix. Host species compartments were consistent with randomized expectations, while positive co-occurrence patterns were found within the host species matrix. Negative co-occurrence patterns were found inconsistently among lianas that share the same region of host space, and those that do not. Conclusions: Overall, results indicate the liana community is structured nonrandomly. Liana-host interactions appear to follow an opportunistic growth strategy and interactions are due mostly to habitat partitioning.
3236155|The tree and shrub species on a 16-ha watershed in the Coweeta Basin were sampled in 1984 and again in 1991 to determine the effects of drought on tree species composition and basal area growth. Mortality and radial growth were determined for tree species within three community types that represent a moisture gradient from moist to dry: cove-hardwoods > mixed-oak > oak-pine. Tree mortality from 1984 to 1991 was 20 % and 23 % in the cove-hardwoods and mixed-oak communities, respectively, compared to only 12 % in the oak-pine type. With the exception of Oxydendrum arboreum and Robinia pseudoacacia, the oaks had higher percentage mortality than any other genus; Quercus velutina had 29 %, 37 %, and 20 % mortality in the cove-hardwoods, mixed-oak, and oak-pine types, respectively; Quercus prinus had 23 % mortality in the mixed-oak type; Quercus coccinea had 36 % mortality in the mixed-oak type; and Quercus marilandica had 27 % mortality in the oak-pine type. Mortality occurred mostly in the small-size class individuals (< 10 cm in diameter) for all species, suggesting that thinning was still an important process contributing to mortality 29 yr after clearcutting. Although growth of Liriodendron tulipifera was much higher than growth of either Quercus prinus or Quercus coccinea, growth in Liriodendron was significantly reduced by the 1985-88 drought and no growth reduction was observed for these two dominant Quercus species during the same time period.
3236826|An ordination analysis of vegetation and flora of Los Cabos Region, Baja California Peninsula, Mexico and its relationships with their environment and geomorphic characteristics was studied at 38 sites, selected based on ecoregion mapping units (EMU) previously delineated for the study area. Multivariate methods were used to analyse the relationship between physical characteristics of the environment and the two primary vegetation types, the Dry tropical forest (DTF) and the Xerophilous scrubland (XS), which together represent 83% of the vegetation cover in the study area. Sites were grouped based on both physical characteristics and relative abundance of plant species. The results of the statistical analysis suggest that altitude, rainfall, temperature, and lithology can help explaining differences between these important vegetation types. In the case of XS, the morpho-physiognomic characteristics of vegetation in each site discriminated between two scrub types.
3236135|Recent studies indicate that, in the present-day agricultural landscape, the floristic composition of young woodland communities can be fully developed if the woods are situated adjacent to ancient woodlands. Four 70-yr-old deciduous woods in the Carpathian foothills were examined in relation to three adjacent ancient oak-hornbeam and oak-pine woodlands, which are the nearest source of woodland species diaspores. On the basis of data from 208 plots, the frequencies of various species groups in the field layer of the woods were analysed. The dependence of vegetation differentiation within the recent woods on (a) distance to the border with the ancient woodlands and (b) light intensity was examined by Partial Detrended Canonical Correspondence Analysis (DCCA). A significant relation between distance to ancient woodland and species composition was found for recent woods on rich brown soils. The vegetatively propagating species, myrmecochores and small autochores attained higher cover values near ancient woodland; endozoochores and anemochores were most abundant further away. Within recent, more open woods on poor podzolic and leached brown soils, colonisation is strongly inhibited by dense growth of Carex brizoides; here, vegetation regeneration is much slower than in woods on rich soils much further away from the source of diaspores.
41059631|Questions: To what degree do biological soil crusts (BSCs), which are regulators of the soil surface boundary, influence associated microbial communities? Are these associations important to ecosystem functioning in a Mediterranean semi-arid environment? Location: Gypsum outcrops near Belmonte del Tajo, Central Spain. Methods: We sampled a total of 45 (50 cm  50 cm) plots, where we estimated the cover of every lichen and BSC-forming lichen species. We also collected soil samples to estimate bacterial species richness and abundance, and to assess different surrogates of ecosystem functioning. We used path analysis to evaluate the relationships between the richness/abundance of above- and below- ground species and ecosystem functioning. Results: We found that the greatest direct effect upon the ecosystem function matrix was that of the biological soil crust (BSC) richness matrix. A few bacterial species were sensitive to the lichen community, with a dispropor tionate effect of Collona crispum and Toninia sedifolia compared to their low abundance and frequency. The lichens Fulgensia subbracteata and Toninia spp. also had negative effects on bacteria, while Diploschistes diacapsis consistently affected sensitive bacteria, sometimes positively. Despite these results, very few of the BSC effects on ecosystem function could be ascribed to changes within the bacterial community. Conclusion: Our results suggest the primary importance of the richness of BSC-forming lichens as drivers of small-scale changes in ecosystem functioning. This study provides valuable insights on semi-arid ecosystems where plant cover is spatially discontinuous and ecosystem function in plant interspaces is regulated largely by BSCs.
3236828| Low temperatures exert a primary constraint on the growth of high arctic vascular plants. However, investigations into the impact of temperature on high arctic plants rarely separate out the role of air and soil temperatures, and few data exist to indicate whether soil temperatures alone can significantly influence the growth of high arctic vascular plants in a manner that might direct community composition. We examined the response of high arctic plants of three functional types (grasses, sedges/rushes and non-graminoids) to manipulated soil temperature under common air temperature conditions. Target plants, within intact soil cores, were placed in water baths at a range of temperatures between 4.9 and 15.3 C for one growing season. Grasses responded most rapidly to increased soil temperature, with increased total live plant mass, above-ground live mass and total below-ground live mass, with non-graminoids having the lowest, and sedges/ rushes an intermediate degree of response. The ratio of aboveground live mass to total live mass increased in all growth forms. Grasses, in particular, responded to enhanced soil temperatures by increasing shoot size rather than shoot number. In all growth forms the mass of root tissue beneath the moss layer increased significantly and to a similar extent with increasing soil temperature. These results clearly indicate that different growth forms, although collected from the same plant community, respond differently to changes in soil temperature. As a consequence, factors influencing soil temperature in high arctic ecosystems, such as global climate change or herbivory (which leads to reduced moss depth and increased soil temperatures), may also direct changes in vascular plant community composition. 
25173219|Question: This study analysed the effect of severe soil erosion on species composition of plant communities by favouring species showing certain growth forms, root-sprouting and clonal growth abilities. Location: The study area was located between the middle Ebro Valley and the Pre-Pyrenees (northeastern Spain). Methods: Root-sprouting and shoot-rooting abilities, clonal reproduction and growth form were assessed for the 123 most common plant species from eroded lands in the study area. We obtained 260 vegetation relevs in three different substrata (gypsum outcrops, Miocene clays and Eocene marls) on areas with different degrees of soil erosion. The frequency of every plant trait in each relev was estimated according to species presence. The effect of soil erosion on the frequency of plant attributes was assessed by correlation analyses. Results: Bipolar, non-clonal plants and annual species decreased their frequency with increasing soil erosion in the three substrata analyzed, whereas root-sprouters and woody plants (mostly sub-shrubs) increased their frequency in most of the substrata analysed. Conclusions: Woody sub-shrubs, root-sprouters and clonal species are favoured in eroded lands in NE Spain. Bipolar species and annual plants might not be plastic enough to survive the high stress and frequent disturbances prevailing in such eroded areas.
3236052|As an example of ecological gradient analysis, Gaussian response functions, with Poisson or quasi-Poisson error distribution, were fitted for diatom taxa on a pH gradient. It is possible to predict or infer the pH of lake water from the fitted curves using the method of maximum likelihood, which is easily implemented in standard non-linear regression programs. Due to overdispersion with respect to the Poisson distribution, moment estimates for the negative binomial distribution were also applied, both in estimating the species response curves and in prediction. Simulations indicated that the theoretical maximum precision (measured by standard deviation of prediction errors) in our data set was 0.17 pH units. The observed errors were much greater (SD 0.35 to 0.43). It seems that roughly equal proportions of the excess error were caused (1) by systematic differences between the training (estimation) data and the validation (prediction) data, and (2) from a misspecified model. It is suggested that the error due to model misspecification consists of inadequacy of the presumed error distribution and of inadequacy of the simple Gaussian response function.
4096633|Question: What is the nature of the relationships between cover, diversity and abundance of biological soil crusts, cover and diversity of vascular plants, and annual rainfall, soil texture and forestry practices in Callitris glaucophylla woodlands? Location: Arid and semi-arid Callitris glaucophylla-dominated woodlands of eastern Australia. Methods: We documented soil crust-forming mosses, lichens and liverworts at 83 woodland sites along a gradient of declining rainfall. Linear and non-linear regression were used to examine relationships between soil crust species and attributes of vascular plant communities, and a similarity matrix (species abundance x sites) was subjected to Non-metric Multi-Dimensional Scaling (MDS), and Analysis of Similarities (ANOSIM) to show the degree of association between groups of taxa, and soil texture, rainfall classes and forestry practices. Results: We collected 86 taxa. Mosses were dominated by the family Pottiaceae, and lichens were dominated by squamulose forms. Average annual rainfall was highly correlated with soil crust community composition, and loamy soils supported a greater cover and diversity of taxa compared with sandy soils. Increases in tree cover were associated with significant, though weak, increases in abundance, but not diversity, of crusts. Crusts tended to be more diverse in areas that (1) had a sparse cover of ground-storey plants; (2) were relatively stable - as indicated by the proportion of perennial and/or native plants; (3) had more stable soil surfaces; and (4) were unlogged. Litter cover, overstorey thinning, and livestock grazing had no appreciable effect on crust diversity or cover. Conclusions: Callitris glaucophylla woodlands provide substantial habitat for soil crust organisms, and the dense tree cover and closed canopies of Callitris do not appear to have a major influence on the structure of biological crust communities. Unlike other woodland systems, relatively few patches would be required to reserve a high diversity of crust species.
25173226|Question: How does a newly designed method of supervised clustering perform in the assignment of relev (species composition) data to a previously established classification. How do the results compare to the assignment by experts and to the assignment using a completely different numerical method? Material: Relevs analysed represent 4186 Czech grassland plots and 4990 plots from a wide variety of vegetation types (359 different associations or basal communities) in The Netherlands. For both data sets we had at our disposal an expert classification, and for the Czech data we also had available a numerical classification as well as a classification based on a neural network method (multi-layer perceptron). Methods: Two distance indices, one qualitative and one quantitative, are combined into a single index by weighted multiplication. The composite index is a distance index for the dissimilarity between relevs and vegetation types. For both data sets the classifications by the new method were compared with the existing classifications. Results: For the Czech grasslands we correctly classified 81% of the plots to the classes of an expert classification at the alliance level and 71% to the classes of the numerical classification. Correct classification rates for the Dutch relevs were 64, 78 and 83% for the lowest (subassociation or association), association, and alliance level, respectively. Conclusion: Our method performs well in assigning community composition records to previously established classes. Its performance is comparable to the performance of other methods of supervised clustering. Compared with a multi-layer perceptron (a type of artificial neural network), fewer parameters have to be estimated. Our method does not need the original relev data for the types, but uses synoptic tables. Another practical advantage is the provision of directly interpretable information on the contributions of separate species to the result.
3237070|There is little information on (1) whether the net carbon balance is positive or negative in different habitats in high Arctic ecosystems such as Spitsbergen today, and (2) what effect a cloudier, cooler summer could have on carbon balance. To provide data on this subject CO<sub>2</sub>-flux measurements in different plant communities were made in the high-Arctic coastal tundra of Spitsbergen, using a mobile macro-cuvette system based on infrared gas analysis. The study area was situated on the exposed west coast, where westerly winds produce precipitation daily in the form of rain, drizzle and fog. During the cold and cloudy measurement period in 1996, light and surface temperatures were limiting for primary producers, resulting in low size and low physiological activity of the plants. Net CO<sub>2</sub>-flux measurements showed carbon fluxes from soil to atmosphere in most of the communities even during the brightest hours of the day, when mean photon flux density was 325 mmol m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. Calculations based on spatial distribution of the plant communities and soils in the watershed combined with C-flux measurements revealed information on daily carbon loss. For instance, the Drepanocladus community, covering 21 % of the catchment area, was responsible for 42.6 % of the catchment carbon loss. Only two of nine investigated plant communities, the Racomitrium and a Salix-Saxifraga community on debris, both adapted to frequent fog situations, were able to compensate for respiratory CO<sub>2</sub>-losses under the prevailing low light conditions during daytime. Since there were no significant sunny periods in this area in the summer of 1996, the habitats of the investigated coastal tundra finished the season with a marked carbon loss due to increased cloudiness.
25173186|Question: Insufficient tree regeneration threatens the long-term persistence of biodiverse Mediterranean open oak woodlands. Could shrubs, scarce due to decades of management (clearing and ploughing), facilitate holm oak recruitment at both acorn and seedling stages? Location: Open oak woodlands in Central Spain. Methods: Plots with four acorns were planted: (1) under the canopy of the spiny shrub Genista hirsuta, (2) in a small cage, protecting against ungulates, (3) in a shaded cage, protecting against ungulates and sun, and (4) in open grassland. Sets of these four treatments were spatially grouped according to a randomised block design, with 16 blocks near (&lt; 10 m) and 16 away from (&gt; 20 m) parent trees to test for distance-related survival. Plots were regularly checked for seed removal. After emergence one seedling per plot (97 in total) was selected and its survival monitored. Results: Three months after sowing, 199 of 512 acorns were removed, predominantly by rodents. Acorn removal occurred at each treatment but was highest under shrubs. Eight months after sowing, seedling survival was highest under shrubs (50%), followed by shaded cages (16%), open grassland (4%) and cages (0%). Main mortality cause was drought (90%), killing most seedlings between June and July. No seedlings died from ungulate browsing. Conclusion: Shrubs demonstrated clear net facilitative effects for Quercus ilex recruitment, despite higher seed removal. Shading appears the crucial factor facilitating seedling survival. We therefore propose that lack of shrubs contributes largely to tree recruitment failure in Mediterranean open woodlands; management should aim at conserving shrubs.
3236038|The mycorrhizal mycoflora was investigated in 35 stands of Pinus sylvestris in three types of young (4-13 yr) and three of old (50-80 yr) stands in the Netherlands, differing in number of rotations and soil type. A plot of 1050 m<sup>2</sup> (30 m x 35 m) within each stand was searched for carpophores during the autumns of 1986 and 1987. 10 soil samples per plot were taken in October 1987 in order to assess the mycorrhizal status of the trec roots. The composition of mycorrhizal mycoflora in the different plots was subjected to TWINSPAN cluster analysis and Detrended Correspondence Analysis. Plot groupings generated by these analyses largely parallelled the stand types, indicating that each stand type has its own mycoflora. Differences in myco-floristic composition between stand types were parallelled by differences in the composition of green vegetation. The young stand types had 3.5-27 x more carpophores and 1.4-6.8 x more species than two of the old stand types. One old stand type was intermediate. Considerable differences in species composition between the young stand types were observed. It is concluded that the succession of mycorrhizal fungi is not primarily influenced by ageing of the trees, but rather by changes in the soil. The results were compared with data on changes in the occurrence of fruiting species of mycorrhizal fungi in the Netherlands during this century. It appeared that species which have declined according to these data were more frequent in the young plots than in the old plots. However, these species are reported to be frequent in old stands of P. sylvestris in Estonia and Finland. It is argued that this difference is related to the high nitrogen deposition in the Netherlands.
40925491|Questions: What are the detection probabilities of epiphytic crustose lichens on oak (Quercus robur) when only the lowest 2 m of the trunk are surveyed? How does the abundance of lichen species change with height above the ground, and is the change related to tree age? How well can total abundance (0-6 m) be predicted based on data from the lowest 2 m? Which tree characteristics explain the vertical distribution of the study species? Location: Southeast Sweden. Methods: The occurrence and abundance of eight crustose lichen species were recorded on 35 oaks, 0-6 m from the ground. Results: The detection probability was high (> 96%) for seven out of the eight species. The abundance of six species declined significantly with increasing height. For five species, > 69% of the total abundance (0-6 m) was recorded on the lowest 2 m. The proportion of the total abundance present above 2 m increased significantly with age for three species. Models predicting total abundance based on data from the lowest 2 m and diameter explained > 80% of the deviance for all except one species. The vertical distribution of the study species was explained by bark fissure depth, area and cover of macrolichens. Conclusions: For crustose lichens associated with old oaks, surveying only the lowest 2 m of the trunk yields reliable occurrence data and fairly good estimates of total abundance. However, before interpreting data from the lowest 2 m, knowledge of species vertical distribution, and how the distribution changes with tree age is essential.
25549253|Questions: (1) Is climate a strong driver of vegetation dynamics, including interannual variation, in a range margin steppic community? (2) Are there long-term trends in cover and species richness in this community, and are these consistent across species groups and species within groups? (3) Can long-term trends in plant community data be related to variation in local climate over the last three decades? Location: A range margin steppic grassland community in central Germany. Methods: Cover, number and size of all individuals of all plant species present in three permanent 1-m plots were recorded in spring for 26 years (1980-2005). Climatic data for the study area were used to determine the best climatic predictor for each plant community, functional group and species variable (annual data and interannual variation) using best subsets regression. Results: April and autumn temperature showed the highest correlation with total cover and species richness and with interannual variations of cover and richness. However, key climate drivers differed between the five most abundant species. Similarly, total cover and number and cover of perennials significantly decreased over time, while no trend was found for the cover and number of annuals. However, within functional groups there were also contrasting species-specific responses. Long-term temperature increases and high interannual variability in both temperature and precipitation were strongly related to long-term trends and interannual variations in plant community data. Conclusions: Temporal trends in vegetation were strongly associated with temporal trends in climate at the study site, with key roles for autumn and spring temperature and precipitation. Dynamics of functional groups and species within groups and their relationships to changes in temperature and precipitation reveal complex long-term and interannual patterns that cannot be inferred from short-term studies with only one or a few individual species. Our results also highlight that responses detected at the functional group level may mask contrasting responses within functional groups. We discuss the implications of these findings for attempts to predict the future response of biodiversity to climate change.
3237027|Plant species-rich Calthion meadows on mesotrophic fen peat soil extensively cut for hay are among the endangered semi-natural vegetation types in northwestern Europe. They are often badly affected by lowering the groundwater table (drainage) and fertilization. In a comparative study of an undrained site with a Calthion meadow and an adjacent drained site, availability of N, P and K was biologically assessed under field conditions (for two years) as well as in a greenhouse (for 18 weeks) by measuring shoot responsiveness. Also, experimental wetting of intact turf samples taken from both sites was applied in order to study the interaction between nutrient supply and anaerobic soil conditions. It was concluded that the above-ground phytomass yield in the undrained site was restricted by a major shortage of N-supply and a moderate shortage of K-supply by the fen peat soil. The above-ground phytomass yield of the drained site was only reduced by a strongly limited supply of K by the soil. The extent of K-deficiency was larger for the drained site. No P-deficiency was observed in any of the drained or undrained sites. Rewetting turf samples, taken from the drained site, did not change above-ground phytomass yields, suggesting that nutrient supplies were not affected by rewetting. Leaching has likely resulted in a strong reduction of K-supply in the drained site. It is assumed that a shortage in K-supply from the peat soil may have become an important environmental constraint for characteristic plant species of Calthion meadows. This may hamper the development of this meadow type on drained peat soils after rewetting by groundwater discharge.
3237335|We examined whether the growth dynamics of two species can explain their coexistence. In particular, we examined New Zealand forests dominated by Nothofagus fusca and N. menziesii to determine whether both species can reach the canopy in tree-fall gaps. Stems in a gap and other stems (in pairs: one of each species, close together) were destructively sampled and aged at their bases and at heights of 1.4 m and 3 m, and at 2 m intervals thereafter as high as possible. For additional pairs of adjacent, similarly sized stems, one of each species, ring widths were analyzed for responsiveness to environmental changes. In general the faster growth rates of N. fusca were sufficient to balance the greater abundance of N. menziesii in the understory, such that both species were able to reach the canopy. Stems of both species grew at similar rates for decades. Both species were able to tolerate some periods of suppression and to respond to opportunities (climatic or due to mild disturbances).
3236375|The function of Olneya tesota (ironwood) as a nurse plant and habitat modifier species in the Sonoran Desert was evaluated at five study sites (using 75 250-m<sup>2</sup> sample plots) from Bahia Kino, Sonora to Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona. Beneath the canopy of O. tesota trees 75 perennial plant species were found. A principal component ordination of the plots created three groups: southern, perturbed and protected sites. A strong triple association of columnar cacti, big shrubs with berry type fruits and O. tesota was detected. The relationships of Lophocereus schottii and Peniocereus striatus with O. tesota were studied in more detail. Significant differences in soil surface temperatures and stem temperatures of P. striatus were detected beneath the shade of O. tesota trees compared with soils and plants in open spaces. Olneya tesota must be considered as a habitat modifier species with ecological and conservational importance to the plant communities in the Sonoran Desert.
3236603| Soil chemistry and vegetation data for 176 sites on sub-Antarctic Marion Island (47 S, 38 E) were subjected to Canonical Correspondence Analysis. 21 habitats in six habitat complexes were recognized from a clustering analysis of the site scores on the canonical axes. Another two habitats and one habitat complex were added to this. The resultant habitat classification closely reflects the between-habitat variation in the relative magnitudes of the main forcing variables that determine ecological succession on the island (moisture, exposure, parent soil material, salt-spray and manuring and trampling by seals and seabirds). It can be used by persons with a minimum of botanical or soil expertise. The habitat complexes (number of habitats in complex) are: Coastal Salt-spray Complex (2); Fellfield (2); Slope (6); Biotic Grassland (3); Biotic Herbfield (3); Mire (6); Polar Desert (1). A key is provided whereby the habitat to which a particular site belongs can be determined using botanical criteria, although infrequently soil moisture and pH information is also needed. Summaries of the soil chemistry and vegetation characteristics of the various habitats are also provided. 
23012729|Questions: What were the bog fire patterns and frequencies in two boreal peatlands during the last 5000 years? What is the nature and time-scale of postfire vegetation successions? Were fire events related to climate? Location: Mnnikjrve bog, central east Estonia; Kontolanrahka bog, southwest Finland. Methods: Macroscopic charcoal, plant macrofossils and radiocarbon dating were examined. Redundancy analysis was used in the assessments. Results: During the last 5000 years, both of the above peatlands have experienced several fire events. A typical pre-fire vegetation community consisted of dry hummock Sphagnum spp., often accompanied by Calluna vulgaris. Only the most severe occasional fires resulted in a dramatic change in the vegetation composition. In these cases, a wet shift occurred, where the prefire hummock community was replaced by a wet hollow community. Calluna vulgaris was found to be a key species in both pre- and post-fire vegetation dynamics. The recovery time of dry microtopes following severe combustion and the subsequent hydrological change could take up to 350 years. Even after a long-lasting wet phase, the post-fire disturbance succession led towards a dry hummock community. Conclusions: Fire succession appeared to be cyclic, starting as and developing towards a dry hummock community. Fires have been a regular phenomenon in boreal bogs, even in regions with rather low human impact. The fire history records did not indicate any direct link to the regional long-term climate.
41059550|Question: Two questions about within-stand spatial variability are addressed in this paper. How does species richness of tree regeneration respond to smallscale ecological gradients, and what effect does natural Abies balsamea abundance have on the species richness of other tree regeneration? Location: A long-term, gap-silviculture experiment Acadian mixed-wood forest Maine, USA. Methods: Eight stands treated with and without gap harvesting were sampled to capture sub-stand heterogeneity of understorey tree regeneration concurrently with patterning of local stand conditions. Spatial and non-spatial models were developed to test the relationships between two response variables [species richness of small (height > 0.1 m, but < 0.75 m) and large (height > 0.75 m, but < 1.4 m) regeneration] and five explanatory variables (depth to water table, percentage canopy transmittance, A. balsamea regeneration density, and overstorey basal area and species richness). Results: Despite high unexplained variance for all models, consistent associations among variables were found. Negative associations were found between: (1) the species richness of small regeneration and A. balsamea regeneration density and (2) the species richness of large regeneration and overstorey basal area. Positive associations were found between: (1) the species richness of small regeneration and both overstorey basal area and species richness and (2) the species richness of small and large regeneration and canopy transmittance. Conclusions: Promoting tree species diversity in Acadian mixed-wood stands may not be achievable through the use of gap-harvesting alone if the density of understorey Abies balsamea is not reduced either naturally or through silvicultural intervention.
25549267|Question: What changes occur as a consequence of the massive flowering and senescence of the dominant understory species of bamboo, Chusquea culeou (E. Desvaux)? In this study, we documented some of the ecological consequences of this rare event that occurred in 2001, the previous flowering having occurred more than 60 years ago. Location: Nothofagus temperate forest, Patagonia, Argentina. Methods: We assessed changes in environmental variables and bamboo biomass post-flowering in an old-growth southern beech forest. In addition, we monitored the demography of emergent Ch. culeou seedling and Nothofagus nervosa saplings, comparing non-flowered (live understory) and flowered (senescent understory) patches within the forest matrix. Results: Bamboo flowering dramatically increased light availability in the forest understory but, surprisingly, other environmental changes were not observed. Bamboo seedlings emerged in both patch types, and experienced gradual but modest mortality through time. Bamboo dieback promoted higher survivorship and an increment in biomass, height, number of leaves and buds in the saplings of Nothofagus nervosa. Conclusion: The high density of bamboo seedlings 5 years after the flowering event and the independence of emergence from environmental variables suggest that understory regeneration is a gradual process that is not strongly regulated by initial seedling density or resource limitation. In contrast, microenvironmental conditions created after the flowering event significantly increased Nothofagus sapling growth and survival. These results suggest that overstory forest regeneration could be enhanced in this temperate forest in the first years after this infrequent bamboo flowering event.
4499170|Question: How do reduced levels of summer grazing by reindeer affect the abundance, composition and species richness of mountain plant communities? Location: Arctic-alpine mountain vegetation 700-850 m a.s.l., Saana Conservation Area, northwestern Finnish Lapland. Methods: Permanent plots were established in 1990 and resampled in 1999 or 2001. The number of reindeer had considerably declined from the 1980s to the 1990s and we followed the recovery of vegetation. The comparisons between 1990 and 1999/2001 were made at seven sites differing in their original grazing pressure. Results: At the initially heavily grazed sites, lichen abundances increased, but at the lightly grazed sites the abundances of lichens decreased. Graminoids declined at all sites, but the change seemed to be greatest at the most heavily grazed sites. Forbs increased slightly across all sites. At the species level, lichens and graminoids responded most notably to the reduction of grazing pressure. Individual species responses in shrubs were variable and among forbs, typical species of species-rich Dryas heaths increased. Total species richness increased at all sites and the change was greater at heavily grazed sites. This increase resulted mainly from increased bryophyte and lichen species richness but also from a slight increase in vascular plant species richness. Conclusions: These results suggest that lichens are the group most responsive to the reduction of heavy summer grazing by reindeer and that lichens and forbs typical in arctic-alpine Dryas heaths are favoured over graminoids under reduced grazing. Heavy grazing decreases overall species richness with the most pronounced effects on bryophyte and lichen species richness. The results support the hypothesis that heavy summer grazing may shift the composition of mountain plant communities towards that of grasslands and show how this shift may be reversed under reduced grazing.
3235786|Successional processes within northern Swedish boreal forest are investigated for the last 2000 years by analysis of pollen, charcoal fragments and insect remains preserved in a deep mor humus layer on a small island in a large lake. Frequent disturbances by fire, blow-down, insect attack and flood have been the chief influence on vegetation dynamics. The gradual climatically induced replacement of Betula pubescens by Picea abies is superimposed on the disturbance dynamics. Picea first became established during the Little Ice Age, which was the longest period without fire in the record. A thin layer of volcanic ash from Iceland confirms the chronology at the onset of the Little Ice Age. The present importance of Pinus sylvestris and Ericaceae on the island is a product of a recent increase in disturbance frequency. The disturbance regime ensures that the communities stay in equilibrium with prevailing climate.
3237010| The computer software package TURBOVEG (for Microsoft Windows) was developed in The Netherlands for the processing of phytosociological data. This package comprises an easy-to-use data base management system. The data bank to be managed can be divided into several data bases which may consist of up to 100 000 relevs each. The program provides methods for input, import, selection, and export of relevs. In 1994, TURBOVEG was accepted as the standard computer package for the European Vegetation Survey. Currently it has been installed in more than 25 countries throughout Europe and overseas. 
3246583| Sirn (1955) studied understorey species composition, tree stand properties and humus-layer thickness in 64 unlogged forest stands on topographically and pedologically comparable sites. The stands were of even age (6 - 300 yr), stocked with the first or second tree generation after wildfire. The view of Sirn and several authors after him, that the vegetation of old-growth boreal Picea forests is homogeneous on a broad scale, was examined by applying, in parallel, the partial variants of two ordination methods (DCA and PCA) to Sirn's vegetation data. Two main vegetation gradients were found: a major gradient running from recently burnt plots with prominence of pioneer species to plots with stand age > 100 yr, a well stocked tree layer and a thick humus layer, dominance of feather-mosses and ample occurrence of shade-tolerant as well as light-preferring vascular plant species, and a second gradient along which first- and second-generation plots segregate. The more prominent element of Betula trees in first- than in second-generation stands < 100 yr contributed to the latter. A minor third gradient related to humus-layer thickness was recovered by partial DCA only. The main vegetation gradient reappeared in separate ordinations of data from 47 mature forest stands (> 100 yr), but without being correlated with forest age. Variation among mature-forest stands in the importance of pioneer species is considered mainly to be brought about by fine-scale disturbance processes such as tree uprooting. Increasing importance of factors operating on within-stand scales [development of a varied gap structure and stronger gradients in tree influence (radiation at ground level), soil moisture, soil depth and nutrient availability] with time is also reflected in the second and third mature-forest ordination axes. Possible implications of the results for conservation of biological diversity and monitoring of changes in boreal forests are discussed. 
3236677|The number of annual weeds were recorded in 752 field experiments in spring-sown cereal crops conducted in Sweden 1972-1993. Two null hypotheses were tested regarding how the sowing date influenced the weed flora. 1. There is no relationship between the weed flora composition and sowing date. A pCCA (with geographic regions, crop species and soil types as covariables) clearly refuted this hypothesis. Hence, the composition of the weed flora varied depending on sowing date. 2. Species classified as summer annuals, winter annuals and germination generalists (that can germinate substantially in both spring and autumn) do not differ in their placement along the first ordination axis in the pCCA, i.e. according to sowing date. An ANOVA was unable to reject this hypothesis. Hence, germination syndrome classification did not explain the observed community differences related to sowing date. These results illustrate the importance of the date of disturbance for any secondary succession involving a seed bank and also the importance of annual dormancy cycles in seed banks.
4499216| Question: How do various plant functional groups and types are related to regeneration of limestone grasslands and to temporal changes in cover of trees and shrubs? Which mechanisms are responsible for changes in differently treated grasslands? Location: Southern Poland, 50 01'N, 19 50'E. Methods: A 12-year restoration experiment after the clearing of a 35-yr-old secondary pine wood developed on limestone grassland, and a parallel observation of succession in neighbouring abandoned grassland were carried out. Changes in cover of species with different functional traits and established strategies in relation to time and cover of shrub layer were analysed using multiple linear regression. Results: Over 12 years the composition and cover of species changed in the studied grasslands, but significant differences still occurred between the old grassland and the grassland restored in former wood gaps and that developed in former closed wood. Despite the very close proximity of the old grassland, the composition of restored grasslands was still much determined by initial conditions. In these grasslands, the cover of Festuco-Brometea species was significantly lower than in the old grassland. In all sites, the cover of species with large leaves and with leaves distributed regularly along the stem, and the cover of CS strategists increased. With increasing shrub cover in restored grasslands, the cover of annuals and biennials, tall species, and R and CS strategists decreased. Conclusions: Limited availability of seeds seems the principal reason for the weak regeneration of xerothermic limestone grasslands. Trees and shrubs inhibit the developed of both early successional species and perennials occurring in established communities. They significantly hinder regeneration of grasslands and should be cut every five or six years. 
3237066| The occurrence and abundance of 12 canopy tree species from the moist tropical forests of West Africa have been studied in relation to a climatic gradient. We focused on environmental factors related to water availability: annual amount of rainfall, the length of the dry season, and cumulative water deficit. Species occurrence and abundance data are used for 39 forest sites in Liberia and southwest Cte d'Ivoire. Species responses are modelled using a set of five increasingly complex models, ranging from a no-trend model to a skewed bell-shaped response curve. The study species show different distribution patterns. Most of them suggest a close relationship to climatic conditions. Fitting of species occurrence data to each of the three climatic factors results in most cases in simple models. In only one out of 36 cases a bell-shaped response curve is needed to describe the data. Four of the 12 species show no response to the climatic factors when only occurrence is evaluated. When abundance data are used, in 33 of the 36 cases significant response models are found. In general these are much more complex than in the cases of species occurrence data: in 10 of the 36 cases a bell-shaped response model is found to describe the data best. This is in contrast with the widespread belief that species response curves are bell-shaped: within the forest zone in the area studied this is not generally the case. The importance of the three climatic factors for the distribution of the species is evaluated: for four species mean annual rainfall is the most important variable, for four species the length of the dry period, and for one species cumulative water deficit. Consequently, the assumption that mean annual rainfall is the most important factor determining tree species distribution in West African forests is not correct. Species response models to climatic factors show where species have their geographical optima. Implications for forest management are briefly discussed. 
3236503|Forest herbs differ greatly in their capacity to recolonize secondary forests established on former agricultural land. We investigated whether interspecific differences in recruitment or growth can account for differences in colonization success. Seeds and adults of two species with limited colonization capacities (Anemone nemorosa and Primula elatior) and two species with high colonization capacities (Ranunculus ficaria and Geum urbanum) were introduced in ancient and recent forest sites within the Muizen forest (Belgium). At all sites, half of the plots were also cleared of above-ground vegetation. Seedling establishment was similar in recent and ancient forest sites. However, both the number and subsequent survival of seedlings of the two hemicryptophytes (G. urbanum and P. elatior) were significantly lower when vegetation cover was present, while seedling number and survival of the two geophytes (A. nemorosa and R. ficaria) were less influenced by vegetation cover. Adult performance of P. elatior and G. urbanum was significantly better in the nutrient enriched recent forest stands and in the absence of vegetation cover. Performance of A. nemorosa and R. ficaria was not affected by any of these factors. We conclude that the extent of seed limitation is probably the main cause for the different colonization capacities of the species investigated.
4499237|Question: What environmental factors and physiological traits determine the juvenile survival rates of 11 dipterocarp species (Dipterocarpaceae) co-occurring in a Bornean tropical rain forest? Location: Tropical northwestern Borneo. Methods: In 248 quadrats, distributed over 12 ha, the juvenile (height < 2.0 m) survival of 11 shade-tolerant dipterocarp species was monitored for one year. The probability of survival for each species was expressed as a logistic function of plant height and three environmental factors: canopy openness, soil water potential and conspecific individual density. The correlation between survival under shaded conditions and several physiological traits of juveniles was tested by normal Pearson correlation and a phylogeny based manner using independent contrasts. Results: Seven species had increased survival under more open canopies, one species had increased and two species had decreased survival at drier sites. Six species had higher survival as the density of conspecifics increased, whereas two species had lower survival. The magnitudes of the effects for the three environmental factors were similar. However, the interspecific difference in survival was largely determined by a dependence of small seedlings on the light environment. Survival under low light was correlated positively with root dry mass and negatively with total leaf area of juveniles. Conclusions: Responses of seedlings to the fine-scale gradient of light availability were considerably different among the 11 species. Species that suffered increased mortality under low light had a set of structural traits that would potentially allow rapid growth under bright conditions. Differential performance along the light gradient may contribute to the stable coexistence of these species.
3237051| Short-term field experiments are often used to predict and evaluate long-term management effects. Based on a mowing experiment in two calcareous fens near Lake Neuchtel, Switzerland, we investigated whether short-term treatment effects (i.e. during the first four years) were confirmed by long-term results (13 - 14 yr). Plots were mown in summer or in winter or left unmown. The main long-term trends in overall species composition (based on percentage cover estimates) were already observable in the first four years: mown and unmown plots diverged, whereas summer-cut and winter-cut plots remained similar. At the individual species level, however, short-term and long-term treatment effects differed considerably: many species whose abundance seemed affected by treatments during the first four years showed no response in the long term, and vice versa. These discrepancies were similar when based on cover estimates or on counts of shoots. Species responses did actually depend on the time scale considered. Short-term and long-term treatment effects on species richness were similar (i.e. a decrease in unmown plots), although only long-term effects were significant. Treatment effects on the above-ground biomass varied considerably, and short-term trends (lower biomass in unmown plots) differed from long-term trends (higher biomass in unmown plots). Our sites showed little overall change in species composition during the period investigated, and treatment effects were low compared with other similar experiments. If study sites are less stable or treatment effects more drastic, a short-term evaluation is expected to be even less reliable. Knowledge on species dynamics at a site may help to choose the adequate spatial and temporal scale of investigation, and thus increase the efficiency of management experiments. 
3236516|We explore patterns of diversity of plant functional types (PFTs) in Mediterranean communities subjected to landscape-scale fire disturbances in a mosaic of uncultivated and old fields stands. We use regenerative and growth form attributes to establish two sets of PFTs of perennial species living in shrublands and pine forests of NE Spain. We test the following hypotheses: 1. Fire frequency decreases regenerative PFTs diversity by negatively selecting attributes with low regenerative efficiency. 2. Fire history has more influence on regenerative than on growth form PFTs. 3. The lowest diversity of growth form PFTs will be in old fields without recent fires. We surveyed stands of different combinations of fire and land use histories. Fire history included areas without fires in the last twenty years (unburned), sites burned in 1982 (1-burned), and sites burned in 1982 and 1994 (2-burned). Land use histories considered terraced old fields, and uncultivated stands on stony soils. We analysed patterns of PFT abundance and diversity at the stand level, and across the landscape (among stands absolute deviations from sample medians of the relative cover of PFTs). At the stand level, fire had more influence on the diversity patterns of regenerative PFTs than on growth form PFTs. Fire decreased the diversity of regenerative PFTs, due to the elimination of the species without effective mechanisms to post-fire regeneration. This effect was not observed across the landscape, but seeders showed more variation in stands with longer history without fire. Land use contributed to explain the diversity patterns of growth form PFT (i.e. the number of growth form PFTs was lower in uncultivated, unburned sites), but it did not influence regenerative PFTs diversity. Patterns of PFTs diversity reflect the response to ecological processes operating at the landscape level. Overall, regenerative and growth form PFTs appear to be more sensitive to the fire history than to the past land use.
40295847|Question: Do above-and belowground insects differentially impact plant community structure and function in a diverse native grassland? Location: Rough fescue prairie in Alberta, Canada. Methods: Above- and belowground insects were suppressed with insecticides for 5 years using a randomised block design. During this experiment, a severe drought began in 2001 and ended in 2003. Aboveground plant growth was measured as cover and biomass from 2001 to 2005. Root demography was measured in 2002 using a minirhizotron. Mixed models and repeated measures ANOVA were used to determine treatment effects on a number of response variables. MRBP were used to test for treatment effects on community composition. Results: Five years of insect suppression had few significant effects on plant growth, species richness or community composition, and were limited primarily to the severe drought in 2002. During the drought, insect attack increased root mortality, reduced plant cover, and altered community composition. Following the drought, plant responses were unaffected by insecticide application for the remainder of the experiment. Conclusions: Five years of insect suppression had only minor effects on community structure and function in this diverse native grassland. There was no indication that these effects increased over time. The results are counter to studies conducted in productive old-field communities that revealed large effects of insects on community structure. We suggest that the unique features of this system, such as high species evenness, abundance of generalist herbivores, and a lack of competition for light among plants, limited the potential for insects to greatly impact community-level processes.
3236681|Mean annual precipitation accounts for a large proportion of the variation in mean above-ground net primary production (ANPP) of grasslands worldwide. However, the inter-annual variation in production in any grassland site is only loosely correlated with precipitation. The longest record of variation in production and precipitation for a site corresponds to a shortgrass steppe in Colorado, USA. A previous study of this record showed that current-year precipitation accounted for 39% of the inter-annual variation in ANPP. In this note, we show that ca. one third of the unexplained variation is related to previous-year ANPP: ANPP per mm of precipitation was higher in years preceded by wet, more productive years than in years preceded by average years; similarly, ANPP per mm of precipitation was lower in years preceded by dry, less productive years than in years preceded by average years. Since previous-year ANPP was, in turn, associated with precipitation of a year before, current-year ANPP was also explained by precipitation of two previous years. Our finding not only increases our predictive ability, but it also changes our understanding of how ANPP responds to fluctuations in precipitation. If ANPP is thought to vary according to current-year precipitation only, it will simply track annual precipitation in time. According to this new result, however, ANPP fluctuations are buffered if wet, more productive years alternate with dry, less productive years, and they are amplified if wet or dry sequences of several years take place.
4499279|Question: Does the upward shift of species and accompanied increase in species richness, induced by climate change, lead to homogenization of Alpine summit vegetation? Location: Bernina region of the Swiss Alps. Methods: Based on a data set from previous literature we expand the analysis from species richness to beta-diversity and spatial heterogeneity. Species compositions of mountain summits are compared using a two-component heterogeneity concept including the mean and the variance of S0rensen similarities calculated between the summits. Non-metric multidimensional scaling is applied to explore developments of single summits in detail. Results: Both heterogeneity components (mean dissimilarity and variance) decrease over time, indicating a trend towards more homogeneous vegetation among Alpine summits. However, the development on single summits is not strictly unidirectional. Conclusions: The upward shift of plant species leads to homogenization of alpine summit regions. Thus, increasing alpha-diversity is accompanied by decreasing beta-diversity. Beta-diversity demands higher recognition by scientists as well as nature conservationists as it detects changes which cannot be described using species richness alone.
4096642|Questions: 1. Do harvester ants (Messor barbarus) promote seed mortality in Mediterranean grassland?; 2. Is this effect greater in large-seeded species? Location: Central Spain. Methods: We established an ant-exclusion experiment of five circular (1.5 m diameter) plots from where ants were excluded during one year, along with ten control plots. We recorded the seed bank of all species in the plots both before and after the treatment. The effect of seed length and weight was analysed after transforming data into phylogenetically independent contrasts, and alternatively by dividing the species data set into morphological groups. Results: Longer and heavier seeded species significantly increased in the seed banks under the exclusion treatment, although ants did not significantly modify overall seed densities. Conclusions: Although the ants do not collect large numbers of seeds, they differentially affect the composition of the seed banks by selecting the longest or heaviest seeds, or both. The persistence of this short-term effect in the seed bank may result, over a number of years, in the system evolving towards a predominance of small-seeded annuals, congruent with the species composition actually observed in Mediterranean grasslands.
40925500|Question: What is the relative importance of seed mass and abiotic factors in species-specific seedling growth and morphology during the first and the second growing season? How do oak species respond along gradients of these factors? Location: Mediterranean oak forest in southern Spain. Methods: We analysed seedling growth components and morphology of three co-occurring Quercus species (two deciduous and one evergreen). Oak seeds with a wide variety of sizes were sown along broad gradients of abiotic conditions. Intra- and inter-specific differences were evaluated by calibrating maximum likelihood estimators of seedling growth during the first two years of life. Results: We found multiple resources and conditions affecting seedling morphology and biomass allocation. However, the integrative variables of seedling growth - total aboveground biomass and relative growth rate (RGR) - were affected by two main factors: seed mass and light conditions. The relative contribution of these two factors depended strongly on seedling age. Seed mass explained most of the growth and morphological variables during the first year, while light conditions were the best predictor in the second growing season. In contrast, soil factors did not play an important role in seedling growth. We found some evidence of regeneration niche partitioning between oak species along the light gradient, a reflection of their distribution patterns as adults at the study site. Conclusions: We conclude that inter-specific differences in seedling growth, arising from seed size variability and microsite heterogeneity, could be of paramount importance in oak species niche segregation, driving stand dynamics and composition along environmental gradients.
3237224| The relationships between the distribution of alpine species and selected environmental variables are investigated by using two types of generalized linear models (GLMs) in a limited study area in the Valais region (Switzerland). The empirical relationships are used in a predictive sense to mimic the potential abundances of alpine species over a regular grid. Here, we present the results for the alpine sedge Carex curvula ssp. curvula. The modelling approach consists of (1) a binomial GLM, including only the mean annual temperature as explanatory variable, which is adjusted to species presence/ absence data in the entire study area; (2) a logistic model restricted to stands occurring within the a priori defined temperature range for the species - which allows ordinal abundance data to be adjusted; (3) the two species-response functions combined in a GIS to generate a map of the species' potential abundance in the study area; (4) model predictions filtered by the classes of the qualitative variables under which the species never occur. Such a stratified approach used to better fit the variability within the optimal altitudinal zone for the species. Removing stand descriptions from altitudes too high or too low, where the species is unlikely to occur, enhances the global modelling performance by allowing the identification of important environmental variables only retained in the second model. The model evaluation is finally carried out with the -measure of association in an ordinal contingency table. It shows that abundance is satisfactorily predicted for C. curvula. 
3237226|Montane moist meadows of western North America are relatively unique in that they are characterized by annual cycles of spring inundation followed by summer drought. Thus, plants adapted to these ecosystems must cope with a wide range of environmental conditions. We compared gas exchange and water relations of upper canopy leaves and leaf area index (LAI) of three dominant montane meadow graminoids growing at both streamside and mid-meadow locations (2.5 and 20.0 m, respectively from the stream edge). The two locations were environmentally very different in spite of their close proximity. The water table at the streamside location was ca. 40 cm closer to the surface compared to the mid-meadow. When averaged over season and species, photosynthetic rates were 12.5 % (p < 0.05) higher at the streamside compared to the mid-meadow location, but both conductance and transpiration were similar between locations (p > 0.05) The similarity in stomatal response was surprising given that streamside plants had midday xylem potentials that averaged 0.72 MPa less negative (less water-stressed) than that of mid-meadow plants (p < 0.05). There was no clear relationship between xylem potential and conductance for the species studied. Total LAI for the three species combined was nearly three times higher at the streamside compared to mid-meadow location. At the streamside location, Carex nebrascensis had a LAI over twice as high as that of the other species (p < 0.05), but there were no significant differences among species (p > 0.05) at the mid-meadow location. Carex nebrascensis had a more conservative gas exchange strategy (lower photosynthesis and transpiration) than Juncus balticus or Deschampsia cespitosa, yet developed more leaf area than either of these species. Juncus had higher photosynthesis and transpiration compared to the other species, yet maintained less negative midday xylem potential (p < 0.05). Apparently, Juncus balticus maintained a greater supply of moisture to above-ground tissues than the other species, which is probably an indication of higher root length per unit leaf area, or a more efficient water conducting system. The other two species - Carex nebrascensis in particular, maintain relatively conservative gas exchange rates, but under favorable growing conditions (such as occurred at the streamside) can develop high leaf area indices. Wetland species with similar growth forms (graminoid) and distributions can have contrasting patterns of gas exchange and plant water relations.
3237269|The effects of small 10 m x 10 m experimental above-ground gaps on fine-root production for the first two years were studied in three fire-initiated stands of the northwestern mixed broad-leaf-conifer boreal forest of Quebec. The 48-yr-old forest is dominated by Populus tremuloides (Trembling aspen), the 122-yr-old forest by a mixture of P. tremuloides, Abies balsamea (balsam fir) and Picea glauca (white spruce), and the 232-yr-old forest by Thuja occidentalis (eastern white cedar) and A. balsamea, with some P. tremuloides. 40 root-ingrowth bags were installed in different locations in and around each gap (at gap center, 1 to 2 m either side of gap edge and in adjacent control plots). Half of the ingrowth bags were harvested after one year following gap creation, the other half after two years. Roots were sorted into different species grouping. Fine-root production was statistically (P < 0.05) larger in the youngest forest compared to the two older ones after one year, but not after two years. The individual species or groups of species increased, decreased or showed no change in fine-root production in gaps, but overall we did not observe a major shift in species proportion between gap and control plots after two years. Some herbs and also Taxus canadensis seemed to benefit in terms of fine-root growth from such small openings after two years. No statistical differences (P > 0.10) in total fine-root production were found among locations within and outside gaps in either year. However, there was a clear tendency for fine-root production to be smaller in gap center than in the other locations for the two younger successional forests the first year after gap creation. We conclude that small above-ground gaps (i.e. < 100 m<sup>2</sup>) do not produce a significant and long-lasting below-ground gap in terms of total fine-root production in the successional forests investigated.
25549245|Question: What are the plant population- and community-level effects of removal of dominant plant species in the shortgrass steppe? Location: The Shortgrass Steppe Long-Term Ecological Research site in northern Colorado, USA. Methods: We annually measured plant cover and density by species for 10 years after a one-time aboveground removal of the dominant perennial grass, Bouteloua gracilis. Removal and control plots (3 m  3 m) were within grazed and ungrazed locations to assess the influence of grazing on recovery dynamics. Our analyses examined plant species, functional type, and community responses to removal, paying special attention to the dynamics of subdominant and rare species. Results: Basal cover of B. gracilis increased by an average of 1% per year, but there was significantly less plant cover in treatment compared to control plots for 5 years following removal. In contrast to the lower cover in treatment plots, the plant density (number of plants m) of certain subdominant perennial grasses, herbaceous perennial and annual forbs, a dwarf shrub, and cactus increased after removal of the dominant species, with no major change in species richness (number of species per 1 m  1 m) or diversity. Subdominant species were more similar between years than rare species, but dominant removal resulted in significantly lower similarity of the subdominant species in the short term and increased the similarity of rare species in the long term. Conclusions: Removal of B. gracilis, the dominant perennial grass in the shortgrass steppe, increased the absolute density of subdominant plants, but caused little compensation of plant cover by other plants in the community and changes in species diversity.
23012740|Questions: On sandy coastal habitats, factors related to substrate and to wind action vary along the seainland ecotone, forming a marked directional disturbance and stress gradient. Further, input of propagules of alien plant species associated to touristic exploitation and development is intense. This has contributed to establishment and spread of aliens in coastal systems. Records of alien species in databases of such heterogeneous landscapes remain scarce, posing a challenge for statistical modelling. We address this issue and attempt to shed light on the role of environmental stress/disturbance gradients and propagule pressure on invasibility of plant communities in these typical model systems. Location: Sandy coasts of Lazio (Central Italy). Methods: We proposed an innovative methodology to deal with low prevalence of alien occurrence in a data set and high cost of field-based sampling by taking advantage, through predictive modelling, of the strong interrelation between vegetation and abiotic features in coastal dunes. We fitted generalized additive models to analyse (1) overall patterns of alien occurrence and spread and (2) specific patterns of the most common alien species recorded. Conclusion: Even in the presence of strong propagule pressure, variation in local abiotic conditions can explain differences in invasibility within a local environment, and intermediate levels of natural disturbance and stress offer the best conditions for spread of alien species. However, in our model system, propagule pressure is actually the main determinant of alien species occurrence and spread. We demonstrated that extending the information of environmental features measured in a subsample of vegetation plots through predictive modelling allows complex questions in invasion biology to be addressed without requiring disproportionate funding and sampling effort.
25549256|Question: Whereas similar ecological requirements lead to trait-convergence assembly patterns (TCAP) of species in communities, the interactions controlling how species associate produce trait-divergence assembly patterns (TDAP). Yet, the linking of the latter to community processes has so far only been suggested. We offer a method to elucidate TCAP and TDAP in ecological community gradients that will help fill this gap. Method: We evaluated the correlation between trait-based described communities and ecological gradients, and using partial correlation, we separated the fractions reflecting TCAP and TDAP. The required input data matrices describe operational taxonomic units (OTUs) by traits, communities by the quantities or presence-absence of these OTUs, and community sites by ecological variables. We defined plant functional types (PFTs) or species as community components after fuzzy weighting by the traits. The measured correlations for TCAP and TDAP were tested by permutation. The null model for TDAP preserves the trait convergence, the structure intrinsic in the fuzzy types, and community total abundances and autocorrelation. Results: We applied the method to trait-based data from plant communities in south Brazil, one set in natural grassland experimental plots under different nitrogen and grazing levels, and another in sapling communities colonizing Araucaria forest patches of increasing size in a forest-grassland mosaic. In these cases, depending on the traits considered, we found strong evidence of either TCAP or TDAP, or both, that was related to the environmental gradients. Conclusions: The method developed is able to reveal TCAP and TDAP that are more likely to be functional for specified ecological gradients, allowing establishment of objective hypotheses on their links to community processes.
3235836|A nucleated pattern of establishment by pine seedlings of Pinus strobus and P. resinosa around pre-established oak trees of Quercus rubra in a sand dune succession in Ontario, Canada was examined using field observations, seed planting and habitat manipulation. Densities of young pines beneath oak canopies were approximately six times greater than in treeless areas, and densities on the north sides of the trees were significantly greater than on the south sides. However, oaks younger than 35 yr showed no preferential establishment beneath them, while the pine population structures beneath older oaks indicated single periods of successful recruitment. Pine seed planted beneath and beyond oak canopies of three sizes germinated primarily beneath the canopies of medium and large-sized oaks, but subsequent survivorship of seedlings over two growing seasons was poor. Several micro-environmental conditions were changed by oak canopies, but only shade showed a pattern closely corresponding to that of seedling establishment. A habitat manipulation experiment confirmed the primary role of shade in facilitating pine seedling establishment beneath oaks. Failure of pine to continue recruiting successfully beneath facilitating trees is tentatively attributed to intraspecific competition among pine individuals.
3235682|Effects of interspecific interactions on the organization of two trampled communities, Eragrostio ferrugineae Plantaginetum asiaticae (EP) and Eleusino indicae - Digitarietum violascentis (ED), were examined by 4-yr field experiments. We compared changes in the relative abundance of the main component species of the communities in monoculture and mixed culture along a trampling gradient. At no trampling in mixed culture, Ambrosia artemisiifolia var. elatior and Erigeron annuus (roadside herbs, RH) predominated and excluded the trampled community species. Severe trampling markedly reduced the predominance of these roadside herbs, promoted Eragrostis ferruginea (a perennial grass of EP), but suppressed Eleusine indica (an annual grass of ED). These results suggest that the differentiation of trampled and roadside herb communities under heavy trampling are caused by asymmetric competition between their main species. Several species pairs showed a constant rank order of relative cover at high trampling levels. Pennisetum alopecuroides (a perennial grass of both RH and EP) and Eragrostis coexisted, indicating symmetric competition. Eragrostis and Plantago asiatica (a perennial herb of EP) or Poa annua (a winter-annual grass of both EP and ED) coexisted through separation in phenology. Eragrostis promoted the survival of Plantago by moderating unpredictable drought (commensalistic positive interaction). This suggests that community composition is maintained by several interspecific interactions.
3235633|The heights, diameters and regrowth basal areas of 22-yr old fire-initiated regeneration of Eucalyptus delegatensis ssp. tasmaniensis, E. urnigera, E. coccifera and E. johnstonii were measured over altitudinal, solar radiation and drainage gradients on Mt. Wellington, Tasmania. The growth rate responses to the altitude gradient-complex vary from linear to curved depending on the performance measure, the species and the gradient. Much of the variation in growth rate appears to be a direct response to the physical environment. However, disparities between trends in growth rate and trends in regrowth basal area are consistent with the hypothesis that competition (sensu Grime 1979) is more important in productive environments and less important in stressful environments. A glasshouse trial with Eucalyptus seedlings indicated that potential growth rates decline with increasing altitude of seed source.
3236079|Above-ground net primary productivity (ANPP) was measured over two growing seasons on adjacent grassland and woodland plots in the wet coastal prairie of the upper Texas coast of the Gulf of Mexico (mean annual rainfall of 1200 mm). The woodland was a monospecific stand of the introduced tree, Sapium sebiferum, which is an aggressive invader of unburned grassland. Woodland ANPP, estimated from repeated measurements of tree diameters at breast height (DBH) and regressions of biomass components on DBH, was 1264  27 g/m<sup>2</sup>. Grassland ANPP, calculated using a modification of the peak live standing crop method, was 462  49 g/ m<sup>2</sup> on an unburned plot and 624  63 g/m<sup>2</sup> on a burned plot. Variation among years was not significant for either grassland or woodland plots. Grassland ANPP was lower than predicted from rainfall; woodland ANPP was in the range of rainfall-based predictions. Greater ANPP of the woodland may be related to canopy structure.
3236236|Plant community structure in four dune slacks is examined for evidence of competition, expressed as local constraint on species biomass. Such constraint would result in a low variance in total quadrat biomass, compared to a null model. A method of analysis is introduced, using a patch-based null model, which is intended to discount most of the effects of environmental heterogeneity. The method is applied to data in which previous methods had failed to find such structure. There was significant biomass constraint (i.e. low variance in biomass) examining total plant-community biomass in Site 1, and there was a trend in this direction also in Site 2. When guilds defined on morphology were examined, significant biomass constraint was found for the Rhizomatous guild in Site 2. There was a trend to low variance for this guild also in Site 4, but it was significant only in a one-tailed test. After a consideration of other mechanisms, it is concluded that the most likely explanation for this biomass constraint is interspecies competition. Site 2, which showed the strongest evidence of biomass constraint in the present analyses, was also the site that demonstrated a significant deficit of variance in richness in earlier work, and was the most species-rich of the four sites and the least disturbed. The advantages of the new method, for obtaining evidence on competition, are discussed in comparison to pot experiments and field-perturbation experiments. We conclude that community structure can be seen in the pattern of species biomasses provided that a suitable method of analysis is used, i.e. examining small-scale effects and excluding the effects of environmental heterogeneity. In some cases such effects can be related to guild membership. We hypothesise that constraint on biomass is likely to be stronger in more species-rich and less disturbed communities.
25173235|Question: We know of no study that has linked volcanic eruptions occurring anywhere worldwide and the local population cycles of any species. The keystone saguaro cactus (Carnegiea gigantea) establishes in cohorts. We test whether there is a statistical relationship between Carnegiea gigantea establishment and volcanic eruptions. Location: Northern Sonoran Desert, Arizona, USA. Methods: We use both a region-wide dataset made up of 30 populations, and a dataset from a marginal site. We incorporate data for over 750 individuals over an area of more than 50 000 km. We created a 111-year time series of population peaks and troughs and correlated this over the 111-year record with the annual Weighted Historical Dust Veil Index (WHDVI). A t-test compared establishment patterns with the WHDVI. Results: We found a significant relationship between volcanism and C. gigantea regeneration at both the marginal site, and in the region-wide dataset. Conclusions: We suggest that while different populations are influenced by temporary global temperature ameliorations to different extents, our results show that populations do derive significant benefits from volcanic eruptions that promote their regeneration over large portions of their range, as is also exhibited locally at our marginal site, where populations are most susceptible to the inhospitable conditions that are witnessed at the edge of their range. This paper draws a link between the population fluctuations and regeneration of a species locally with geologic events from distant parts of the earth.
3236739| It has been proposed that in the harsh arctic and alpine climate zones, small microtopographic variations that can generate more benign conditions than in the surrounding environment could be perceived as safe sites for seedling recruitment. Cushion plants can modify wind pattern, temperature and water availability. Such modifications imply that cushion plants could act as 'nurse plants' facilitating the recruitment of other species in the community. This effect should be more evident under stressful conditions. We tested these hypotheses comparing the number of species that grow inside and outside Bolax gummifera cushions at two elevations (700 and 900 m a.s.l.) in the Patagonian Andes of Chile (50 S). At both elevations, and in equivalent areas, the number of species was registered within and outside cushions. A total of 36 and 27 plant species were recorded either within or outside B. gummifera cushions at 700 and 900 m a.s.l., respectively. At 700 m a.s.l., 33 species were recorded growing within cushions and 29 outside them, while at 900 m a.s.l. these numbers were 24 and 13 respectively. At both elevations there were significantly more species growing within than outside cushions, and the proportion of species growing within cushions increased with elevation. Thus there is a nurse effect of cushion plants and it is more evident at higher elevations. Shelter from wind and increased soil water availability seem to be the factors that increase plant recruitment within cushions. 
3235636|Models are reviewed that predict the potential distribution of classes of rain-forest structural characteristics in relation to indices of climate and soil parent material. A description is given of the field survey undertaken to examine these relations in the Wet Tropics of Queensland, Australia. The predicted probabilities are compared with the observed values and the extent of correspondence between the two data sets examined. Environmental relations based on finer-scaled landscape processes are proposed to explain the mismatches. An index of catchment hydrology is described that represents the most feasible additional independent variable for spatial extension purposes.
3235932|We investigated patterns of disturbance and recovery in Fiby urskog, a primeval spruce (Picea abies) forest, situated south of the border between the Boreo-nemoral and Boreal regions in East-central Sweden. The main types of disturbances are storm damage, fungal infection and insect attacks. The response of the different tree species varied and the mode of tree-fall depended on the different combinations of disturbance agents. The DBH distributions of gap creators and gap-border trees were almost the same. There was a high age diversity (100-240 yr) among the fallen trees. We concluded that all canopy trees (DBH > 20 cm) had the same probability of being felled by storms, irrespective of their age and DBH. According to an estimate along transect lines, gaps made up 31 % of the spruce forest area. Individual gap sizes ranged from 9 m<sup>2</sup> to 360 m<sup>2</sup>, but 83% of the gaps were < 150 m<sup>2</sup>. The varied age structure of logs in individual gaps indicated that gap enlargements were common. 96 tree-falls were observed on four days with an hourly mean wind speed > 12.0 m/s; all trees fell in the direction of the wind. However, when we consult the 30-yr record (1959-1989) of the mean hourly wind speed > 12.0 m/s, it is clear that the pattern of storm-directions does not match the pattern of orientation of fallen logs. The present disturbance regime and the predominance of small gaps were more favourable for the regeneration of Picea abies than of light-demanding tree species. In one large, 2900 m<sup>2</sup> gap, not crossed by the transects, all the major tree species had established within 7 yr, suggesting that classical succession in the sense of complete species replacement or 'relay floristics' did not occur. Our observations seem rather to fit the 'initial floristic' model. Estimates of turnover time ranged from 170 to 228 yr, depending on the method used.
3237086|In the Mediterranean basin, the climate is predicted to be warmer and effectively drier, leading to changes in fuel conditions and fire regime. Land abandonment in the Mediterranean basin is also changing the fire regime through the increase in fuel loads. In the present study, two simulation models of vegetation dynamics were tested in order to predict changes in plant functional types due to changes in fire recurrence in eastern Spain. The two modelling approaches are the FATE-model (based on vital attributes) and the gap model BROLLA (based on the gap-phase theory). The models were arranged to simulate four functional types, based mainly on their regenerative strategies after disturbance: Quercus (resprouter), Pinus (non-resprouter with serotinous cones), Erica (resprouter), and Cistus (non-resprouter with germination stimulated by fire). The simulation results suggested a decrease in Quercus abundance, an increase in Cistus and Erica, and a maximum of Pinus at intermediate recurrence scenarios. Despite their different approaches, both models predicted a similar response to increased fire recurrence, and the results were consistent with field observations.
40295837|Question: Are seed size and plant size linked to species responses to inter-annual variations in rainfall and rainfall distribution during the growing season in annual grasslands? Location: A 16-year data set on species abundance in permanent plots 15 km north of Madrid in a Quercus ilex subsp. ballot a dehesa. Methods: At species level, a GLM was used to analyse the effects of various rainfall indices (total autumn rainfall, early autumn rainfall and spring drought) on species abundance residuals with respect to time and topography. We also assessed the importance of seed size and plant size in the species responses at community level using species as data points. Seed mass and maximum stem length were used as surrogates for seed size and plant size, respectively. Results: Seed mass and plant size may explain some of the fluctuations in the floristic composition of annual species associated with autumn rainfall patterns. Species that are more abundant in dry autumns have greater seed mass than those species that are more abundant in wet autumns. Early autumn rainfall seems to favour larger plants. Conclusions: Our empirical results support the hypothesis that autumn rainfall patterns affect the relative establishment capacity of small and large seedlings in annual species.
3236146|To evaluate the effects of local competition on the growth and size variability of sprouts following disturbance in a natural population of Arbutus unedo in Catalonia, plants were cut at the base and a neighbor removal experiment was performed. Removal of neighbors resulted in an increase in the number and biomass of sprouts at 2 and 7.5 months after clipping. Number and biomass of sprouts was also correlated with initial plant size (stump area). Inter-genet competition appeared to be symmetric, and acted to delay the onset of interference among sprouts within a genet. Size variability of sprouts on an individual was positively correlated with their density on the stump, supporting the hypothesis that competition among ramets (sprouts) within a genet is asymmetric. Reduced inter-genet competition from neighbor removal resulted in an increase in the number and biomass of sprouts growing from a stump. This resulted in an increase in the asymmetry of competition among sprouts, and therefore an increase in the size variability of these sprouts.
40925529|Question: How does an improved understanding of species interactions, combined with an additional ecological variable (wind speed), alter the projected vegetation response to variation in altitudinal temperature? Location: Cairngorm Mountains, Scotland. Methods: Montane heathland vegetation was sampled from 144 plots (432 quadrats) comprising eight altitudinal transects. Ordination by partial DCA and path analysis was used to confirm: (1) the effect of wind speed and altitude (  temperature) on vegetation structure, i.e. canopy height and cover of bare ground, and (2) the control of arctic/alpine macrolichen occurrence by vegetation structure. Nested regression analysis was used to project the response of vegetation structure and lichen occurrence to temperature change scenarios with and without a step-wise change in future wind speed. Results: Warming trends shifted vegetation zones upwards, with a subsequent loss of suitable habitat for arctic/alpine lichens. However, incorporating wind speed as an additional explanatory variable had an important modifying effect on the vegetation response to temperature: decreasing wind speed exaggerates the effects of increased temperature and vice versa. Our models suggest that for the wind-driven heath examined, a 20% increase in mean wind speed may negate the effect of increased temperature on vegetation structure, resulting in no net change in lichen occurrence. Conclusions: We caution that an improved understanding of species interactions in vegetation response models may force the consideration of locally variable environmental parameters (e.g. wind speed), bringing into question the predicted vegetation response based on standard projections of temperature change along altitudinal gradients.
3236905|In the forest of the Baohua Reserve in the Baohua Mountains, eastern China, six plant communities and 11 subcommunities were described using the Braun-Blanquet method. These communities can be assigned to four already described Chinese vegetation types. Curtis' Compositional Index (CI) and Shannon's diversity index were used to determine the successional stage and species diversity of the communities. The community of Brachystachyum densiflorum and Pinus massoniana and the subcommunity of Fraxinus chinensis and Quercus acutissima with Pueraria lobata had the lowest CI and would be an initial successional stage; the community of Phoebe sheareri and Cyclobalanopsis glauca had the highest CI and would be the final stage. The community of Brachystachyum densiflorum and Pinus massoniana and the subcommunity of Fraxinus chinensis and Quercus acutissima with Pueraria lobata, both pioneer successional stages, had the lowest species diversity. The climax communities had the highest diversity.
40295799|Question: Understanding the mechanisms underlying how habitat degradation, topography and rainfall variability interactively affect seed distribution and seedling recruitment is crucial for explaining plant community patterns and dynamics. Interactions between these major factors were studied together in a semiarid sand dune grassland. Location: Eastern Inner Mongolia, China. Methods: The study system used four sites of fixed, semifixed, semishifting and shifting sand dune grasslands, representing a gradient of habitat degradation. We investigated the density of germinable seeds deposited in the top 5 cm of soil and in situ seedling emergence (number of seedlings emerging early in the growing season) and establishment (number of plants recruited at the end of the growing season) at three topographic positions (dune top, windward and leeward sides) within each site over 2 years that differed in rainfall. Habitat characteristics (i.e. vegetation cover, plant species composition and diversity, soil moisture and nutrient availability and soil erodibility) of the four sites were also measured. Results: Habitat degradation (i.e. decreased vegetation cover and enhanced wind erosion rate) significantly reduced the size of the germinable soil seed bank. On average, germinable seed number from the high-vegetation cover fixed dune was 36-fold larger than the lowvegetation cover shifting dune, and eight- and two-fold larger, respectively, than the semishifting and semifixed dunes with intermediate vegetation cover. We observed within-habitat variability in seed distribution, but amongtopographic position variation differed among habitats. Seedling recruitment showed large between-year, and among- and within-habitat variability, but these variations varied significantly depending on the response variables evaluated (i.e. initial seedling density, final plant density, emergence rate and recruitment rate). Path analysis revealed complex density-dependent positive and negative, direct and indirect effects of germinable seed density and initial seedling density on recruitment, but the relative importance of these density-dependent effects varied depending on habitat type and rainfall availability. Conclusion: Our results suggest that habitat degradation, microtopography and rainfall availability interact in shaping sand dune seed bank and plant community recruitment patterns and dynamics. Their effects were mainly mediated through changes in both the biotic and abiotic environment during the process of habitat deterioration.
3235986|The community structure of 11 lawn sites in New Zealand and Fiji was examined in terms of guilds, seeking assembly rules based on guild proportionality. First, associations were analysed, using a new patch model which examined the mean of associations within patches of about 4 cm x 4 cm. As expected from the previously-demonstrated existence of niche limitation at this scale in lawns, the majority of associations between individual species were negative. Even in a lawn only four months old there were significant associations (mostly negative, and one positive). At some sites those species with the most negative associations were those whose morphology might be expected to restrict coexistence with other species. Much ecological theory is based on the assumption that there are limitations to coexistence, related to the resource usage of the species, such that species that are too similar in resource use are less likely to coexist. This theory was tested by looking for evidence of guild proportionality. We defined two guilds, graminoids and forbs. Using these guilds, three of the sites showed significant evenness in proportional representation from the two guilds in quadrats containing four species, i.e. there was less variation in the graminoid:forb ratio than expected on a random basis. Inclusion of species-poor quadrats in a joint analysis over all richness categories overwhelmed this effect, though there was still a strong trend for two of the New Zealand sites: the two species-rich grass lawns. Preliminary analyses of alternative guild delimitations gave no indication that other guild delimitations would have revealed stronger community structure. There was a strong and significant tendency in most sites for the graminoid guild to be more strongly represented in species-poor quadrats, an effect caused by species frequencies.
3236495|We used classification tree analysis to develop a climate-based distribution model for Fagus crenata forests in Japan. Four climatic variables judged likely to affect the distribution of the species (summer and winter precipitation, minimum temperature of the coldest month and Kira's warmth index) were chosen as independent variables for the model. Latitudinal and longitudinal information was also used to examine effects of spatial autocorrelation on the model. The climatic factors associated with the distribution of the forests were analysed using a classification tree to devise prediction rules. Predicted areas of high probability for forest occurrence lay mainly on the Sea of Japan side of northern Honshu and southern Hokkaido. This is consistent with actual forest distribution. Some areas with high predicted probabilities of F. crenata forest occurrence were beyond the current natural northern range limits of these forests. Since these areas were widely scattered, it was assumed that the species has been hindered from colonizing them due to dispersal limitations. Deviance-weighted scores, used to compare magnitudes of the contributions of predictor variables, revealed winter precipitation as the most influential factor, followed by the warmth index, the minimum temperature of the coldest month and summer precipitation. Attempts were made to generate ecological explanations for the effects of the four climatic factors on the distribution of F. crenata forests.
40925527|Questions: Do spatial and temporal patterns of encroachment of Pinus contorta and Abies grandis in a montane meadow suggest strong biotic controls on the invasion process? Location: Forest-meadow mosaic, 1350 m a.s.1, Cascade Range, Oregon, US. Methods: We combined spatial point pattern analysis, population age structures, and a time-series of stem maps to quantify spatial and temporal patterns of conifer invasion over a 200-yr period in three plots totaling 4 ha. Results: Trees established during two broad, but distinct periods (late 1800s, then at much greater density in the mid-1900s). Recent invasion was not correlated with climatic variation. Abies grandis dominated both periods; P. contorta established at lower density, peaking before A. grandis. Spatially, older ( 90 yr) P. contorta were randomly distributed, but older A. grandis were strongly clumped (0.2-20 m ). Younger (< 90 yr) stems were positively associated at small distances (both within and between species), but were spatially displaced from older A. grandis, suggesting a temporal shift from facilitation to competition. Establishment during the 1800s resulted in widely scattered P. contorta and clumps of A. grandis that placed most areas of meadow close to seed sources permitting more rapid invasion during the mid-1900s. Rapid conversion to forest occurred via colonization of larger meadow openings -first by shade-intolerant P. contorta, then by shade-tolerant A. grandis  and by direct infilling of smaller openings by A. grandis. Conclusions: In combination, spatial and temporal patterns of establishment suggest an invasion process shaped by biotic interactions, with facilitation promoting expansion of trees into meadows and competition influencing subsequent forest development. Once invasion is initiated, tree species with different life histories and functional traits can interact synergistically to promote rapid conversion of meadow to forest under a broad range of climatic conditions.
3237050|Tropical inselbergs are isolated elevations with a special type of vegetation and surrounded by rain forest. The paper describes, using the field methods of Braun-Blanquet, combined with numerical analysis (clustering, Correspondence Analysis), plant communities on French Guianan inselbergs. Six new associations are described: Portulacetum sedifolii, Furcraeetum foetidae, Ananasetum annassoidis, Stylosanthetum guianensis, Axonopetum ramosi and (endemic to the Guianan inselbergs) Pepinietum geyskesii - with three subassociations. The six vegetation units reflect different combinations of environmental factors such as local relief, insolation, water availability and soil depth. All syntaxa show a low species diversity. Species of Cyperaceae, Poaceae, Lentibulariaceae and Bromeliaceae are predominant, whereas families typical of other South American inselbergs (Velloziaceae and Cactaceae), are missing or scarce. Similarities between vegetation units of South American and African inselbergs are emphasized.
3237198|Plant functional types (PFTs) bridge the gap between plant physiology and community and ecosystem processes, thus providing a powerful tool in climate change research. We aimed at identifying PFTs within the flora of central-western Argentina, and to explore their possible consequences for ecosystem function. We analyzed 24 vegetative and regenerative traits of the 100 most abundant species along a steep climatic gradient. Based on plant traits and standard multivariate techniques, we identified eight PFTs. Our results confirmed, over a wide range of climatic conditions, the occurrence of broad recurrent patterns of association among plant traits reported for other floras; namely trade-offs between high investment in photosynthesis and growth on the one hand, and preferential allocation to storage and defence on the other. Regenerative traits were only partially coupled with vegetative traits. Using easily-measured plant traits and individual species cover in 63 sites, we predicted main community-ecosystem processes along the regional gradient. We hypothesized likely impacts of global climatic change on PFTs and ecosystems in situ, and analysed their probabilities of migrating in response to changing climatic conditions. Finally, we discuss the advantages and limitations of this kind of approach in predicting changes in plant distribution and in ecosystem processes over the next century.
23012419|Tropical forests are biologically diverse ecosystems that play important roles in the carbon cycle and maintenance of global biodiversity. Understanding how tropical forests respond to environmental changes is important, as changes in carbon storage can modulate the rate and magnitude of climate change. Applying an ecoinformatics approach for managing long-term forest inventory plot data, where individual trees are tracked over time, facilitates regional and cross-continental forest research to evaluate changes in taxonomic composition, growth, recruitment and mortality rates, and carbon and biomass stocks. We developed ForestPlots.net as a secure, online inventory data repository and to facilitate data management of long-term tropical forest plots to promote scientific collaborations among independent researchers. The key novel features of the database are: (a) a design that efficiently deals with time-series data; (b) data management tools to assess potential errors; and (c) a query library to generate outputs (e.g. biomass and carbon stock changes over time).
3237237|Distribution of tree seedlings, forest architecture, light conditions, ground vegetation and humus conditions were studied in a 45 m x 100 m area including multiple gaps in an old-growth beech forest. Gaps were created after some beech trees had been felled in severe storms in February 1990. A group of adult ash trees is found near the study site. The data were analyzed by Correspondence Analysis. Young seedlings (< 4 yr), of both Fraxinus (a sun species) and Fagus (a shade species), were most abundant under the crown of beech trees in semi-shade conditions, and where beech litter did not accumulate. Differences in the dissemination of Fraxinus and Fagus explained differences in the establishment of the two species. In contrast, older seedlings of beech established before the storms were more numerous in the gaps, suggesting a change in the ecological requirements of beech seedlings in the course of time.
3236636|The effects of competition on individual fitness and species diversity were investigated in a first-year old field by comparing the natural community to an experimentally-determined null community. The species pool for the null community was estimated from low-density plots, and hypothetical sample plots in the null community were constructed by random sampling from the species pool. Individual plants were larger in low-density plots than control plots, indicating that competition reduced individual fitness. Competition appeared to reduce diversity in half the plots (i.e. species richness and diversity were lower than in hypothetical null community plots with the same number of individuals), but did not affect diversity in the other plots. However, the reduction in diversity could be explained as an artifact caused by spatial aggregation in control plots. The magnitude of the effects of competition on diversity did not change with plot density, and no species consistently increased or decreased in relative abundance as plot density increased. We conclude that competition had no effect on diversity in this community, despite the strong effect on individual growth.
3236683|This paper responds to the Forum contribution by Piovesan & Adams (2000) who criticized the results obtained by the EUROFLUX network on carbon fluxes of several European forests. The major point of criticism was that the data provided by EUROFLUX are inconsistent with current scientific understanding. It is argued that understanding the terrestrial global carbon cycle requires more than simply restating what was known previously, and that Piovesan & Adams have not been able to show any major conflicts between our findings and ecosystem or atmospheric-transport theories.
3236007|Sources of basal sprouting for five shrub species representing five plant families common to the Tamaulipan biotic province were quantified, following four intensities of top removal. Among undisturbed shrubs, Celtis pallida and Zanthoxylum fagara were somewhat arborescent, with one or two dominant primary stems per plant. Aloysia gratissima, Ziziphus obtusifolia and Schaefferia cuneifolia were fruticose in architecture, with more and smaller stems. Following top removal, each species exhibited a distinct regenerative hierarchy whereby shoot production following disturbance was primarily from structures immediately subtending the removed tissues, even though more distal tissues had the capacity for shoot production. Thus, removal of stems to a 5 cm residual increased the contribution of primary stems from stem bases, whereas stem removal to ground line typically induced regeneration from root crowns. Schaefferia, Zanthoxylum and Ziziphus were capable of producing shoots from root tissue, yet regeneration from roots was not stimulated until tissues were removed to below root crowns. Field observations indicate that most woody species in the subtropical thorn woodlands of southern Texas, USA, are highly persistent in the face of natural and anthropogenic disturbance, owing to their ability to regenerate vegetatively. Alternative sources of stem replacement contribute to the high resilience of these shrubs following disturbance and may help explain or predict patterns of secondary succession and plant persistence following various intensities of disturbance.
25173205|Question: What is the effect of nutrient addition on primary production, phytodiversity and succession of a very unproductive plant community (ca. 100 g.m.a)? Location: A nutrient-poor, calcareous inland sand ecosystem in the northern upper Rhine valley, Germany. Methods: Within a five-fold replicated randomized block design, 10-m plots were given six single or combined applications of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and other essential nutrients for four years. An organic carbon treatment was included as a measure to immobilize soil nitrogen. Data were analysed by mixed linear models. Results: Productivity of above-ground vascular plant species doubled after nitrogen addition. Additional nutrient elements did not increase productivity further. The cover of ten species and the height of 15 (out of 19 examined) species were significantly enhanced by nutrient addition. Centaurea stoebe is nitrogen-limited and exhibits a decisive impact on total above-ground vascular species productivity. Nutrients did not affect phytodiversity. Low-dosage nitrogen addition (25 kg.haa) and organic carbon treatment had no significant impact. However, long-term effects cannot be excluded. Conclusions: The productivity of the examined plant community is responsive to nutrient addition. Although the response is actually more pronounced than in plant communities with higher initial productivity, productivity remained at a low level. Nutrient limitation (mostly phosphorus + nitrogen co-limitation) of many individual species across all life forms is shown. Total above-ground vascular plant productivity is nitrogen-limited. No species were suppressed completely, nor has there yet been an encroachment of new species. However, high-dosage nitrogen addition resulted in accelerated succession.
3235959|A floristic classification for monsoon rain forest vegetation in the Northern Territory, Australia, is derived based on comprehensive floristic inventory and environmental data. Allied aims include relating the floristic classification to Australia-wide structural and floristic schema, documenting species richness, and exploring site-environmental relations. TWINSPAN classification and complementary DCA analysis of a data set comprising 1219 sites x 559 rain forest taxa yielded 16 floristic assemblages. A diagnostic floristic key to these groups is presented. Eight groups describe rain forests associated with sites of perennial moisture; eight groups are associated with seasonally dry landforms. The structural typology of Australian rain forests is found wanting when applied to relatively simple monsoon rain forest communities. Rain forest patches are mostly less than 5 ha in size; maximum species richness is ca. 135 species per patch. Two major environmental gradients are identified through indirect gradient analysis: a primary latitudinal-moisture gradient and a subsidiary topographic-drainage gradient. Given the demonstrated tolerance of monsoon rain forest to a broad range of environmental conditions, the question remains: why is this vegetation type so restricted in occurrence in northern Australia?
3246587|We present a gradient analysis of 620 vegetation samples covering most of the floristic and environmental variation in semi-natural grassland vegetation on well-drained soils in Denmark. Vegetation was sampled using frequency in subplots. Explanatory variables were surface inclination, aspect, pH, geographical co-ordinates together with indications of soil type. Detrended Correspondence Analysis revealed four floristic gradients that could be interpreted in ecological terms by measured variables supplemented with site calibrations based on weighted averaging of Ellenberg's indicator values. All four axes were interpreted using rank correlation statistics, and linear and non-linear multiple regression of sample scores on explanatory variables. The first gradient was from dry calcareous to humid acidic grasslands; the second reflected an underlying gradient in fertility; the third reflected regional differentiation and the fourth was associated with variation in intensity of competition as indicated by association with calibrated Grime-CSR values for the plots. We applied subset ordination to the data as a supplement to traditional permutation and correlation statistics to assess the consistency of ordination results. DCA axes 1 and 2 were consistent in space and time. This gradient analysis is discussed in a context of plant strategy theory and species diversity models. Ecocline patterns lend support to the view that grazing not only favours the ruderal strategy but also the stress-tolerant strategy. The low rank of competition as an explanatory variable for the floristical gradients supports the notion that competitive effects play a subordinate role for species composition compared to microclimate and soil conditions in infertile semi-natural grasslands.
40925511|Questions: What are the effects of soil, topography, treefall gaps, tree species composition, and tree density on liana species composition and total liana abundance? Location: A 6-ha permanent plot in a subtropical montane forest in northwest Argentina. Methods: Multiple regressions were used to quantify associations of liana species composition and total liana abundance with edaphic, disturbance and tree community variables. Gradients in liana and tree species composition were quantified using principal components analysis (PCA). Results: Liana species composition was correlated most strongly with soil phosphorus concentration (R = 0.55). Total liana abundance increased with phosphorus and the density of recent treefall gaps (R = 0.60). Conclusions: In our study area, liana composition and abundance are most strongly correlated with features of the physical environment, rather than host tree characteristics. Our results support the hypothesis that recent increases in liana abundance in mature tropical forests may be related to increased rates of gap formation.
40925563|Question: Cocos nucifera, the coconut palm, has a pantropical distribution and reaches near monodominance in many atolls, low lying islands and coastal regions. This paper examines the ecological correlation between C.nucifera abundance and changes in forest structure, floristic diversity and forest soil characteristics. Location: Palmyra Atoll NWR (USA), Central Pacific Ocean. Methods: Plant surveys were conducted on 83 transects (each 100m ).All plants > 5 cm in height were identified and counted; large plants were also measured and ground cover was surveyed. Major macronutrients, pH, macro-elements/base cations, micronutrients and pedogenic elements, and thermodynamic stability levels were quantified from soil samples taken at each transect. Results: Even in a low diversity atoll environment, we found that high abundances of C. nucfera corresponded with pronounced differences in forest communities including: lower diversity of established trees and regenerating understorey; higher stem density and stand basal area; lower abundance of major macronutrients; and differences in macro and trace elements and energy content of soil organic matter. Historical natural experiments document that the expansion of C. nucifera was the likely causative agent of these changes. Discussion: Cumulatively, these data show that C. nucifera has important impacts on floristic, structural and soil characteristics of forests where it becomes dominant. Given the high proportion of tropical coastal areas in which C. nucifera is now naturalized and abundant, this likely has important implications for coastal forest diversity and structure.
25549263|Questions: What is the observed relationship between plant species diversity and spatial environmental heterogeneity? Does the relationship scale predictably with sample plot size? What are the relative contributions to diversity patterns of variables linked to productivity or available energy compared to those corresponding to spatial heterogeneity? Methods: Observational and experimental studies that quantified relationships between plant species richness and within-sample spatial environmental heterogeneity were reviewed. Effect size in experimental studies was quantified as the standardized mean difference between control (homogeneous) and heterogeneous treatments. For observational studies, effect sizes in individual studies were examined graphically across a gradient of plot size (focal scale). Relative contributions of variables representing spatial heterogeneity were compared to those representing available energy using a response ratio. Results: Forty-one observational and 11 experimental studies quantified plant species diversity and spatial environmental heterogeneity. Observational studies reported positive species diversity-spatial heterogeneity correlations at all points across a plot size gradient from 1.010 to 1.010m, although many studies reported spatial heterogeneity variables with no significant relationships to species diversity. The cross-study effect size in experimental studies was not significantly different from zero. Available energy variables explained consistently more of the variance in species richness than spatial heterogeneity variables, especially at the smallest and largest plot sizes. Main conclusions: Species diversity was not related to spatial heterogeneity in a way predictable by plot size. Positive heterogeneity-diversity relationships were common, confirming the importance of niche differentiation in species diversity patterns, but future studies examining a range of spatial scales in the same system are required to determine the role of dispersal and available energy in these patterns.
3236356|Spatial pattern analysis based on Ripley's K-function is a second-order analysis of point patterns in a two-dimensional space. The method is increasingly used in studies of spatial distribution patterns of plant communities, but the statistical methods involved are sometimes poorly understood or have been modified without evaluating the effects on results. The procedures of field data acquisition, statistical analysis, and the test for the null hypothesis of complete spatial randomness are described and the presentation of results is discussed. Different methods of edge correction were tested on a computer-generated random pattern and a mapped distribution of a Mediterranean shrubland. The inclusion of buffer zones around mapped plots describes the spatial pattern most accurately, but may not warrant the additional labour involved. Three variations of the weighted edge correction yielded comparable results for the distribution patterns tested. The toroidal edge correction may give biased results for nonrandom patterns. Recommendations for standardisation of the statistical procedures and data presentation are given.
3236084|Heathlands in the Paimpont area, Brittany, were ravaged by numerous fires in the summer of 1976. The period in which the fires occurred, and their intensity had important consequences for recolonization processes. In the tall Ulex europaeus heathland described in this paper, fire occurred relatively late (mid-July), and was of high intensity. Colonisation was mainly from propagules, often from species foreign to the original heathland. Plant succession together with vertical and horizontal structure was studied in permanent plots over 13 yr. Three stages were distinguished. Vertical structure varied greatly among the three stages. It was very simple in the colonisation phase, became more complicated during the competition phase, but became simpler again in the stabilisation phase. This was particularly evident for the moss layer, which, 13 yr after the fire, was made up of Polytrichum commune alone. Mosses showed interspecific competition with size as the decisive factor: the large mosses gradually eliminated the smaller ones. Horizontal structure was studied using spatial auto-correlation, which provided some indication of the distinctiveness and scale of spatial pattern. Some species were weakly aggregated such as Ceratodon purpureus, Polytrichum piliferum, and P. juniperinum, while others, like the P. formosum-P. commune complex, Agrostis curtisii and Ulex minor were strongly aggregated. In the current community, 13 yr after the fire, a mosaic can be distinguished with three components: (1) a moss layer of Polytrichum commune on which a herbaceous layer, dominated by Agrostis curtisii has developed; (2) a birch wood (both Betula pendula and B. pubescens), which established on the Polytrichum - Agrostis combination; (3) patches of Ulex minor heathland, with a few Erica and Calluna plants. Extreme simplicity and stability are the two prominent features of the present vegetation state.
3236475|Question: Do different competitive abilities of three fern species explain their different regional abundances? Location: Estonia, Europe. Methods: The factorial pot experiment, in which single individuals of three fern species were grown in natural soil with 0, 2,4, and 8 neighbouring individuals of Deschampsia flexuosa. Results: The response patterns of different biomass fractions and morphological parameters of fern species were similar to each other. The diploid D. expansa was the most vulnerable to competition, while tetraploid D. carthusiana and D. dilatata were more tolerant. D. carthusiana allocated relatively more to below-ground parts than the other two species and allocation to roots increased when neighbour density increased. For D. expansa and D. dilatata, allocation to below-ground parts decreased at high neighbour density, while in D. dilatata also the relative length of the stipe increased. Thus, the response of D. carthusiana corresponds to a 'persistence type' and that of D. dilatata to a 'foraging type'. Conclusions: Lower vulnerability of D. carthusiana to competition, compared to D. expansa, may explain the higher regional and local abundance of the former. The rarity of D. dilatata in Estonia, however, could rather be explained by the impact of climatic factors, since this species is near its northeastern distribution limit in Estonia.
3236656|Integrated synusial phytosociology combined with traditional measures of diversity is used to describe the structure of vascular vegetation diversity along the forested riparian landscape of the upper Oise valley (Belgium and France). The two dimensions (longitudinal and lateral) of the geomorphological complex are examined at four scales: synusia, phytocoenosis, tesela and catena. The results support the following hypotheses: (1) the environmental gradients observed, particularly the lateral ones, are very complex; (2) there is a clear lack of coupling between the tree, shrub and herb layers, which indicates a differential response to the underlying influence of environmental controls; (3) moderate flooding-induced disturbance enhances herb species richness; (4) stressful environments support a low plant species diversity but a high synusial richness; (5) natural factors (substrate, climate, disturbance) are more important at the synusia and phytocoenose scales, but (6) anthropogenic disturbances, mainly through forest and river management, are more important at the landscape level. By considering plant communities as structural-dynamic entities of ecosystems in a landscape context, integrated synusial phytosociology provides a basis for decomposing a complex system since the different hierarchical levels are both nested and thus strongly relational and process-based.
3236343|Throughout the 1960s and 1970s there was a rapid decline and canopy dieback in the Metrosideros polymorpha dominated rain forest of Hawai'i. An analysis of air photo sets from 1954, 1965, and 1972, covering the windward slopes of Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa, gave support for an alien disease hypothesis. A total demise of the native forest was predicted for the early 1990s. This prediction as well as the disease hypothesis proved to be wrong. Various searches for a single climatic cause also failed to explain the dieback. The spatial dynamics of the dieback phenomenon were newly analyzed with an additional air photo set from 1977 and by using GIS with spatial statistics. Two juxtaposed and climatically similar landscape matrix samples of ca. 200 km<sup>2</sup>, one each on Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea, were subjected to an analysis of landform heterogeneity and superimposed dieback patterns. The Mauna Loa matrix displays up to 15 000 yr old lava flows, while the Mauna Kea matrix displays up to 250 000 yr old substrates. Initiation of dieback occurred simultaneously on both mountains and was highly correlated with poorly-drained sites. The progression of dieback, however, followed a gradient of decreasing soil moisture, which often terminated at clearly recognizable substrate boundaries in the Mauna Loa matrix and moved over well-drained hill sites in the Mauna Kea matrix. Metrosideros dieback spread across the entire spectrum of volcanic substrates and habitat moisture regimes and developed from a smaller into a larger patch mosaic. By 1977, ca. 50 % of the forest area in both sample matrices had gone into dieback. Thereafter, the dieback came to a halt. The domino-type collapse, which frequently came to a halt at volcanic substrate boundaries, indicates that stands in better drained sites were also predisposed to die. Stands on adjoining substrates often survived. Substrates with dieback stands displayed no other obvious vigor-reducing stresses. The canopy trees on such substrates may have a common history, such as a major disturbance (including dieback) that synchronized stand development in the past. Subsequent weather disturbances and other abiotic/endogenous stresses associated with stand maturation, such as nutrient limitations and stand-level senescence, may reinforce a rhythmic synchrony over several generations of canopy cohorts.
40925492|Questions: Understanding distributions of tree species at landscape scales in tropical forests is a difficult task that could benefit from the recent development of satellite imaging spectroscopy. We tested an application of the EO-1 Hyperion satellite sensor to spectrally detect the location of five important tree taxa in the lowland humid tropical forests of southeastern Peru. Location: Peru, Departamento de Madre de Dios. Methods: We used linear discriminant analysis with a stepwise selection procedure to analyze two Hyperion datasets (July and December 2006) to choose the most informative narrow bands for classifying trees. Results: Optimal channels selected were different between the two seasons. Classification was 100% successful for the five taxa when using 25 narrow bands and pixels that represented > 40% of tree crowns. We applied the discriminant functions developed separately for the two seasons to the entire study area, and found significantly nonrandom overlap in the anticipated distributions of the five taxa between seasons. Conclusions: Despite known issues, such as signalto-noise ratio and spatial resolution, Hyperion imaging spectroscopy has potential for developing regional mapping of large-crowned tropical trees.
3235762|The climate, soil, structure and floristics of dry forests in West Africa are summarised. Data from Ghana show that these forests have two-peak annual rainfall between 850 and 1350 mm, with 6-10 dry months (< 100 mm rain) each year; by relatively nutrient-rich soils developed over a variety of rock types; by short stature (tallest trees 10-40 m) relatively high deciduousness in the upper canopy and evergreenness in the understorey; and by a distinctive flora which changes gradually towards areas of higher rainfall but abruptly at the forest-savanna boundary. Dry forests near the forest-savanna boundary form a distinctive sub-type as a result of occasional encroachment by litter fires which have become more common in the 1980's. Evidence is presented to suggest that many parts of the forest zone in West Africa may have been subject to fires most often in the dry forest types. Past fires are likely to have had a profound influence on the composition of the present forest canopy. Fire mortality is greatest in small trees, whilst drought (without fire) kills more large trees. This thinning process allows rapid recolonisation especially by Marantaceous and Zingiberaceous forbs and by pioneer trees. Seedlings of canopy trees grow beneath these colonising plants. Recurrent fires seriously impede the recovery of burnt forest and are a principal concern for the rehabilitation of dry forests.
40925524|Question: Predicting the impact of land-use change on vegetation is vital to understanding how biodiversity and ecosystem function may respond. Is it correct to assume that abandonment is an extreme form of grazing reduction? Location: Borders and central Scotland. Methods: The analysis used data sets from two identical experiments where the impacts of two unfertilized, extensively grazed treatments and one unfertilized abandoned treatment were compared against the species dynamics of a pasture subject to normal, productive grazing management over a 16-year period. Initial multi variate analysis using Principal Response Curves was used to assess if particular traits were associated with either extensive or abandoned treatments, and was checked using uni variate tests of individual traits. RLQ analysis followed by clustering into response groups was used to assess if species behaved in a similar manner between sites. Results: For many traits/attributes the shift in value or proportion was approximately linear across the extensification treatments as grazing was removed.However, certain traits showed step changes and quadratic responses. Leaf dry matter content, an important effect trait, was in the latter group. Most traits/attributes and species behaved similarly at the two sites. However, traits such as regenerative strategy, seed length, longevity and mass and seed bank type behaved differently, indicating that they are not predictable response traits. Conclusion: The results indicate that responses to grazing removal during extensification are largely straightforward and largely independent of species pool. However, there are discrepancies that suggest that simple analyses of the impacts of land-use changes such as grazing reduction may hide more complex responses.
4499164|Question: Is the pendulous epiphytic indicator lichen Alectoria sarmentosa influenced by proximity to forest edge in natural old-growth forests? Location: Large (28 400 ha), naturally heterogeneous boreal landscape in northern Sweden dominated by old-growth Picea abies forest in a matrix of open wetland. Methods: The abundance of A. sarmentosa and forest structure were quantified in ten edge-interior transects (0-100 m) at southern to western forest edges. Four 10 m x 50 m plots were sampled along each transect. Mass of A. sarmentosa in the lower canopy (0-5 m) of P. abies was estimated from maximum thallus length. Results: The maximum length of A. sarmentosa was four times lower, and the lichen mass 16 times lower, at the forest edge compared to the forest interior. Lichen mass showed a monotonic decrease from the interior to the edge. Mean distance of edge influence was 58 m for lichen mass, and extended longer into the forest than changes in stand structural variables. The response of A. sarmentosa to edges is a result of a combination of changes in microclimate and substrate availability. Conclusions: The indicator species A. sarmentosa is strongly affected by proximity to forest edge in natural old-growth forests. Edge influence is thus important in controlling the abundance of this group of pendulous lichens in natural forest ecosystems. Distance of edge influence was longer in natural wetland-forest ecotones than previously reported for fragmented forests; this was probably due to higher lichen abundance and lower site productivity in the study area. Understanding lichen response to natural landscape structure may help us to improve conditions for epiphytes in managed forests.
3235949|Shrubland vegetation and environmental data in western Shewa, Ethiopia have been analysed. Vegetation data include cover-abundance values of vascular plant species; environmental data comprise physical and chemical properties of the soil, altitude, slope, grazing and browsing pressure. The vegetation data were subjected to hierarchical and non-hierarchical classification and ordination with correspondence analysis. The classification resulted in seven different vegetation types, ranging from grassland with scattered shrubs to degenerated forest. Ordination of the data and biplot analysis showed that the vegetation is influenced by anthropogenic factors and altitudinal variation. Sand content is related to a low level of anthropogenic influence whereas silt content is related to a high level. This is explained by historical events rather than by the present situation. Total nitrogen, organic carbon, altitude and slope are positively correlated and these variables are negatively related to anthropogenic influences. The shrubland vegetation may have expanded from lower altitudes and drier sites as forests gradually disappeared. The recovery of an economically more rewarding vegetation type may be achieved through providing alternative sources of fuel and construction and through prohibiting cultivation and grazing in the shrublands on the hillsides. Regeneration can be accelerated by actively introducing seedlings of tree species that do not need a heavy canopy cover for establishment and growth.
41059554|Question: Few long-term studies exist with integrated vegetation and soil composition data, coupled with detailed environmental driver records. Can changes in community composition in an upland grassland be identified by revisitation after a 40-year period and allow the main environmental drivers of change to be identified? Location: Snowdon, Wales, UK. Methods: Changes in plant community and soil composition were assessed by resurveying an upland Agrostis-Festuca grassland in 2008, 40 years after the original survey. PCA and ecological indicators were used to determine changes in plant community composition. Redundancy analysis (RDA) allowed the impact of soil chemical composition on the vegetation community to be assessed. Results: A significant shift in community composition was found between years. A 35% reduction in species richness and an increase in the grass:forb ratio, suggest significant ecosystem degradation. Indicator values suggest acidification of the community with an increased acidity preference of species recorded in 2008. However, soil pH measurements showed that soil pH had increased. RDA suggested that the main shifts in species composition were correlated with an increase in pH and a reduction in soil exchangeable base cation concentration. Clear ecosystem responses to climate, land-use change or nitrogen enrichment were not observed. Conclusions: Shifts in vegetation and soil composition are clearly identifiable after 40 years. The shifts in community composition are consistent with ecosystem degradation due to acidification during the period between surveys. Ecological indicator values and soil chemical composition displayed differing degrees of change. Whilst soils appear to be recovering from historic effects of sulphur deposition, vegetation community composition changes appear to lag behind those in soil chemistry.
3236029|Direct gradient analysis was applied to the evergreen broad-leaved forest coenocline in the Tatera Forest Reserve, Japan. 10 quadrats of 0.1-0.05 ha were laid out from 140 m to 560 m above sea level at intervals of 25-70 m. Gradient analysis revealed that distributions of many species terminated or started at ca. 400 m. Community similarity, calculated in Percentage Similarity (PS) and Community Coefficient (CC), changed abruptly below and above the 400 m contour, suggesting a change of vegetation structure at this altitude, which was also clear from population distributions. The spatial turnover rate of species along the altitudinal gradient was calculated in two ways: as the Average turnover rate along the whole range of the gradient, and as the Zone turnover rate at individual altitudes. The overall rates calculated for five categories of populations: DBH > 10 cm, DBH >3 cm, all woody species, herb-layer, and total vegetation were - 0.0011 to - 0.0021 for PS, and - 0.0009 to - 0.0019 for CC. The calculated rates (PS basis) indicate that a 95% change in species composition is reached at 1120 to 620 m altitude. Similarly, the rates -0.0009 to -0.0019 (CC) correspond to 1410 - 680 m. The altitudinal range expected here for a 95% change agrees with the actual elevation of forest zonation in northwestern Kyushu. The average rate of both PS and CC in the herb-layer population was 1.56 times higher than the rate in the woody species population, showing a more rapid change in herb-layer population than in the woody ones along the gradient. The Zone turnover rates were higher at the 370-440 m belt than those below and above the belt. This coincided with the interchanging pattern in population distributions and the abrupt change in similarity at about 400 m above sea level. This may be due to the change in environmental conditions such as physiography and air humidity. In the diversity measurements, the species density per 100 m<sup>2</sup> showed a gradual increase in the DBH >3 cm population but a constant level in the DBH >10 cm population along the whole range of the forest coenocline studied, while index values of S<sub>(100)</sub> and Shannon's H' showed decreasing trends in the same gradient with a few exceptionally high and low values.
3235613|The tree limit of Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa (mountain birch) in the southern Swedish Scandes was monitored during 1972-1992. The study included various aspects of growth, vigour and reproduction of Betula. The main focus was on the character and mechanics of the tree limit/climate equilibrium system. The tree limit, which changed in response to a temperature rise early this century, remained constant in position and tree physiognomy did not change, although the past 50 yr or so have been colder. Indeed, growth and reproductive effort and capacity decreased in this period. Obviously, most resources in Betula were used to resist stress in the mature phase, resulting in delayed recession of trees. Unless drastic warming occurs, stem dieback is predicted for the near future. Even a minorclimatic disturbance would have an effect, because resources are gradually being depleted. Radial growth correlated most closely with the mean temperature in July. Particularly at the present-day tree limit, the variance in annual growth could be largely explained by climatic factors. The hypothesis is that long-term tree limit dynamics during the late Holocene is merely a matter of fluctuations in vegetative vigour and stature of old individuals. At the population level, response to climatic variability appears to be greatly delayed.
4499262|Question: Is there any generality in terms of leaf trait correlations and the multiple role of leaf traits (response to and/or effect on) during secondary succession? Location: A secondary successional sere was sampled at four different ages since abandonment from several years to nearly 150 years on the Loess Plateau of northwestern China. Method: Specific leaf area (SLA), leaf mass per area (LMA), leaf nitrogen (N
3236517|In the Tunisian arid zone disturbances (e.g. overgrazing and agriculture) and stresses (e.g. aridity, low fertility) drive changes in the structure and functioning of rangelands, with a decrease in perennial plant cover, changes in floristic composition and erosion. Long-term monitoring requires (1) an understanding of the dynamics of vegetation change and associated ecological processes and (2) identification of relevant indicators. Using data from the arid zone of southern Tunisia we tested the hypothesis that plant functional response types could be used to address these two goals. We identified plant functional response types in response to a gradient of soil and vegetation types characterized by changes in perennial plant cover, dominant species and associated soil types. Vegetation samples were stratified by contrasted vegetation patch types with varying perennial plant cover (1.6 to 22%). We focused our analysis of trait responses within dwarf-shrubs, which are the dominants in typical steppe ecosystems of south Tunisia. Available trait data concerned morphology (plant height, leaf type), regeneration (dispersal mode, phenology and regeneration mode) and grazing value. Although we found it difficult to recognize 'indicator response types' that could be used directly to monitor changes in community composition, we were able to identify plant response syndromes that are relevant to long-term vegetation changes, and in particular degradation processes, in the region. Two main response types were identified: the decreaser type, made up of small or medium chamaephytes with high grazing palatability and the increaser type with medium to tall chamaephytes and low grazing palatability. These response types are proposed as key elements in a state-and-transition model of vegetation dynamics in the context of agropastoral disturbances and climatic and edaphic stresses.
3236928|The relationship between communities of submerged annual macrophytes (predominately Chara spp.) and environmental characteristics is studied in three habitats with different dominant perennial species (Arthrocnemum, Juncus, Scirpus) and areas of bare soil. The distribution of submerged annual macrophytes is significantly dependent on two independent environmental factors: a dominant gradient of flooding/salinity, and a secondary gradient of nutrients related exclusively to the combined abundance of helophytes of the genus Scirpus (S. maritimus and S. litoralis). The results suggest that these emergent helophytes (1) are able to modify water column parameters (such as concentration of nitrates, phosphates, potassium, and bicarbonates) which are important for the communities of submerged macrophytes, and (2) play a fundamental role in the generation of secondary sources of environmental variability which, superimposed on the main gradient of flooding/salinity, favours the appearance of new compositional equilibria in such communities. The existence of a process of facilitation is discussed by which the emergent helophytes induce changes in nutrient availability that would favour relatively nutrient-demanding charophyte species (such as Chara connivens and Nitella hyalina), altering the established relationships with other co-existing charophytes (such as Chara canescens and C. galioides) that dominate in the absence of the facilitating species. Nevertheless, the increased nutrient concentration associated to the presence of helophytes would not introduce significant changes in the total biomass of submerged aquatic macrophytes.
3235658|Plant succession on heathlands subjected to major fire disturbance and humus burn in 1976 was studied over twelve years following burning. Life history strategies of principal heathland species are described with reference to concepts outlined by Grime (1979) and Whittaker & Goodman (1979). Heathlands and closely related communities are characterised by dominance of species tolerant of physical stress ('S' strategists) whereas species which colonise disturbed sites are closer to ruderals ('R' strategists). After severe burning three main successional patterns were identified. They depend on water and nutrient availability relative to temporal population dynamics. Recovery of heathland is often retarded due to monospecific dominance, e.g. of Polytrichum commune. Molinia caerulea and Betula pubescens. These patterns of secondary succession illustrate the inhibition model advanced by Connell & Slatyer (1977).
3236355| The growth dynamics and mode of competition between adult trees  4 cm in DBH (stem diameter at breast height 1.3 m) of eight abundant species occupying ca. 90 % of the total basal area were investigated in a 4-ha study plot (200 m x 200 m) of a cool-temperate, old-growth forest on Mount Daisen, southwestern Japan. In the study plot, 30 tree species with individuals  4.0 cm DBH co-occurred. A bimodal DBH distribution showing upper and lower-canopy layers was found for the most dominant and largest species, Fagus crenata (ca. 78 % of the total basal area), whilst other tree species showed unimodal DBH distributions corresponding mostly to the lower-canopy layer. We developed a model for individual growth incorporating both intra and interspecific competition and the degree of competitive asymmetry. One-sided interspecific competition was detected only from Fagus crenata (upper-canopy species) to Acer japonicum and Acanthopanax sciadophylloides (lower-canopy species) on the scale of the 4-ha study plot. Only Acanthopanax sciadophylloides showed symmetric intraspecific competition. However, a positive (non-competitive) interspecific relationship between adult trees prevailed over a competitive relationship; for example, individual DBH growth rate of Fagus crenata (especially lower-canopy trees) was correlated with the abundance of Acer mono. The positive relationship represented a group of species with similar habitat preference [soil type (mature or immature) caused by landslide disturbance and the presence/ absence of Sasa dwarf bamboos in the understorey], where tree densities were not so high as to bring about competition. Competitive interactions between adult trees  4 cm in DBH occurred only locally between a few specific species and were suggested to be almost irrelevant to the variation in species coexistence on the 4-ha scale of cool-temperate forest. Rather, the coexistence of 30 tree species (species diversity) on this large scale was suggested to be governed by the regeneration pattern of each component species (habitat preference, seedling establishment, sapling competition) with respect to landslide disturbance. 
3237087|Grasslands encompass a broad array of vegetation and climatic zones. We describe the first developments towards a rule-based functional model for predicting vegetation structure in Australian and New Zealand pastures and rangelands. The approach aims to predict the combined effects of climate and disturbance by humans and grazing livestock, and to provide a level of resolution needed for predicting changes in pastures and rangelands. We enlisted expert knowledge to develop: (1) a minimum set of critical traits; (2) rules relating site variables to favoured plant attributes; (3) rules relating attributes to plant functional traits, and (4) rules relating plant functional types to likely plant communities. We tested the resulting model by deriving some simple predictions of plant communities of some existing pasture and rangeland sites in Australia and New Zealand, with differing climatic and human disturbance inputs. The results indicate that this first model is able to predict plant communities with varying success rates, and with the best results in cases where there are extreme climates or high management inputs. Key sensitivities in the model where further research is required include: (1) the urgent need for more explicit understanding of the key plant functional attributes favoured by differing climates and disturbance regimes, (2) the functional relationships between these plant functional attributes and recognisable plant functional types in vegetation, and (3) the assembly rules for the coexistence of these different plant functional types in major plant communities. The same understanding is required for subsequent process-based modelling development.
3237188|We analysed the structure and diversity of the vegetation along an Arctic river to determine the relationship between species richness and plant community structure. We examined whether variation in species richness along the corridor is structured as (1) an increase in the number of communities due to increasing landscape heterogeneity, (2) an increase in the floristic distinctiveness (-diversity) of communities, or (3) an increase in within-community richness (-diversity) as species-poor communities are replaced by species-rich communities. We described 24 community types and analysed the relationship between site vascular species richness (-diversity) and -diversity, -diversity, site environmental heterogeneity, and the number of distinct plant communities. We also measured diversity patterns of vascular, bryophyte, and lichen species within communities and examined their relationship to community-level estimates of environmental factors. We found that an increase in site species richness correlated with an increase in the number of communities (r<sup>2</sup> - 0.323, P = 0.0173 and beta-diversity (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.388, P = 0.0075), rather than an increase in the -diversity of individual communities. Moisture and pH controlled most of the differences in composition between communities. Measures of species richness and correlations with moisture and pH within communities differed among vascular, bryophyte, and lichen species. Bryophyte richness was positively correlated with moisture (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.862, P = 0.0010) and lichen richness was negatively correlated with moisture (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.809, P = 0.0031). Vascular plants had a peak in richness at pH 6.5 (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.214, P < 0.0001). We conclude that site variation in vascular richness in this region is controlled by landscape heterogeneity, and structured as variation in the number and distinctiveness of recognizable plant communities.
3236943|Statistical models of the realized niche of species are increasingly used, but systematic comparisons of alternative methods are still limited. In particular, only few studies have explored the effect of scale in model outputs. In this paper, we investigate the predictive ability of three statistical methods (generalized linear models, generalized additive models and classification tree analysis) using species distribution data at three scales: fine (Catalonia), intermediate (Portugal) and coarse (Europe). Four Mediterranean tree species were modelled for comparison. Variables selected by models were relatively consistent across scales and the predictive accuracy of models varied only slightly. However, there were slight differences in the performance of methods. Classification tree analysis had a lower accuracy than the generalized methods, especially at finer scales. The performance of generalized linear models also increased with scale. At the fine scale GLM with linear terms showed better accuracy than GLM with quadratic and polynomial terms. This is probably because distributions at finer scales represent a linear sub-sample of entire realized niches of species. In contrast to GLM, the performance of GAM was constant across scales being more data-oriented. The predictive accuracy of GAM was always at least equal to other techniques, suggesting that this modelling approach is more robust to variations of scale because it can deal with any response shape.
3235675|The concept of centrifugal organization integrates community ecology's two main conceptual approaches: description of gradients and study of process. Centrifugal organization describes distributional patterns of species and vegetation types along standing crop gradients that are caused by different combinations of environmental constraints. Gradients radiate outwards from a single core habitat to many different peripheral habitats. The assumed mechanism is a competitive hierarchy where weaker competitors are restricted to the peripheral end of the gradient as a result of a trade-off between competitive ability and tolerance limits. The benign ends of the gradients comprise a core habitat which is dominated by the same species. At the peripheral end of each axis, species with specific adaptations to particular sources of adversity occur. In wetlands, the core habitat has low disturbance and high fertility, and is dominated by large leafy species capable of forming dense canopies. Peripheral habitats are formed by different kinds and combinations of infertility and disturbance and support distinctive floras. The centrifugal organization model therefore allows us to predict the distribution of particular organisms (rare species) and to predict how changes to the conditions creating peripheral habitats will alter community composition.
40295831|Questions: Fire appears to affect both replacement patterns and coexistence of Araucaria araucana-Nothofagus pumilio forests in the Andean Araucarian region of southcentral Chile. A quantitative assessment of coexistence in the absence of recent fires, however, is lacking. In this study, we considered the life-history attributes, time of recruitment and spatial pattern of individuals of both tree species to address the following questions. How regular has recruitment of both species been in time? Is there any temporal niche differentiation? Are the two species positively or negatively associated in space and, if so, at what scale and for what age and size classes? Is there any spatial niche differentiation? Location: Andean Araucarian region of Chile, Villarrica National Park (3935S, 71L31W; 1300m a. s. 1.). Methods: We stem-mapped and cored a total of 1073 trees in a 1-ha plot in a late-successional post-fire stand to examine spatiotemporal patterns of establishment. We used semivariogram modelling and the pair-correlation function to distinguish between regeneration modes and describe species interactions. Results: The two species differ in their regeneration mode: whereas A. araucana appeared to recruit more continuously in time and space, episodic pulses of establishment were dominant for N. pumilio. At small scales, younger age-class stems of A. araucana were randomly distributed, while older age-class stems were aggregated. This was in contrast to common patterns for temperate tree species, including N. pumilio, following processes of self-thinning. Younger age classes of A. araucana were distributed independently of older trees of both species, but younger age classes of N. pumilio had a negative association with older conspecifics at scales similar to crown diameter. Conclusions: In the absence of recent fires, it is likely that A. araucana would dominate the stand alone, given its greater shade tolerance, greater longevity and continuous recruitment. However, while canopy closure is still incomplete, the shade-intolerant N. pumilio will be able to recruit in those open areas after seed masting and will coexist with A. araucana.
3236308|Hypothesis testing in phytocoenological applications is likely to be hindered when based on conventional statistical methods. The problem created by unrealistic assumptions can, however, be overcome by randomization. This paper discusses the general idea of randomization testing, describes a method and interprets its application in group comparisons. Two sets of variables are involved, the vegetation set on the basis of which the groups are compared and the environmental factors which delimit the groups under different analytical designs. Although simple partitioning of sum of squares is at the core of the test, the method has versatility of testing uni- or multifactor designs, which is novel in phytocoenological applications. The algorithm has been implemented in programs SYNCSA and MULTIV by V.P. Data from the Campos of southern Brazil are used for illustration.
23012489|Question: Thorny shrubs play keystone roles in grazed ecosystems by defending non-protected plants against herbivores, but their establishment in grazed ecosystems is poorly understood. Which factors control establishment of recruits of thorny nurse shrubs in grazed temperate woodlands? Location: Ancient grazed temperate woodlands (5232N, 636E), The Netherlands. Methods: We surveyed biotic and abiotic factors for saplings of thorny nurse shrubs in plots with and without saplings. To disentangle these factors, we performed a transplantation experiment over two growing seasons with nurse shrub saplings (Prunus spinosa and Crataegus monogyna) planted in two dominant vegetation types  tall unpalatable swards and short grazed lawns  half of them protected from herbivory via exclosures. Results: Plots with shrub saplings had taller surrounding vegetation, higher soil pH and higher soil moisture than plots without saplings. These plots predominantly contained unpalatable sward species, while plots without saplings mainly contained palatable lawn species. After transplantation, sapling survival was higher in exclosures than in the open, and higher in sward exclosures than in lawn exclosures. Sapling growth was higher in swards than in lawns, higher inside than outside exclosures, and higher for Prunus than Crataegus, while browsing on saplings was higher in lawns. Conclusion: Unpalatable swards form essential establishment niches for thorny shrubs in grazed temperate woodlands: they protect against herbivores before thorns fully develop in saplings, and sapling growth is better due to improved micro-environmental conditions. Once established and thorny, shrub saplings grow out of the protective range of the swards and in turn facilitate tree seedlings, which are essential for long-term persistence of grazed temperate woodlands. This study shows that nurse plants may start as protgs before becoming facilitators for other plants in a later life stage. This may be common for nurse plants in various ecosystems. We argue that improved understanding of establishment of nurse plants and their constraining factors is crucial for effective conservation and restoration in various ecosystems.
3236123|Four coexisting serotinous desert plants in the central Namib were investigated with respect to microhabitat preferences. The annual Blepharis grossa preferred the microhabitat on the plains, while the perennial Petalidium setosum dominated in channels. The remaining two species, the common Geigeria alata and the rare Geigeria ornativa, were evenly distributed in all microhabitats. Interspecific competition, seed dispersal mode and ecophysiological niches might be responsible for this pattern.
41059540|Aim: To clarify the concepts and terms that have been used in recording plant canopies and the methods used for measuring them. Concepts: The concepts considered are coven top cover, repeated cover, number of layers, proportion of repeated cover and leaf area index (LAI). Variants include canopy cover, basal area and leaf area density. Other terms have been used in the past, some are now ambiguous and some are counter-intuitive. Measurement: Cover and its related concepts can be measured by point intercept, line intercept, angle sampling, charting and image analysis, canopy transmittance, complete enumeration, clipping and allometry. The common procedure of adding the cover of individual species to calculate a "total cover" is invalid: a nonsense number is produced. Other measures of abundance: Cover-abundance, density, frequency, biomass and calorific values can also be used to measure abundance. They are related to cover. Especially, shoot frequency at a point is cover (the point intercept method). Subjective estimates: There are severe problems with cover-abundance scales, such as that of Braun-Blanquet. Estimation of abundance "by eye", by "informed guess", etc. has too often compromised results in vegetation science.
3236028|The Lieper Posse is a calcareous, ground water-fed fen system, situated in the end-moraine area of northeastern Germany. Nowadays the fen is partly drained and the vegetation adversely affected; hence regeneration measures are considered. Here we report a pilot survey of the actual vegetation cover in relation to the hydrological conditions of the system. The vegetation in the central part of the fen system can be assigned to the Caricetum lasiocarpae, with small areas of Eleocharitetum quinqueflorae. The southern part of the system includes a Ledo-Pinetum sylvestris bog. Along the edges eutrophic forest types are present. Peat analysis revealed that the system started as an open lake and subsequently changed into a rheophilous mire, `percolating mire'. The southern bog has only recently come into being. Hydrological investigations showed that the original mineral-rich ground water had to a large extent been replaced by acid rainwater; this is likely due to the construction of a ditch before 1850. The effects of this drainage on hydrological conditions and some aspects of soil fertility are discussed. Possible consequences for the restoration of calciphilous vegetation types are being considered. It is concluded that the vegetation development is predictable only to a limited extent, which is mainly due to a lack of knowledge on hystercsis effects in both vegetation and soil.
3236031|There is a small group of association measures that appear optimal for comparing sites on the basis of their species composition. These measures can accurately estimate affinity between sites when they are ecologically similar. Once sites share few or no species, these measures always under-estimate the 'ecological distance' between them. A new ordination algorithm called Semi-strong Hybrid Scaling, SHS, uses these features in an attempt to provide a better configuration of the sites. The new method is evaluated by a direct comparison of the structure in simulated data with the Hybrid method of Faith, Minchin & Belbin (1987). To evaluate SHS and compare it with Hybrid Scaling, 3240 datasets were generated using the COMPAS simulator (Minchin 1987). The data were designed to simulate as closely as possible, what is known of the distribution of species on environmental gradients. The factors included the dimensionality of the data, the number of sites and species, the shape of the species response surfaces, positioning of the sites in the simulation space, carrying capacity and level of noise. Recovery of the simulated site positions by SHS and Hybrid Scaling was evaluated using Procrustes rotation. SHS produced a better recovery in 88% of the datasets.
25173213|Questions: What is the structure of the anthropogenic upper forest-grassland ecotone and are there differences in the spatial relationships between the tree species involved? Location: Valfurva Valley, Italian central Alps. Methods: We conducted a spatial distribution and structure analysis in three 1-ha permanent plots along an altitudinal gradient, from the treeline to the sub-alpine forest. We reconstructed the age structure from cores from each individual with diameter &gt; 4 cm at 50 cm height. Results: All tree species and age classes examined had a clumped structure. The cluster tendency was more evident at the treeline where the environmental conditions are more severe. In the sub-alpine forest there was a repulsion between Pinus cembra and Pinus mugo but at the treeline P. cembra was frequently found downslope from P. mugo. Conclusions: Although human influence has been the main driving force in shaping the present forest structure, in the last few decades natural dynamics have become the predominant force acting on forest structure and processes, showing a higher magnitude as altitude increases. Our results emphasize the existence of facilitating and interfering mechanisms between different species. P. cembra seems to be favoured compared to the other tree species.
4096729|Question: Which factors influence the effectiveness of biotic refuges for harbouring grazing-sensitive species in pastures with a long history of grazing by large herbivores? Previous research showed that spiny clumps of the cactus Opuntia polyacantha provided refuges from cattle grazing for plants and for inflorescence production on short-grass steppe. In this paper, seven factors that may have a potential positive influence on the refuge effects of cactus at a landscape scale were assessed. Location: Short-grass steppe of the Great Plains of North America. Methods: The study was conducted in eight long-term grazed pastures and their respective ungrazed controls that were established 60 years ago. Results: Heavy grazing intensities were necessary for some positive effects of cactus to manifest, and some refuge effects changed to negative effects under lower grazing pressure. Refuge effects increased with plant community productivity due to greater abundances of grazing-sensitive species, and greater grazing intensities in the more productive areas. Cover of cactus cladodes (spine-covered pads) inside clumps appeared to be the main limiting factor for refuge effects, probably by limiting available space for grazing-sensitive species in the clumps. Other factors such as size and density of cactus clumps, and the presence of large refuges in the proximity of clumps had minor influence on the effectiveness of cactus refuges. Conclusions: The effects of biotic refuges largely varied with ecological conditions and structural characteristics of the refuge. Refuge effects were mainly influenced by grazing intensity, plant community productivity, and structural characteristics of the biotic refuges. A conceptual model of factors influencing refuge effects at a local landscape scale in plant communities grazed by large herbivores is presented.
3236978|Plant cover was visually estimated by five observers, independent of each other, in a species-rich grassland in the Biile Karpaty Mts., southeastern Czech Republic, in seven plots ranging from 0.001 to 4 m<sup>2</sup>. Variation of total plant cover among the observers was high at small scales: 0.001 - 0.016 m<sup>2</sup>; coefficient of variation, CV = 35 to 45%, but much lower at larger scales: 0.06 - 4 m<sup>2</sup>; CV = 7 to 15%. Differences between visual estimates of plant cover of individual species made by different observers were affected by plot size, total cover and morphology of particular plants. CV of the cover of individual species ranged from 0 to 225% and decreased with increasing plot size. For abundant plants the CV attained ca. 50%, independent of plot size. In spite of a very high number of sterile plants with similar leaf morphology and colour, the observed variation in cover estimates in the studied grassland was comparable with results reported from other vegetation types. Differences between estimates by individual observers were often larger than usual year to year changes in undisturbed grasslands. Therefore, I suggest that to avoid difficulties in the interpretation of results based on plant cover data obtained from visual estimates, several observers should always work together, adjusting their extreme estimates.
4096787| Question: What are the relative effects of resource availability and heterogeneity on the slope of the species-area curve along a floodplain-upland gradient? Location: Rserve Lon-Provancher, Qubec, Canada. Methods: The mean and coefficient of variation of several environmental variables (soil organic matter, N and pH; irradiance; elevation) were estimated in 70 plots along a flood-plain-upland gradient. The slope of the species-area curve was calculated from subplots nested within each plot. Path analysis was used to determine the effects of the environmental variables on the slope of the species-area curve. Results: Spatial variation in flooding intensity created a complex gradient along which resource availability, but not resource heterogeneity, varied. Together, the environmental variables explained 73% of the variance in the slope of the species-area curve. Elevation, soil variables (but not light) and heterogeneity in soil fertility (but not in light) were all significantly associated with the slope of the species-area curve. Resource availability explained three times as much of the variance as resource heterogeneity. Conclusion: The expected positive relationships between resource availability, resource heterogeneity and diversity were obscured by effects of flooding stress and species dominance. Flooding intensity varies inversely with elevation and restricts the pool of species that can occupy the more fertile/heterogeneous section of the gradient, i.e. near the river. The few species combining flooding stress tolerance and competitive ability use the abundant resources near the river to grow quickly and utilize space, thereby enhancing the negative effect of the flooding stress on diversity. 
3235709| Vegetation and buried germinable seeds were examined in Mediterranean pastures differing both in time elapsed since last ploughing and in intensity of disturbance. Densities of buried germinable seeds in the greenhouse were determined from 10 x 10 x 3 cm soil cores taken during the autumn prior to the time of germination. Abundance of pasture species was recorded on the same sites during the following spring. The species composition of the seed bank was very similar to that of the vegetation: 80.9 % similarity (Srensen's index). The number of species and density of buried seeds ready to germinate increased with successional age from 0 to 4 yr and decreased later to a constant level after 9 yr. Regarding disturbance intensity, the highest species numbers are found at intermediate intensities while there is a drastic decrease at high disturbance intensity. The floristic composition of the seed bank was analyzed through Correspondence Analysis (CA) and Binary Discriminant Analysis (BDA). Seed bank composition reflected both successional stage and intensity of disturbance. Characteristic species of both gradients were identified. 
3237186|Inundation of tropical dune slacks is an irregular phenomenon produced by consecutive years with high precipitation and also by intense tropical storms. Our hypothesis was that the distribution, structure and composition of vegetation in tropical dune slacks have changed over time as a result of various factors, principally their topographical position with respect to the water table, frequency and duration of inundation, and historical fluctuations in climate. We tested this hypothesis in two different slacks that represent the slack community at the study site. Inundation caused changes in species composition and distribution, as well as in vegetation structure. In one slack, inundation was considered as disturbance because its intensity increased when areas remained inundated for longer periods of time, causing death of vegetation cover and favouring invasion of more aggressive, secondary species (Pluchea odorata, Ambrosia artemisiifolia, Panicum maximum). When inundation lasted less than three months, rhizomatous herbs remained (Cyperus articulatus, Lippia nodiflora, Hydrocotyle bonariensis) inhibiting the succession process. The results suggest that the different degrees of inundation and the irregular frequency and intensity of inundation in the slacks under study, have favoured different successional tendencies.
3236003|The effect of fire on annual plants was examined in two vegetation types at remnant vegetation edges in the Western Australian wheatbelt. Density and cover of non-native species were consistently greatest at the reserve edges, decreasing rapidly with increasing distance from reserve edge. Numbers of native species showed little effect of distance from reserve edge. Fire had no apparent effect on abundance of non-natives in Allocasuarina shrubland but abundance of native plants increased. Density of both non-native and native plants in Acacia acuminata-Eucalyptus loxophleba woodland decreased after fire. Fewer non-native species were found in the shrubland than in the woodland in both unburnt and burnt areas, this difference being smallest between burnt areas. Levels of soil phosphorus and nitrate were higher in burnt areas of both communities and ammonium also increased in the shrubland. Levels of soil phosphorus and nitrate were higher at the reserve edge in the unburnt shrubland, but not in the woodland. There was a strong correlation between soil phosphorus levels and abundance of non-native species in the unburnt shrubland, but not after fire or in the woodland. Removal of non-native plants in the burnt shrubland had a strong positive effect on total abundance of native plants, apparently due to increases in growth of smaller, suppressed native plants in response to decreased competition. Two native species showed increased seed production in plots where non-native plants had been removed. There was a general indication that, in the short term, fire does not necessarily increase invasion of these communities by non-native species and could, therefore be a useful management tool in remnant vegetation, providing other disturbances are minimised.
23012418|Question: Collaborative research efforts and synthetic vegetation analyses are often limited by difficulties in sharing or combining datasets. Can we facilitate these activities by means of an exchange standard for plot-based vegetation data? Methods: In 2003, the Ecoinformatics Working Group and the Council of the International Association for Vegetation Science endorsed the development of a standard exchange schema for vegetation-plot data. In 2007, a first workshop was held to formulate a common set of goals, concepts, and terminology for plot-based vegetation data. At a second workshop in 2008, this ontology was developed into an XML (extensible markup language) schema representation designed to be maximally compatible with existing standards and databases. Results: The exchange standard for plot-based vegetation data (Veg-X) allows for observations of vegetation at both individual plant and aggregated observation levels. It ensures that observations are fixed to physical sample plots at specific points in space and time, and makes a distinction between the entity of interest (e.g. an individual tree) and the observational act (i.e. a measurement). The standard supports repeated measurements of both individual organisms and plots, allows observations of entities to be grouped following predefined or user-defined criteria, and ensures that the connection between the entity observed and taxonomic concept associated with that observation are maintained. Conclusions: Establishment of exchange standards followed by development of ecoinformatics tools built around those standards should allow scientists to efficiently combine plot data over extensive spatial and temporal gradients in order to perform analyses and make predictions of vegetation change and dynamics at local and global scales.
3236443|39 species of vascular epiphytes were found in a 625-m<sup>2</sup> plot in a cloud forest in Veracruz, Mexico. Epiphyte biomass was estimated for all species in six zones distinguished on each tree > 10 cm in DBH: stem base, lower stem, upper stem, branches > 20 cm, branches from 5 - 20 cm and branches < 5 cm diameter. Branches were additionally separated according to their position in the upper, middle or lower canopy. Total dry matter of green organs was 318 kg/ha. Dominance/diversity curves fitted best to the lognormal model. Principal Coordinate Analysis showed that canopy height and branch thickness are both important factors and also that the stem base was the most distinct zone. Microhabitat preferences and niche overlap of the frequent species proved some degree of resource partitioning within the canopy. Ecophysiological characters possibly responsible for these preferences and implications for conservation are discussed.
4096698|A number of investigators have interpreted the slope of a linear production-resource relationship as a measure of efficiency of resource utilization. However, this is rarely true and may lead to incorrect conclusions. Here, by means of simple mathematical equations and conceptual definitions, we point out the theoretical differences between slope and efficiency. While a slope represents the change in the dependent variable per unit change in the independent variable, efficiency expresses the amount of output produced by a unit amount of input. Practical implications of using slopes as indicators of resource-use efficiency are less important as the resource amount increases. Slopes may be used as indicators of the sensitivity of production to changes in input, which is by itself an interesting property of biological systems. Finally, production function intercepts determine whether the efficiency will decrease, increase, or remain constant as resources increase.
25549279|Questions: Are soil seed banks affected by invasions of alien plants? How can we rigorously assess alterations in seed bank communities associated with invasive species and account for the high spatial variability of seed bank data? How do multivariate approaches compare with more traditional approaches based on analysis of variance? Location: Three riparian sites, Ireland. Methods: A protocol based on a combination of multivariate techniques was used to characterize soil seed bank communities associated with the herbaceous invasive species Heracleum mantegazzianum in May and October. Permutational multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA) was used to test the effects of the factors "invasion", "site", "plot" and "depth" on the soil seed bank, while multivariate analysis of dispersion (PERMDISP) provided a measure of the variability of seed bank data at different spatial scales. Similarity percentages analysis (SIMPER) was used to identify the species that contributed most to the differences between invaded and uninvaded communities. A comparison between the results of PERMANOVA and ANOVA analyses was also made. Results: The composition of seed bank communities invaded by H. mantegazzianum differed significantly from that of uninvaded seed banks. Invaded seed banks were less diverse and had reduced abundance, and were dominated by only a few species, such as Urtica dioica and Juncus effusus. Such patterns were recorded at each of three depth categories, indicating that invasive plants can affect both the transient and the more persistent component of the soil seed bank. Seed bank variability was significantly higher within uninvaded areas, supporting the notion that invasions tend to lead to more homogeneous communities. Conclusion: The analytical protocol used in this study was effective in quantifying the effect of plant invasions, at different spatial scales, providing a statistically robust analysis of alterations in soil seed bank communities. Compared to ANOVA, this protocol provided more biological information and was more appropriate for analysis of the data. This approach is therefore recommended in soil seed bank and invasion ecological studies.
3236278|The plant functional types (growth forms) traditionally recognized by arctic ecologists provide a useful framework for predicting vegetation responses to, and effects on, ecosystem processes. These functional types are similar to those objectively defined by cluster analysis based on traits expected to influence ecosystem processes. Principal components analysis showed that two major suites of traits (related to growth rate and woodiness) explain the grouping of species into functional types. These plant functional types are useful because they (1) influence many ecological processes (e.g. productivity, transpiration, and nutrient cycling) in similar ways, (2) predict both responses to and effects on environment, including disturbance regime, and (3) show no strong relationship with traits determining migratory ability (so that no functional type will be eliminated by climatic change simply because it cannot migrate). Circumstantial evidence for the ecological importance of these functional types comes from the distribution of types along environmental gradients and the known ecological effects of traits (e.g., effects of litter quality on decomposition and of plant height on winter albedo) that characterize each functional type. The paleorecord provides independent evidence that some of these functional types have responded predictably to past climatic changes. Field experiments also show that plant functional types respond predictably to changes in soil resources (water and nutrients) but less predictably to temperature. We suggest that evidence for the validity of arctic plant functional types is strong enough to warrant their use in regional models seeking to predict the transient response of arctic ecosystems to global change.
3235783|The relative sizes and composition of soil seed banks, the influence of fire and the post-fire deposition of seeds were investigated in a riparian forest and adjacent fynbos and transitional vegetation in Swartboskloof. Brief complementary studies of soil seed banks were conducted in poorly-developed forest and scree forest soils. Numbers of species in each vegetation type were very similar, but there were fewer seeds in riparian forest soil than in the transitional and fynbos zones. These patterns were not repeated in poorly-developed forest and scree forest. No effects of fire on soil seed banks were detected. Forest soil had relatively large numbers of seeds stored at 10 to 15 cm deep, with many zoochorous and few myrmecochorous seeds. Anemochorous and ornithochorous seeds of forest species formed a major component of seed deposition within the transitional and fynbos zones in the first year after fire. The numbers of anemochorous forest seeds in the fynbos declined with distance from the forest edge. The deposition of ornithochorous forest seeds was less closely related to distance from the source, and was not exclusively associated with the presence of tall or fruit-bearing shrubs. Regeneration after canopy-destroying disturbance in the forest is likely to emanate from the soil seed banks of pioneer species which now or previously occurred on forest margins. Seed availability does not appear to limit colonization of fynbos by forest species soon after fire.
3237245|It is highly probable that transgenic cultivars of sugar beet may influence wild beets in the seed-production-area of northern Italy. For this reason a survey of the local wild beet populations and their habitat characteristics was conducted in 1994/1995, i.e. before transgenic beets and their offspring could have become established. Wild beets (Beta vulgaris ssp. maritima) were found at 21 locations between Trieste and Cesenatico, as part of the natural littoral vegetation classified as Atriplicetum tatarici (Cakiletea maritimae) and Crithmetum (Crithmo-Staticetea). The analysis of pheno-typic attributes leads to a division into three different sub-populations. Greenhouse studies on the morphology and life-cycle attributes demonstrated actual gene flow between conventional seed beet and the examined wild beet population.
3235766|Woody biomass production in natural forests of arid and semi-arid regions is low. The fuelwood demand of settlements often exceeds the sustained yield and regeneration capacity of natural forests, which results in deforestation. Regeneration and woody biomass development was studied in cleared Acacia zanzibarica bushland in Bura, eastern Kenya. The area was cleared in 1982 and studied in 1988. The site had been colonized primarily by Acacia zanzibarica and A. reficiens. Mean density was 1333 trees/ha, mean total woody biomass (dry weight) 1954 kg/ha, equal to 2.53 m<sup>3</sup>/ha. Mean annual increment was 293 kg/ha, or 0.38 m<sup>3</sup>/ha. Expressed as rain use efficiency, the natural dry matter productivity of the woody component equals 0.83 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> mm<sup>-1</sup>. The regeneration potential and some management implications are discussed.
3237201|The response to prescribed burning of plant communities ranging from dry to wet habitats was monitored using permanent plots sampled from 1989 to 1993. Temporal controls for fire effects were provided by matched sets of plots protected from fire by newly constructed fire breaks. Changes in species composition were studied by ordination of strata of trees (> 5cm DBH), small trees (2 - 5 cm DBH), large saplings (1 - 2 cm DBH), and small saplings and seedlings (50 - 140cm tall). Results show that changes occurred largely in the small tree stratum, in which xeric species increased in importance. Although there were changes in sapling and seedling strata, no clear direction of change was recognized. Fire had little effect on the tree stratum. Of the seven community types under study, three types, sandhill, upland pine, and upperslope pine-oak, were most strongly affected, as indicated by post-fire change in positions of samples representing these communities in ordination space and reduction in understory species abundance. Samples representing the other four mesic and wet communities showed little or no change in their positions. These short-term results indicate that changes in vegetation resulting from fire were small and were mostly restricted to the dry types in which possible compositional change is expected to occur. This differential effect of fire suggests that the influence of fire is secondary to that of topographical and soil gradients in determining vegetation pattern under current fire regimes. Fire seems to reinforce an overall vegetation gradient controlled by soil in southeastern Texas.
3236324|Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) was used on a data set of 112 species from 14 stands dominated by Salix planifolia and/or S. monticola. Environmental variables were determined which might be important to explain differences in stand vegetation composition, and willow stature (height), in willow carrs in the Rocky Mountain National Park. Correlation of environmental variables with DCA stand scores indicate that peat depth and soil redox potential are highly related to the primary DCA axis. Soils in stands of S. planifolia are more reduced in the early summer and have greater peat depths, than soils in stands of S. monticola. The second DCA axis is related to a water chemistry gradient of hydrogen ion, sulphate, and ammonium concentration. Four environmental variables selected by correlation analysis were regressed on stand scores from the first two DCA axes. Regression coefficients of August soil redox potential and soil water pH were significantly non-zero on the primary DCA axis. In addition to overall vegetation relationships elucidated by DCA, the relationships between willow stature and environmental variables were tested by simultaneous ANOVAs. ANOVA results and DCA ordinations indicate that S. planifolia and S. monticola plants achieve the greatest stature in the least reduced soils, and in shallow peat. Competitive, stress tolerant, and ruderal plant strategy theory applied to the vegetation data produced an arrangement of stands highly correlated to the DCA Axis 1 stand arrangement. These correlations indicate that the primary axis of vegetation structure can be extracted either by species composition, or species morphology/physiology relationships. Concurrent use of DCA and plant strategy theory is suggested as a tool for the prediction of community composition.
3235933|Soil-stored seed banks of grassland, fynbos and thicket, all growing on calcareous dunes and each subject to different disturbance regimes, were examined. Seed banks were determined from counts of germinants from 50 soil cores from each type. Aboveground estimates of plant species cover in 10 1-m<sup>2</sup> plots were used in determining vegetation/seed bank similarities. There was no evidence for seed bank densities to be markedly higher in the most frequently disturbed community (grassland - 4273 seeds/m<sup>2</sup>) than the least disturbed community (thicket - 3417 seeds/m<sup>2</sup>). Highest similarity between seed bank and above-ground vegetation composition in terms of species and growth form/life-span classes was recorded for grassland (CC = 50%). Lowest similarity (CC = 13%) was found in the less frequently disturbed thicket where no seeds of climax trees were recorded in the seed bank. A fynbos community on a north-facing (warm, dry) slope had intermediate-sized seed banks (1683 seeds/m<sup>2</sup>) with intermediate vegetation/seed bank similarity (CC = 46%). However, on the south-facing slope, which has a large post-fire ephemeral herb component, seed banks were larger (4518 seeds/m<sup>2</sup>) but less similar to above-ground vegetation (CC = 39%). Ordination (DCA) of vegetation data from the four communities was different from an ordination of their seed bank data. Fynbos shrub species were absent from seed banks of both grassland and thicket, even though secondary succession proceeds from grassland, through fynbos to thicket. Their seed banks appear less persistent than those of European heath or Californian chaparral shrubs.
25173209|Question: What is the main ecological process determining species assemblage in roadside herbaceous plant communities? Location: Roadside slopes (roadcuts and embankments) in the south (Mlaga, mesic Mediterranean) and east (Valencia, dry and continental) of the Iberian Peninsula. Methods: We identified 417 plant species, from which we selected the 331 most abundant (within the 70th abundance percentile) at each site. We compiled information on 28 functional traits and on the biogeographic range of each of these 331 species. We quantified the phylogenetic signal of each trait for the species of each community and determined the number of functional convergences or divergences over the phylogenetic tree for each of the four situations (roadcuts and embankments in the two sites). Results: There was a significant phylogenetic signal in many traits, being positive in Valencia embankments and negative in Valencia roadcuts with almost no signal in any type of slope in Mlaga. Each trait was significantly correlated with 20% - 35% of all other traits but correlation coefficients were low. No significant phylogenetic signal was found for the species' distribution range in any of the four communities studied, which might be the consequence of the complex mixture of biogeographic origins of the species found in these communities. Conclusion: The lack of phylogenetic signal in most traits in Mlaga, a climatically favourable locality, suggests that competitive exclusion was the main process involved in the assemblage of these communities. The significant and either positive or negative phylogenetic signal (in embankments and roadcuts respectively), the latter coupled with a significant number of functionally convergent nodes in the phylogenetic tree, suggests that environmental filtering is the most likely process involved in the harsh locality of Valencia.
3236929|The interdependence of species richness and plant biomass has widely been accepted as a general biodiversity rule. However, there is no information about how relationships are established during colonization and how total biomass is distributed among plants. The main objective of this study was to determine the role of several factors which we have hypothetized as affecting biomass distribution among species in an early old-field community. To test this hypothesis, we conducted an experiment in a deeply ploughed Agropyro-Rumicion crispi community in the Basque Country (Spain). Light, water and soil nitrogen content were factorially manipulated resulting in eight experimental treatments. We also examined several site features, which could potentially influence final biomass distribution: seed bank composition, soil physico-chemical heterogeneity and cover and density of the dominant plant species in the community. A partition hypothesis testing approach using Redundancy Analysis was conducted to determine the fraction of biomass distribution variability assigned to each treatment and site feature. The most important species, in terms of biomass, were Agropyron repens, Sinapis arvensis, Arrhenatherum bulbosum and Picris echioides. As a general conclusion, biomass distribution among species during early secondary succession primarily depends on light availability and nitrogen supply. Several soil variables, such as magnesium, calcium and clay contents, also explain a relevant fraction of the biomass distribution among plant species. On the contrary, we found no effect of seed bank composition on biomass distribution. Finally, the total species number and cover of dominant species such as Sinapis arvensis, may determine final biomass distribution.
4096641|Questions: The Cross Timbers are a mosaic of savannas, grasslands and upland forests, occupying a significant portion of south-central North America. Our questions here were (1) how does a severe tornado affect the two most dominant tree species of the area Quercus marilandica and Q. stellata with respect to damage and mortality; (2) how do such patterns vary as a function of tree size? What are the implications of disturbance for codominance in species-poor systems? Location: The Cross Timbers in Oklahoma, USA. Methods: We established a 14.48-ha permanent plot following a severe tornado in 2003. We identified, numbered and tagged each tree and recorded its diameter at breast height (DBH), spatial coordinates, status (dead or alive), and damage type. We examined (1) relative abundance before and after the tornado; (2) differences in damage and mortality, and (3) the influence of tree diameter on the probability of damage and mortality for each species. Results: Differences in species identity and tree characteristics were significantly related to tree mortality following the tornado, after accounting for spatial locations. The odds of mortality were 12.0 times greater for Q. marilandica than for Q. stellata. Such greater vulnerability of Q. marilandica versus Q. stellata was also reflected in changes in density and basal area. Tree diameter clearly influenced the damage and mortality pattern in Q. stellata; larger trees sustained more damage and mortality. However, Q. marilandica did not exhibit size-dependent mortality. Conclusion: The tornado affected the two dominant species differently. The intra- and inter-specific differences in wind-storm susceptibility may allow coexistence of the two species and are potentially important in the dynamics of the Cross Timbers. Species more damaged might finally benefit from the wind disturbance due to their resprouting ability.
3235677|Several factors may define the cause and pattern of variation in competitive ability among individuals within a plant community. Variation may be a consequence of genetic or environmental variability. These two sources of variation may vary in their relative magnitudes. The relevant scale of genetic variation may occur at the individual genotype level or at the species level. The relevant scale of environmental variation may occur at the individual plant level or at the neighbourhood (or community) level. Relative competitive abilities may be effected by genotype-environment interaction or by genotype-genotype (or species-species) interaction. The complex relationship among these factors reveals the mechanistic basis for establishing a clear distinction among five specific hypotheses for species coexistence and diversity that are all variations of the general hypothesis that competitive abilities do not differ sufficiently among coexisting species to cause any competitive exclusion at the community level. These hypotheses are compared in terms of the degree to which they are restricted by assumptions and supported by existing data, and in the extent to which they involve evolutionary consequences of competition.
4499256|Problem: A series of long-term field experiments is described, with particular reference to monitoring and quality control. This paper addresses problems in data-management of particular importance for long-term studies, including data manipulation, archiving, quality assessment, and flexible retrieval for analysis Method: The problems were addressed using a purpose-built database system, using commercial software and running under Microsoft Windows. Conclusion: The database system brings many advantages compared to available software, including significantly improved quality checking and access. The query system allows for easy access to data sets thus improving the efficiency of analysis. Quality assessments of the initial dataset demonstrated that the database system can also provide general insight into types and magnitudes of error in data-sets. Finally, the system can be generalised to include data from a number of different projects, thus simplifying data manipulation for meta-analysis.
3235565|In order to forecast consequences of climatic changes for littoral algae in coastal ecosystems, the effects of temperature increase on spring bloom dynamics of epilithic diatom communities were studied in two ways: (1) Communities were compared from sites receiving different amounts of cooling water discharge from a nuclear power plant. (2) Communities from the exceptionally warm spring of 1989 were compared with those from the same sites in the preceding normal years. The studies were carried out in and around the Forsmark Biotest Basin, an artificial waterbody that receives brackish cooling water from the Forsmark nuclear power plant on the Swedish east coast. Species composition and biomass data from 200 epilithic diatom samples taken in the period January-May from 1983 to 1989 were analysed. Multiple regression analysis was used to show the responses of diatom cover, community diversity and abundances of individual taxa to water temperature and other environmental factors. Constrained ordination (CCA) was used to display the relationship of overall community composition to environment. Increased water temperature resulted in higher biomass through a chain of ecological effects. Strong reduction of ice cover was crucial in this chain, resulting in reduced loss of diatom cells by reduced abrading and higher primary production by higher availability of light, nutrients and substrate. The conclusion is that large blooms of fast-growing epilithic diatoms in large colonies can occupy the niche that emerges when the ice-free season is prolonged in the northern Baltic Sea and areas similar in salinity and climatic conditions. Dramatic species shifts may only be expected if the winter ice cover is totally absent.
3236702|Remaining deciduous forests in the Fennoscandian boreal landscape have high ecological value, and are considered as key components of the forest landscape as well as remnants of a former natural forest type. To improve our understanding of the formation of deciduous forests, we studied past disturbance regimes and vegetation dynamics in three deciduous forests in boreal Sweden using dendro-ecology, pollen analysis and charcoal analysis. We identified three stages in the development of the studied stands. Firstly, the coniferous period (pre 1800), a long-lasting period characterized by frequent fires, livestock grazing and extensive agriculture during which Pinus sylvestris was dominant. Secondly, the transformation period (1800 - 1900), when logging removed most pines from the sites while fire and grazing continued. At the time of the last fire, the sites lacked a local seed source of pines, resulting in a post-fire succession dominated by deciduous species with the capacity to disperse over long distances. Thirdly, the deciduous period (1900 - present), with little or no disturbance from fire, grazing or logging. Thus, the present deciduous stands have their origins in a complex interaction between changes in fire regime, extensive land use patterns and logging, contrary to earlier simplified explanations. We conclude that the complexity of historical patterns of land use, vegetation dynamics and disturbance should be acknowledged in the future when selecting areas for nature conservation and developing models for ecologically oriented forestry.
4499169|Questions: How do forest types differ in their distinctiveness among islands in relation to environmental and anthropogenic disturbance gradients? Are biogeographic factors also involved? Location: Tonga, ca. 170 oceanic islands totalling 700 km
3236078|133 stands from the uplands of Land Between The Lakes (LBL) were sampled. Stand data were ordinated to identify clinal patterns in the overstory vegetation. A coenocline, accounting for 52% of the species variance, was developed from the first ordination axis. Classification of stands identified nine dominance types: Pinus echinata-Quercus spp., Q. prinus, Q. prinus-Q. alba, Q. stellata-Q. alba, Q. velutina-Q. alba, Q. alba, Q. alba-Q. rubra, Acer saccharum-Q. alba-Fagus grandifolia and F. grandifolia-A. saccharum. Compositionally-stable (climax) and unstable (successional) stands were analyzed separately. Trajectories of unstable stands include the succession of P. echinata to Quercus-dominated communities on xeric sites and of Quercus types to more mesophytic communities (e.g. A. saccharum and F. grandifolia) on mesic sites. These shifts indicate the nature of the future climax overstory composition at LBL. The first axis DCCA ordination for climax stands accounted for 45% of the vegetation variance. Factor Analysis identified two significant suites of variables related to vegetation: soil chemistry/soil moisture and soil texture. Specific variables related to variation in the climax vegetation include soil pH, calcium and magnesium, effective soil depth, available water capacity, percent rock in the soil, slope position, aspect, elevation and distance to the opposing slope. Modal positions of species along the direct gradient ordination were similar in rank order to those derived from the indirect gradient ordination of all stands. The latter ordination represents the present forest vegetation pattern at LBL. Climax stands showed a shift in modes of Quercus spp. toward the xeric end of the gradient and increases in habitat width of mesophytic species. Following a reduction in disturbance, species appear to adjust to changes in competition and available habitat. That is, the dimensions of realized niches (i.e. habitat widths) change with succession. The climax vegetation at LBL appears to show centrifugal organization.
40925559|Questions: How can one explicitly quantify, and separately measure, stress and disturbance gradients? How do these gradients affect functional composition in early successional plant communities and to what extent? Can we accurately predict trait composition from knowledge of these gradients? Location: Southern Quebec, Canada. Methods: Using eight environmental variables measured in 48 early successional plant communities, we estimated stress and disturbance gradients through structural equation modelling. We then measured 10 functional traits on the most abundant species of these 48 communities and calculated their community-level mean and variance weighted by the relative abundance of each species. Finally, we related these community-weighted means and variances to the estimated stress and disturbance gradients using general linear models or generalized additive models. Results: We obtained a well-fitting measurement model of the stress and disturbance gradients existing in our sites. Of the 10 studied traits, only average plant reproductive height was strongly correlated with the stress (r = 0.464) and disturbance (r = 0.543) gradients. Leaf traits were not significantly related to either the stress or disturbance gradients. Conclusions: The well-fitting measurement model of the stress and disturbance gradients, combined with the generally weak trait-environment linkages, suggests that community assembly in these early successional plant communities is driven primarily by stochastic processes linked to the history of arrival of propagules and not to trait-based environmental filtering.
3235973|Comparisons of the positions of species on Grimes' C-S-R triangular ordination model with their responses to individual environmental gradients indicates that the C-S-R model does not necessarily predict species ecological behaviour. The importance of the stress, productivity and disturbance gradients relative to other environmental gradients needs to be determined. In studies of species behaviour along a biomass/productivity gradient the collective vegetation property, biomass, has been confused with the environmental factor, fertility. Patterns of responses to biomass gradients e.g. Keddy's centrifugal model, should be examined in a two-dimensional environmental space to avoid such confounding effects. Assumptions regarding the shapes of species responses to environmental gradients remain untested. A recent model of species response functions to environmental gradients suggested that skewed responses curves show a pattern in the direction of the skew, always with the tail towards the presumed most mesic position on the gradient. Further evidence is presented to support this model for a temperature gradient in eucalypt forest in south-eastern Australia. 21 out of 24 species tested conform to the model.
4096674|Question: Previous interpretations of the variance plot of paired quadrat variance method (PQV) have been incomplete. The objective of this study was to clarify the interpretation of PQV, and to shed additional light on how different quadrat variance methods can be used, in concert, to measure scale in transect data. Methods: We used artificial and real data to examine how the PQV method elucidates spatial pattern. Two-term local quadrat variance (TTLQV) and new local variance (NLV) methods, together with their three-term counterparts, were also applied to the same data sets, and the results from all methods were compared. Results: When the mean gap size equalled the mean patch size along a transect, the first peak of the variance of PQV, NLV and TTLQV corresponded with the gap size (or patch size). However, if the mean gap size and patch size were unequal, the variance plot of PQV displayed a flat-topped plateau, in which the first inflection represented the mean size of the smaller phase and the second inflection represented the mean size of the larger phase; TTLQV showed a clear peak and NLV displayed a distinct first peak while the second inflection was dampened. The results also indicated than the three-term versions of quadrat variance methods did not consistently outperform their two-term counterparts, and often confused the interpretation of scale. Conclusions: The quadrat variance methods associated with the patch-gap measurements were able to efficiently detect not only the size of patches, but also the size of gaps.
25173200|Question: What are the impacts of factors controlling patterns of change in woodland field-layer vegetation, through time? Location: Wytham Woods, Oxford, UK (5141' N, 119' W). Methods: Species occurrence was monitored in 163 permanent plots three times between 1973 and 2002 and related to management compartment and history. The dataset was analysed using a combination of ordination methods, univariate and multivariate analysis of variance and HOF modelling. Results: The two key findings of this paper are: (1) that the species composition of ancient woodlands (often cited as a conservation goal), may be moving along an 'undesirable' trajectory, from a conservation viewpoint; and (2) that the impact of a synergistic effect of changing canopy dynamics, nitrogen deposition and a rising deer population has resulted in an increase in grass species, at the expense of woodland herbs. These findings have significant implications for the practical conservation of similar habitats across Europe. Conclusions: The analytical methodology presented here allowed detailed assessment of the potential roles of a range of environmental factors controlling change. The methodology may be applicable to other long-term studies of vegetation, and is particularly appropriate for identification of cross-site drivers, such as pollutant load and climate change.
3235739|At fine spatial scales (0.1-10 m), chaparral communities have been shown to be strongly influenced by canopy-gap patterns, leading to periodicities in vegetation at 4-5 m spatial scales. Fine-scale variations in fire behavior and post-fire erosion can lead to changes in the patterning of viable seeds and nutrients and may alter the spatial patterning of post-fire chaparral communities. This study deals with the relationship among fire behavior, post-fire nutrient availabilities and vegetation patterns in a 1-yr old, post-fire Adenostoma fasciculatum chaparral community in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, California, USA. Variations in mineral soil exchangeable cations (Ca, Mg) and extractable phosphorus (PO<sub>4</sub>-P) were correlated with ash distribution. Cations and measures of ammonium and nitrate were also correlated with fire intensity, measured by the diameter of the smallest remaining A. fasciculatum twigs following fire. Fire intensity was correlated with the pattern of post-fire vegetation establishment based on first axis DCA scores. However, ash PO<sub>4</sub>-P was more highly correlated with sample DCA scores, local species richness and total cover (p < 0.01), suggesting that small-scale variations in PO<sub>4</sub>-P which correlate with ash distributions may be important in structuring this community. Two- and three-term local variance analysis revealed a maximum of pattern intensity in DCA first axis scores at 4 - 5 m intervals that likely corresponds to pre-fire canopy-gap patterns. However, total cover showed pattern at spatial scales of 8 - 10m, and was correlated at this scale with patterns of ash distribution and fire intensity. Microtopographic patterns also occur at similar spatial scales. Microtopographic patterns appear important in determining post-fire plant nutrient and water distributions and, thereby, patterns of plant establishment. Thus, the scale and intensity of post-fire vegetation pattern may differ considerably from pre-fire conditions.
4096788| Questions: Are ordinal data appropriately treated by multivariate methods in numerical ecology? If not, what are the most common mistakes? Which dissimilarity coefficients, ordination and classification methods are best suited to ordinal data? Should we worry about such problems at all? Methods: A new classification model family, OrdClAn (Ordinal Cluster Analysis), is suggested for hierarchical and non-hierarchical classifications from ordinal ecological data, e.g. the abundance/dominance scores that are commonly recorded in relevs. During the clustering process, the objects are grouped so as to minimize a measure calculated from the ranks of within-cluster and between-cluster distances or dissimilarities. Results and Conclusions: Evaluation of the various steps of exploratory data analysis of ordinal ecological data shows that consistency of methodology throughout the study is of primary importance. In an optimal situation, each methodological step is order invariant. This property ensures that the results are independent of changes not affecting ordinal relationships, and guarantees that no illusory precision is introduced into the analysis. However, the multivariate procedures that are most commonly applied in numerical ecology do not satisfy these requirements and are therefore not recommended. For example, it is inappropriate to analyse Braun-Blanquet abudance/dominance data by methods assuming that Euclidean distance is meaningful. The solution of all problems is that the dissimilarity coefficient should be compatible with ordinal variables and the subsequent ordination or clustering method should consider only the rank order of dissimilarities. A range of artificial data sets exemplifying different subtypes of ordinal variables, e.g. indicator values or species scores from relevs, illustrate the advocated approach. Detailed analyses of an actual phytosociological data set demonstrate the classification by OrdClAn of relevs and species and the subsequent tabular rearrangement, in a numerical study remaining within the ordinal domain from the first step to the last. 
3236570|This study deals with stand dynamics over a 6-yr period in a conifer/broad-leaved mixed forest in Hokkaido, northern Japan. The annual rates of gap formation and recovery were 81.3 m<sup>2</sup>/ha and 66.7 m<sup>2</sup>/ha, respectively and turnover time of the canopy was 125 yr. The recruitment processes of the component species in this cool-temperate forest were governed by different canopy types: gap, canopy edge and closed canopy. Magnolia obovata regenerated in canopy edges, and Acer mono and Prunus ssiori regenerated in canopy edges and gaps. The results suggested that the mosaic structure made up of closed canopy, canopy edge and gap was related to various regeneration niches. Abies sachalinensis had high mortality rates, initiating gap expansion. The transition probabilities from closed canopy or canopy edge to gap for deciduous broad-leaved trees were lower than for A. sachalinensis, which implies that the difference in degeneration patterns of conifer and broad-leaved canopies contributes to the heterogeneity of spatial structure in the mixed forests. Spatial dynamics were determined by a combination of gap expansion by A. sachalinensis (neighbour-dependent disturbance) and gap formation by deciduous broadleaved trees (random disturbance).
41059542|Questions: Do current models that predict shifting effects of herbivores on plant diversity with varying nutrient conditions apply to stressful systems like salt marshes? Do herbivores affect different components of the diversity as nutrient availability varies? Location: Salt marsh-salty steppe transition zone at the SW Atlantic Mar Chiquita coastal lagoon (3744'52"S, 5726'6"W), Argentina. Methods: We experimentally evaluated the separate and interactive effect of nutrients and rodent (Cavia aperea) herbivory, using exclosures and applying fertilizer (mostly nitrogen), following a factorial design in 50 cm  50 cm plots. Results: We found a negative effect of herbivory on diversity in the resourcepoor scenario (due to a reduction in species richness), but a positive effect when nutrients were added, by reducing the abundance of the dominant plant (and hence increasing evenness). Conclusions: Our experimental results contribute to the limited factorial evidence evaluating the role of nutrients and herbivory on the diversity of terrestrial plant communities, even in highly stressful environments like salt marsh-salty steppe transition zones. Our results also support the model that predicts negative effects of herbivores on plant diversity in low-nutrient conditions and positive effects in nutrient-enriched scenarios, and also support the mechanism assumed to act in these situations.
40925573|Problem: The increasing availability of large vegetation databases holds great potential in ecological research and biodiversity informatics, However, inconsistent application of plant names compromises the usefulness of these databases. This problem has been acknowledged in recent years, and solutions have been proposed, such as the concept of "potential taxa" or "taxon views". Unfortunately, awareness of the problem remains low among vegetation scientists. Methods: We demonstrate how misleading interpretations caused by inconsistent use of plant names might occur through the course of vegetation analysis, from relevs upward through databases, and then to the final analyses. We discuss how these problems might be minimized. Results: We highlight the importance of taxonomic reference lists for standardizing plant names and outline standards they should fulfill to be useful for vegetation databases. Additionally, we present the R package vegdata, which is designed to solve namerelated problems that arise when analysing vegetation databases. Conclusions: We conclude that by giving more consideration to the appropriate application of plant names, vegetation scientists might enhance the reliability of analyses obtained from large vegetation databases.
3237151|Some remarks are made on the innovation of ideas concerning vegetation classification in the former USSR as a complement to the paper by Mucina (1997).
3235811|Spatial heterogeneity of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), soil moisture and soil N mineralization in a range of oldfield communities was analyzed using semivariograms for transect data. Percent transmittance of PAR was examined in eight communities, and soil moisture and N mineralization were examined in the two most common communities. In general, the sites with the highest resource availability had the smallest coefficients of variation. For light, 63 % of the transects showed significant non-zero spatial autocorrelation with sills at 1 - 70 cm distance intervals. Although the grass-dominated communities had the highest average PAR levels and the lowest coefficients of variation, they also were among those with the greatest percentage of transects that had non-zero spatial autocorrelation. For light, the average semivariogram range, or distance within which samples were autocorrelated, was 19 cm and different among communities at p = 0.07. For soil moisture, two of three shrub sites and one of three grass sites showed non-zero spatial autocorrelation with sills at 10 - 300 cm distance intervals. Average semivariance range was 249 cm for the shrub community and 170 cm for the grass community. For N-mineralization, none of the shrub and one of three grass sites showed non-zero spatial autocorrelation with a sill, with a semivariance range of 60 cm. Soil moisture and N-mineralization were higher in the shrub than in the grass communities. Overall, these results indicate that resource variability occurred within patches of uniform vegetation, and the range of resource spatial dependence was different among resources even within a single community type. Our results suggest that different seedlings invading these communities will experience very different patterns of microsite heterogeneity as a result of their specific resource requirements.
3237026|Long-term (45-yr) basal area dynamics of dominant graminoid species were analyzed across three grazing inten sity treatments (heavily grazed, moderately grazed and ungrazed) at the Texas A&M University Agricultural Research Station on the Edwards Plateau, Texas. Grazing intensity was identified as the primary influence on long-term variations in species composition. Periodic weather events, including a severe drought (1951-1956), had little direct influence on composition dynamics. However, the drought interacted with grazing intensity in the heavily grazed treatment to exacerbate directional changes caused by grazing intensity. Species response to grazing was individualistic and noisy. Three response groups were identified. Taller, more productive mid-grasses were most abundant under moderate or no grazing. Short grasses were most abundant under heavy grazing. Intermediate species were most abundant under moderate grazing and opportunistic to weather patterns. Graminoid diversity increased with the removal or reduction of grazing intensity. The moderately and ungrazed treatments appeared most resistant to short-term weather fluctuations, while the heavily grazed treatment demonstrated significant resilience when grazing intensity was reduced after over 110 yr of overgrazing. Identification of a 'climax' state is difficult. Significant directional change, which took nearly 20 yr, appears to continue in the ungrazed treatment after 45 yr of succession. The observed, relatively linear patterns of perennial grass composition within the herbaceous patches of this savanna were generally explained by traditional Clementsian succession. However, when dynamics of the herbaceous community are combined with the woody component of this savanna, the frequency and intensity of fire becomes more important. Across the landscape, successional changes follow several pathways. When vegetation change is influenced by several factors, a multi-scale model is necessary to demonstrate interactions and feedbacks and accurately describe successional patterns. Absence of fires, with or without grazing, leads ultimately to a Juniperus/Quercus woodland with grazing intensity primarily influencing the fuel load and hence fire intensity.
4096750|Question: What are the tempo and mode of long-term succession and of demographic processes in an alpine community, especially: tenacity, transition patterns, predictions, growth of individual cushion plants, cyclic succession, spatial patterns? Location: A low-alpine mixed cushion /turf/snow-tussock / shrub community in southeastern New Zealand. Methods: The distribution of seven plant cover-types was recorded at 1024 fixed points in an 8 m x 8 m plot at approximately decade intervals for 50 years. The diameters of eight Donatia novae-zelandiae cushions were monitored. Results: The process was essentially first-order Markovian. There was a change in transition frequencies about 1980. The tenacity of the two major cover types - cushion and turf - was high, but that of cushion decreased about 1980 as some of its area was taken over by turf. The original informal prediction of 1955 that the cushion / turf would increase proved to be correct, probably because of paludification of the site. A prediction of 1987 made from observed transitions that cushion would dominate over turf has proved untrue because of a change in the transition probabilities in the 1980s, of unknown cause. There is a ten-fold range in diameter growth rates among the eight cushions measured, but the mean rate of
3236301|Single species and bivariate distribution patterns in a semi-arid shrubland in southeastern Spain, dominated by the tall leguminous shrub Retama sphaerocarpa, were investigated by second-order spatial analysis based on Ripley's Kfunction. Shrubs were significantly clumped because of a strong association of dwarf shrubs, mostly Artemisia barrelieri, under the canopy of Retama. Retama shrubs were randomly distributed, but when different size-classes were analysed separately, the pattern changed from significantly clumped to random and then to regular with increasing canopy diameter, suggesting increasing intraspecific competition with shrub size. Artemisia was significantly clumped at all scales because of aggregation under the canopy of large Retama shrubs. The association between the species became stronger with increasing canopy diameter of Retama shrubs, suggesting that facilitation prevailed over interspecific competition because of niche separation in different tiers, both above and below ground. Retama shrub size thus determined both the type of pattern for its own size class and tier, and the scale and intensity of the association with its understorey shrubs.
4096753| A new database is described, named EcoPlant, that currently holds data from 6432 phytosociological relevs of French forests. The aim of the database is to investigate and model the distribution of forest plant species, and their response to ecological factors, i.e. their ecological niche. Unlike other similar databases, a full environmental description is stored with the floristic data of each site. The climatic data at the site are included, and access to direct climatic variables is possible through geographic information system (GIS) modelling. Precise data on the soil are also stored for each site (soil profile and horizon descriptions, physical and chemical analyses of soil samples). The database is designed to enable linkages to existing soil, floristic or plant-trait databases. 
3237124|Australian alpine vegetation is confined to the southeast of the continent and the island of Tasmania. It exhibits strong geographic patterns of floristic variation. These patterns have been attributed to variation in edaphic conditions resulting from geographic variation in substrate, climate and glacial history. This edaphic hypothesis is tested using floristic and environmental data from 166 quadrats distributed throughout the floristic and geographic range of Australian alpine vegetation. Environmental vector fitting in three-dimensional ordination space, the number of significant environmental differences between all pairs of 17 floristic groups and overall statistical analyses of the environmental differences between communities suggest a primacy of climatic variables over edaphic variables in explaining the broad patterns of floristic variation. Continentality, summer warmth, summer rainfall and winter cold all provide a better statistical explanation of floristic variation than the most explanatory of the edaphic variables, extractable P. The environmental variables that best discriminate the groups at each dichotomy of the divisive classification of the floristic data are largely climatic at the upper two levels, with edaphic, topographic and biotic variables being generally more important than climatic variables at the lower levels. Many of the edaphic variables that were most important in discriminating dichotomous groups were relatively insignificant in the broader analyses, suggesting that it is important to partition large data sets for environment/floristic analyses. The results of such partitioning show that the environmental factors most important in influencing floristic variation in alpine vegetation in Australia vary by location and geographic scale.
3235763|Studies of seedling demography and dynamics were carried out in a dry forest at Pinkwae, Ghana (rainfall 1100 mm). Seedlings of tree and liana species in permanent transects were tagged, identified, measured and recensused at bimonthly intervals. A total of 1931 seedlings in 53 species were followed over 14 censuses during a 2-yr period. Germination and mortality were seasonal in their distribution; mortality was highest in dry periods. Seedling density varied seasonally, with the highest densities in comparatively wet periods. Diversity of seedlings was low, corresponding to that of the adult assemblage. Survivorship of tagged seedlings was recorded during the study period. The cohort tagged at the first census, comprising 1033 individuals of mixed ages and species, lost 61.9% during a 24-month period. Many seedlings were found to be rather large at the initial post-germination stage, with strong root development. Vegetative reproduction by root suckers or epicormic shoots was quite common at the site, although the majority of regeneration was by seeds. The current seedling assemblage appears to be representative, in terms of composition and diversity, of the adult species assemblage at Pinkwae.
3236957|We studied canopy structure, shoot architecture and light harvesting efficiencies of the species (photon flux captured per unit above-ground plant mass) in a series of exclosures of different age (up to 4.5 yr) in originally heavily grazed grassland in N Japan. Vegetation height and Leaf Area Index (LAI) increased in the series and Zoysia japonica, the dominant in the beginning, was replaced by the much taller Miscanthus sinensis. We showed how this displacement in dominance can be explained by inherent constraints on the above-ground architecture of these two species. In all stands light capture of plants increased with their above-ground biomass but taller species were not necessarily more efficient in light harvesting. Some subordinate species grew disproportionally large leaf areas and persisted in the shady under-growth. Some other species first grew taller and managed to stay in the better-lit parts of the canopy, but ultimately failed to match the height growth of their neighbours in this early successional series. Their light harvesting efficiencies declined and this probably led to their exclusion. By contrast, species that maintained their position high in the canopy managed to persist in the vegetation despite their relatively low light harvesting efficiencies. In the tallest stands 'later successional' species had higher light harvesting efficiencies for the same plant height than 'early successional' species which was mostly the result of the greater area to mass ratio (specific leaf area, SLA) of their leaves. This shows how plant stature, plasticity in above-ground biomass partitioning, and architectural constraints determine the ability of plants to efficiently capture light, which helps to explain species replacement in this early successional series.
3235994|A method is given for measuring two components of error (rate and direction) in predictions of compositional change through time. Observed compositional change between two times can be represented as a vector between two points in multidimensional species space. The point at the tail of this vector is the species composition at one particular time. A vector of predicted compositional change will diverge from the vector of observed change to some degree. The error in the predicted rate of change is measured by the difference between the lengths of the two vectors. The error in the predicted direction of change is measured by the angle between the vectors. The cosine of this angle is a non-standardized correlation coefficient (r<sub>n</sub>) between the predicted and observed species compositions. The quantity 1-r<sub>n</sub><sup>2</sup> measures the error in direction of the predicted dynamics without being influenced by the overall rate of change. These measures in Euclidean space have useful counterparts in city-block space. The method is illustrated by comparing actual long-term changes in Midwestern old-growth forests with the changes predicted by a growth and yield model, TWIGS.
3236513| Effects of future fire regimes on boreal tree species and plant functional types were studied in W Canada using a simulation approach. Present (1975-1990) and future (2080-2100) fire regimes were simulated using data from the Canadian Global Coupled Model (CGCM1). The long-term effects of these fire regimes were simulated using a stand level, boreal fire effects model (BORFIRE) developed for this study. Changes in forest composition and biomass storage due to future altered fire regimes were determined by comparing the effects of present and future fire regimes on forest stands over a 400-yr period. Differences in the two scenarios after 400 yr indicate shifting trends in forest composition and biomass that can be expected as a result of future changes in the fire regime. The ecological impacts of altered fire regimes are discussed in terms of general plant functional types. The Canadian Global Coupled Model showed more severe burning conditions under future fire regimes including fires with greater intensity, greater depth of burn and greater total fuel consumption. Shorter fire cycles estimated for the future generally favoured species which resprout (fire endurers) or store seed (fire evaders). Species with no direct fire survival traits (fire avoiders) declined under shorter fire cycles. The moderately thick barked trait of fire resisters provided little additional advantage in crown fire dominated boreal forests. Many species represent PFTs with multiple fire survival traits. The fire evader and avoider PFT was adaptable to the widest range of fire cycles. There was a general increase in biomass storage under the simulated future fire regimes caused by a shift in species composition towards fast-growing re-sprouting species. Long term biomass storage was lower in fire exclusion simulations because some stands were unable to reproduce in the absence of fire. 
3236952|The nearest-neighbour technique is used to infer competition and facilitation between the three most abundant species in a semi-arid region of western South Africa. Relationships among the shrubs Leipoldtia schultzei and Ruschia robusta, which are leaf-succulent members of the Mesembryanthemaceae ('mesembs') and Hirpicium alienatum a non-succulent Asteraceae, were compared on two adjacent sites with different histories of browsing intensity. Competition was more prevalent and more important than facilitation. The only evidence for facilitation was found at the heavily-browsed site where the palatable Hirpicium was larger under the unpalatable Leipoldtia. Generally the prevalence and importance of competition was reduced at the heavily-browsed site. Strong evidence was obtained for intraspecific competition in each of the three species; also, competition was evident between the two mesembs, where Leipoldtia was competitively dominant over Ruschia, although neither species inhibited Hirpicium. Minimal competition between the mesembs and the asteraceous shrub was interpreted in terms of differentiation in rooting depth, and competition within the mesembs, in terms of overlap in rooting depth. The mesembs had the bulk of their roots in the top 5 cm of soil, while the asteraceous shrub had the bulk of its roots, and all its fine roots, at greater depths. The shallow-rooted morphology of the mesembs is well adapted to utilize small rainfall events, which occur frequently in the Succulent Karoo, and do not penetrate the soil deeply. Modifications of existing methods are applied for analysing nearest-neighbour interactions.
3236404|Random rearrangement of entry order in three data sets often changed ordination and classification results based on Reciprocal Averaging. Results varied with the data set and method used. Eliminating infrequently occurring species largely reduced, but did not always eliminate, the variability. Overall, results appeared related to data set complexity, the type of data or transformation, and the analysis method used. Detrended Correspondence Analysis had the greatest variability of the ordination methods tested. Results from quantitative data were usually more variable than presence/absence data. Variation in cluster analysis was related to the number of tie values in the similarity matrix. Detailed tests using randomization of entry order of individual data sets with each of the programs to be used are needed to individually assess the effects on the results.
3235777|The spatial organization of Mediterranean grassland in Spain is described, based on samples from 71 sites covering the existing variation in slope exposition and inclination. The whole set can be regarded as representing a trophic gradient, along which gradual variation in soil, species composition, biomass, and coverage were quantified. Corresponding to other studies from varying habitats, maximal species richness, diversity, and heterogeneity were observed on moderately infertile sites. Maximum species richness, over 60 species, occurred on sites with biomass values from 150 350 g / m<sup>2</sup>. Species richness values are much higher and biomass values are much lower than those found in temperate grasslands. The decrease in diversity towards the most eutrophic communities is stronger than expected, but can be easily explained by the high grazing pressure here. The variation in diversity observed runs parallel with that in heterogeneity. Zones with a high species richness also have a high heterogeneity, meaning a low amount of dominance. Grazing is understood as a biotic form of disturbance. Differences in grazing pressure may modify the relation between richness and fertility. While the greatest grazing pressure coincides with the most eutrophic communities, decreasing progressively towards the oligotrophic ones, the trend predicted by the resource availability theory is maintained; species diversity will be maximal at intermediate levels of disturbance. Absence of grazing in the eutrophic communities would lead to an investment in the soil of the unconsumed organic matter.
3236695|This is the first quantitative study of seed bank characteristics in North American alvar habitats. We assessed seed bank density, species richness, and species composition in 75 plots distributed among five alvar sites in Bruce Peninsula National Park, Ontario, Canada, each of which displayed areas of high and low vegetation cover within the alvar and a fully forested perimeter area. Forested habitats immediately adjacent to alvar patches contained minimal seed banks for species restricted to the alvar patches. Open alvars contained less than 1% seeds from woody forest species. This suggests that forest is not invading adjacent alvar habitat via seeds and that adjacent forest does not contain a reservoir of alvar seeds. When compared to areas on the alvar with high vascular plant cover, areas with low cover contained a slightly smaller viable seed bank, but seed banks from high and low vegetation cover plots had similar species composition and species richness. High vegetation cover plots had slightly higher mean and maximum soil depths compared with low cover plots, but no differences in other physical and chemical parameters. Thus, spatial heterogeneity in plant cover is associated only weakly with heterogeneity in below-ground factors. Despite the availability of seed and soil resources, vegetation dynamics are constrained in areas with low plant cover, and thus alvar community development seems to respond non-linearly to resource availability.
3236596|Question: How do tree seedlings differ in their responses to drought and fire under contrasting light conditions in a tropical seasonal forest? Location: Mae Klong Watershed Research Station, 100-900 m a.s.l, Kanchanaburi Province, western Thailand. Method: Seedlings of six trees, Dipterocarpus alatus, D. turbinatus, Shorea siamensis, Pterocarpus macrocarpus, Xylia xylocarpa var. kerrii and Sterculia macrophylla, were planted in a gap and under the closed canopy. For each light condition, we applied (1) continuous watering during the dry season (W); (2) ground fire during the dry season (F); (3) no watering/no fire (intact, I). Seedling survival and growth were followed. Results: Survival and growth rate were greater in the gap than under the closed canopy for all species, most dramatically for S. siamensis and P. macrocarpus. Dipterocarpus alatus and D. turbinatus had relatively high survival under the closed canopy, and watering during the dry season resulted in significantly higher survival rates for these two species. Watering during the dry season resulted in higher growth rates for five species. All seedlings of D. alatus and D. turbinatus failed to re-sprout and died after fire. The survival rates during the dry season and after the fire treatment were higher for the seedlings grown in the canopy gap than in the shade for S. siamensis, P. macrocarpus, X. xylocarpa var. kerrii and S. macrophylla. The seedlings of these species in the canopy gap had higher allocation to below-ground parts than those under the closed canopy, which may support the ability to sprout after fire. Conclusions: The light conditions during the rainy season greatly affect seedling survival and resistance to fire during the subsequent dry season. Our results suggest differentiation among species in terms of seedling adaptations to shade, drought and fire.
4096726|Question: What are the grazing effects in the spatial organization and the internal structure of high and low cover patches from a two-phase vegetation mosaic? Location: Patagonian steppe, Argentina. Methods: We mapped vegetation under three different grazing conditions: ungrazed, lightly grazed and heavily grazed. We analysed the spatial patterns of the dominant life forms. Also, in each patch type, we determined density, species composition, richness, diversity, size structure and dead biomass of grasses under different grazing conditions. Results: The vegetation was spatially organized in a two-phase mosaic. High cover patches resulted from the association of grasses and shrubs and low cover patches were represented by scattered tussock grasses on bare ground. This spatial organization was not affected by grazing, but heavy grazing changed the grass species involved in high cover patches and reduced the density and cover of grasses in both patch types. Species richness and diversity in high cover patches decreased under grazing conditions, whereas in low cover patches it remained unchanged. Also, the decrease of palatable grasses was steeper in high cover patches than in low cover patches under grazing conditions. Conclusions: We suggest that although grazing promotes or inhibits particular species, it does not modify the mosaic structure of Patagonian steppe. The fact that the mosaic remained unchanged after 100 years of grazing suggests that grazing does not compromize population processes involved in maintaining patch structure, including seed dispersal, establishment or biotic interactions among life forms.
3236529|Two-weekly AVHRR images were used to examine spatial patterns of the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and their relationships with environmental variables for moist acidic tundra (MAT) and moist non-acidic tundra (MNT) along two latitudinal transects in Northern Alaska. The NDVI database was derived from a 5-yr time series (1995-1999) of two-weekly AVHRR composites for Alaska. A digital climate map, digital elevation map and vegetation map were processed and overlain with the NDVI grid. Homogeneous vegetation patches for both MAT and MNT were defined as sample sites using infrared aerial photos, MSS images and the vegetation map along the transects. Linear and non-linear regression modeling were performed between NDVI indices and environmental variables, total summer warmth (TSW) and elevation. It was demonstrated that along both western and eastern transects, there were obvious latitudinal trends of peak NDVI (AP-NDVI), average growing season NDVI (GS-NDVI), and early June NDVI (EJ-NDVI). In most cases, MNT had lower NDVI values than MAT throughout the year. There were significant (p<0.01) relations between NDVI (AP-NDVI, GS-NDVI and EJ-NDVI) and total summer warmth (TSW) and elevation in the region. EJ-NDVI showed the strongest correlation with TSW or elevation, making it the most sensitive NDVI indicator along environmental gradients in northern Alaska. NDVI was likely controlled by TSW and elevation, with the former being dominant.
3237082|Fuel-breaks to impede the spread of fires in Mediterranean woody vegetation are created by clearing of shrubs, followed by very intensive cattle grazing before the fire season. The present research analysed the effects of these two disturbance types on herbaceous community composition at the functional group and the species level, by using canonical discriminant ordination analysis and by categorical modeling methods. Grazing caused an increase in the abundance of small species, geophytes, and species with an early flowering period that ends before the grazing period. The abundance of many different species increased as a result of clearing. However, no association was found between positive or negative response to clearing and any species attribute tested. Several a priori functional groups defined by life form and family showed responses to either grazing or clearing. Links between these responses and individual species attributes are discussed. The results emphasize the different nature of the two disturbances: grazing as a selective agent, and shrub clearing as a generalized one. It also stresses the importance of the plant architecture and the morphological and phenological niche in determining community composition under extremely intensive grazing conditions.
41059556|Question: Litter (dead leaves or stems) affects production by conserving soil moisture. However, that role is not clear for grasslands where most precipitation falls during the growing season when the demand for water is high. Our question was: Does litter affect forage production in such an environment? Location: Typical steppe, Inner Mongolia. Methods: We examined the role of plant litter in two experiments where litter was either removed or added in a protected or heavily grazed site, respectively, in autumn and in spring in a split plot design. The treatments (control, moderate and heavy litter application) were applied once in five replications but repeated at new locations in each of 3 years. This was done to examine only the direct effect of litter on annual net primary production and selected plant characteristics and not potential secondary effects. We also measured soil moisture and soil temperature. Results: Removing litter caused a reduction in the amount of grass (Leymus chinensis) that was produced, but litter addition caused an inconsistent effect among years, with moderate applications producing the most positive effects. Litter removal resulted in shorter and less dense plants of L. chinensis and Carex duriuscula, while heavy litter addition in autumn reduced plant height of both Cleistogenes squarrosa and C. duriuscula. Conclusions: Litter was effective for enhancing soil moisture status and reducing soil heat units in the typical steppe of Inner Mongolia. Therefore, litter mass may serve as an index of grassland health in such environments.
3237372| The effects of topography, soil moisture, wind and grazing on the emergence and survival of seedlings of Festuca spp. were examined in the steppe zone of Patagonia, Argentina. Ungrazed and grazed field treatment plots were established on a plain and a north-facing slope at the Media Luna Ranch (43 36 S, 71 25 W). On the leeward and windward sides of each of 15 Festuca plants, 0.1 m x 0.4 m quadrats were censused bimonthly for seedling emergence and survival over three growing seasons. Three categories were distinguished: recently germinated and up to the first leaf, two to four leaves, and from five leaves up to one tiller. Soil moisture content, litter cover and frost heaving effects were also determined for each treatment at each sampling date. Festuca spp. showed two emergence peaks, one in late fall and the other in early to mid-spring. Seedling emergence was significantly correlated with soil moisture content in the 0-5 cm of the soil during the three growing seasons. Seedlings that emerged in the fall had higher survivorship than those that emerged in spring. Seedling emergence and survival was significantly (p < 0.01) lower on slopes, in the grazing treatment, and on windward sides of adult plants. In this grassland, an increase in the availability of safe sites for seedling emergence and survival might be achieved by protecting vegetation from grazing, particularly on north-facing slopes. 
3236287|Two extensive forest vegetation survey datasets are explored, using ordination and classification, for evidence of in situ regeneration by Pinus strobus (Eastern white pine) and P. resinosa (Red pine). Ordination of tree species contributions to total basal area in 320 upland northern hardwood-conifer stands produced distinct stand groups for P. banksiana, P. resinosa, P. strobus and mesic hardwoods in an ascending sequence along the first axis. Quercus rubra (red oak), Q. alba (white oak) and tolerant conifer groups formed segregates from the hardwood complex along the second axis. P. strobus mixes with all other forest types, but P. resinosa is restricted to its own group. Seedlings and trees of P. strobus are more abundant than saplings, which are restricted to the pine and oak forests. Therefore, seed production, dispersal and seedling establishment seem to be less of a barrier to in situ regeneration by P. strobus than subsequent survival and growth. Canonical correspondence analysis of 170 pine-dominated stands from the Canadian Shield of Ontario, in which tree species variables are segmented into height-class pseudospecies, yielded no linear relationship between environmental features or stand structure and seedling densities of P. strobus. However, total tree basal area appears to impose an upper limit to seedling density on the forest floor. Strong correlations emerged between pine seedling density and understorey vegetation. Stand classification of the understorey vegetation, using constrained indicator species analysis, yielded distinct high and low seedling groups. Low pine seedling density was associated with abundant broadleaved shrubs, herbs and seedlings as well as feathermosses and tolerant conifers. High seedling density could not be ascribed to the presence of seedbed taxa, such as Polytrichum, but is ascribed to the absence of competition and other forms of inhibition in the understorey vegetation and down through the canopy profile. In situ regeneration of P. strobus does, therefore, occur but conditions over the forest landscape are largely restrictive.
3237190| In order to understand the variation of Estonian calcareous thin-soil grasslands on Ordovician or Silurian limestone (alvars), 58 stands, distributed over the whole alvar region of Estonia, were described and clustered numerically using TABORD. Alvars are characterized by a high species richness. These mainly semi-natural communities have mostly developed after clear-cutting of forests. Grazing by domestic animals and removal of woody plants is needed for their maintenance. Primary (natural) alvar grasslands are found in a few places in coastal regions or in areas with thin-soil on monolithic bedrock. In data processing a whole stand, described by several small relevs, was used in the classification as one description, including species frequencies as a quantitative measure. Seven clusters were separated and their configuration checked in a PCA-ordination. The resulting classification agreed with the previous 'rough' classification. Both geographical and ecological factors were related with the clustering and the ordination. The broad classification units, suggested for Estonian alvar grasslands, were quite similar to the ones described earlier for alvar vegetation on land, Sweden. Clusters differed in their species richness, environmental conditions and life-form spectra. Differences in species richness were defined by regional species pools. Compared to earlier surveys, only a small fraction of alvars still remains in Estonia. Active conservation, i.e. suitable management is needed to protect the still surviving valuable plant communities. The present study can provide guidelines on how to protect and manage different types of alvars in Estonia. 
3246590|European Mediterranean landscapes have undergone changes in structure in recent years as a result of widespread agricultural land abandonment and cessation of silvicultural regimes. Studies concerning the regeneration dynamics of dominant forest species have become critical to the prediction of future landscape trends in these changing forest stands. Quercus ilex (holm oak) and Q. pubescens (downy oak) are considered to be the terminal point of secondary succession in extensive areas of the Mediterranean region. Recent studies, however, have suggested the existence of recruitment bottlenecks in oak genet populations as a result of current management regimes. In this study, we present evidence of the successful establishment of Q. ilex and Q. pubescens in Pinus halepensis (Aleppo pine) woodlands. We investigate the distribution patterns and spatial relationships among oak recruits and resident pines. Established P. halepensis is randomly distributed throughout the study area. Oak seedlings are positively associated with pine trees, suggesting that P. halepensis individuals provide safe sites for oak genet recruitment. We show that spatial patterns of recruitment are in agreement with the general model of spatial segregation described for other Mediterranean plant communities, with seeder species colonizing large openings after disturbance, followed by a more aggregated recruitment of resprouter species.
3235804|Understorey vegetation dynamics in Pinus sylvestris L. stands were examined over 30 yr in southern Finland. Data were collected from 112 permanent sample plots twice, first in 1950-1956 and again in 1983-1986. Between the two surveys 52 stands were clear-felled and in the 60 remaining old stands thinnings of various magnitude were conducted. In the mature, thinned stands species presence remained virtually unchanged. With the exception of a few species, including Vaccinium vitis-idaea, Hylocomium splendens, and Dicranum polysetum, the changes in species cover were also slight. In the clear-felled plots the changes in species presence were minor but the cover of many species changed strongly. The average cover of Vaccinium myrtillus and Hylocomium splendens dropped to near zero and that of Vaccinium vitisidaea and Pleurozium schreberi decreased 2 - 4 times on all sites. The cover of Calluna vulgaris approximately doubled, and Cladina rangiferina and Cladina arbuscula also increased after canopy removal. In addition to intrinsic successional change, a special interest in this study was to investigate vegetation dynamics in relation to forest land classification methods in which understorey vegetation is used as part of the classification criteria. The results support the Cajanderian site classification approach, in the case of boreal Scots pine stands, that sites can be classified on the basis of understorey vegetation at different successional phases. However, because of the strong successional and site-to-site variation in species cover, it is suggested that site classification be based primarily on species presence.
3235893| The Zapotitln de las Salinas valley, central Mexico, harbours a high diversity of cacti. Pattern analysis indicated that the establishment of two columnar cacti, Neobuxbaumia tetetzo and Cephalocereus hoppenstedtii, and of three small globose cacti, Coryphanta pallida, Mammillaria colina and M. casoi, is aggregated and associated with perennial nurse shrubs. Some nurse species, Castela tortuosa, Caesalpinia melanadenia and Eupatorium spinosarum have a higher number of cacti beneath their canopies than would be expected by chance. A replacement pattern was found between the columnar cacti and their nurses, an aspect which was not found with the globose cacti. Following the assumption that protection against excessive radiation is the main factor determining the nurse effect, the azimuth orientation of the cacti with respect to their nurses was evaluated. Only Coryphanta pallida presented a non-random distribution with a tendency towards the North and West. The difference in maximum temperature between the soil surface under the different nurse species and of open spaces, which is reached at midday, was 16 C. No significant differences were found in beneath-canopy temperatures for the three nurse species considered. Soil nitrogen levels were significantly lower beneath the different nurse plants than in open spaces. This result suggests that soil fertility is not an important factor in the nurse-plant phenomenon in Zapotitln. 
3236224|The occurrence of macrofossil charcoal (long axis  0.5 mm) and Picea abies (Norway spruce) pollen in peat stratigraphies, in combination with size and age data from 2976 P. abies trees were used to analyse ecosystem continuity and stand-structure in ten old-growth swamp-forests in northern Sweden. All stands were dominated by P. abies, a species whose abundance increased westwards in Sweden between 3000 and 2000 yr B.P. In three stands no macrofossil charcoal was found and the maximum age of the peat, determined by <sup>14</sup>C dating, varied from 1800 to 3600 yr B.P. In the other seven stands the number of levels containing charcoal varied from 1 to 23, but only between 1 and 7 levels were found after the appearance of spruce. Here the maximum age of the peat varied from 400 to 7900 yr B.P. The ten stands had an all-sized stand structure and a stand continuity of ca. 300 yr. The shape of the age structure was similar to an inverse J-curve. This indicates a continuous recruitment over time in a self-perpetuating ecosystem. In a short-term perspective (< 300 yr), the swamp-forests are characterized by individual trees continually emerging while others are dying. It is suggested that internal dynamics of continuous small-scale disturbances in combination with local site-specific factors determine the structure of these forests. In a long-term perspective, some of the present spruce swamp-forests within the northern boreal zone have functioned as true fire-free refugia since the establishment of P. abies populations while others have been affected by recurring fires, although not as frequently as forests on surrounding drier sites. The hypothesis that Scandinavian spruce swamp-forests in general have functioned as true long-term fire-free refugia is thus modified by the present results.
3236316| Dry alvar grasslands on limestone on the Baltic island of land, SE Sweden, are very species-rich as long as the traditional agricultural exploitation of grazing and fire wood collection continues. After abandonment, encroachment of Juniperus communis starts and a closed woodland can develop within 100 yr. A chronosequence, representing a successional series, was used for the comparison of sites still grazed, and sites ungrazed for about 20, 55 and 80 yr, respectively. Out of the 58 characteristic dry alvar grassland species 55 % disappeared from the established vegetation after 80 yr of abandoning, and 80 % also vanished from the seed bank. Arenaria serpyllifolia, Trifolium repens, Agrostis vinealis, Linum catharticum, Polygala vulgaris, Cerastium fontanum, Luzula campestris, Achillea millefolium and Potentilla tabernaemontani were the only species left in the seed bank. More than 75 % of the dry alvar grassland species were classified as having a transient or short-term persistent seed bank. It is concluded that restoration management, by cutting junipers, of overgrown dry alvar grassland cannot rely on the longevity of seeds in the soil. Seeds have to be dispersed by wind or grazing animals. 
3235983|The objective of this study was to demonstrate the regeneration by root suckering of Populus tremuloides (quaking aspen) along a successional sere at Lake Duparquet in NW Quebec with six sites of different ages - 46, 74, 120, 143, 167 and 230 yr since last fire. In 1990, in each of the sites, one 20 m x 20 m plot was cut. In each plot, 4-m<sup>2</sup> plots were selected, both control and with litter removed. The number of suckers and their height were estimated for each plot in 1991, 1992 and 1993. Results showed that sucker production was not related to the number of P. tremuloides before the clearcut, but it was related to litter whereby increasing cover lowered the production. The number of suckers produced in the control plots did not show any significant difference along the successional sere for any of the three years. Scarified plots had more suckers than control plots, and this increase was more pronounced and significantly different for the younger stage. Regression analysis for the 1991 and 1992 data showed that sucker number in scarified plots decreased with increasing seral stage age. Mortality, after three growing seasons, was about 60 % for all plots and was not affected by seral stage and treatment. We suggest that removal of litter in scarified plots exposed the roots to higher temperatures and caused wounds, both of which may have stimulated the production of suckers in young seral stages.
23012718|Question: Can vegetation relev databases be used to analyse species losses and gains in specific vegetation types in Germany over time? Does the type of response (increase or decline in relative frequency) conform to observed largescale environmental trends in the last decades? Location: Germany. Exploring the German Vegetation Reference Database Halle (GVRD) that was established for forest and grassland vegetation within the framework of German Biodiversity Exploratories. Methods: Use of generalized linear models (GLMs) for testing changes in temporal frequency of plant taxa in a semi-dry grassland data set (Mesobromion) and a beech forest data set (Fagion). Data were either aggregated by year, decade or by a balanced re-sampling approach. Interpretation of the observed changes was based on species traits. Results: In both data sets significant temporal changes were observed, although the frequency of the majority of species remained unchanged. In both data sets, species with a temporal increase in frequency had higher Ellenberg N and F indicator values, compared to species that decreased, thus indicating effects of widespread atmospheric nitrogen deposition. In the forest data set, the observed increase in recruitment of deciduous trees pointed to a change in management, while trends in the grassland data set suggested use abandonment, as seen in an increased frequency of woody species. Conclusion: We demonstrate that vegetation databases represent very valuable resources for analysis of temporal changes in species frequencies. GLMs proved their value in detecting these trends, as also shown by the interpretability of model results with species traits. In contrast, the method of aggregation or re-sampling had little influence on the general outcome of analyses.
3236736|Dispersal and retrieval site selection by mice, transport distance, cache depth, and emergence and survival of seedlings of Castanea crenata (Japanese chestnut) were investigated by a magnet-locating experiment in two habitat conditions (gap vs. forest understorey). Magnets were inserted into nuts (n = 450) and the nuts placed in the edge of forest gaps. Although wood mice (Apodemus speciosus and A. argenteus) initially buried nuts singly in shallow surface caches near the nut source, by the following spring these cached nuts were retrieved and re-cached in larger, deeper caches farther from the source, particularly in forest understories, probably to reduce the threat of pilferage. All the nuts cached in the forest understories were consumed, but 4 seedlings emerged in gaps, apparently because of lower foraging activity in the gaps by the mice. Seed size was not correlated with cache depth or cache site selection. With increasing seed size, transport distance increased, particularly in gaps, possibly due to a greater potential energy gain (relative to handling cost to the cacher), or to attempts to prevent density- or mass-dependent loss of caches by other foragers. Variable seed dispersal behaviour based on variation in seed size may influence the chances of colonization and distribution of the light-demanding Castanea trees in mosaic landscapes and may play an important role in community organization and dynamics.
3236410|Vegetation is considered as a complex system with many subsystems. The system functions by using solar radiation as energy source and producing biomass and biodiversity. The different subsystems are connected by feedback loops and interact in a process of self-organisation. It appears impossible to characterize this system with mathematical expressions, because most of the basic processes are non-linear. Instead, vegetation can be described with dynamical models. Selection, competition as well as positive interactions can occur. The model accounts for the general dynamics, particularly fluctuations (when the system is in a steady state) and the climax situation. Many problems remain open: e.g. arbitrary limits of the system and its subsystems, macrostate/microstate relationships, thresholds and attractors. Single aspects of the subsystems can be linearized, but not the system as a whole and consequently its behaviour remains unpredictable.
40295794|Questions: How is seedling regeneration of woody species of semi-deciduous rain forests affected by (a) historical management for combinations of logging, arboricide treatment or no treatment, (b) forest community type and (c) environmental gradients of topography, light and soil nutrients? Location: Budongo Forest Reserve, Uganda. Methods: Seedling regeneration patterns of trees and shrubs in relation to environmental factors and historical management types were studied using 32 0.5-ha plots laid out in transects along a topographic gradient. We compared seedling species diversity, composition and distribution patterns along topographic gradients and within types of historical management regimes and forest communities to test whether environmental factors contributed to differences in species composition of seedlings. Results: A total of 85 624 woody seedlings representing 237 species and 46 families were recorded in this rain forest. Cynometra alexandri C. H. Wright and Lasiodiscus mildbraedii Engl. had high seedling densities and were widely distributed throughout the plots. The most speciesrich families were Euphorbiaceae, Fabaceae, Rubiaceae, Meliaceae, Moraceae and Rutaceae. Only total seedling density was significantly different between sites with different historical management, with densities highest in logged, intermediate in logged/arboricided and lowest in the nature reserve. Forest communities differed significantly in terms of seedling diversity and density. Seedling composition differed significantly between transects and forest communities, but not between topographic positions or historical management types. Both Chao-Jaccard and Chao-S0rensen abundance-based similarity estimators were relatively high in the plot, forest community and in terms of historical management levels, corroborating the lack of significant differences in species richness within these groups. The measured environmental variables explained 59.4% of variance in seedling species distributions, with the three most important being soil organic matter, total soil titanium and leaf area index (LAI). Total seedling density was positively correlated with LAI. Differences in diversity of > 2.0 cm dbh plants (juveniles and adults) also explained variations in seedling species diversity. Conclusions: The seedling bank is the major route for regeneration in this semi-deciduous tropical rain forest, with the wide distribution of many species suggesting that these species regenerate continuously. Seedling diversity, density and distribution are largely a function of adult diversity, historical management type and environmental gradients in factors such as soil nutrient content and LAI. The species richness of seedlings was higher in soils both rich in titanium and with low exchangeable cations, as well as in logged areas that were more open and had a low LAI.
3235681|Microscale variation of vegetation was studied in a Mediterranean oak savanna dominated by annual plants at Neve Ya'ar Experimental Station, in the lower Galilee of Israel. Species presence/absence data were recorded in 20 cm x 20 cm quadrats on a 500-quadrat transect. These data were ordinated with Detrended Correspondence Analysis. Soil nitrate, phosphorous, potassium, pH, soil moisture and salinity were determined at 2-m intervals on the 100-m transect, at monthly intervals from November 1981 to April 1982. Litter cover and canopy shade were surveyed in October 1981 and April 1982. A sharp rise in available nitrate occurred in November, following the first winter rains. Patterns in herbaceous vegetation, as expressed by sample ordination scores, correlated best with litter cover in October. This suggested that vegetation pattern in this community may be strongly influenced by environmental conditions at the time of seedling germination and establishment.
3237000|A 2-yr field experiment was used to determine the response of riparian plants to accumulation of litter or silt in a river flood-plain meadow in northern Sweden. Such disturbances occur regularly in free-flowing rivers but are likely to change as a result of global changes in land use or climate. We anticipated that plants with different traits would differ in their response to litter and silt accumulation. We quantified plant response as relative change in above-ground biomass, and regressed it on either litter mass or silt depth, and on plant traits such as lateral spread, plant height, relative growth rate, seed mass and seed persistence in soil. The relative changes in riparian plant biomass following litter or silt accumulation were negatively related to litter mass and silt depth, and positively related to most examined plant traits such as seed mass, seed persistence and lateral spread. The vegetation recovery in the second season was largely determined by plant traits; litter or silt accumulation had no significant effect. Litter accumulation selected for large-seeded species, but silt accumulation selected for species with strong ability of lateral spread. Seed persistence was a useful variable in predicting species recovery from both litter and silt accumulation. Plant height was negatively related to plant recovery, but relative growth rate was not significantly related to relative change in plant biomass after silt or litter accumulation. Our results imply that plant traits are important variables to consider for predicting the responses of riparian vegetation to deposition of organic and inorganic matter.
3236059|Species abundance data from 32 representative stands are used to evaluate the vegetation in the heavily grazed Serengeti short grasslands. The abundant species are: Kyllinga nervosa, Sporobolus ioclados, S. kentrophyllus and Eustachys paspaloides, all occurring in elevated areas, and Hypoestes forskalei, which is found in the drainage areas. Numerical classification and fuzzy set ordination revealed four main grassland communities associated with a topographic gradient. The communities are considered distinct since their niches, as computed in the community and environmental fuzzy system space are not overlapping. Leaching, erosion and animal disturbance effects correlated with the topographic gradient are found to determine species composition and overall community structure in the grasslands.
3237303|Studies of tropical forest dynamics have often been based on one large-scale permanent plot, representative of a given forest type. Broad classifications of tropical forest types are expected to include a wide range of stand structures, dynamics patterns and species compositions - a range which cannot be represented in a single plot. To demonstrate this problem two 1-ha permanent plots, dominated by Hopea ferrea and Shorea henryana (both Dipterocarpaceae), respectively, were established in 1987 in seasonal dry evergreen forest at the Sakaerat Environmental Research Station in northeastern Thailand. In 1997 the plots were remeasured as to patterns of recruitment, mortality and growth. The Hopea plot was relatively static with low mortality, recruitment and growth. The Shorea plot was very dynamic with high rates of growth, mortality and recruitment. If the current trends continue, the plots are likely to further diverge. Even if the study of a large forest plot provides a good insight into tropical forest dynamics, it is necessary to consider the entire local pattern of variation.
4499244|Questions: What is the accuracy and reliability of the commonly used random soil sampling methodology for predicting seedling density, species richness and composition of the emerging seedling community? Location: Lake Kraenepoel, western Belgium. Methods: We compared density, species composition and observed and rarefactioned species richness of the seedling community emerging on a soft water lake bed exposed after drainage with the seedling community germinating in the laboratory from random soil samples in the same plots. Results: Seedling density did not differ between the two methods and there was a significant correlation between seedling density on the exposed lake bed and in the soil samples. This indicates that future seedling density can be reliably predicted based on soil sampling, in particular for the most abundant species. The most frequently occurring and abundant species among the seedlings in the soil samples were also the most frequent and abundant species germinating on the exposed lake bed. In contrast, species richness was much higher on the exposed lake bed than in the soil samples, and this difference was still significant for annual species after correction for differences in sampling intensity by rarefaction. We found no correlation between the number of species retrieved by the two methods. Although seedlings of rare and target species emerged on the lake bed, random soil sampling clearly failed to detect seeds of most of these species. Conclusions: Random soil sampling at a commonly used intensity and using the standard germination conditions can accurately predict future total seedling density and the density of the most abundant species. However, the method is not reliable for predicting the probability of establishment of populations of uncommon species. When executing a seed bank study, sampling intensity and germination conditions need to be adapted to the nature and the level of detail of the research question to be answered.
4096637|Question: What are the qualitative and quantitative long-term changes in the vascular epiphyte assemblage on a particular host tree species? Location: Lowland rain forest of the San Lorenzo Crane Plot, Republic of Panama. Methods: We followed the fate of the vascular epiphyte assemblage on 99 individuals of the palm Socratea exorrhiza by three censuses over the course of five years. Results: The composition of the epiphyte assemblage changed little during the course of the study. While the similarity of epiphyte vegetation decreased on individual palms through time, the similarity analysed over all palms increased. Even well established epiphyte individuals experienced high mortality with only 46% of the originally mapped individuals surviving the following five years. We found a positive correlation between host tree size and epiphyte richness and detected higher colonization rates of epiphytes per surface area on larger trees. Conclusions: Epiphyte assemblages on individual S. exorrhiza trees were highly dynamic while the overall composition of the epiphyte vegetation on the host tree species in the study plot was stable. We suggest that higher recruitment rates, due to localized seed dispersal by already established epiphytes, on larger palms promote the colonization of epiphytes on larger palms. Given the known growth rates and mortality rates of the host tree species, the maximum time available for colonization and reproduction of epiphytes on a given tree is estimated to be ca. 60 years. This time frame will probably be too short to allow assemblages to be ever saturated.
3235564|Natural and semi-natural plant communities occurring in the Nile Valley in Upper Egypt are described and their position in the zonation along the river bank interpreted. With the help of ordination and classification methods relationships among the 13 community types and their distribution along the predominating moisture gradient are elucidated. The vegetation of the Nile Valley can be described as a series of discrete plant community types on the basis of their floristic composition, structural components and habitat conditions. The communities can be grouped into four higher units, considered as formations: swamp, meadow, thorn-bush and riverain woodland.
4499282|Background: Disturbances by avalanches have created unique habitats for animals and plants in subalpine ecosystems worldwide, but at the same time avalanches can pose a major threat to humans. Thus, avalanches are suppressed by means of avalanche barriers to protect settlements and infrastructures in populated areas of the European Alps. As a consequence, the disturbance regime in avalanche tracks has fundamentally changed. Methods: In the present study we address ecological consequences of avalanche suppression on plant diversity. We analysed plant diversity and species composition in recent and old avalanche tracks with and without avalanche suppression and in undisturbed adjacent forests at high and low elevations. Results: The number of species was higher in both active and inactive avalanche tracks as compared to undisturbed subalpine forest. The species composition indicated a wider range of ecological niches in active than in inactive avalanche tracks. The vegetation from active tracks showed lower indicator values for temperature and nitrogen availability. The proportion of alpine species was lower in formerly active tracks. Conclusions: The conditions that exist in active avalanche tracks increase plant diversity in relation to undisturbed forest. In the few decades following avalanche suppression, species composition changes in tracks from which avalanches have been excluded. Continued suppression of avalanche disturbance may lead to a decline in plant and habitat diversity. Avalanche disturbance can exert an important influence on the biodiversity of subalpine forests and provide important habitats. Anthropogenic changes in the natural regime of avalanche disturbance are likely to contribute significantly to future landscape changes in subalpine forests.
25173185|Question: Are trait differences between grasses along a gradient related to climatic variables and/or photosynthetic pathway? Location: Temperate grassland areas of South and North America. Methods: In a common garden experiment, we cultivated C and C grasses from grasslands under different climatic conditions, and we measured a set of 12 plant traits related to size and resource capture and utilization. We described (1) interspecific plant trait differences along a climatic gradient defined by the precipitation and temperature at the location where each species is dominant and (2) the association between those plant trait differences and the photosynthetic pathway of the species. Results: Trait differences between grasses were related to the precipitation at the area where each species is dominant, and to the photosynthetic pathway of the species. Leaf length, leaf width, plant height, leaf area per tiller, specific leaf area, leaf C ratio, and nitrogen resorption efficiency increased while leaf dry matter content and nitrogen concentration in senesced leaves decreased as precipitation increased. A proportion of these changes along the gradient was related to the photosynthetic pathway because dominant grass species in cold areas with low precipitation are mainly C and those from warm and wet areas are C. Conclusions: A previous worldwide analysis showed that traits of graminoid species measured in situ changed slightly along climatic gradients (&lt; 10% variance explained). In contrast, under a common environment we observed that (1) grass traits changed strongly along a climatic gradient (30-85% variance explained) and, (2) a proportion of those changes were related to the association between photosynthetic pathway of the species and precipitation.
3236800|We asked whether forest structure and understory light environments across a tropical moist forest chronosequence followed predictions of a 4-phase model of secondary succession (establishment, thinning, transition and steady-state) and whether seedling density and diversity were functions of light availability as predicted by this model. Using aerial photographs, we identified eight second-growth stands (two each aged ca. 20, 40, 70, and 100 yr) and two old-growth stands within Barro Colorado Nature Monument, Panama. Trees and seedlings were sampled in nested, contiguous quadrats in 2 160-m transects in each stand. Light was measured as percent transmittance of diffuse photosynthetically active radiation (TPAR) at each seedling quadrat and by estimation of percent total incident radiation during the growing season from hemispherical canopy photographs. Basal area, tree density, and canopy height followed predictions of the 4-phase model. Percent total radiation, but not TPAR, declined with stand age as did seedling density. While seedlings were more likely to occur in quadrats at higher light levels, much variation in seedling density was not related to light availability. Seedling patch sizes were small irrespective of light patches, estimated as semivariance ranges. Seedling species richness was a function of seedling density; estimates of species diversity unbiased by density did not vary systematically as a function of stand age. Proximate seed sources, efficient dispersal mechanisms, and appropriate establishment conditions can promote establishment of species-rich communities early in successions of heterogeneous tropical moist forest.
40295804|Questions: Are positive understorey-dominant associations important in physically severe dune communities and does the strength of positive associations vary with disturbance at the local scale and with stress at the regional scale? Do associational patterns observed at the neighbourhood scale predict diversity at higher scales? Location: Coastal sand dunes, Aquitaine (France). Methods: Associational patterns with five dominant species were recorded along a local gradient of disturbance and a 240-km long regional gradient. Density, richness, cover and variance ratio of understorey species were recorded in quadrats located in dominant and in open areas. Spatial pattern of dominant plant species was recorded using a distance-based method. Results: Positive understorey-dominant associations were most frequent at both regional and local scale, although negative associations with understorey species were observed for one of the five dominants. At the regional scale, there was a shift in the magnitude of spatial associations, with higher positive associations in the most stressful sites, whereas spatial associations where not affected by the local disturbance gradient. Positive associations were not related to the size of the dominants but rather influenced by the identity of the dominant species. Conclusions: Our study highlights the potential crucial role of facilitation together with the importance of turnover of the dominants in explaining large-scale variation in diversity. However, because positive associations may also be attributed to environmental heterogeneity or co-occurrence of microhabitat preferences of species, experiments are needed to fully assess the relative importance of facilitation versus other drivers of community diversity.
3236469|Question: A set of easily-measured ('soft') plant traits has been identified as potentially useful predictors of ecosystem functioning in previous studies. Here we aimed to discover whether the screening techniques remain operational in widely contrasted circumstances, to test for the existence of axes of variation in the particular sets of traits, and to test for their links with 'harder' traits of proven importance to ecosystem functioning. Location: central-western Argentina, central England, northern upland Iran, and north-eastern Spain. Recurrent patterns of ecological specialization: Through ordination of a matrix of 640 vascular plant taxa by 12 standardized traits, we detected similar patterns of specialization in the four floras. The first PCA axis was identified as an axis of resource capture, usage and release. PCA axis 2 appeared to be a size-related axis. Individual PCA for each country showed that the same traits remained valuable as predictors of resource capture and utilization in all of them, despite their major differences in climate, biogeography and land-use. The results were not significantly driven by particular taxa: the main traits determining PCA axis 1 were very similar in eudicotyledons and monocotyledons and Asteraceae, Fabaceae and Poaceae. Links between recurrent suites of 'soft' traits and 'hard' traits: The validity of PCA axis 1 as a key predictor of resource capture and utilization was tested by comparisons between this axis and values of more rigorously established predictors ('hard' traits) for the floras of Argentina and England. PCA axis 1 was correlated with variation in relative growth rate, leaf nitrogen content, and litter decomposition rate. It also coincided with palatability to model generalist herbivores. Therefore, location on PCA axis 1 can be linked to major ecosystem processes in those habitats where the plants are dominant. Conclusion: We confirm the existence at the global scale of a major axis of evolutionary specialization, previously recognised in several local floras. This axis reflects a fundamental trade-off between rapid acquisition of resources and conservation of resources within well-protected tissues. These major trends of specialization were maintained across different environmental situations (including differences in the proximate causes of low productivity, i.e. drought or mineral nutrient deficiency). The trends were also consistent across floras and major phylogenetic groups, and were linked with traits directly relevant to ecosystem processes.
3235925|Communities dominated by Artemisia tridentata ssp. tridentata, A. tridentata ssp. wyomingensis, and A. tridentata ssp. vaseyana, found in the Piceance Basin of western Colorado, were evaluated for life history strategy. Species cover data were analyzed using Grime's (1984) triangular model. Then a canonical analysis was conducted to obtain an ordination of relative species cover. Results from these two analyses were then used to infer strategy differences among life histories of subspecies, based on the respective plant community associates. These differences were found to be consistent with the divergent evolution assumed to have occurred in this species. The primary ordination axis was interpreted as an elevation-moisture gradient. Further analysis of soil data by factor analysis also separated the three Artemisia subspecies along a soil texture gradient.
4499193|Questions: How do fire frequency, tree canopy cover, and their interactions influence cover of grasses, forbs and understorey woody plants in oak savannas and woodlands? Location: Minnesota, USA. Methods: We measured plant functional group cover and tree canopy cover on permanent plots within a long-term prescribed fire frequency experiment and used hierarchical linear modeling to assess plant functional group responses to fire frequency and tree canopy cover. Results: Understorey woody plant cover was highest in unburned woodlands and was negatively correlated with fire frequency. C
40295844|Questions: How did an initial tree harvest in 1894 influence the spatial and temporal patterns of Pinus ponderosa recruitment? How do these patterns compare to our understanding of P. ponderosa stand dynamics prior to Euro-American settlement? How might spatial pattern information, particularly with respect to patch characteristics, inform current restoration and management practices? Location: A 2.59-ha permanent sample plot in the Fort Valley Experimental Forest, Flagstaff, Arizona. The plot was selectively harvested in 1894 and measured in 1909 and 2002. Methods: We used historical stem-map and ledger data, contemporary data, and dendrochronological techniques to reconstruct stand structure (tree size, age, location) in three scenarios: (1) unharvested (1909), (2) harvested (1909), and (3) contemporary (2002). We used Clark and Evans' R, Ripley's K(t) univariate analysis, and correlogram analysis to assess the spatial pattern in each scenario. We also used Ripley's K(t) bivariate analysis and tree age data to examine spatial and temporal recruitment patterns as observed in the contemporary scenario. Results and Conclusions: The unharvested stand was aggregated at scales up to 28 m. The selective harvest accentuated the spatial patchiness of the stand in 1909 and changed spatial patterns by homogenizing tree size within patches. By 2002, the stand was a single patch dominated by small trees. Postharvest recruitment patterns were not spatially random; Pinus seedlings initially established in natural grass openings and then proceeded to fill-in stump patches created by harvesting. Knowledge of spatial pattern should be explicitly incorporated into restoration activities in these forests.
23012497|Question: Landscape models of fire occurrence in ecosystems assume that the time since the last fire determines vegetation flammability by enabling the accumulation of dead biomass. In this study we ask if Mediterranean basin shrublands respond to these models or, on the contrary, if initial successional stages in these ecosystems could be more flammable than later stages. Location: Mediterranean shrubland in the Valencia region, eastern Spain. Methods: Using different stages of vegetation development (5, 9, 14 and 26 years since the last fire), we first study the structural composition of the above-ground biomass in 375 individuals of nine woody species. Then, we measure how the standing dead biomass varies during succession, taking into account the surface cover of each species and the quantity of total dead biomass accumulated in different successional stages (3, 9, 14 and 26 years since the last fire). Results: The largest amount of standing dead biomass at the plant community level is observed in the middle stages of the succession. Early successional species, such as Cistus spp., Ulex parviflorus and Pinus halepensis, have a higher percentage of standing dead biomass at earlier stages in the succession than species typical of later successional stages, e.g. Juniperus oxycedrus, Quercus coccifera and Quercus ilex. Conclusions: The results suggest that monotonic increase in fire hazard with increasing stand age is not necessarily the rule in Mediterranean basin shrub-lands, since early successional species may accumulate large amounts of standing dead biomass and thus promote fire at early successional stages.
3246577|We investigated the spatial pattern of A. raddiana in the Negev desert of Israel in order to gain insights into the factors and processes driving the dynamics of this species. Using a scale-dependent measure, the ring statistic, we analysed both patterns observed in the field and time series of spatial tree distributions produced by a simulation model. In the field, random spacing was the predominant pattern observed. However seedlings were clumped on small scales. We ran the model under two contrasting scenarios representing hypotheses that explain the clumping of seedlings and the random distribution of trees. One hypothesis is that there is spatial heterogeneity in seed distribution, germination and seedling mortality, but that these heterogeneities are not correlated with each other in space. The second hypothesis assumes a correlation between these heterogeneities leading to areas suitable for establishment. However, the suitability of the sites is temporally variable. Furthermore, the second hypothesis assumes density-dependent tree mortality due to competition. Both hypotheses lead to spatial distributions that are in qualitative agreement with the patterns observed in the field. Therefore, the classical view that a clumped seedling distribution and a random pattern of older trees is due to clumped regeneration and density-dependent mortality may not hold for Acacia trees in the Negev.
40925497|Questions: How does woody vegetation abundance and diversity differ after natural disturbances causing different levels of mortality? Location: Abies balsameaBetula papyrifera boreal mixed-wood stands of southeast Quebec, Canada. Methods: Woody vegetation abundance and diversity were quantified and compared among three disturbance-caused mortality classes, canopy gap, moderate-severity disturbances, and catastrophic fire, using redundancy analysis, a constrained linear ordination technique, and diversity indices. Results: Substantial changes in canopy tree species abundance and diversity only occurred after catastrophic fire. Shade-tolerant, late-successional conifer species remained dominant after canopy gap and moderate-severity disturbances, whereas shade-intolerant, early-successional colonizers dominated canopy tree regeneration after catastrophic fire. Density and diversity of mid-tolerant and shade-intolerant understory tree and shrub species increased as the impact of disturbance increased. Highest species richness estimates were observed after catastrophic fire, with several species establishing exclusively under these conditions. Relative abundance of canopy tree regeneration was most similar after canopy gap and moderate-severity disturbances. For the sub-canopy tree and shrub community, relative species abundances were most similar after moderate-severity disturbances and catastrophic fire. Vegetation responses to moderate-severity disturbances thus had commonalities with both extremes of the disturbance-caused mortality gradient, but for different regeneration layers. Conclusions: Current spatio-temporal parameters of natural disturbances causing varying degrees of mortality promote the development of a complex, multi-cohort forest condition throughout the landscape. The projected increase in time intervals between catastrophic fires may lead to reduced diversity within the system.
3236797|Structural (density, height, basal area, above-ground tree biomass, leaf area index) and functional (leaf phenology, growth rate, fine litter fall, leaf decomposition) traits were quantified in four mature forests of Nothofagus pumilio (lenga) along an altitudinal sequence in Tierra del Fuego, Argentina. Three erect forest stands at 220, 440 and 540 m and a krummholz stand at 640 m a.s.l. were selected. Along the altitudinal sequence, stem density increased while DBH, height, biomass, leaf-size and growth period, mean growth rate and decay rate decreased. Dead stems increased and basal area and fine-litter fall decreased with an increase in elevation among erect forests, but these trends inverted at krummholz. We suggest that krummholz is not only a morphological response to the adverse climate but is also a life form with functional advantages.
4499220|Question: What are the main forces driving natural regeneration in burned mature Mediterranean forests in the medium-long term and what are the likely successional trajectories of unmanaged vegetation? Location: Valencia Region, eastern Spain. Methods: A wildfire burned 33 000 ha of Pinus halepensis and P. pinaster forest in 1979, and subsequent smaller wildfires took place between 1984 and 1996. The study was designed to sample the range of environmental and disturbance (fire recurrence and land use) conditions. The territory was classified into 17 different geomorphological and fire-recurrence units. Vegetation cover and floristic composition were measured on a total of 113 plots (1000 m
3236925|This paper is concerned with the vertical distribution of photosynthetic, woody, reproductive and dead organs of Ulex europaeus, the dominant pyrophytic species in most of the shrublands of Galicia (NW Spain). Frequency and weight data for the above-mentioned organs were collected each season for individual plants up to 150 cm tall, in order to quantitatively characterize the vertical organ distribution in this species. The study also deals with regression equations that would allow the prediction of phytomass from easier measurements. Frequency values were recorded using a grid of quadrats situated on the plant's vertical axis, and clipping each individual into vertical layers of 6 cm to obtain phytomass values. The abundance and location of photosynthetic, woody and dead organs varies in the three height classes studied, both regarding frequency and phytomass. A marked decrease in the ratio between photosynthetic and total phytomass is also observed as plant height increases. Significant seasonal differences were recorded only for reproductive organs. A good fit was obtained for several regression equations; total phytomass can be predicted from the largest diameter of the shrub, or organ phytomass from total weight.
25549243|Question: What are the community types, underlying gradients and phytogeographical affinities of montane meadows in the western Tien Shan? Location: Aksu-Jabagly Nature Reserve, South Kazakhstan, Middle Asia. Methods: Species composition, structural and environmental variables were studied in 98 plots. Species composition was classified by cluster analysis and gradients explored using NMDS. Relationships between species richness, environmental and structural variables were investigated with regression analysis. Phytogeographic patterns were assessed by examining species distribution types. Results: Seven community types were distinguished by cluster analysis. Three axes of the NMDS explained 77% of the variation, showing different overlap of communities with environmental and structural properties. Species richness showed linear relationships with pH, altitude, heat load, soil skeletal content and structural variables. Middle Asian and Eurosiberian species constituted the majority of the species pool and cover. Conclusion: The studied communities represent a unique mixture of Middle Asian and Eurosiberian species that exhibit structural and environmental similarities to Eurosiberian meadows. The Tien Shan mountain meadows can thus be considered an endemic-rich southern outlier of the broader Eurosiberian meadow formation. Shifts in land-use patterns pose a potential threat that deserves more attention from conservationists.
3236253|We investigated gap formation and gap replacement in the Knysna Forest. Most (70 %) trees died standing, most gaps were small (median gap size of 35 m<sup>2</sup>; Gap diameter/Canopy height ratio of 0.24) and were formed by a single dead individual. No large differences were found among the more common species in terms of the size of gaps they created when they died or in the size of gaps they colonised. This is probably because the more common species are shade tolerant and they established before the gaps were formed. Regenerating individuals were almost never found on root mounds in pits or on logs. There were no indications of specific replacement patterns. In contrast, random replacement appears to be the dominant pattern for the more common species. Overall successional patterns suggest that the forest is relatively stable. We conclude that the gaps/non-gaps paradigm is not as useful as a lottery paradigm for explaining gap dynamics in the Knysna Forest.
4499199|Question: Invasion of woody species into grasslands is a global phenomenon. This is also topical in semi-natural temperate grasslands that are no longer profitable for agricultural management. Trees and grasses interact through harsh root competition, but below-ground processes have been neglected in the dynamics of semi-natural grasslands. Trees are thought to have a competitive advantage in resource-rich and heterogeneous soils. We tested whether soil resource quantity and heterogeneity differ between paired temperate semi-natural grasslands and forests (former grasslands), and whether this was caused abiotically by varying soil depth or biotically by fine roots. Location: Thin-soil calcareous alvar grasslands with overgrown parts (young Pinus sylvestris forests) in W. Estonia. Methods: The quantity and spatial heterogeneity of soil resources (moisture and nutrients), soil depth, and root parameters (mass, length and specific length) were measured in 1-m transects of 11 samples in 26 paired grasslands and forests. The quantity and heterogeneity of soil resources were compared between vegetation types and related to soil depth and root parameters. Results: Soil resources were lower and more heterogeneous in forests than in grasslands. The invasion of woody species was enhanced abiotically by deeper soil. Root mass was larger in the forests, but root length was longer in the grasslands. Both root mass and specific root length were more heterogeneous in the forests. Forest root length was negatively correlated with transient soil moisture patches and positively correlated with more persistent nutrient-rich patches. No such relationship was found in grasslands. Conclusions: Abiotic soil heterogeneity (local deep-soil patches) supports woody species invasion, but the trees themselves also biotically make soils more heterogeneous, which further enhances woody species invasion. Large trees use soil resources patchily, making soils biotically poorer and more heterogeneous in resources. The dynamics of temperate semi-natural grasslands are strongly linked to below-ground ecological processes, and high soil heterogeneity can be both the cause and the outcome of woody species invasion.
3236882|Bischofia javanica is an invasive tree of the Bonin Islands in the western Pacific, Japan. This species has aggressive growth, competitively replacing native trees in the natural forest of the islands. The aim of this study was to examine seed and seedling factors which might confer an advantage to the establishment of Bischofia over native trees. During a 5-yr period we compared the demographic parameters of early life history of Bischofia and Elaeocarpus photiniaefolius, a native canopy dominant, in actively invaded forests. Predation of Elaeocarpus seeds by in troduced rodents was much higher before (27.9-32.9%) and after (41.3-100%) dispersal of seeds than that of B. javanica. Most Elaeocarpus seeds lost viability ca. 6 mo after burial in forest soil while some seeds of Bischofia remained viable for more than 2 yr. Seedling survival in the first 2 yr was much higher in Bischofia (16%) than in Elaeocarpus (1.3%). The high persistence of Bischofia in the shade, coupled to its rapid acclimation to high light levels, is an unusual combination because in forest tree species there is generally a trade-off between seedling survival in the shade and response to canopy opening. Compared with a native canopy dominant, greater seed longevity, lower seed predation by introduced rodents, longer fruiting periods and the ability to form seedling banks under closed canopy appear to have contributed to the invasive success of Bischofia on the Bonin Islands.
3235946|In an abandoned field in the sandy desert of Kuwait annual plants were less numerous in stands dominated by Tribulus terrestris than in adjacent stands dominated by other species. In the Tribulus stands, annuals were smaller in phytomass and stature. Possible physical and biotic factors were investigated in both types of stands in order to determine the causative agent(s) for the lesser density and development of annuals in the Tribulus stands. Physical conditions of moisture, light and soil characteristics did not appear to be limiting to annuals in the Tribulus stands. Experimental evidence is presented for the leaching from T. terrestris shoots of water-soluble substances which strongly inhibit the germination and radicle elongation of most of the associated annual species. The effect of these substances is fairly specific. Preliminary analysis indicates the presence of phenolic compounds in the leachate of T. terrestris, which are believed to play a significant role in the growth inhibition. The possible role of chemical inhibition on certain annuals in stands of T. terrestris is discussed.
3236569|A method is proposed to estimate the frequency and the spatial heterogeneity of occurrence of individual plant species composing the community of a grassland or a plant community with a short height. The measure is based on the beta-binomial distribution. The weighted average heterogeneity of all the species composing a community provides a measure of community-level heterogeneity determining the spatial intricateness of community composition of existing species. As an example to illustrate the method, a sown grassland with grazing cows was analysed, on 102 quadrats of 50 cm x 50 cm, each of which divided into four small quadrats of 25 cm x 25 cm. The frequency of occurrence for all the species was recorded in each small quadrat. Good fits to the beta-binomial series for most species of the community were obtained. These results indicate that (1) each species is distributed heterogeneously with respective spatial patterns, (2) the degree of heterogeneity is different from species to species, and (3) the beta-binomial distribution can be applied for grassland communities. In most of the observed species spatial heterogeneity is often characterized by species-specific propagating traits: seed-propagating plant species exhibited a low heterogeneity/random pattern while clonal species exhibited a high heterogeneity/aggregated pattern. This measure can be applied to field surveys and to the estimation of community parameters for grassland diagnosis.
3236403|Seed demography of three co-occurring Acer species in an old-growth mixed deciduous forest in Japan was studied. Almost all of the seeds of A. mono germinated in the first spring, while those of A. palmatum var. amoenum showed a delay in germination of almost one year. A. rufinerve showed a rather opportunistic germination habit. Both A. palmatum var. amoenum and A. rufinerve form short-term persistent seed banks, but without input of newly dispersed seeds they may become extinct in about one year. The seed bank for these two species is not as significant as for a typical pioneer species, and the seedling bank is important for all three species. Only a small proportion of the dispersed propagules contained viable embryos, mainly due to pollination failure or abortion (A. mono and A. palmatum var. amoenum), and invertebrate predation (A. rufinerve). For all three species, larger seed crops had a higher percentage of viable seeds. Even for these relatively small, wind-dispersed seeds, the predation pressure was very high. A large part of the dispersed seeds was eaten by wood mice during the first winter (30 - 80 %). Estimation from the 5-yr average of seed dispersal and seedling emergence showed that only 7 - 16 % of the dispersed viable seeds succeeded in germinating.
3236393|Species native to the southwest of Western Australia, representing a range of plant families, life-history strategies, fire-response syndromes, seed-store types and seed weights, were tested for viability using tetrazolium chloride and for germination under combinations of constant temperatures of 15  C or 23  C, constantly dark or 12 h diurnal white-light conditions, and with, or without, addition of gibberellic acid (GA<sub>3</sub> 50 mg/l). Species previously known to require a heat-shock treatment to overcome dormancy due to an impervious testa were pre-treated prior to imposition of temperature, light and GA<sub>3</sub> conditions. The test environmental conditions related to differences between winter and autumn temperatures and surface and buried seed germination positions of post-fire habitats. The viability of the selection of native Western Australian species ranged from 0 to 100 %, averaging 71 %. For all taxa, no combination of temperature, light and gibberellic acid treatment induced all viable seeds to germinate. The greatest percentage germination achieved in any combination of treatments averaged 71 % of all viable seeds for all species. Larger seeds (> 10 mg seed weight) tended to have greater viability percentages, but no overall patterns of viability or germinability were attributable to seed storage syndrome, strategy of fire recovery response or life-form type. Germination of most of the dominant tree representatives (Eucalyptus calophylla, E. diversicolor, E. erythrocorys, E. gomphocephala, and E. patens) was indifferent to the trial conditions of temperature, light and GA<sub>3</sub>. However, Eucalyptus marginata showed reduced germination in the light, which was overcome with GA<sub>3</sub>. GA<sub>3</sub> also overcame the inhibition resulting from exposure to light in some understorey species (e.g. Allocasuarina campestris, Regelia ciliata, Xanthorrhoea gracilis and X. preissii). Germination of many hard-seeded, understorey shrub and herbaceous perennial species, especially those with small (< 10 mg) seeds (e.g. Bossiaea ornata, B. aquifolium and Acacia drummondii ssp. candolleana) was greater at the lower trial temperature and in the dark. Some large (> 10 mg) seeded, understorey species (e.g. Acacia extensa, Kennedia coccinea, K. prostrata, Hovea trisperma and Hardenbergia comptoniana) germinated in high percentages in both temperatures, but maximum germination percentages still tended to be at 15 . Large-seeded species were less sensitive to exposure to light compared to the smaller seeded species. The largest seeded species tested, Paraserianthes lophantha, germinated best in the warmer incubation temperature and in the light. The ecological significance of the tests would be that species which have seed dormancy mechanisms capable of delaying germination until the cool temperature, winter rainy period of this mediterranean-type climate would be more likely to survive than if germination followed summer rain showers or the first, intermittent rains of autumn. Burial of seeds becomes more important if germination occurs when rains first begin as this period has less available soil moisture and temperatures are high. Also survival of seedlings could be enhanced if germination of seed was restricted to the positions protected from high light, higher temperatures and lower soil moisture by the presence of a forest canopy. Therefore, seeds which have an ability to sense the presence of a previous fire in the habitat, conditions in light environment and appropriate temperature level have an adaptive advantage to time emergence to situations of time and space where survival is maximized. Variation in viability and germination percentages were apparent in some cases where more than one seed collection of available for testing, indicating that further aspects, such as seed age, maturity at collection, storage conditions and depth of seed dormancy, remain to be considered.
3236675|This study investigates the influence of texture, soil moisture and nutrient status on the growth and survival of seedlings of two typical fynbos (Leucadendron pubescens and Passerina vulgaris) and succulent karoo (Ruschia spp.) species, which grow in the boundary zone between these two vegetation types. Seedlings of each species were grown in shale-derived and sandstone-derived soils and under xeric and mesic regimes. Under the xeric regime, the shale-derived and sandstone-derived soils represented fine and coarse-textured soils, respectively. Under the mesic regime, the same soils represented nutrient-rich and nutrient-poor soils, respectively. The seedlings of both fynbos species died rapidly under the xeric regime, irrespective of soil type. In contrast, the succulent karoo seedlings survived for over 77 days without water. Under mesic conditions, the fynbos seedlings grew faster than the succulent karoo seedlings, irrespective of soil type. Fynbos seedlings appear to be directly limited by the environment (moisture and salinity), whereas succulent karoo seedlings may be limited by interactions with other plants.
3237138|Through seed dispersal and predation, terrestrial mammals should be an important component of the mechanisms that determine patterns of tree recruitment in tropical forests. Despite their great abundance and ubiquity in Neo-tropical forests, small rodents as seed predators and dispersers remain largely forgotten. To investigate the fates of seeds in a hunted primary forest in Belize, we tagged seeds of Astrocaryum mexicanum (Palmae), Ampelocera hottlei (Ulmaceae), and Pouteria sapota (Sapotaceae) and placed them into open plots, exclosures accessible only to small mammals, and exclosures accessible to medium-sized and small mammals. The exclosure experiments and fates of the seeds show that the spiny pocket mouse, Heteromys desmarestianus (Heteromyidae), was the dominant handler of seeds of the first two species and also removed a significant proportion of the very large-seeded Pouteria. Most of the seeds were killed immediately upon removal, but many of the seeds (3 - 18 %) of the first two species were scatterhoarded (dispersed and buried in the soil) by Heteromys. Some of the scatterhoarded seeds (29 %) remain buried and therefore protected from predation by other animals. Agoutis (Dasyprocta punctata), a caviomorph rodent, buried 13 % of the seeds of Pouteria, and Heteromys consumed and dispersed but did not bury Pouteria seeds. Results of this study support predictions by some researchers that small rodents are dominant terrestrial granivores in Neotropical forests. The role of small rodents as seed dispersers, however, has never been fully appreciated.
4499233|Question: What are the determinants of fine-scale plant species richness (SR)? Location:
3237289|This paper deals with the spatial distribution pattern of the bird-dispersed plant Daphne gnidium in a 10-yr abandoned field under Mediterranean conditions. Colonization of Mediterranean old-fields by bird-dispersed plants is expected to fit a theoretical model in which (1) seed dispersal follows a negative exponential curve with the distance from the seed source and (2) seedlings are better established under perches (nucleation sensu Yarranton & Morrison 1974). However, post-dispersal processes such as seed predation, seed germination and seedling establishment are also spatial-dependent and can lead to spatial autocorrelation in the seedling distribution within an old-field. Results show that both processes in the model (curve of seed dispersal and nucleation) significantly explained the spatial distribution of the seedlings, but some spatial variance remained unexplained. The semivariogram with the statistical residuals of the model detected spatial dependence at small (< 20 m) and large (> 250 m) distance intervals, indicating that some mechanisms with spatial components, apart from the curve of seed dispersal and nucleation under perches, also determined the distribution of seedlings colonizing fields. At scales below 20-m intervals, semivariance increased indicating that similarity between plots is lost when distance increases between them. This pattern may be explained because the favourable micro-environmental conditions for establishment produced under perches could be extended towards neighbour plots where perches were absent. A flat semivariogram between 20-m and 250-m intervals shows spatial independence along this range. From 250 m on, the semivariance increased again, indicating spatial dependence at coarse-scale. It is possible that the colonization model failed at this scale because different spatial processes to those included in the model (perch presence and distance to the shrubland) could be controlling seed colonization at coarse-scale.
3236606|A study of the forest lines, tree lines and the structures of the sub-alpine forest was performed in Vallone Vallanta and in Aleve forest in the Varaita Valley (Cottian Alps, Piedmont, Italy). Forest- and tree lines were analysed over 1728 ha while forest structures were studied on six 3000-m<sup>2</sup> plots located at the tree line (2), at the forest line (2) and inside the sub-alpine forest (2). Dendro-ecological analysis of living plants and stumps showed that Larix decidua was more abundant in the past than today and that Pinus cembra has expanded, both upwards and within sub-alpine forests. Age structure analysis revealed that the current sub-alpine forest stands were established 200 - 220 yr ago, probably following a clearcut. At the forest lines the tree density decreases, and some trees are more than 500 yr old, whereas at the tree lines most of the trees (almost exclusively Pinus cembra) are younger than 100 yr. Growth dynamics were investigated both by observing Basal Area Increment (BAI) in the old and dominant trees, and by comparing the BAIs of classes of trees with a given cambial age range in different time periods. The results showed that the growth rates of mature Pinus cembra and Larix decidua had increased. These increments are more substantial for Pinus than for Larix. The growth rate of young trees (< 100 yr) of both species has decreased over recent decades. This could be due to competition caused by increased tree densities that have resulted from a decrease in grazing.
3235577|Compositional gradients of forest vegetation in Finland were determined using detrended correspondence analysis, and ecologically interpreted with regression analysis. The data were collected in association with the 8th National Forest Inventory, and they comprised 1514 samples and 472 species, covering the whole forested land area of Finland. In the ordination space the first, very stable axis (DCA1) was much stronger than the following three, more unstable axes (DCA2 - 4). Site fertility (reflected by the forest site type series) and latitude had strongest covariation with the ordination space, followed by a number of variables primarily related to forest age or tree stand volume. Fertility variables were most closely parallel with DCA1, latitudinal ones with DCA1 and DCA2, and successional variables with DCA3. The results indicate that compositional overlap of sites classified into different Cajander site types is considerable.
3236550|We studied the characteristics of understorey regeneration on two sites with different fire history in a mature Pinus sylvestris forest in eastern Finland. The study area was a 4-ha plot, which was divided into two parts based on fire history analysis. In one part the last fire event was a stand-replacing fire in the early 19<sup>th</sup> century, after which the whole stand regenerated, while the other part of the study plot was subsequently burnt by a surface fire in 1906. Understorey P. sylvestris individuals were much more abundant in the area of the 1906 burn compared to the old burn. In both areas the size frequency distribution of living trees was bimodal, with frequency peaks at the < 5 cm and 30-150 cm height classes. In the old burn small understorey trees were mainly associated with microsites created by treefall disturbances while in the 1906 burn most small understorey trees occurred on vegetation-covered microsites. This indicates that with increasing time since last fire establishment of new understorey trees becomes more restricted by the availability of microsites created by treefall disturbances. In both areas the proportion of vigorous small understorey trees was highest on decayed wood. In the older burn uprooted pits and mounds also had a significant proportion of healthy small understorey trees, while the majority of trees classified as seriously weakened or dying were growing on microhabitats characterized by undisturbed vegetation. Ripley's K-function analyses showed that spatial distribution of understorey trees was clustered in both areas in all microsite types and clustering at small scales was most pronounced in understorey trees growing in uprooted spots or in association with decayed wood. The bivariate analysis showed a significant repulsion effect between large trees and understorey trees at intermediate spatial scales, indicating that competition had an effect on understorey tree distribution and this effect was more pronounced in the younger burn. The analysis suggests that in Pinus sylvestris forests the abundance, quality and spatial pattern of understorey tree population may vary considerably as a function of disturbance history.
3236394| Spatial patterning in the disturbance regime of a forest affects the vegetation dynamics. Therefore, the distribution of canopy gaps was examined in detail for a subalpine Abies-Picea forest in the northeastern United States. Gaps were not randomly distributed. The fraction of forest area in gaps and the abundance of gaps varied significantly with topographic position, elevation, and slope percent. On average, 15 % of the forest was influenced by gaps, but the gap fraction was greater near ridges (23 %) and near streams (27 %) than on the backslope (13 %). Also, gaps were larger and more abundant near streams and ridges. Gap fraction varied with elevation as well: more of the forest was disturbed at lower and higher elevations than at mid-elevations. Significantly more of the forest on steep slopes ( 30 %) was under gaps. As a result of this patterning, some parts of the Abies-Picea forest were predictably more disturbed than others. A remaining question is whether this patterning is sufficient to influence the regeneration environment and thus forest composition. 
3235715|The importance of abiotic environmental factors in determining species distributions in a saxicolous lichen community at Jonas Rockslide, Jasper National Park, Alberta is assessed using Canonical Correspondence Analysis. This technique allows ordination of species on axes determined by measured environmental variables. The suitability of this technique for handling data which may not be normally distributed is confirmed by comparison with the results obtained using a non-parametric correlation coefficient. The variables found to be most highly correlated with species distributions are altitude on the rockslide and inclination from horizontal of the rockface (slope). These variables are thought to determine temperature and water availability at the rock surface. Using the first two ordination axes, species can be divided into groups, based on shared responses to the measured environmental variables.
3235708|In two moderately productive grasslands that had been withdrawn from agricultural use, one on humic sandy soil and one on heavy clay, the decrease in dry matter, N-, P- and K-yields were measured for 14 and 11 years respectively, after fertilization had been stopped. The grasslands were mown twice a year. The yields and concentrations of nutrients were compared with those of already unproductive grasslands under the same growing conditions. On sandy soil, the annual dry matter yield decreased from 10.2 to 6.5 ton / ha in four years. After nine years, the dry matter (4.1 ton / ha) and K (20.5 kg / ha) yields were as low as those of the unproductive grassland. At that time yields and concentrations of N and P were still greater. The low K-concentration of 0.50 % and the lack of response upon N fertilizing indicate that the supply of K limits biomass production. On clay, during the first three years, the dry matter yield decreased from 10.2 to 5.0 ton / ha, after 6 yr the production increased again. The low N-concentration of 1.52 % after 10 yr indicates that N is likely to limit biomass production, but the low P-concentration of 0.14 % indicates that P shortage can also be expected. In the lower productive grassland on sand the number of species that invaded was higher.
3236399|The exotic tree Ailanthus altissima is usually confined to open sites. As an exception, Ailanthus established in a densely closed forest in West Virginia, which was analyzed with the aim to elucidate possible pathways of persistence in forest succession of this light-demanding pioneer species. Demographic analysis revealed a seedling mortality of 100%. Instead, the understory is populated by clonal ramets, ranging from one to more than 19 yr of age, with a mean of 5 yr. Growth averages only 0.11 m/yr, and height is correlated with age. This clonal growth contrasts with the performance of Ailanthus on open sites. The possible ecological benefits of establishing a ramet bank in a resource-poor habitat are considered in terms of space occupation of a pioneer species.
3236846|The dominance of a given tree or shrub species in a particular forest community may be determined by many ecological traits of the target species, as well as those of the surrounding species as its potential competitors. The present study was conducted to evaluate the possibility of predicting community status (species composition and dominance) on the basis of traits of local flora using statistical methods, and to visualize the mathematical function which determines species dominance. A general linear model and logistic regression were used for the statistical analysis. Dependent variables were designated as dominance and presence/absence of species in climax forest, with independent variables as vegetative and reproductive traits. Subalpine, cool-temperate, warm-temperate and subtropical climax rain forests in East Asia were studied. Quantitative prediction of climax community status could readily be made based on easily measured traits of local flora. Species composition and 74.6% of the total variance of species dominance were predicted based on two traits; maximum height and shade tolerance. Through application of this method, the capacity of an alien species to invade a climax forest community could possibly be predicted prior to introduction of the alien species.
3235863|The relationship between substrate quality and pattern of revegetation of harvested peat surfaces was studied by means of a survey and a field experiment examining influences of modest NPK-fertilization on plant colonization of an initially bare peat surface. The harvested peat surfaces varied a great deal in their chemical and physical characteristics and the sites differed in revegetation pattern. Early successional vegetation was dominated by perennial species native to nutrient-poor habitats on all sites. Soluble phosphorus and ash content, mean particle size of surface peat, and thickness of peat layer had the strongest influence in a CCA-ordination of species. The species composition depended on the amount and form of soluble nitrogen in the surface peat. Sites with a high content of phosphorus and ammonium nitrogen, and with a thick peat layer were usually densely revegetated by Eriophorum vaginatum alone, while sites characterized by thin peat layers associated with a high ash content, large particle size and a high content of nitrate nitrogen were mainly dominated by different grass and weed species. Deschampsia cespitosa clearly favoured sites with a high potassium content and small particle sizes of the peat. The importance of nutrient availability for the rate and pattern of colonization was also demonstrated by the field experiment. Application of 20 g/m<sup>2</sup> of NPK-fertilizer resulted in a significant increase in the number of established plant individuals and marked differences in species composition compared to unfertilized plots.
3236572| Deciduousness is an important functional attribute of tropical trees, reflecting climatic conditions. Precisely quantifying and mapping deciduousness in tropical forests will be necessary for calibrating remote sensing images which attempt to assess canopy properties such as carbon cycling, productivity, or chlorophyll content. We thus set out to assess the degree of canopy deciduousness in three moist, semi-deciduous tropical forests in central Panama. One site is a 6-ha research plot near the Atlantic coast of Panama, where rainfall is 2830 mm/yr. The second site is a 50-ha plot on Barro Colorado Island, near the center of the isthmus of Panama, where rainfall is 2570 mm/yr, and the final site is a 4-ha plot near the Pacific coast of Panama, where rainfall is 2060 mm/yr. At each site, a random sample of trees from all canopy species (those with individuals  30 cm DBH) were visited and scored for deciduousness three times during the 1997 dry season. The estimated peak fraction of deciduous individuals in the canopy at the wetter site was 4.8%, at the intermediate site, 6.3%, and at the drier site, 24.3%. The estimated fraction of crown area deciduous peaked at 3.6%, 9.7%, and 19.1% at the wet, medium, and dry sites respectively. The percentage of canopy species that was deciduous -14%, 28%, and 41% - was much higher than the percentage of deciduous individuals, because not all individuals of deciduous species were deciduous. During the 1999 dry season, every individual of all the deciduous species was visited at the two drier sites, and the total number of deciduous trees observed closely matched the estimated numbers based on the smaller 1997 samples. 
23012494|Questions: Most modern fire-prone landscapes have experienced disruptions of their historic fire regimes. Are the primary tallgrass prairies of the Flint Hills reflective of a history of continuous fire occurrence? Did fire frequency, severity, size and seasonality change in connection with changes in land use? Has fire occurrence been related to drought conditions? Location: Edges of Cross Timbers forest stands at the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve (TGPP) in the Flint Hills of Osage County, Oklahoma, USA. Methods: Cross-sections of 76 Quercus stellata were collected from Cross Timbers stands at or near the grassland edge in the TGPP. Dendrochronological methods were used to identify years of formation for tree rings and fire scars. Superposed epoch analysis was used to evaluate the effect of drought conditions on fire occurrence. Results: Fires were recorded in 46.6% of the years between 1729 and 2005. In 41 cross-sections at one site, the mean fire interval between 1759 and 2003 was 2.59 years, with fire interval decreasing from a mean fire interval of 3.76 years in the early part of the record to 2.13 years in modern times. No extended periods without fire were recorded in the study area. Drought conditions had no significant effect on fire occurrence. Conclusions: In contrast with many fire-prone landscapes worldwide, the prairies of the Flint Hills have experienced no recent fire suppression or exclusion. Changes in fire frequency mark transitions in land use, primarily from being traditionally used by Native Americans to being managed for cattle production.
40295805|Question: A number of studies have demonstrated that the interaction between nurse plants and their proteges changes from one of facilitation to interference as life history stage progresses. Here, I aimed to assess relative fitness of the protege plant Ziziphus mucronata (Rhamnaceae) under the subcanopy of Acacia erioloba (Leguminaceae), versus in the open, at various stages of the lifecycle. Location: Southern Kalahari, southern Africa. Methods: Germination was compared to assess the effects of shade, maternal origin (under A. erioloba or in the matrix) and soil. Seedlings were transplanted into the field under trees and in the open to ascertain establishment rates. Flower production, seed set and mistletoe infestation were compared between the two microhabitats. Results: Seeds from maternal Z. mucronata plants growing beneath A. erioloba had higher germination rates than those from maternal plants growing in the open. Germination was higher in full sun and in matrix soil, although this result was found in experimental conditions mimicking good rainfall and may not hold under dry or medium rainfall conditions. Z. mucronata demography suggested that the A. erioloba subcanopy is important for establishment, but seedlings transplanted into the matrix had higher survival rates than those under trees. Causes of seedling mortality were different: desiccation in the matrix, but invertebrate herbivory and trampling beneath trees. Mistletoe infestation was higher for adult plants growing in the open. Seed set was not significantly different between subcanopy and matrix environments, but once mistletoe infestation rates and parent plant size were accounted for, seed set was lower for adult plants growing in the open than those growing beneath trees. Conclusions: It appears that the nurse tree environment remains important for Z. mucronata throughout its lifecycle.
3236951| The response of fragmented vegetation to human impact has been analysed in degraded and degrading areas in Tanzania (Lake Manyara). Phytosociology was integrated with GIS and remote sensing data as follows: (1) a land cover/land use map was obtained by analysing remote sensing data and conducting field verification; (2) phytosociological relevs were randomly sampled in woodland vegetation patches using the map; (3) the pattern of land cover/land use around the relevs was described; (4) gradients of land use intensity (human impact) were obtained based on the descriptions; (5) the response of vegetation types to impacts of gradients was calculated using fuzzy set theory. Two complementary gradients of human impact were defined based on land cover/land use analysis of the remotely sensed data: one related to cultivation intensity and the other to grazing intensity. Response functions of vegetation types (defined by numerical classification) to these gradients demonstrated that the vegetation types are strongly related to the degree of human impact and that the corresponding vegetation patches show different degrees of permeability to the species of the surrounding landscape. 
25549259|Question: How does habitat degradation affect recruitment limitation and its components (seed limitation versus establishment limitation) of woody plant communities in a Mediterranean landscape? Location: 1600-1900 m a.s.l. in the Sierra Nevada National Park, southern Spain. The landscape is a mosaic composed of native forest and two degraded landscape units: reforestation stands and shrubland. Methods: We evaluated fruit production, seed rain, seedling emergence and seedling survival in two consecutive years with contrasting rainfall patterns. Seed and seedling data were used to calculate values of seed and establishment limitation. Results: In general, the woody community was both severely seed- and establishment-limited. Species were less seed-limited in the landscape units with higher adult density (i.e. shrub species in shrubland, Pinus spp. in reforestation stands). In contrast, degradation did not exacerbate establishment limitation, which was severe in all landscape units. This general pattern was modulated by the biogeographical distribution, dispersal type, and life form of the species. Boreo-alpine species were more limited in establishment than species with a typical Mediterranean distribution. Zoochorous species were less seed-limited in the landscape units preferred by dispersers (i.e. native forest). Tree species were more establishment-limited than shrub species, irrespective of the landscape unit. Seed limitation, and especially establishment limitation, varied among years, with establishment being almost nil in the very dry year. Conclusion: In the case of Mediterranean landscapes, when degradation from human impact involves a reduction in the adult abundance of the woody plant community (trees and shrubs), seed limitation increases, although establishment limitation is generally high in all landscape units, especially for boreo-alpine species. Conservation and restoration strategies should take into account our results showing that tree species were unable to recruit in an extremely dry year, because more aridity is expected under a climatic change scenario in Mediterranean ecosystems.
40295818|Question: As it has been found that stress promotes positive interactions mediated by physical amelioration of the environment, is it possible that interactions may turn positive with increasing chronic anthropogenic disturbance (CAD) intensity? Also, is it possible that species that do not tolerate disturbance may require environmental amelioration by their neighbours in disturbed areas, whereas tolerant species may not? Location: The semi-arid grassland in Conceptin Buenavista, Oaxaca, southern Mexico. Methods: We assessed interaction intensity and importance through a neighbour removal experiment along a CAD gradient for three species differing in disturbance tolerance. Water potential was monitored on vegetated and bare soil. Results: A shift from competitive effects in low CAD sites to positive interactions in degraded sites was found. The disturbance-tolerant species did not respond to CAD, whereas the less tolerant species changed its interactions drastically in terms of growth and reproduction. The species with medium tolerance had an intermediate response. Neighbours promoted germination in all species. Vegetation removal reduced soil humidity. Conclusions: Positive interactions seemingly resulted from the amelioration of the abiotic stresses induced by vegetation removal. The dependence on neighbours to germinate, grow, or reproduce suggests that if CAD eliminates the plant cover, vegetation will hardly recover. Irreversible changes are known to occur in communities where positive interactions predominate, but CAD may set the conditions for irreversible shifts even in communities where interactions are normally competitive.
25549229|Question: Does shifting cultivation contribute to plant diversity in an Afrotropical semi-deciduous forest lacking large-scale natural disturbance? Location: Sanaimbo forest, Cte d'Ivoire (Ivory Coast). Methods: We surveyed species assemblages, structural attributes of diversity, and life-history traits along a 30-year chronosequence of abandoned fields, comparatively to old-growth and selectively logged forest stands. Results: Patterns of species assemblages strongly changed with fallow area age, with respect to species' light requirements, suggesting niche partitioning along the successional gradient. Species richness, diversity and equitability were all increasing along this gradient. There were clear shifts in life-history traits spectra as the forest recovered, especially regarding leaf shape, lifespan and hairiness, diaspore dispersal, seed size, resprouting capacity, and life forms. Early colonization by the invasive Chromolaena odorata did not appear to impair secondary succession. Soil type influenced old-growth forest vegetation but not fallow vegetation. After 30 years of forest regrowth, plant communities exhibited endemism rates similar to those of ancient forests. Conclusions: Shifting cultivation appears to be a sustainable land use when small-sized fields are embedded in a forest matrix and when agriculture lasts only one to few years, preserves remnant trees, excludes fire and keeps several years between two clearing episodes. It may even contribute to the high biodiversity maintenance at the whole forest scale, by conserving the successional mosaic. However, conservation of old-growth forest patches is required for a number of climax tree species.
3236633|Time and mode of herbivory on savanna trees and their subsequent responses are dependent on, among other things, earlier herbivory and fire. We used clipping (simulated browsing) and stem cutting (simulated heavy browsing and to some extent simulated fire) to evaluate such interactions. Study organisms were a deciduous, broad-leaved tree species, Combretum apiculatum (Combretaceae), browsing large herbivores and leaf-eating insects. The treatments were done in the late dry season before bud break. Late in the following wet season, we recorded plant responses to treatment and browsing. The treated trees, especially the cut ones, responded by producing larger and fewer annual shoots. Compared to control trees, there was a slight increase in shoot biomass of clipped trees and a strong reduction of cut ones. Leaf area increased in clipped trees, but decreased in cut ones. A marked increase in the number of browsed trees was recorded amongst treated trees. Number of bites, consumption and utilization also increased with severity of treatment. In contrast, insect herbivory was reduced on both clipped and cut trees. The observed patterns are discussed in relation to current ideas on plant - herbivore interactions.
3236867|The design of a cell-based spatial simulation model of heathland vegetation dynamics including the impacts of rainfall, nitrogen deposition and management is described. The model includes aspects of life history, colonization and seed dispersal for Calluna vulgaris and Deschampsia flexuosa, a common heathland grass. The interactive effects of rainfall, nitrogen deposition and management by cutting or rotovating on vegetation dynamics, and particularly relative cover of Calluna and Deschampsia are investigated. Management by cutting or rotovating resulted in more stable vegetation dynamics, with pure Calluna stands being persistent in the longer term and Deschampsia expanding more slowly when management was imposed. Cutting and rotovating management interacted differently with rainfall and nitrogen deposition. A smaller management interval was required to maintain high Calluna cover by cutting when rainfall was low. More frequent cutting was also required under conditions of high nitrogen deposition. This effect was greatest in simulations with moderate to high rainfall. The outcome of management by rotovating was little affected by rainfall or nitrogen deposition. It is concluded that heathlands that experience varying climates may show different responses to nitrogen deposition and management. This variation should be taken into account when defining critical loads or designing management prescriptions.
25549258|Question: Do thick-twigged/large-leaf species have an advantage in leaf display over their counterparts, and what are the effects of leaf habit and leaf form on the leaf-stem relationship in plant twigs of temperature broad-leaf woody species? Location: Gongga Mountain, southwest China. Methods: (1) We investigated stem cross-sectional area and stem mass, leaf area and leaf/lamina mass of plant twigs (terminal branches of current-year shoots) of 89 species belonging to 55 genera in 31 families. (2) Data were analyzed to determine leaf-stem scaling relationships using both the Model type II regression method and the phylogenetically independent comparative (PIC) method. Results: (1) Significant, positive allometric relationships were found between twig cross-sectional area and total leaf area supported by the twig, and between the cross-sectional area and individual leaf area, suggesting that species with large leaves and thick twigs could support a disproportionately greater leaf area for a given twig cross-sectional area. (2) However, the scaling relationships between twig stem mass and total leaf area and between stem mass and total lamina mass were approximately isometric, which indicates that the efficiency of deploying leaf area and lamina mass was independent of leaf size and twig size. The results of PIC were consistent with these correlations. (3) The evergreen species were usually smaller in total leaf area for a given twig stem investment in terms of both cross-sectional area and stem mass, compared to deciduous species. Leaf mass per area (LMA) was negatively associated with the stem efficiency in deploying leaf area. (4) Compound leaf species could usually support a larger leaf area for a given twig stem mass and were usually larger in both leaf size and twig size than simple leaf species. Conclusions: Generally, thick-twigged/large-leaf species do not have an advantage over their counterparts in deploying photosynthetic compartments for a given twig stem investment. Leaf habit and leaf form types can modify leaf-stem scaling relationships, possibly because of contrasting leaf properties. The leaf size-twig size spectrum is related to the LMA-leaf life span dimension of plant life history strategies.
3236911|We studied the effects of Svalbard reindeer on the abundance of lichens in Spitsbergen. A survey was carried out in 14 areas with contrasting reindeer densities. Separate cover estimates for crustose, fructose and foliose lichens were taken in each area, and related to the density of reindeer pellet groups, a measure of reindeer density. Dominant macrolichen families were identified in 10 areas, and a full record of macrolichen species was taken in four additional areas. Variation in reindeer density is partially due to past overhunting, and subsequent incomplete recovery, releasing some areas from reindeer grazing for 100-200 yr. The cover of fruticose lichens was negatively related to reindeer pellet group density, indicating suppression by Svalbard reindeer. This makes their impact comparable to other members of the Rangifer genus around the northern hemisphere. The generally recorded low abundance of lichens in the diet of Svalbard reindeer compared to other Rangifer species, therefore, was interpreted as the depletion of fruticose lichens in Spitsbergen, and a subsequent switch to alternative foods. Of all fruticose lichens, Stereocaulon spp. appeared least sensitive to grazing. Crustose and foliose lichen cover was independent of reindeer pellet group density. The cover of crustose lichens was significantly related to latitude, with greater cover in more northern areas. Foliose lichens were more abundant in places where moss cover was high. We conclude that the impact of Svalbard reindeer on lichens is dependent on growth form, with fruticose lichens suffering from grazing, whereas foliose lichens might indirectly benefit from higher densities of reindeer or, like crustose lichens, be controlled by other factors.
4499242|Questions: How does invasion affect old-field seed bank species richness, composition and density? How consistent are these effects across sites? Does the soil seed bank match vegetation structure in old-fields? Location: Menorca, Balearic Islands, Spain, western Mediterranean basin. Methods: We monitored seed germination in soils from oldfields that were both uninvaded and invaded (legacy effect) by the annual geophyte Oxalis pes-caprae. We also added O. pes-caprae bulbs to uninvaded soils to test O. pes-caprae interference with seedling emergence (competitive effect). We compared species composition in the seed bank with that of the vegetation. Results: Species richness in the seed bank and in the vegetation was not significantly different between invaded and uninvaded areas. Uninvaded areas did not have larger seed banks than invaded areas. More seedlings, especially of geophytes, emerged when O. pes-caprae bulbs were added to the soil. Species similarity between invaded and uninvaded areas was higher in the seed bank (74%) than in the vegetation (49%). Differences in species composition were as important as differences among sites. The degree of species similarity between the seed bank and the vegetation was very low (17%). Conclusions: Despite invasion by O. pes-caprae not affecting species richness, the variation in the seed bank species composition in invaded and uninvaded areas, and the differences between the seed bank and the mature vegetation, highlights that even if the invader could be eradicated the vegetation could not be restored back to the exact composition as found in uninvaded areas.
3237081|Data referring to changes in vegetation composition resulting from cattle exclosure and ploughing in a Portuguese pasture dominated by annuals were used to test hypotheses regarding the biology of species favoured or eliminated by disturbance in semi-natural herbaceous communities. These hypotheses were tested in two ways. First we compared the distribution of six a priori groups - grasses, small rosettes, large rosettes, small species with leafy stems, large species with leafy stems, legumes - across grazed, ploughed and undisturbed plots. In a second set of analyses we examined changes in the frequencies of individual biological attributes in response to grazing and ploughing. These analyses were carried out separately for grasses and dicot forbs. Overall, the species composition showed little response to either grazing or ploughing, though species dominance changed. This lack of responsiveness of species composition was attributed to the long history of intensive land use which has resulted in the loss of disturbance-intolerant species over entire landscapes. When considering a priori groups, small rosettes were indifferent to disturbance, grazing and ploughing showed that dominated. Large rosettes, large species with leafy stems and legumes were generally intolerant to both grazing and ploughing, though individual species may increase in response to disturbance. Small species with leafy stems were the only group favoured by grazing whereas ploughing favoured grasses. As to individual traits, grazing excluded large grass species with heavy seeds and promoted a flat rosette canopy structure and a small size, along with a moderate dormancy and protected inflorescences. In forbs, grazing favoured small species, as expected, while it excluded tall species, and, in contrast to earlier results, a rosette canopy. These attributes were consistent with responses of the a priori groups, though it would not have been possible to reconstruct groups directly from the attribute list. Ploughing had no effect on any of the forb traits. As to grass traits, flat- and short-statured species increased and heavy-seeded species decreased. Our analysis revealed two advantages of establishing plant functional classifications within life forms. Subgroups within forbs had contrasting types of behaviour. For the same trait patterns could differ within the grass group from within the forb group. Finally, this analysis emphasizes the need for plant functional classifications aiming at the identification of syndromes of co-occurring attributes rather than of lists of isolated traits of which actual combinations are not specified.
3236285| In an effort to identify 'plant functional types', the islands floras of Great Britain and Krti (Crete, Greece) were examined separately for ecological correlates of plant range size. Plant functional types (PFTs) were defined here as categories into which plants could be grouped on the basis of attributes that predict greater or lesser sensitivity to ecological variability. Plant range size indicates commonness of a species and was assumed to be a proxy for 'ecological flexibility', i.e. species of larger range sizes can better withstand environmental change and differences than species of smaller range sizes. Using evolutionary comparative methods that account for the effect of taxonomic relatedness, both floras were investigated for the effects on range size of woodiness vs. non-woodiness, trees vs. shrubs, trees vs. herbs and shrubs vs. herbs. The British flora was examined additionally for the effects of windvs. non-wind-pollination, self vs. animal pollination and animal vs. non-animal fruit dispersal on range size. Two analyses showed significant effects on range size: for British species, trees had larger ranges than shrubs, and windpollinated species had larger ranges than non-wind-pollinated species. It is suggested that the lack of a similar pattern for shrubs and trees in Krti is because the lower water availability of Krti imbues shrubs with an ecophysiological advantage not relevant in plants of Great Britain. That trees have larger range sizes than shrubs in Great Britain is ascribed to the greater importance of competition for light when other factors are not at issue. The greater range of wind-pollinated than non-windpollinated species in Great Britain is postulated to be because both mutualists must be capable of invading new areas. This may be termed a 'cost of mutualism'. In terms of PFTs, the results indicate that 'life-form' is too broad a classification category by which to differentiate relative sensitivity to environmental variability in Great Britain, in that there were significant differences in range size of trees and shrubs, but not between either of the two categories and herbs, or between woody and non-woody plants. Although pollination type may predict relative sensitivity to variation in Great Britain, dispersal type will not. Finally, differences between Great Britain and Krti in relative range size patterns suggests that plant functional types may be specific to a region or set of conditions. 
23012719|Question: How do clonal traits of a locally dominant grass (Elymus repens (L.) Gould.) respond to soil heterogeneity and shape spatial patterns of its tillers? How do tiller spatial patterns constrain seedling recruitment within the community? Locations: Artificial banks of the River Rhne, France. Material and Methods: We examined 45 vegetation patches dominated by Elymus repens. During a first phase we tested relationships between soil variables and three clonal traits (spacer length, number of clumping tillers and branching rate), and between the same clonal traits and spatial patterns (i.e. density and degree of spatial aggregation) of tillers at a very fine scale. During a second phase, we performed a sowing experiment to investigate effects of density and spatial patterns of E. repens on recruitment of eight species selected from the regional species pool. Results: Clonal traits had clear effects - especially spacer length - on densification and aggregation of E. repens tillers and, at the same time, a clear response of these same clonal traits as soil granulometry changed. The density and degree of aggregation of E. repens tillers was positively correlated to total seedling cover and diversity at the finest spatial scales. Conclusions: Spatial patterning of a dominant perennial grass responds to soil heterogeneity through modifications of its clonal morphology as a trade-off between phalanx and guerrilla forms. In turn, spatial patterns have strong effects on abundance and diversity of seedlings. Spatial patterns of tillers most probably led to formation of endogenous gaps in which the recruitment of new plant individuals was enhanced. Interestingly, we also observed more idiosyncratic effects of tiller spatial patterns on seedling cover and diversity when focusing on different growth forms of the sown species.
3235852|This paper describes vegetation changes on cultivation terraces after abandonment, considered as secondary succession, and vegetation responses after clear-cutting, considered as regeneration. Species were grouped in life form and dynamic categories in order to infer dynamic patterns. By applying the Shannon diversity index to these characteristics, an index of functional diversity is obtained. Regenerative succession is considered here as a particular case of secondary succession, characterized by a fast vegetative regeneration of the dominant woody species, which controls the succession of the understorey species. Post-agricultural succession and forest regeneration succession show a similar relation between the diversity index and a forest index, indicating the relative amount of forest species. It appeared that the old-field dynamics resemble the deciduous oak-forest regeneration after the woody species have established. The species diversity at the end of the post-agricultural succession and in the forest is controlled by the nature of the dominant tree species.
4499252| Questions: Is change in cover of dominant species driving the velocity of succession or is it species turnover (1)? Is the length of the time-step chosen in sampling affecting our recognition of the long-term rate of change (2)? Location: 74 permanent plots located in the Swiss National Park, SE Switzerland, ca. 1900 m a.s.l. Methods: We superimpose several time-series from permanent plots to one single series solely based on compositional dissimilarity. As shown earlier (Wildi & Schtz 2000) this results in a synthetic series covering about 400 to 650 yr length. Continuous power transformation of cover-percentage scores is used to test if the dominance or the presence-absence of species is governing secondary succession from pasture to forest. The effect of time step length is tested by sub-samples of the time series. Results: Altering the weight of presence-absence versus dominance of species affects the emerging time frame, while altering time step length is uncritical. Where species turnover is fast, different performance scales yield similar results. When cover change in dominant species prevails, the solutions vary considerably. Ordinations reveal that the synthetic time series seek for shortest paths of the temporal pattern whereas in the real system longer lasting alternatives exist. Conclusions: Superimposing time series differs from the classical space-for-time substitution approach. It is a computation-based method to investigate temporal patterns of hundreds of years fitting between direct monitoring (usually limited to decades) and the analysis of proxy-data (for time spans of thousands of years and more). 
40925513|Questions: The following hypotheses of neighbourhood effects on drought-induced mortality are evaluated: (A) drought-induced stem death is randomly distributed in space, (B) stems are predisposed to drought-induced death through negative density-dependent effects and (C) stems are predisposed to drought-induced death due to local deficits in plant available resources. Location: Central Queensland, Australia. Methods: Recent mass mortality of woody stems was surveyed and mapped in three 1.21-ha quadrats within Eucalyptus melanophloia-dominated savanna. A multi-faceted analytical approach was adopted including spatial pattern analyses, two logistic regressions of neighbourhood density effects on survival and spatial autocorrelation analyses of model residuals. Results: Mortality was concentrated in stems < 15-cm diameter at breast height (DBH). Survival was aggregated or random in quadrats 1 and 3 and random or regular in quadrat 2. Small neighbour density had a negative effect on survival in all quadrats. In addition, the second model identified a positive relationship between survival and living neighbour density in quadrat 3 (indicating a resource patch effect), but a negative relationship in quadrat 2 (density effect). Analysis of model residuals showed that neighbour density explained mortality equally well across quadrat 2, but not across quadrats 1 and 3. Conclusions: There was evidence in support of hypotheses (neighbour density) and (resource heterogeneity). We found strong support for an interaction between microsite quality and neighbourhood stem densities, and suggest that this interaction is driven by plant available water.
3235641|Structural changes are analysed in four samples representing 4 ha, two line transects and two hectare plots, of Amazonian tropical lowland rain forest in northern Ecuador. Only trees with a DBH  10 cm were included. A sample of floodplain forest in Anangu represents the largest turnover found in tropical forests (stand half-life = 23 yr). The line transect and hectare plot both of tierra firme forest in Anangu have the same turnover (37 yr) and were balanced for death and in-growth of both individuals and wood (basal area). The 1-ha tierra firme sample in Cuyabeno had a turnover of 67 yr and was in a growing phase. The floodplain line transect in Anangu was in a phase of structural breakdown. However, the floodplain line transect had the largest growth of basal area per tree (23.4 cm<sup>2</sup>/yr). The tierra firme samples had a growth of 9.6, 10.1, and 13.6cm<sup>2</sup>/yr. Most of the dead trees fell with some uprooting in three of the four samples. However, no significant difference in the distribution of mode of death was found between the four samples. Death was independent of topography and the dead trees were randomly distributed. As the trees grow up they occupy more space and larger trees (DBH  15 cm) become more uniformly distributed, whereas smaller trees (DBH  15 cm) were randomly distributed. Our study confirms that plots of 1 ha are not sufficient to include representative samples of different stages of forest structure.
4096795|Question: Monocot and dicot perennial herbaceous species can be considered two a priori guilds, which interact in regularly mown grasslands. Complementary resource use in space is important for diversity and productivity of perennial herbaceous communities, yet small-scale spatial patterns of guilds and niche complementarity have rarely been linked explicitly. We ask: 1. Do guild interactions in our community generate small-scale patterns such as guild proportionality? 2. Do these patterns coincide with overyielding of guilds, that is, can small-scale spatial patterns of guilds be experimentally linked to niche complementarity? Location: Georgia, central Caucasian mountains. Methods: We sampled randomly placed small quadrats and used presence-absence data to measure small-scale spatial patterns within plots. We experimentally tested overyielding of monocots and dicots grown separately and in mixtures. Results: We found measurable small-scale pattern of guilds in our community: monocots and dicots showed significant guild proportionality. However, variance deficit in the number of species per small quadrat was stronger in monocots than in dicots. Experiments found considerable overyielding, which was unaffected by water stress. Conclusions: Coincidence of measurable small-scale arrangements of guilds with robust overyielding indicates that spatial arrangement is an important manifestation of niche complementarity. Stronger variance deficit of monocot species at small scale suggests that monocots compete with each other more strongly and, as a consequence, are more regularly dispersed at small spatial scale. Conversely, morphologically more diverse and more plastic dicots may more easily fit within the neighbourhood patchwork created by monocots.
3235979|Thicket-forming ferns are common colonizers of disturbed habitats in the tropics, but little is known about their ecology. The effects of thickets formed by the fern Dicranopteris pectinata on tree seedlings on five landslides in the Luquillo Experimental Forest in northeastern Puerto Rico were both positive and negative. Soil moisture and total soil N were higher under fern thickets than in adjacent open areas and soil bulk density and soil surface temperatures were lower. Germination of seeds of the tree Cecropia schreberiana was higher for seeds sown under fern thickets than for those sown into adjacent open areas. Tree seedlings of Tabebuia heterophylla exhibited a threefold reduction in photosynthesis under ferns, probably resulting from a twelvefold reduction of photosynthetic photon flux density. Growth of Tabebuia seedlings was reduced under ferns but the distribution of seedlings of naturally occurring woody plants was not strongly correlated with the presence of fern thickets. Although fern thickets on low-nutrient landslide soils appear to facilitate germination, they inhibit growth of tree seedlings and may, therefore, delay forest development on landslides in Puerto Rico.
3236136|Vertical stratification was examined in a closely-mown lawn, at both the beginning and end of the mowing/regrowth cycle. Two treatments were examined: Undisturbed, which had been maintained as lawn for 30 yr, and Mechanically Perturbed, on which succession was occurring, after complete removal of vegetation 9.5 months previously. There was significant vertical stratification at both stages of the mowing/regrowth cycle, i.e. even immediately after mowing to a height of 3 cm, and in both treatments. There was general consistency of the vertical role of species during the cycle and between treatments. Relative vertical positions were not closely correlated with absolute leaf heights. However, in no case was the vertical position of a pair of species significantly reversed during the cycle or between treatments. No mutually cyclic vertical relations between species were seen. It is concluded that vertical stratification occurs in even the shortest communities, it starts to develop quite early in succession, and it is dependent largely on the intrinsic properties of the species, their height and (at least in lawns) their recovery from defoliation.
4499177|Question: Small and marginal forest populations are a focus of attention because of their high biodiversity value as well as the risk of population decline and loss. In this context, we ask to what extent a small, marginal Quercus suber (Cork oak) population located in the eastern Iberian Peninsula (Valencia, Spain) has the capacity for self-regeneration and what are the factors that determine its recruitment variability. Location: Quercus suber forest in Pinet (Valencia, Spain). Methods: We performed a spatially explicit sampling both of the recruitment and of the potential parameters that could account for the recruitment variability. Using regression techniques we model the recruitment occurrence and abundance, and then we test to what extent the model obtained is still constrained by the spatial dependence. Results: Quercus suber recruitment density ranges from 0 to 18.66
3236801|We developed a description of a central New England deciduous hardwood forest based on the distribution within the community of morphological and life history traits (N = 34) and environmental factors. Classification by TWINSPAN of 186 species based on morphological and life history traits identified six major functional groups of species largely corresponding to growth form. A data matrix of plots x traits was ordinated using PCA. Each of the resulting four PCA axes was associated with a major environmental gradient: drainage, site exposure, disturbance due to past land use and degree of disturbance in the 1938 New England Hurricane (24.9, 19.8, 11.7 and 8.4% of the variation respectively). Two patterns suggested that a suite of potentially functional traits, rather than a few key characters (e.g. vital attributes), govern the distribution of species in this community: (1) each of the four axes was largely associated with a different group of traits and (2) each axis was associated with several traits that appeared to sort independently (i.e. not to co-occur within species). Evaluating one often-examined trait, there was no evidence that dispersal ability limited the colonization of species into secondary woodlands. We also found that landscape-scale abundance was associated with a small number of traits. Production of fleshy fruits and few diaspores per plant were positively associated with landscape-level abundance. Our results suggest that attempts to understand the overall structure and function of this plant community based on a few key characters, such as dispersal ability, will meet with limited success. However, when focusing on one aspect of the community, such as frequency across the landscape, relatively few characters may be important.
4096689|Climate sets the limits to plant growth but does climate determine the global distribution of major biomes? I suggest methods for evaluating whether vegetation is largely climate or consumer-controlled, focusing on large mammal herbivores and fire as influential consumers. Large parts of the world appear not to be at equilibrium with climate. Consumer-controlled ecosystems are ancient and diverse. Their distinctive ecology warrants special attention.
3236171| Computer simulations were used to elaborate hypotheses about controls on forest structure and composition in a 0.7 km  area of boreal forest in Central Sweden. DBH and species of all adult trees and stand conditions were recorded for 57 - 10 m radius plots. Ordination of these data suggested that nutrient-availability and time-since-disturbance were the main controls of forest composition and structure within the area. The simulation model couples equations representing the effect of tree canopy structure and biomass on light and soil conditions with equations representing the effect of these conditions on reproduction, growth and mortality in height cohorts of trees on a 0.1 ha patch. Nitrogen-availability levels for each modeled plot were simulated by species-specific growth multipliers. The model was run for 400 simulated yr at six levels of N availability. Age and N status of each study plot were inferred by matching with the most similar model output. Inferred ages agreed with what is known of the disturbance history, and site factors related to soil fertility were correctly correlated with the inferred N status. The consequences of size-selective disturbance were explored by model experiments. Biomass was removed from large or small size classes at 100 - 200 yr and the simulations were run for an additional 300 yr. Disturbed stands of high N status often became similar to undisturbed stands of different N status. Size-selective disturbances produced stands that were different from any in the undisturbed succession, but these differences disappeared within 50 - 100 yr, implying successional convergence in stand structure and composition. Plots of simulated basal area against time and nitrogen- availability for the four species illustrate the time dependence of species performance along a fertility gradient. 
4499295|Question: What are the effects of fire in native shrubland communities and in pine plantations established in these shrublands? Location: Northern Patagonia, Argentina. Methods: We surveyed four sites in Chall-Huaco valley, located in northwest Patagonia. Each site was a vegetation mosaic composed of an unburned Pinus ponderosa plantation, a plantation burned in 1996, and an unburned matorral and a matorral burned by the same fire. We recorded the cover of all vascular plant species. We also analysed species richness, total cover, proportion of exotic species, abundance of woody species and herb species, cover of exotic species, abundance of woody and herb species and differences in composition of species. For both shrubs and tree species we recorded the main strategy of regeneration (by resprouting or by seed). Results: We found that fire had different effects on native matorral and pine plantations. Five years after fire, plantations came to be dominated by herbs and exotic species, showing differences in floristic composition. In contrast, matorral communities remained very similar to unburned matorral in terms of species richness, proportion of woody species, and herb species and proportion of exotics. Also, pine plantations were primarily colonized by seedlings, while matorrals were primarily colonized by resprouting. Conclusions: Matorrals are highly fire resilient communities, and the practice of establishing plantations on matorrals produces a strong reduction in the capacity of matorral to return to its original state. The elimination of shrubs owing to the effect of plantations can hinder regeneration of native ecosystems. Burned plantations may slowly develop into ecosystems similar to the native ones, or they may produce a new ecosystem dominated by exotic herbs. This study shows that plantations of exotic conifers affect native vegetation even after they have been removed, as in this case by fire.
3236710|The validation of plant functional type models across contrasting landscapes is seen as a step towards the claim that plant functional types should recur regionally or even globally. I sampled the vegetation of an urban landscape on a range of sites representing gradients of resource supply and disturbance intensity. A group of plants with similar attributes was considered a 'functional type', if the species significantly co-occurred in a certain segment of the gradient plane of resource supply and disturbance intensity. Vegetative and regeneration traits were considered. A similar study was performed in a nearby agricultural landscape (Kleyer 1999). The logistic regression models from the urban landscape were applied to the data set of the agricultural landscape and vice versa. Although the overall environment of the two landscapes was very different, recurrent patterns of several functional types were found. At high fertility and high disturbance levels, annual species predominated with a persistent seed bank, high seed output, and short vertical expansion. When disturbances changed from below-ground to above-ground, the sexual regeneration mode was replaced by the vegetative mode, while vertical expansion remained low. At medium disturbance intensities, the vertical expansion and vegetative regeneration increased with fertility, while the seed bank remained mostly transient to short-term persistent and lateral expansion and sexual regeneration was intermediate. At low disturbances and low resource supplies, seed bank longevity, and vertical and lateral expansion tended to be long. Diversity of groups of plants with similar attributes was highest at intermediate disturbance levels and low fertility. These results correspond with Grime's humped-back model and Connell's intermediate disturbance hypothesis.
3236960|Soil resource availability may affect plant regeneration by resprouting in disturbed environments directly, by affecting plant growth rates, or indirectly by determining allocation to storage in the resprouting organs. Allocation to storage may be higher in stressful, low resource-supply soils, but under such conditions plant growth rates may be lower. These factors could act in opposite directions leading to poorly known effects on resprouting. This paper analyses the role played by soil resources in the production and growth of resprouts after removal of above-ground plant tissues in the Mediterranean shrub Erica australis. At 13 sites, differing in substrate, we cut the base of the stems of six plants of E. australis and allowed them to resprout and grow for two years. Soils were chemically analysed and plant water potential measured during the summer at all sites to characterize soil resource availability. We used stepwise regression analysis to determine the relationships between the resprouting response [mean site values of the number of resprouts (RN), maximum length (RML) and biomass (RB)] and soil nutrient content and plant water potential at each site. During the first two years of resprouting there were statistically significant differences among sites in the variables characterizing the resprouting response. RML was always different among sites and had little relationship with lignotuber area. RN was less different among sites and was always positively correlated with lignotuber area. RB was different among sites after the two years of growth. During the first months of resprouting, RN and RML were highly and positively related to the water status of the plant during summer. At later dates soil fertility variables came into play, explaining significant amounts of variance of the resprouting variables. Soil extractable cations content was the main variable accounting for RML and RB. Our results indicate that resprout growth of E. australis is positively affected by high water availability at the beginning of the resprouting response and negatively so by high soil extractable cation content at later periods. Some of these factors had previously shown to be related, with an opposite sign, to the development of a relatively larger lignotuber. Indeed, RML and RB measured in the second year of resprouting were significantly and negatively correlated with some indices of biomass allocation to the lignotuber at each site. This indicates that sites favouring allocation to the resprouting organ may not favour resprout growth.
3236582|One long tradition in ecology is that discrete communities exist, at least in the sense that there are areas of relatively uniform vegetation, with more rapid change in species composition between them. The alternative extreme view is the Self-similarity concept - that similar community variation occurs at all spatial scales. We test between these two by calculating species-area curves within areas of vegetation that are as uniform as can be found, and then extrapolating the within-community variation to much larger areas, that will contain many 'communities'. Using the Arrhenius species-area model, the extrapolations are remarkebly close to the observed number of species at the regional/country level. We conclude that the type of heterogeneity that occurs within 'homogeneous' communities is sufficient to explain species richness at much larger scales. Therefore, whilst we can speak of 'communities' for convenience, the variation that certainly exists at the 'community' level can be seen as only a larger-scale manifestation of micro-habitat variation.
40295820|Question: What is the relationship between plant diversity and species turnover in coastal dune vegetation plots? How is the long-term change in species composition of vegetation plots related to shifts in functional traits, and what does it tell us about the dominant processes? Location: Coastal dunes, the Netherlands. Methods: Our data set comprised 52 years of vegetation data from 35 permanent plots in grassland/scrub/woodland vegetation. Vegetation dynamics were described in terms of changes in species composition and abundance, and shifts in 13 functional traits related to resources capture and forage quality, regeneration and dispersal. Results: Species turnover in the plots was high, because of local extinction and colonization. Species-rich plots were more stable in terms of species abundance and composition compared with species-poor plots. Over time, the plots converged with respect to their abiotic conditions, as reflected by Ellenberg indicator values -indicating that the prevailing process was succession. The high species turnover reflected high invasibility: accordingly, the relative importance of annuals increased. Most newcomer annuals, however, were competitive generalists of little conservation value. The functional trait analysis allowed us to unravel the complexity of effects of disturbances and succession, and yielded information on the processes driving the observed vegetation dynamics. Conclusions: In this study, small-scale species turnover was negatively related to species diversity, indicating more stability in species-rich communities. Regarding shifts in trait diversity, unifying filters appeared to be more dominant than diversifying filters. Counteracting this homogenization process poses a challenge for nature management.
40925482|Questions: What are the effects of a shrub (Haloxylon ammodendron) on spatial patterns of soil moisture in different seasons? How does productivity of understorey annuals respond to these effects? Are such effects always positive for annuals under shrubs? Location: South Gurbantunggut Desert, northwest China. Methods: Using geostatistics, we explored seasonal patterns of topsoil moisture in a 12x9-m plot over the growing season. To determine spatial patterns of understorey annuals in response to H. ammodendron presence, biomass of annuals was recorded in four 0.2x5.0-m transects from the centre of a shrub to the space between shrubs (interspace). We also investigated vertical distribution of root biomass for annuals and soil moisture dynamics across soil profiles in shrub-canopied areas and interspaces. Results: Topsoil moisture changed from autocorrelation in the wet spring to random structure in the dry season, while soil moisture below 20 cm was higher in shrub-canopied areas. Across all microhabitats, soil moisture in upper soil layers was higher than in deeper soil layers during the spring wet season, but lower during summer drought. Topsoil was close to air-dry during the dry season and developed a 'dry sand layer' that reduced evaporative loss of soil water from deeper layers recharged by snowmelt in spring. Aboveground biomass of understorey annuals was lowest adjacent to shrub stems and peaked at the shrub margin, forming a 'ring' of high herbaceous productivity surrounding individual shrubs. To acclimate to drier conditions, annuals in interspaces invested more root biomass in deeper soil with a root/shoot ratio (R/S) twice that in canopied areas. Conclusions: Positive and negative effects of shrubs on understorey plants in arid ecosystems are commonly related to nature of the environmental stress and tested species. Our results suggest there is also microhabitat-dependence in the Gurbantunggut Desert. Soil water under H. ammodendron is seasonally enriched in topsoil and deeper layers. Understorey annuals respond to the effect of shrubs on soil water availability with lower R/S and less root biomass in deeper soil layers and develop a 'ring' of high productivity at the shrub patch margin where positive and negative effects of shrubs are balanced.
3236002|The hypothesis of lottery establishment (Sale 1977) explains coexistence of species with similar niches through processes of stochastic recruitment. This initial idea forms the basis for a variety of mathematical models, but has not been tested empirically. This study is a field investigation of lottery establishment for plants with a seed bank, using Canonical Correspondence Analysis to compare the compositions of the vegetation and the seed bank according to different hypotheses on the mechanisms of establishment. This method was used for a data set from old fields from southern France. The weighted lottery (i.e. a random draw from the seed pool, weighted by the frequencies of each species) appeared as the best suited hypothesis to explain the high degree of similarity between the vegetation and the seed bank and the relative spatial distributions of the species. Several mechanisms are probably interacting, depending on the life histories of the species. Modelling and experimental approaches are needed to further test the hypothesis of lottery recruitment.
3235563|Compositional variation among 172 boreal forests stands, based upon the understorey terricolous bryophyte and macrolichen vegetation, is compared with that based upon vascular vegetation. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) of the two datasets yielded stand ordinations each indicating a single dominant upland-bottomland gradient. This was most clear among 138 stands in the cryptogam dataset. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) of the 138 stand subset yielded a pronounced first axis gradient from dry, nutrient poor pine dominated forest sites to moist, nutrient rich bottomland sites dominated by balsam poplar woodland. Individual species response curves, by the method of log-linear least squares regression, yielded three different respective patterns among the most abundant tree, understorey vascular and cryptogamic plant species. Whereas curves for the tree species were 'Gaussian' in shape and displaced at somewhat regular intervals along the gradient, the abundant understorey vascular plant species curves clustered in the mesic, mixed wood region two thirds of the way along. Curves for the abundant cryptogams were mostly linear in shape and absent from the mixed wood zone, showing concentrations at one end of the gradient or the other. Two interpretations of the understorey pattern are considered. One proposes competitive exclusion of cryptogams from the mesic mixed wood region by the vascular understorey plants. Another proposes that the cryptogams are adapted to the sharply contrasting ecosystems encountered at one end of the gradient or another but that none can effectively cope with the intermediate, mixed wood ecosystems. Evidence from the response curves favours this second interpretation.
23012498|Questions: What factors influence the density, size and growth form of trees in secondary Acacia zanzibarica woodlands on a former humid savanna rangeland? How does tree density relate to variation in tree foliage and spines, and woody and grass biomass? Location: Tropical coastal Tanzania (former Mkwaja Ranch, now in Saadani National Park). Methods: We surveyed 97 circular plots (4-m radius) representing a gradient from open savanna to dense woodland. Within each plot, we measured all trees and estimated the biomass of spines. Foliage biomass of tree and grass layers was estimated on three occasions, twice during the wet season and once in the dry season. Soil samples were taken from each plot and analysed for texture and nutrient content. Interrelationships among various variables were investigated using linear multiple regression and mixed effects models. Results: Tree densities were highest on more nutrient-rich, heavy soils. Spinescence was highest on trees in open savanna. Biomass of tree foliage in the wet season was best explained by numbers of ant nests and tree live-wood ratio. Foliage biomass in the dry season was less than half that in the wet season and best predicted by grass biomass. Variables related to biomass of the grass layer were strongly influenced by fire; living grass biomass also decreased with increasing tree density. Conclusions: A. zanzibarica is a tree with a high water demand, and the association with heavy soils is probably due to greater availability of water on these sites. Establishment of A. zanzibarica woodlands significantly reduced grazing resources at Mkwaja Ranch. Under post-ranching conditions, however, fires and soil conditions predominate. The woodlands may, therefore, represent a transient state of woody density in a still resilient humid savanna.
3235856|Composition of hill slope vegetation was studied in a semi-arid part of upland Tanzania where all grazing had been banned for 12 yr. The hills had been severely overgrazed previously and suffered from heavy gully and sheet erosion. Eight vegetation types are described. Floristic gradients revealed by numerical ordination techniques were found to be related mainly to degree of erosion, soil type and succession. The more or less bare soil that prevailed after grazing had ceased is now covered by grassland, woodland and immature secondary forest. The grasslands are still characterized by early successional species and they will probably remain open grassland as long as frequent burning continues. Brachystegia woodlands may have developed during earlier periods when the field layer was sparse due to grazing. The grazing had reduced the frequency of fire which in turn promoted the establishment of Brachystegia spp. Secondary forests are believed to have developed mainly where fires were not frequent, particularly at higher altitudes.
3237238|For 312 forest patches on sandy soils in the Netherlands, effects of fragmentation are studied of forest habitat in the past on the present occurrence of forest plant species. Using regression techniques, the numbers of forest edge, interior, zoochorous and anemochorous species, as well as occurrence of 24 individual species were related to patch area and connectivity measures. Connectivity was defined as the amount of forest habitat around patches within three zones up to 1000 m. Plant categories were distinguished by habitat type and dispersal mechanism. The results showed that number of total species and number of species of all habitat and dispersal categories increased with area. The occurrence of ten individually studied species were also positively related to area. Most of them were interior species. The number of zoochorous species increased with increasing connectivity. Also occurrence of ten individually studied species were affected by connectivity. Interior zoochorous species showed the highest percentage of affected species. The relationship of interior, animal-dispersed plants to connectivity can be explained by the limited distances covered by their dispersal agents (forest birds and ants) in a non-forest habitat. Also, some anemochorous plants appeared to be affected by connectivity, especially those with heavy seeds and potentially short distance dispersal. As not all species within a certain dispersal or habitat category react similar to area or isolation, it is suggested that differences in underlying processes of fragmentation such as local extinction and colonization need more focus.
3236719|We associated patterns of plant diversity with possible causal factors by considering 93 local regions in the Iberian Peninsula and Balearic Islands with respect to biogeography, environmental favourability, and environmental heterogeneity, and their relationship with measured species diversity at four different scales: mean local species richness standardized at a grain of 100 m<sup>2</sup>, total species richness in a community type within a region (regional community richness), mean compositional similarity, and mosaic diversity. Local regions in biogeographic transition zones to the North African and Atlantic floras had higher regional community richness and greater mosaic diversity than did non-transitional regions, whereas no differences existed in mean local species richness or mean compositional similarity. Mean local species richness was positively related to environmental favourability as measured by actual evapotranspiration, but negatively related to total precipitation and temporal heterogeneity in precipitation. Mean local species richness was greatest in annual grassland and dwarf shrubland communities, and on calcareous bedrock types. Regional community richness was similarly related to actual evapotranspiration and total precipitation, but in addition was positively related to spatial heterogeneity in topography and soil water holding capacity. Mean compositional similarity decreased with increasing spatial heterogeneity and temperature seasonality. Mosaic diversity, a measure of complexity, increased with increasing local and regional richness. We hypothesize that these relationships can be explained by four ecological and evolutionary classes of causal factors: numbers of individuals, intermediate environments, limits to adaptation, and niche variation. These factors operate at various scales and manifest themselves in various ways. For example, at the site level, apparently processes that increase the number of individuals increase mean local species richness, but at the level of the entire region no such effects were found.
3237377|Most African Acacia trees occur in semi-arid savannas, but some species grow in deserts at the periphery of their range in northern Africa and the Middle East. We studied Acacia raddiana and A. tortilis in the southern Negev desert of Israel. According to the resource availability hypothesis, plants in poor habitats invest heavily into anti-herbivore defense because losses to browsers are costly when growth rates are low. Few plants invest simultaneously in different categories of defense. This suggests that trade-offs exist, although little is known about how individuals allocate resources to defence in natural populations. In a field experiment, we studied chemical and mechanical defences as a response to differential browsing for more than 10 yr. Both Acacia species increased spinescence but there was no clear response in the production of total polyphenols, condensed tannins, and protein-precipitating tannins (only A. raddiana may increase secondary compounds under very high browsing levels). There was an age effect in spinescence but not in secondary compounds for both species, with younger trees investing more into anti-herbivore defense than older individuals. We were unable to find negative correlations between traits of chemical and mechanical defense. We conclude that inducibility and age effects suggest a cost for mechanical but not necessarily for chemical defense. Contrary to the predictions of the resource availability hypothesis, concentrations of secondary compounds were not higher in this desert environment than in savannas.
3236754|In present day European landscapes many forest plant species are restricted to isolated remnants of a formerly more or less continuous forest cover. The two major objectives of this study were (1) to determine the relative importance of habitat quality (mainly in terms of soil parameters), habitat configuration (patch size and isolation) and habitat continuity for the distribution of herbaceous forest plant species in a highly fragmented landscape and (2) to examine if groups of species with different habitat requirements are affected differently. Deciduous forest patches in northwestern Germany were surveyed for the presence of a large set of forest species. For each patch, habitat quality, configuration and continuity were determined. Data were analysed by Redundancy Analysis with variation partitioning for effects on total species composition and multivariate logistic regression for effects on individual species, for two different data sets (base-rich and base-poor forest patches). Overall, we found strong effects of habitat quality (particularly of soil pH, water content and topographic heterogeneity in the base-rich forest patches; and of calcium content and disturbance in the base-poor patches), but only relatively weak effects of habitat configuration and habitat continuity. However, a number of species were positively affected by patch area and negatively affected by patch isolation. Furthermore, the relative importance of habitat configuration tended to be higher for species predominantly growing in closed forests compared to species occurring both in the forest and in the open landscape.
3236262|The north slope of Mount St. Helens was sampled with 141 circular 100-m<sup>2</sup> plots to describe vegetation and environmental patterns 13 yr after the 1980 eruption. At least 114 vascular plant taxa were encountered. We recognized four habitat types: Refugia, Pumice barrens, Pyroclastic surfaces and Drainages. A fifth category, Lupine patches, includes samples on primary surfaces that were rapidly colonized. Refugia provided small enclaves where underground portions of several species survived the eruption. They retained an inconsistent array of forest understory species and contained 86 species (mean = 20.8 per plot). Refugia are dominated by woody species such as Penstemon cardwellii, Rubus spp., Ribes spp. and Alnus sinuata, with herbs such as Agrostis diegoensis, Luzula parviflora and Anaphalis margaritacea. Anaphalis represents a suite of species that invaded Refugia after the eruption. Diversity (N<sub>2</sub> and H') is significantly greater in Refugia than in any other habitat. No plants survived on primary sites, which remain sparsely vegetated and dominated by readily dispersed taxa. Total richness ranges from 36 species (9.9 per plot) on pyroclastic surfaces, through 42 species (11.2 per plot) in drainages, to 66 (11.7 per plot) on Pumice barrens. H' and N<sub>2</sub> of the three habitats do not differ significantly. Lupine-dominated vegetation occurs sporadically in Pyroclastic and drainage habitats. Lupine patches are characterized by high Lupinus cover and a suite of invaders. These sites have high cover and 52 species (12.6 per plot). H' and N<sub>2</sub> scores were significantly lower than any other habitat due to strong lupine dominance. Canonical Correspondence Analysis showed that site history and slope contributed most to species composition. Geographic effects accounted for 1025 % of the explained species-environment relationship. Forest understory species have migrated only short distances and have made negligible contributions to vegetation development. A few species common in Refugia, including Agrostis diegoensis and Carex mertensii, have invaded barren surfaces, but most have not. Refugia also have been invaded by open site species abundant on the Pumice Plain. The heterogeneity of plots within habitat types and small statistical linkage of vegetation to environmental and spatial factors suggests that stochastic events have played a leading role in early primary succession.
3236304| Population structures were used to infer regeneration patterns of the conifers Podocarpus nubigena and Saxegothaea conspicua and associated angiosperm tree species in six stands in the temperate rainforests of the coastal ranges of southern Chile. On poorly-drained, nutrient-poor and high altitude sites, where most of the associated species were fairly shade-intolerant and light-crowned, dense all-aged populations and the presence of numerous saplings beneath the canopy suggested continuous regeneration of both P. nubigena and S. conspicua. On more favourable sites, where several of the associated angiosperms were highly shade-tolerant and dense-crowned, both conifers, particularly P. nubigena, were less abundant, and their regeneration from seed appeared to be sporadic. S. conspicua's great longevity ( 750 yr) and frequent vegetative reproduction are probably crucial to its persistence in competition with shade-tolerant broadleaved species in undisturbed stands on favourable sites. Results of this study, and a review of related literature on southern temperate forests are not consistent with the hypothesis that heavily-shaded, infrequently-disturbed habitats are an evolutionary refuge for conifers. Sites likely to have high leaf area indices and infrequent disturbance are better exploited by shade-tolerant angiosperms. 
4499205|Question: Vertical zonation schemes are widely used in biodiversity studies with vascular epiphytes as a tool to capture spatial distribution patterns, the one most commonly used was proposed by Johansson more than 30 years ago. Does a survey of the epiphytes found on larger trees really yield a representative sample of the local community? Location: Lowland rainforest of the San Lorenzo Crane Plot, Republic of Panama. Methods: A complete census of the vascular epiphytes on all trees > 1 cm DBH in 0.4 ha of undisturbed lowland forest was analysed with both cluster and discriminant analysis to detect groupings of epiphyte species. Results: Six different groups of species were detected, five of them preferring different substrates on larger trees (as defined by (1) the height above ground at the attachment site, (2) the diameter of the substrate and (3) the occurrence on stem vs branches/twigs) and resembling to some extent the original Johansson zones. A sixth group of epiphytes, comprising ca. 10% of all taxa, was almost always found on small diameter stems and branches of trees with small DBH at lower and intermediate heights within the forest. Conclusions: Applying pre-established zonation schemes may lead to misleading results in biodiversity studies with epiphytes. Important aspects of spatial distribution patterns may be missed, and the determination of relative species abundances may carry a strong quantitative and qualitative bias when analyses rely completely on epiphytic plants found on larger trees.
3235831|Fire-prone fynbos communities include numerous species which are difficult to distinguish in terms of conventional niche axes since they are morphologically similar and share the same broad life-history traits. These species compete for space after each fire and lottery theory predicts that those with dissimilar per capita regeneration would not co-exist in the long-term. We studied seed production, soil seed bank dynamics, germination and post-fire seedling establishment and mortality of two obligate reseeding, morphologically similar shrubs which co-occur in dune fynbos throughout the southwestern Cape. Passerina paleacea produced 30 x more plump seeds and maintained soil seed banks between 1.5 x (pre-dispersal) and 2.6 x (post-dispersal) times larger than Phylica ericoides. Seeds of both species showed a high degree of dormancy although germination was stimulated by direct fire-related cues for Phylica only. Approximately 4 x more Passerina seedlings than Phylica seedlings were counted at the end of the winter germination period after a mild autumn fire. However, seedling mortality in the first five months of the dry summer was more than twice as high for Passerina than for Phylica. We suggest that the long-term co-existence of these two species does not result from similar post-fire regeneration success but rather from population instabilities arising from differential regeneration in relation to fire regime. The results predict that hot fires followed by dry summers would favour Phylica over Passerina as the former has fire-stimulated germination and greater drought tolerance; cool fires followed by moist summers would favour Passerina.
3236904|We investigated the variability in spatial pattern of some structural, dendrochronological and dendroclimatological features of a mixed Larix decidua-Pinus cembra forest at the timberline in the eastern Italian Alps at fine geographical and temporal scales. Forest structure variables such as stem diameter, tree height, age and tree-ring related parameters (yearly growth index, mean sensitivity, first order autocorrelation and some dendroclimatic variables) have been compared at various scale levels. We observed that most of the variables show positive autocorrelated structures due to both forest dynamics and fine-scale driving forces, probably related to microrelief. Spatial structure of yearly indexed radial growth appears sensitive to extreme climatic events. Secondary succession after past disturbances drives the forest towards a structure governed by a gap regeneration dynamics that seems to ensure the different requirements of the two main tree species present. Small spatial scale studies of forest structures, especially if integrated to dendro-ecological data, seem an efficient tool to assess the disturbance regime and species sensitivity to environmental change.
25173241|Question: Does the distribution of plant species found in forests correlate with variation in the Humus Index (based on a ranking of humus forms) and, if so, do the species exhibit different responses according to phyletic lineages? Location: Paris Basin, France, with a temperate Atlantic climate Methods: Mosses and vascular plants (herbs, ferns) were inventoried in two broad-leaved forests with contrasting soil conditions, where 15 and 16 sites were investigated, respectively. Variety of stand age and prevailing soil conditions were analysed in 5 plots and 20 sub-plots in a grid at each site. Mantel tests were used to estimate correlations between the Humus Index and plant species richness, taking into account spatial autocorrelation. Results: The local (plot, sub-plot) species richness of moss communities increased with the Humus Index, i.e. when humus forms shifted from mull to moder. The reverse phenomenon was observed in vascular communities. The opposite response of these two plant groups could be explained by opposite strategies for nutrient capture which developed in the course of their evolutionary history. Conclusions: Although not necessarily causative, the Humus Index predict fairly well changes in species richness which occur in forest vegetation, provided that phyletic lineages and geographical position are taken into consideration.
3236528|The responses of high latitude ecosystems to global change involve complex interactions among environmental variables, vegetation distribution, carbon dynamics, and water and energy exchange. These responses may have important consequences for the earth system. In this study, we evaluated how vegetation distribution, carbon stocks and turnover, and water and energy exchange are related to environmental variation spanned by the network of the IGBP high latitude transects. While the most notable feature of the high latitude transects is that they generally span temperature gradients from southern to northern latitudes, there are substantial differences in temperature among the transects. Also, along each transect temperature co-varies with precipitation and photosynthetically active radiation, which are also variable among the transects. Both climate and disturbance interact to influence latitudinal patterns of vegetation and soil carbon storage among the transects, and vegetation distribution appears to interact with climate to determine exchanges of heat and moisture in high latitudes. Despite limitations imposed by the data we assembled, the analyses in this study have taken an important step toward clarifying the complexity of interactions among environmental variables, vegetation distribution, carbon stocks and turnover, and water and energy exchange in high latitude regions. This study reveals the need to conduct coordinated global change studies in high latitudes to further elucidate how interactions among climate, disturbance, and vegetation distribution influence carbon dynamics and water and energy exchange in high latitudes.
3237380|We respond to Oksanen's recent comments in "Why the beta-function cannot be used to estimate skewness of species responses". We agree with Oksanen's criticisms concerning correlated parameters when fitting beta-functions. We argue that response functions can be reasonably estimated using beta-functions only for those species whose range limits obviously fall within the observed length of an environmental gradient and our original description included explicit recognition of this need. The simulated data used by Oksanen contains only one species that would meet our criteria for defining the limits and the shape of this species is recovered by fitting a beta-function. Beta-functions are shown to recover reasonable approximations of the true shapes when fitted to simulated data, generated without error, and representing species with either skewed or symmetrical response shapes if using realistic estimates of the species limits. When arbitrary limits are imposed then distorted shapes result. Using similar data from 500 simulated data sets generated under the assumption of a Poisson error structure, beta-functions gave conservative estimates of the degree of skewness for those data sets representing skewed species and no evidence of skewness for those data sets representing symmetrical species. We conclude that despite Oksanen's concerns the conclusions drawn by the current authors and colleagues with respect to the degree of skewness shown by species response functions along a common gradient are robust to the fitting procedures used. While we agree that the fitting of beta-functions is not the best approach to modelling skewed responses we argue that it will not mislead the user as to the presence or extent of skewness if used with reasonable and data driven estimates of the species limits.
3237069|This study deals with a quantification of pre- and post-fire seedling establishment and microsite characteristics in two Florida sand pine scrub sites burned in May 1993. In addition, life history characteristics related to seedling establishment are described for five perennial species - Calamintha ashei, Chapmannia floridana, Eriogonum floridanum, Garberia heterophylla and Palafoxia feayi. Post-fire seedling establishment in sand pine scrub was sparse (median = 1, 12 seedling/ m<sup>2</sup>, with 17 of 35 species establishing seedlings. Chapmannia, Eriogonum, Garberia and Palafoxia resprouted and flowered after fire; Eriogonum and Garberia had strong post-fire seedling establishment responses within 19 months post-fire. Calamintha individuals were killed by fire, but this species had a strong post-fire seedling establishment response, presumably from seeds in a soil seed bank. Eriogonum and Calamintha seedlings established preferentially in plots centered on conspecific adults. For these species with poor seed dispersal, spatial patterns of seedling establishment may be influenced more by pre-fire adult plant location than by post-fire microsite conditions. Post-fire seedling density in sand pine scrub was much lower than in California chaparral and South African sand plain lowland fynbos.
3236256|Quantitative response surfaces obtained from three performance measures, density, cover and volume, are compared, using as an example the spatial distribution of Periploca angustifolia (Asclepiadaceae) in SE Spain. Generalized linear models are used to examine relationships between these species performance measures and complex gradients of aspect, slope angle and altitude. All three performance measures showed a skewed response to the environmental gradients, unlike the Gaussian responses commonly assumed in vegetation theory; skewness increased as the number of dimensions of the performance measures increased. Certain asymmetries between the responses are discussed in terms of competition, and problems related to the use of complex gradients are considered.
3236264|A survey of the vegetation of roadside verges was made across the southern part of the South Island of New Zealand. Samples were taken at 10-km intervals along selected roads providing a climatic range from the suboceanic conditions of the east coast into semi-arid Central Otago, and from Central Otago through the Southern Alps to the hyper-oceanic areas of high rainfall on the west Coast. The variation in the floristic composition is associated mainly with variation in rainfall, continentality, altitude, soil acidity, soil organic matter, and presence of forest. Sites in the arable and pastoral regions on the eastern side of the Southern Alps support a herbaceous vegetation consisting mostly of exotic species of European origin, with a few native grasses scattered through the drier and less fertile sites. A greater proportion of native species is found at higher altitudes. Roadside vegetation in the area of high rainfall to the west is characterized by indigenous ferns and woody species, although vegetation adjacent to cleared areas is more similar to that on roadsides adjacent to farmland on the east coast. The pattern of distribution of both native and exotic species is strongly related to altitudinal and climatic gradients, and the environmental responses of the exotic species are similar to those recorded in Europe. This suggests a colonization of all available sites by the exotic species, despite the relatively short time since their introduction to New Zealand, rather than an incomplete invasion.
4499257| Question: Can the distribution and abundance of Vaccinium myrtillus be reasonably predicted with soil nutritional and climatic factors? Location: Forests of France. Methods: We used Braun-Blanquet abundance/dominance information for Vaccinium myrtillus on 2905 forest sites extracted from the phyto-ecological database EcoPlant, to characterize the species ecological response to climatic and edaphic factors and to predict its cover/abundance at the national scale. The link between cover/abundance of the species and climatic (65 monthly and annual predictors concerning temperature, precipitation, radiation, potential evapotranspiration, water balance) and edaphic (two predictors: soil pH and C:N ratio) factors was investigated with proportional odds models. We evaluated the quality of our model with 9830 independent relevs extracted from Sophy, a large phytosociological database for France. Results: In France, Vaccinium myrtillus is at the southern limit of its European geographic range and three environmental factors (mean annual temperature, soil pH and C:N ratio) allow prediction of its distribution and abundance in forests with high success rates. The species reveals a preference for colder sites (especially mountains) and nutritionally poor soils (low pH and high C:N ratio). A predictive map of its geographic range reveals that the main potential habitats are mountains and northwestern France. The potential habitats with maximal expected abundance are the Vosges and the Massif central mountains, which are both acidic mountains. Conclusions: Complete niche models including climate and soil nutritional conditions allow an improvement of the spatial prediction of plant species abundance at a broad scale. The use of soil nutritional variables in distribution models further leads to an improvement in the prediction of plant species habitats within their geographical range. 
3236590| Question: What are the correlations between the degree of drought stress and temperature, and the adoption of specific adaptive strategies by plants in the Mediterranean region? Location: 602 sites across the Mediterranean region. Method: We considered 12 plant morphological and phenological traits, and measured their abundance at the sites as trait scores obtained from pollen percentages. We conducted stepwise regression analyses of trait scores as a function of plant available moisture () and winter temperature (MTCO). Results: Patterns in the abundance for the plant traits we considered are clearly determined by , MTCO or a combination of both. In addition, trends in leaf size, texture, thickness, pubescence and aromatic leaves and other plant level traits such as thorniness and aphylly, vary according to the life form (tree, shrub, forb), the leaf type (broad, needle) and phenology (evergreen, summer-green). Conclusions: Despite conducting this study based on pollen data we have identified ecologically plausible trends in the abundance of traits along climatic gradients. Plant traits other than the usual life form, leaf type and leaf phenology carry strong climatic signals. Generally, combinations of plant traits are more climatically diagnostic than individual traits. The qualitative and quantitative relationships between plant traits and climate parameters established here will help to provide an improved basis for modelling the impact of climate changes on vegetation and form a starting point for a global analysis of pollen-climate relationships. 
3235887|A landscape-based characterization of vegetation has been developed for southwestern California using satellite imagery, air photos, existing vegetation maps, and field data. Distribution maps of nine dominant coastal scrub species and 13 species assemblages that were identified by divisive information analysis have been analyzed to quantify spatial patterns of species co-occurrence. Three general distribution patterns are identified that suggest the Diegan, Venturan and Riversidian Associations identified by other workers. Vegetation data have also been related to land ownership and management to assess the conservation status of upland plant communities. A large proportion of the mapped distribution of species and vegetation types is on private land, and several taxa show less than 4% of mapped distribution in nature reserves. The analysis highlights the need to extend current conservation planning efforts into the northern part of the region to encompass areas where Salvia leucophylla is a frequent community dominant.
4499207|Question: What determines the balance between the cover values of vascular plants, lichens and mosses in dry calcareous grassland communities? Location: Western Estonia. Methods: A five-year (2001-2005) study was conducted in a dry calcareous grassland. The cover of mosses, lichens and vascular plants and all moss species was recorded in permanent plots. Vascular plants were cut in half of the plots. Data from a nearby weather station were used to calculate mean values of different weather parameters and a summer moisture index for the study years. Results: Significant differences in cover values between years were found. The fluctuations of total moss cover and the cover of the dominating moss species Ctenidium molluscum followed changes in annual precipitation. Both cover values were highest in years with high precipitation. The cover change of vascular plants was best characterized by the moisture index of the growth period (three summer months). Summers with high moisture indexes facilitated vascular plant and lichen growth. Annual precipitation and the cover of mosses had a negative influence on the cover of vascular plants. The cutting of vascular plants did not have a significant effect on moss and lichen cover. Conclusions: 1. On dry calcareous grasslands the growth of mosses is enhanced by high annual precipitation, while the growth of vascular plants and lichens is influenced rather by the high summer moisture index. The cover of vascular plants is inhibited by the large moss cover. 2. Mowing of vascular plants does not influence the cover of mosses and lichens.
40925504|Objective: Our purpose was to characterize vegetation compositional patterns, tree regeneration, and plant diversity, and their relationships to landscape context, topography, and light availability across the margins of four stand-replacing subalpine burns. Location: Four 1977 to 1978 burns east of the Continental Divide in Colorado: the Ouzel burn, a burn near Kenosha Pass, the Badger Mountain burn, and the Maes Creek burn. Methods: Vegetation and environmental factors were sampled in 200 0.01-ha plots on transects crossing burn edges, and stratified by elevation. We utilized dissimilarity indices, mixed-effects models, and randomization tests to assess relationships between vegetation and environment. Results: Three decades after wildfire, plant communities exhibited pronounced compositional shifts across burn edges. Tree regeneration decreased with increasing elevation and distance into burn interiors; concomitant increases in forbs and graminoids were linked to greater light availability. Richness was roughly doubled in high-severity burn interiors due to the persistence of a suite of native species occurring primarily in this habitat. Richness rose with distance into burns, but declined with increasing elevation. Only three of 188 plant species were non-native; these were widespread, naturalized species that comprised < 1% total cover. Conclusions: These subalpine wildfires generated considerable, persistent increases in plant species richness at local and landscape scales, and a diversity of plant communities. The findings suggest that fire suppression in such systems must lead to reduced diversity. Concerns about post-fire invasion by exotic plants appear unwarranted in high-elevation wilderness settings.
3236811|Through an experiment in three prairie vegetation types in western Oregon, USA the effect of prescribed fire on the timing and rates of seedling emergence and mortality was examined. Seeds of common exotic and native prairie species were sown into burned and unburned plots in late September, 1995. Emerged seedlings were censussed the following winter, early spring and late spring. Results indicated that spring population levels could not be forecast by fall seedling flushes, as winter survival was important in seedling establishment. The bulk of emergence for all grass and annual forb species occurred in the fall, followed by low to severe winter mortality. Perennial forbs were more variable in emergence times but, once emerged, perennial forb seedlings were likely to become established. Burning caused a statistically significant increase in seedling accumulation through emergence and survival in 11 of 23 cases. Burning improved seedling winter survival for most grass and short-lived forb species and increased emergence of perennial forb species. These patterns were most conspicuous on the two sites dominated by exotic species, where burning significantly improved the accumulation of seedlings from most native species tested. Thus, prescribed burning might be a useful restoration tool in these communities. In contrast, two of the three species increased by burning in the native bunchgrass site were exotic pest plants, suggesting that fire should be prescribed with caution.
3235808|A spatially linked version of a forest gap model, ZELIG, parameterized for the H. J. Andrews Experimental Forest, Oregon, was used to generate structural properties (i.e. biomass, leaf area, and maximum tree height) of young (80 yr), mature (140 yr), and old-growth (450 yr) Pseudotsuga menziesii (Douglas fir) forests. Semivariograms were produced at 10 and 30 m resolution to describe the spatio-temporal patterns of variation of the simulated structural features along a 5 km transect of contiguous 10 m x 10 m grid cells. These semivariograms from the simulations were compared with semivariograms from matrices of pixel digital values obtained from aerial videography of similarly aged stands. Although autocorrelative spatial patterning was absent from both the remotely sensed imagery (except at < 20 m for the 450 yr stand) and the model output, the pixel-to-pixel and plot-to-plot variances exhibited similar patterns across the chronosequence at both resolutions. This suggests that gap models are able to capture temporal aspects of landscape dynamics associated with canopy texture of Pacific Northwest forests.
40295814|Question: (i) How do species richness and species turnover change along a pH gradient? (ii) What are possible driving factors behind these patterns? (iii) Can the observed patterns be explained by an individualistic continuum concept that postulates independence of species responses and constant turnover rates? Location: Semi-natural, deciduous hardwood forests in NW Germany (558 plots). Methods: The instantaneous rate of compositional turnover is measured by the sum of slope angles of modelled response curves (119 understorey species) at any point along the pH gradient. Total turnover rate, positive turnover rate (species increasing in probability of occurrence) and negative turnover rate (species decreasing in probability of occurrence) are calculated separately. Species richness is modelled using Poisson regression and by calculating the sum of predicted probabilities at any gradient point. Turnover rates are compared with those calculated from a null model based on a Gaussian community model. Soil chemical analyses of 49 plots are used to interpret biodiversity patterns. Results: Species richness shows a hump-shaped relation to pH(CaCl) with a minor decline at approximately pH>5.0. The decline is possibly due to the confounding influence of water regime and local species pool effects. Increasing richness from pH 2.5 to 4.7 can be traced back to positive turnover exceeding negative turnover. Peaks in turnover rates, dominated by positive turnover, are located at pH 3.7 and 2.8, where turnover rates considerably exceed rates derived from the null model. The turnover pattern can be related to soil chemical conditions, e. g. decreasing base saturation, Al and H toxicity and the occurrence of mor. Conclusions: The high turnover rates and the massive imbalance in positive and negative turnover rates found in deciduous forests cannot be explained by the individualistic continuum concept. Physiological constraints at the gradient limits and species pool effects could be responsible for this. Their role should be considered more explicitly in vegetation concepts dealing with the continuum-discontinuum controversy. The presented approach can be regarded as a comprehensive analytical tool for a better understanding of biodiversity patterns along environmental gradients by linking species richness, turnover and response curve types.
3236178|Tree size and age structures, treefall and canopy gap characteristics, and regeneration responses to treefalls were compared for three stands of old-growth beech (Nothofagus) forest dominated by N. fusca and N. menziesii on the South Island, New Zealand. Treefall gaps (up to 1000 m<sup>2</sup>) were most often caused by standing trees killed by drought and/or insect attack, or by trees snapped by wind. The causes of gap formation and the size and age distributions of treefall gaps varied between localities because of spatial and temporal differences in the histories of disturbance. At Fergies Bush where drought-related dieback had produced many large gaps with standing dead trees, gaps were generally young. Conversely, at Station Creek, small, old gaps formed by bolesnap dominated the disturbance regime. At Rough Creek, gaps of all ages and sizes were found along with an almost complete fern cover, and abundant shrubs and occasional subcanopy hardwood trees. Although overall patterns of regeneration were unrelated to differences in gap size, the relative abundance of N. fusca and N. menziesii varied between localities according to the seemingly minor differences in forest structure and disturbance history described above. Interpretations of regeneration response to gap parameters, therefore, need to account for differences in disturbance history between sites. Differences in the disturbance history between localities will also influence rates of gap closure, and because closure rates are used to estimate forest turnover times, meaningful comparisons of disturbance regimes for different forest types can only be made if this intersite variability is addressed.
3235956|The effect of nitrogen fertilizers on the composition of a weed community was investigated in a barley field. Two doses (70 and 140 kg N/ha) of three fertilizers (ammonium sulphate, calcium-ammonium nitrate, and liquid urea) were used. The results were evaluated using the canonical correspondence analysis. Hybrid analyses and various combinations of environmental variables and covariables were used to separate the influence of the dose and the type of fertilizer and to separate the direct and indirect effects of fertilization. The results reveal that both the dose and type of fertilizer have a significant effect on the composition of the weed community. The results suggest that both the direct effect of fertilizer and an indirect effect, through increased competition of the crop, are important determinants of weed community composition.
3236169|Contrasting views have been put forward that competition intensity should either increase with community standing crop or remain constant. Testing these hypotheses with long-lived plants in natural communities is possible using pattern analysis, involving statistical summaries of the relationships between the total size and distance of nearest neighbors. This approach, however, may produce a spurious negative correlation between competition intensity and standing crop in cases where individual size increases with standing crop. A method for overcoming this problem using data standardization is illustrated using data from 15 stands in a variety of forest types (subalpine woodland, dry forest, warm wet forest, cool wet forest, and near-rainforest) in southeastern Australia. Standing crop, estimated from stand volume, and water availability, estimated from evapotranspiration, varied significantly among forest types. Total size and nearest neighbor distance was measured for 50 pairs of trees in three stands of each forest type. The sum of nearest neighbor sizes increased significantly with interneighbor distance in all forest types, indicating that competition contributed to pattern at all levels of standing crop. The slopes of the regression equations describing these relationships varied significantly among forest types and with evapotranspiration, suggesting that competition intensity varied. This result, however, was shown to be the product of a significant positive correlation between individual size and standing crop. Once this correlation was removed by using standardized measures of tree size, there was no evidence for variation in competition intensity among forest types or with evapotranspiration.
4096680|Question: Do warm season (i.e. mainly C
4499263|Questions: Did the forest area in the Swiss Alps increase between 1985 and 1997? Does the forest expansion near the tree line represent an invasion into abandoned grasslands (ingrowth) or a true upward shift of the local tree line? What land cover / land use classes did primarily regenerate to forest, and what forest structural types did primarily regenerate? And, what are possible drivers of forest regeneration in the tree line ecotone, climate and/or land use change? Location: Swiss Alps. Methods: Forest expansion was quantified using data from the repeated Swiss land use statistics GEOSTAT. A moving window algorithm was developed to distinguish between forest ingrowth and upward shift. To test a possible climate change influence, the resulting upward shifts were compared to a potential regional tree line. Results: A significant increase of forest cover was found between 1650 m and 2450 m. Above 1650 m, 10% of the new forest areas were identified as true upward shifts whereas 90% represented ingrowth, and we identified both land use and climate change as likely drivers. Most upward shift activities were found to occur within a band of 300 m below the potential regional tree line, indicating land use as the most likely driver. Only 4% of the upward shifts were identified to rise above the potential regional tree line, thus indicating climate change. Conclusions: Land abandonment was the most dominant driver for the establishment of new forest areas, even at the tree line ecotone. However, a small fraction of upwards shift can be attributed to the recent climate wanning, a fraction that is likely to increase further if climate continues to warm, and with a longer time-span between warming and measurement of forest cover.
3236890|Scaevola plumieri is an important pioneer on many tropical and subtropical sand dunes, forming a large perennial subterranean plant with only the tips of the branches emerging above accreting sand. In South Africa it is the dominant pioneer on sandy beaches along the east coast, less abundant on the south coast and absent from the southwest and west coasts. Transpiration rates (E) of S. plumieri are predictably related to atmospheric vapour pressure deficit under a wide range of conditions and can therefore be predicted from measurement of ambient temperature and relative humidity. Scaling measurements of E at the leaf level to the canopy level has been demonstrated previously. Using a geographic information system, digital maps of regional climatic variables were used to calculate digital maps of potential transpiration from mean monthly temperature and relative humidity values, effectively scaling canopy level transpiration rates to a regional level. Monthly potential transpiration was subtracted from the monthly median rainfall to produce a map of mean monthly water balance. Seasonal growth was correlated with seasonal water balance. Localities along the coast with water deficits in summer corresponded with the recorded absence of S. plumieri, which grows and reproduces most actively in the summer months. This suggests that reduced water availability during the summer growth period limits the distribution of S. plumieri along the southwest coast, where water deficits develop in summer. Temperature is also important in limiting the distribution of S. plumieri on the southwest coast of South Africa through its effects on the growth and phenology of the plant.
23012421|Questions: How can SDMs be adopted as a tool for forest management planning? Based on presence-absence data, which modelling techniques are appropriate to determine species potential distribution for forest management planning under climate change? Do species distribution models (SDMs) agree with expert knowledge about species distribution and species traits? How can forest researcher deal with distribution data of a species whose distribution is heavily affected by human impacts? Location: Bavaria (Southern Germany). Methods: We used SDMs based on the Second National Forest Inventory from 2002 (4  4 km grid) containing presence-absence data of tree species to identify species environment relationships (`Grinnellian niche'). As an example, the distribution of silver fir (Abies alba Mill.) was modelled. Site condition data of the plots were derived from solar radiation, climate and soil maps. Models applied were boosted regression trees (BRT) and generalised additive models (GAM). Model predictions were compared with an expert based evaluation of the potential natural vegetation and were run with a climate change scenario (WETTREG B1) to project future distribution of silver fir. Results: Both models discriminated well between presence and absence of silver fir but underestimated the potential distribution. The BRT model was more sensitive to local site conditions in the present data, but the GAM showed more generality. The truncated response curves and high uncertainties of predictions at the edge of the site spectrum indicated a low data density and that the data did not cover the whole niche space of silver fir. As indicated by validation with expert knowledge, the model output approached potential distribution by optimizing true positive predictions. The classification of SDMs output into risk classes allowed model evaluation and interpretation. Predictions of GAM and BRT under the climate change scenario showed high accordance and therefore, low uncertainty. Finally, large areas of Bavaria are described to have a high risk of silver fir cultivation in future. Conclusions: SDMs are especially interesting as a decision basis for forest management because some of the general limitations of static modelling approaches are not relevant in this context. Limitations of forest inventory data can be partially overcome by using information on the potential distribution of species. The transferability of the models to future scenarios strongly depends on the spectrum and range of the training data sets and the depicted functional relationships. In order to improve the models and reduce the uncertainties, we need to improve the soil data and cover the whole niche space of silver fir.
3237376|The relation between the occurrence of plant species in environments varying in moisture status and groundwater regime was tested using numerical methods. The groundwater regime during the vegetation period was expressed by means of four parameters, the average (AVG), mean highest (HIGH), mean lowest (LOW) groundwater level and the maximum fluctuation (AMP). 67 records of five vegetation types were selected from hydrologically stable sites in brook valleys in the northern part of The Netherlands. Response curves were calculated for 30 representative species. Calculated optima for AVG, HIGH and LOW are strongly correlated to each other. The vegetation reacts independently from overall wetness to the amount of fluctuation of the groundwater level (AMP). Response curves of single species as well as combinations of both present and absent species were used to find the best set of indicators for each parameter. The use of combinations of species clearly improves the indicating value of vegetation records. The vegetation appears to be the most sensitive to the parameter HIGH, which can thus be considered to be a key factor in controlling vegetation composition. The four parameters can be predicted satisfactorily only in the middle part of the investigated gradient. This is not only due to arithmetic artifacts, inherent to the applied method, but also to the fact that at average groundwater levels below - 60 cm or above 0 cm other factors become predominant.
3235704|A plant is a complex of integrated systems (leaves, leaf groups, stems, roots, inflorescences), coexisting side by side or superimposed on each other to produce the life form (or physiognomy) of the individual. The classic Raunkiaer classification based fundamentally on one character (apex position) is insufficient for the purpose of a functional classification. Five keys are given to determine the categories of: 1) the plant silhouette or general shape resulting from a combination of other systems, with 11 categories proposed; 2) the leaf group, with 14 categories; 3) the stem, with 27 categories; 4) the root, with 5 categories; and 5) the inflorescence, with 3 categories. Each plant can be named according to the category or model of each of the five different systems that they most resemble, or by using only the name(s) of systems which are more conspicuous than others. Characters are selected primarily for their influence on form and secondarily on size. This scheme allows for detailed studies of a flora in terms of morphological characteristics (alone or in systems), expressed as frequency of occurrence of each character in the flora. Characters can be analysed separately (e.g. entire margined leaves), as a combination of characters (e.g. leaf groups) or as a combination of systems (e.g. rosettes without stems). Thus correlations between environmental variables and plants can be made with more precision than in previous classification schemes. The classification also serves as the framework for including additional morphological data and incorporating new models. The New Zealand alpine flora is used as a test case and to exemplify the classification.
3236704|Phytosociology is a subdiscipline of plant ecology that describes the co-occurrence of plant species in communities. Gradient analysis and classification are its complementary tools. Various peculiarities and anachronisms of Central European phytosociology conceal its similarity with Anglo-American approaches. Phytosociology deserves to be updated as a part of modern vegetation science that can build on a vast heritage of high-quality data and the tools to store and analyse them in ways that go beyond syntaxonomy. By providing a context to more specialized pure and applied research, it has a crucial role to play in understanding community structure, ecosystem functioning and biological evolution.
4499281|Question: How will changing climate and habitat structure interact to control the species diversity of lichen epiphytes? Location: Scotland. Method: Species richness (=diversity) of the epiphyte lichen community known as Lobarion (named after Lobaria pulmonaria) was quantified for 94 Populus tremula stands across Scotland, and compared in a predictive model to seven climate variables and eight measures of woodland structure. An optimum model was selected and used to project Lobarion diversity over the geographic range of the study area, based on IPCC climate change scenarios and hypothetical shifts in woodland structure. Results: Species diversity of the Lobarion community was best explained by three climate variables: (1) average annual temperature; (2) autumn and winter precipitation; in combination with (3) historic-woodland extent. Projections indicate a positive effect of predicted climate change on Lobarion diversity, consistent with the physiological traits of cyanobacterial lichens comprising the Lobarion. However, the general response to climate is modified significantly by the effect on diversity of historic-woodland extent. Conclusions: Historic-woodland extent may exert an important control over local climate, as well as impacting upon the metapopulation dynamics of species in the Lobarion. In particular, a temporal delay in the response of Lobarion species to changed woodland structure is critical to our understanding of future climate change effects. Future Lobarion diversity (e.g. in the 2050s) may depend upon the interaction of contemporary climate (e.g. 2050s climate) and historic habitat structure (e.g. 1950s woodland extent). This is supported by previous observations for an extinction debt amongst lichen epiphytes, but suggests an extension of simple climate-response models is necessary, before their wider application to lichen epiphyte diversity.
40295788|Although there is a quantitative method that is commonly used for identifying mast-seeding behaviour of a plant population based on the coefficient of variation (i.e. CV is standard deviation/mean > 1), there is no general quantitative method for delineating "mast" as opposed to "non-mast" years. Mast years are, however, described qualitatively as years when "large", "unusually large" and "high" seed production occurs. The use of a consistent and generally applicable method for delineating mast years across species and plant populations is important for synthesizing knowledge of the causes and consequences of mast seeding, which could be confounded by using different methods among studies. We examine six quantitative methods for identifying mast years: four methods from the literature and two methods developed here. We use 36 seed production datasets covering a variety of species with > 10 years of data to test the performance of these six methods. For each method, we quantify the percentage of the datasets to which the method could be successfully applied, the magnitude of the mast year relative to the mean, the frequency of mast years and the occurrence of consecutive mast years. The majority of the methods failed to meet the criteria for a suitable method. The best method used the number of standard deviates (standardized deviate method) of the annual mean seed production from the long-term mean of the dataset to identify mast-seeding years. General results from the standardized deviate method include that the occurrence of mast-seeding years is largely unrelated to plant population CV, but similar across species and data collection methods.
3236417|Diversity relations in Mediterranean heathlands and the understorey of oak woodlands on sandstone-derived substrates were studied at both sides of the Strait of Gibraltar. Trends in species composition and cover were analysed by Detrended Correspondence Analysis; the first axis, assumed to reflect a main environmental gradient, was used to analyse the patterns of three aspects of community diversity. Species richness, i.e. number of species along a 100-m transect, shows a humpbacked trend along the gradient, with the highest values in the understorey of evergreen Quercus suber woodlands, associated with soils of intermediate fertility and moisture status. The number of endemic species is highest in open heathlands, associated with more extreme conditions of acid, infertile soils on exposed ridges. The taxonomic singularity, as measured by the inverse of the average number of species per genus at each site, is highest at the most fertile and moist sites occupied by semideciduous Q. canariensis woodlands. A comparison between northern (Spanish) and southern (Moroccan) sides of the Strait of Gibraltar shows a general concordance of the trends of woody plant communities along the main environmental gradient. However, significant differences of the southern samples are: (1) lack of some differential, habitat-specific species and greater abundance of widespread generalists; and (2) a general reduction in species diversity, number of endemics and taxonomic singularity. We interpret these differences as affected partly by the smaller extent and fragmentation of sandstone areas in the south, and partly by the higher impact of slashing and grazing there.
3237166|Basiphilous pioneer species are among the most endangered plant species in The Netherlands. They find most of their refuges in young coastal dune slacks, especially on the Wadden Sea islands. For the purpose of nature management it is important to know which processes control the presence of basiphilous pioneer communities, and to learn about the nature of slacks harbouring the concerning successional sequences. In a large dune slack on the Island of Terschelling, we assessed soil nutrient status and tested for nutrient limitation in four chronosequential stages: 2, 6, 37 and ca. 80 yr of age. Stage 2 harboured a basiphilous pioneer vegetation; in the stages 3 and 4 a dense vegetation of dwarf shrubs and grasses occurred. Soil organic matter and nutrient concentrations in each stage were measured in 1991. In 1992 and 1993 fertilizers were applied to all stages to detect nutrient limitation. Rates of accumulation of organic matter, nutrients and above-ground biomass were estimated. When interpreted as successional stages, the different stages represent a sequence as expected on the basis of general successional theory. There was a peak in yearly nutrient accumulation between the 6- and 37-yr old stage and a steady state after ca. 80 yr. Between the first two and the latter two stages a shift occurred from allogenic to autogenic succession which correlated with a shift in emphasis from available nutrients to light availability as limiting resources. Basiphilous pioneer species suffered only deficiency of nitrogen, probably because of their low phosphorus requirements. It is concluded that in dune slack habitats, in addition to a low nutrient availability in general, a very low phosphorus availability favours basiphilous pioneer species to species showing co-limitation of nitrogen and phosphorus as found in some grasses and dwarf shrubs. A comparison between the effects of lime addition and the effects of nitrogen and phosphorus additions suggests that, in the early stages, soil buffering increases the availability of nitrogen and inhibits the availability of phosphorus. Sod cutting is an effective technique for restoring basiphilous pioneer vegetation, when slacks are acidified only superficially and buffering-mechanisms can be reactivated. Yearly mowing and removing of standing crop may prolong the lifespan of basiphilous pioneer vegetation, when soil acidification has not yet dropped below pH 6.
25549226|Question: Diagnostic species are useful tools for the identification and ecological interpretation of community types. Vegetation databases facilitate the computation of diagnostic values of regional validity, but it is essential to understand the behaviour of fidelity measures in large data sets. Methods: We focused our study on the phi-coefficient () of association and its limit value, the Ochiai index. The northeast Spanish relev database was stratified using an arbitrary distance threshold in species composition. Diagnostic species analysis was undertaken using three methods of context selection: I. within a syntaxon of higher rank; II. including relevs with similar composition to that of the target unit; III. using the entire stratified database. Species diagnostic values were computed as well as bootstrap percentile confidence intervals. Results: Many species deemed as diagnostic by method I have their optima in vegetation types neighbouring the unit chosen as context. In contrast, method II excluded many of these species. -values and confidence intervals were similar to those obtained by the Ochiai index when using a large dataset (method III) but this similarity was greater for low level syntaxa. Conclusions: The diagnostic value of species in a given region is best assessed using the Ochiai index, since it can be split into two interpretable asymmetrical components. We recommend the determination of context-dependent differential species using the -coefficient, and the assessment of species regional diagnostic value by means of a stratification procedure in combination with the Ochiai index.
3236555|Mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii) forest in the Abisko valley of northern Sweden was completely defoliated by Epirrita autumnata caterpillars during an outbreak in 1954-1955. The defoliation resulted in an 80-90% mortality of the leaf-carrying shoots of birches in 1956 and triggered a rejuvenation of stands. The subsequent regrowth of foliage was studied in two damaged birch stands and in one unattacked stand. The number of leaves approximately doubled in the damaged stands between 1961 and 1987, while the number on the reference plot fluctuated without significant increase. Regrowth started with increased production of long shoots from surviving shoots and basal sprouts. Basal sprouts were a substantial source of new shoots in the recovery of the foliage, especially on the most damaged plot. Trees of seed origin constituted a minor fraction of the regrowth. Initial rapid growth of foliage reduced gradually and the annual leaf production in 1986/1987 was 75% of that of the reference plot. Comparison between the recovery curve and data from the reference plot indicates that the shoot population of the damaged forest will, after more than 30 years, need many more years to reach the assumed size of a mature forest. The degree of rejuvenation varied between stands, with different consequences for future dynamics of E. autumnata populations.
3236512|The vital attribute system of Noble & Slatyer (1980) was used to classify the fire-prone flora of Brisbane Water National Park (New South Wales, Australia) into plant functional types (PFTs), reflecting sensitivity to fire frequency (intervals between fire). A variety of information was used to assess the vital attributes of species in the predominant woodland/open-forest vegetation within the Park. This was sufficient to allocate 54% of the species to functional types. Ca. 20% of the species belonged to PFTs defined as sensitive to either frequent or infrequent fire (e.g. obligate seeder types). Varied methods, based on the nature and quality of data were used to estimate juvenile periods and life spans among species in these types, however the estimates derived in each case were similar. On this basis, a domain of 'acceptable' fire intervals (7 to 30 yr) was derived for the woodland/open-forest vegetation. Given the overall proportion of species considered, plus congruence between differing methods and sources of data, this domain was relatively robust. A landscape analysis using the domain indicated that the current trend in fire intervals, across the Park, may be adverse to floristic conservation.
25549273|Question: Hurricanes and cyclones cause a wide range of damage to coastal forests worldwide. Most of these storms are not catastrophic in ecological terms, but forest responses to storms of moderate intensities are poorly understood. In regions with a high frequency of moderate hurricanes, how does variation in disturbance intensity affect the magnitude of ecological responses? Location: Naushon Island, Massachusetts, USA. Methods: We use historical records and dendroecological methods to characterize establishment and growth of Fagus grandifolia, Quercus alba, and Quercus velutina in response to seven non-catastrophic hurricanes of varying intensity, and a major logging event, relative to baseline conditions, over the past 150 years. Our aim was to document variation in the magnitude of responses to known disturbance events of varying intensity, and to determine whether tree growth after moderate hurricanes differs from growth during periods of no disturbance. Results: Forest harvesting in 1824-1827 had a strong impact on forest composition and growth. Since then, the study region has been characterized by little harvesting but frequent hurricanes. However, only one of the seven storms examined caused substantial increases in growth and new establishment for the dominant species; most moderate disturbances had minimal impact on growth and regeneration dynamics. We also document highly variable responses among species to individual storms, including substantial growth decreases that may not be detected by standard analytical approaches. Conclusions: Our results caution against the use of simple metrics such as wind speed to predict forest response to specific hurricanes, and highlight the importance of individual disturbance events in controlling long-term forest dynamics, even in regions characterized by high disturbance frequency. In addition, we show that standard approaches to reconstructing disturbance history based on increases in radial growth and pulses of tree establishment are likely to underestimate the frequency of moderate disturbances.
3237378|We examined the factors that control seedling establishment on barren substrates on the pyroclastic flows from Mount St. Helens. From June to September in 1993, we monitored seedling and microhabitat changes in 240 20 cm x 20 cm quadrats on the Pumice Plain. Seedlings emerged in 104 quadrats (43.3 %). The most abundant species were Anaphalis margaritacea, Hypochaeris radicata, Lupinus lepidus and Epilobium angustifolium. Measured site characteristics included topography, particle size distribution, ground surface movements, soil water content, organic matter, pH, and presence or absence of dead lupines. Quadrats with seedlings had higher cover of dead lupines, higher amount of rock and gravel substrate, and a greater cover of rills. More seedlings emerged where eroded material accumulated. Compared to coarse-textured surfaces, silt surfaces had higher organic matter, held more water, and showed higher pH. However, seedlings became established more frequently on coarse-textured surfaces. In greenhouse experiments, a higher percentage of Hypochaeris seeds germinated on silt than on sand or gravel. The germination of Anaphalis and Epilobium did not differ with soil texture, but was higher at higher moisture levels. Seedling colonization is more dependent on ground surface microtopography, particle size, and ground movement than on the chemical status of these volcanic deposits.
4096646|Question: How do patterns in colonization and patch expansion of an invasive woody plant (Larrea tridentata, Zygophyllaceae) differ between two grassland ecosystems at a biome transition zone? Location: Semi-arid/arid transition zone in central New Mexico. Methods: Frequency of occurrence, height, and surface area of saplings (n = 134) and patches of adult plants (n = 247) of the invasive shrub, L. tridentata, were measured within a mosaic of ecosystems dominated either by the Chihuahuan Desert species, Bouteloua eriopoda (Poaceae), or the shortgrass steppe species, B. gracilis, located within 1 km of the L. tridentata-domindited ecosystem. Distances between L. tridentata patches and patch area were used to estimate connectivity as a measure of propagule pressure. Sapling age (estimated from height using previously established relationships) and distance to the L. tridentata-dominated ecosystem was used to evaluate patterns in dispersal. Cover by species or functional group inside each L. tridentata patch was compared with surrounding vegetation to estimate changes in species composition with patch expansion. Results: L. tridentata saplings (< 1%) and adult patches (15%) occurred less frequently in B. gracilis-dominated ecosystems than expected based on areal extent of this ecosystem type. Propagule pressure did not differ with distance from the core ecosystem dominated by L. tridentata. Evidence for both local and long-distance dispersal events was found. Similar relationships between number of plants and patch area in both grassland types indicate similar patterns in patch expansion. Cover of perennial forbs was higher and cover of dominant grasses was lower in L. tridentata patches compared with the surrounding vegetation for both ecosystem types. Conclusions: Spatial variation in L. tridentata saplings and patches at this biome transition zone is related to the different susceptibilities to invasion by two grassland ecosystems. The persistence of grasslands at this site despite region-wide expansion by L. tridentata may be related to the spatial distribution of B. gracilis-dominated ecosystems that resist or deter invasion by this woody plant.
40925544|Questions: Can patterns of species similarity on ditch banks be explained by environmental and dispersal factors and, if so, to what extent? Does the pattern of distance decay differ among different species groups (all species versus target species of conservation interest; species of different dispersal type)? Location: Krimpenerwaard, the Netherlands. Methods: In 2006-2007, ditch bank vegetation data on 130 terrestrial herbaceous species were collected on 72 plots. Species similarity was measured and related to environmental distance (soil type and nutrient level) and dispersal distance (geographic distance and limitation of dispersal by water, wind and agricultural activities) as explanatory factors using multiple regression on distance matrices (MRM). Differences in rates of distance decay in species similarity among different subsets of data (species groups) were investigated using randomization tests. Results: In all species, patterns of similarity of composition are influenced mainly by variations in dispersal, while for target species these are due to combined effects of environmental and dispersal variation. Compared with species using other dispersal mechanisms, water-dispersed species had half the rate of distance decay. Conclusions: For all species considered here, dispersal limitation seems more responsible for the spatial variation in species composition than environmental determinism. Conservation management focused on plant species diversity would be more successful in areas adjacent to those where a similar management regime is already in force. For target species of conservation interest, besides dispersal limitation, environmental determinants like nutrient level are also important. As a means of conserving such target species, therefore, focusing on reducing nutrient levels and facilitating species dispersal will be more effective than current management practices, which mainly focus on reducing fertilizer inputs.
3236456|Few empirical data exist to examine the influence of regional scale environmental gradients on productivity patterns of plant species. In this paper we analyzed the productivity of several dominant grass species along two climatic gradients, mean annual precipitation (MAP) and mean annual temperature (MAT), in the Great Plains of the United States. We used climatic data from 296 weather stations, species production data from Natural Resource Conservation Service rangeland surveys and a geographic information system to spatially integrate the data. Both MAP and MAT were significantly related to annual above-ground net primary production (ANPP). MAP explained 54 % to 89 % of the variation in ANPP of two C<sub>4</sub> short-grasses, Bouteloua gracilis and Buchloe dactyloides, and two C<sub>4</sub> tall-grasses, Andropogon gerardii and Schizachyrium scoparium (= Andropogon scoparius). MAT explained 19 % to 41 % of the variation in ANPP of two C<sub>4</sub> grasses, B. gracilis and B. dactyloides, and 41 % to 66 % of the variation in ANPP of two C<sub>3</sub> grasses, Agropyron smithii and Stipa comata. ANPP patterns for species along both gradients were described by either linear, negative exponential, logistic, normal or skewed curves. Patterns of absolute ANPP (g/m<sup>2</sup>) for species differed from those of relative ANPP (%) along the MAP gradient. Responses were similar for species with common functional characteristics (e.g. short-grasses, tall-grasses, C<sub>3</sub>, C<sub>4</sub>). Our empirical results support asymmetric responses of species to environmental gradients. Results demonstrate the importance of species attributes, type of environmental gradient and measure of species importance (relative or absolute productivity) in evaluating ecological response patterns.
25173221|Questions: What is the contribution of management continuity during the last 30-40 years to variation in species diversity and composition of a calcareous wooded meadow plant community? Is tree cover related to species diversity and composition of the herbaceous layer? What are the effects of local soil gradients on species diversity? Location: Laelatu calcareous wooded meadow, Western Estonian coastal zone. Methods: Plant community composition was assessed in 150 1 m  1 m plots, located at 30 sites with known management history within Laelatu meadow (7 ha). Light and soil conditions and relative altitude were measured at each plot. DCA was used to analyse variation in species composition and general linear mixed models to analyse the effects of management and environmental parameters on diversity. Results: Management continuity was the primary determinant of plant community composition, followed by light conditions and soil parameters. Species richness, diversity and evenness are positively dependent on management continuity. Spatial autocorrelation is important as well. Diversity started to decline under the tree canopy where 50% or less irradiation reached the level of the herbaceous layer. We did not find significant effects of soil conditions on small-scale diversity. Conclusions: Management continuity, together with the cover of the tree layer, are the most important determinants of diversity. Despite grassland stands with different management history are located side by side, the regeneration of diversity and composition of plant communities after restoring regular management practices is a slow process.
3237218|Vegetation models based on multiple logistic regression are of growing interest in environmental studies and decision making. The relatively simple sigmoid Gaussian optimum curves are most common in current vegetation models, although several different other response shapes are known. However, improvements in the technical means for handling statistical data now facilitate fast and interactive calculation of alternative complex, more data-related, non-parametric models. The aim in this study was to determine whether, and if so how often, a complex response shape could be more adequate than a linear or quadratic one. Using the framework of Generalized Additive Models, both parametric (linear and quadratic) and non-parametric (smoothed) stepwise multiple logistic regression techniques were applied to a large data set on wetlands and water plants and to six environmental variables: pH, chloride, orthophosphate, inorganic nitrogen, thickness of the sapropelium layer and depth of the water-body. All models were tested for their goodness-of-fit and significance. Of all 156 generalized additive models calculated, 77 % were found to contain at least one smoothed predictor variable, i.c. an environmental variable with a response better fitted by a complex, non-parametric, than by a linear or quadratic parametric curve. Chloride was the variable with the highest incidence of smoothed responses (48 %). Generally, a smoothed curve was preferable in 23 % of all species-variable correlations calculated, compared to 25 % and 18 % for sigmoid and Gaussian shaped curves, respectively. Regression models of two plant species are presented in detail to illustrate the potential of smoothers to produce good fitting and biologically sound response models in comparison to linear and polynomial regression models. We found Generalized Additive Modelling a useful and practical technique for improving current regression-based vegetation models by allowing for alternative, complex response shapes.
4096765|Question: What are the shape, abundance, size, and structural characteristics of sapling patches in an old-growth Pinus jeffreyi-mixed conifer forest with a relatively intact disturbance regime? Location: Sierra San Pedro Martir, Baja California, Mexico. Methods: Regeneration was quantified by sampling sapling patches on seven 1200 m permanently marked line transects. For all patches intersected, tree size, species, age, and patch canopy cover were recorded. Patch structural characteristics were statistically compared to data from unbiased forest inventory plots. The minimum regeneration patch was defined as three saplings in a 49-m
3236464|As part of a wider study examining regeneration pathways in monsoon rain forest vegetation in northern Australia, a one-off, dry season census of saplings was undertaken along transects sampled at each of 33 relatively undisturbed sites broadly representative of the range of regional monsoon rain forest vegetation. Four floristic quadrat groups were derived through TWINSPAN classification. Subsequent analyses involved: (1) comparison of mean dry season stockings of juveniles occurring in different rain forest types, and their structural and environmental correlates; (2) comparison of the contributions of different life forms, and the influence of clonal reproduction in the sapling regeneration banks of different forest types; and (3) exploration of relationships between the distributions of saplings of common tree species with respect to seed bank, floristic, structural, and environmental variables. While data presented here require cautious interpretation given that processes of seedling/sapling recruitment and mortality are highly dynamic, sapling banks were found to be most dense on coarse-textured, moist soils, and least dense on coarse-textured, seasonally dry soils. Canopy cover and fire impact were shown to be highly influential on sapling distribution, especially for saplings of tree species and those growing on seasonally dry sites. Sapling densities were little influenced by proximity to rain forest margins, except for shrubs. The potential for clonal reproduction was significantly greater on dry sites, especially for trees. The majority of saplings sampled were derived from relatively few common, non-clonal, canopy tree species. Sapling distributions of 20 out of 23 common tree species were clumped in the vicinity of conspecific adults; for most species the strength of this relationship was greater than that for any other variable. These data support observations in the literature concerning the distribution of sapling banks in moist and dry tropical forests.
4499250|This Special Feature includes contributions on data-processing of large ecological datasets under the heading ecoinformatics. Herewith the latter term is now also established in the Journal of Vegetation Science. Ecoinfomatics is introduced as a rapid growing field within community ecology which is generating exciting new developments in ecology and in particular vegetation ecology. In our field, ecoinformatics deals with the understanding of patterns of species distributions at local and regional scales, and on the assemblages of species in relation to their properties, the local environment and their distribution in the region. Community ecology using ecoinformatics is related to bioinformatics, community ecology, biogeography and macroecology. We make clear how ecoinformatics in vegetation science and particularly the IAVS Working Group on Ecoinformatics has developed from the work of the old Working Group for Data Processing which was active during the 1970s and 1980s. Recent developments, including the creation of TURBOVEG and SynBioSys in Europa and VEGBANK in the USA, form a direct link with these pioneer activities, both scientifically and personally. The contributions collected in this Special Feature present examples of seco-infeveral types of the use of databases and the application of programmes and models. The main types are the study of long-term vegetation dynamics in different cases of primary and secondary succession and the understanding of successional developments in terms of species traits. Among the future developments of great significance we mention the use of a variety of different large datasets for the study of the distribution and ecology and conservation of rare and threatened species.
3236865|Snow patch vegetation in Australia is rare, being restricted to the relatively small area of alpine and subalpine country in the highlands of southeastern Australia. Snow patch vegetation occurs on steeper, sheltered southeastern slopes, where snow persists until well into the growing season (December/January). We surveyed the vegetation of 33 snow patch sites in the alpine and subalpine tracts of the Bogong High Plains, within the Alpine National Park, in Victoria. The vegetation was dominated by herbs and graminoids, with few shrubs and mosses. Major structural assemblages identified included closed herb-fields dominated by Celmisia spp, and grasslands dominated by Poa fawcettiae or Poa costiniana. These assemblages occurred on mineral soils. Open herb-fields dominated by Caltha introloba and several sedge species occurred on rocky and stony substrata. Vegetation-environment relationships were explored by ordination and vector fitting. There was significant variation in the floristic composition of snow patch vegetation as a function of duration of snow cover, altitude, slope and site rockiness. Alpine sites were floristically distinct from subalpine sites, with a greater cover of Celmisia spp. and a lesser cover of low shrubs in the former. There was floristic variation within some snow patches as a function of slope position (upper, middle or lower slope) but this was not consistent across sites. The current condition of snow patch vegetation on the Bogong High Plains is degraded, with bare ground exceeding 20% cover at most sites. Snow patch vegetation is utilized preferentially by domestic cattle, which graze parts of the Bogong High Plains in summer. Such grazing is a potential threat to this rare vegetation type.
3236733|Three granite inselbergs and six dolerite dykes and their surroundings were investigated in the Central Namib, at the interface between the Namib Desert and Nama Karoo biomes. The main objectives of this study included a phytosociological interpretation of the described plant communities, explanation of the correlation of the communities with environmental variables and quantification of the relative contribution of different types of variables to structuring plant communities. Nine grassland and shrubland plant communities were recognized, largely organized according to general habitat, elevation, size of inselberg and geology. Soil properties, often thought to play an important role in arid environments, showed no clear patterns in the level of analyses used in this study. Other environmental parameters of importance in arid mountain habitats, such as slope aspect and angle, also played a minor role. The main implications of the study are: 1. Central Namib inselbergs, particularly granite domes, harbour diverse plant communities, often with species from neighbouring higher rainfall areas, and are thus of high conservation value. 2. The poor contribution of environmental variables in this study, which are conventionally used in field studies of plant community - environment relationships, may demand a critical review of additional parameters to be included when analysing plant community - environment relations in arid environments. In particular between-season variation, phytogeographic aspects and the heterogeneity of microhabitats, often contained within a plant community, need to be taken into account.
4096647|Questions: Do plant characteristics predict microsite colonization in severe habitats dominated by abiotic factors? Specifically, does colonization of microsites differ among shrubs, forbs and grasses or between wind- and water-dispersed plants, non-native and native plants, or N-fixing and non-N-fixing plants? Location: Kowhai River floodplain, Kaikoura, South Island, New Zealand. Methods: Five microsite characteristics were measured for > 1000 individuals representing 27 colonizing plant species on a two-year old surface of a primary succession on a New Zealand floodplain. The microsite characteristics included surface contour (convex, concave, or flat), the position of the plant (e.g., upstream, downstream) relative to the closest rock with > 20 cm maximum dimension, the distance to that same rock, the depth of the base of the stem below the surface of a plane resting on the adjacent microrelief, and soil particle size (gravel, pebbles or sand). Results: All plants preferred concave microsites near large rocks relative to systematically placed null points. We found no clear preferences for microhabitats by dispersal mode, native vs. non-native status, or plants with or without nitrogen-fixing symbionts, but grasses preferentially colonized fine soil particles. Highly variable responses among species contributed to these results. Better predictability of microsite preference was obtained for individual species than for plants grouped by characteristics. Conclusions: Our results suggest that in severe habitats with strong abiotic filters and low microsite availability, such as found in early primary succession, coarse categories of species characteristics are poor predictors of colonization success.
23012491|Question: Does long-term grazing exclusion affect spatial patterns of canopy height, plant species and traits in subalpine grassland communities? Are spatial patterns of species and traits similarly affected by grazing exclusion? Are changes in spatial patterns of species associated with changes in species abundances? Location: Subalpine grasslands, Vercors and Oisans Mountains, Alps (France). Methods: Spatial sampling of vegetation and measurements of plant traits were carried out within nine pairs of grazed and ungrazed 10 m  10-m plots in three species-rich communities with different productivities. We estimated within-plot spatial patterns of canopy height, species and aggregated trait values by measuring the extent (or patch size) and intensity of spatial dependence with Moran's I. Abundance-weighted averages for species patch size and intensity of spatial dependence were calculated across all species per plot and across species per life form. Such measures derived from analysis of spatial dependence were considered spatial traits. Results: Response of spatial patterns to grazing exclusion was only detected in patch size, whereas intensity of spatial dependence was not affected. Changes in spatial patterns were community-dependent because spatial traits based on patch size of canopy height and species increased following grazing exclusion only in the less productive community. Unexpectedly, changes in spatial patterns of species did not support changes in spatial patterns of trait values. Abundances and patch sizes of several life forms were significantly affected by grazing exclusion. However, at the scale investigated, changes in abundance of life forms did not correspond to changes in their spatial patterns and vice versa. Conclusion: In species-rich communities, grazing alters spatial spread of species (i.e. patch size) rather than intra-specific aggregation (i.e. intensity of spatial dependence). Results revealed possible mechanisms of species spatial reorganisation that are independent of abundance variation. Therefore, it is important to consider changes in spatial patterns in addition to changes in mean values of vegetation features when assessing impacts of grazing management.
3235644|Four carrs (wooded fens) were sampled, two in Britain and two in New Zealand, to document their texture and to look for convergence between carrs in two hemispheres. One of the New Zealand carrs was predominantly native, and one mixed native/exotic. Plant community texture was evaluated using the variate: (1) support fraction (proportion of the ultimate twig that is non-photosynthetic); and four variates relating to the PSU (Photosynthetic Unit): (2) SLW (specific leaf weight: PSU weight/area), (3) length:width ratio, (4) width, (5) area. The modular construction of species was measured by determining the density of modules at different hierarchical levels. A null model for texture convergence is presented, in which the species present are assigned to sites with no constraint on the co-occurrence of species similar in morphology. The test is one for coevolutionary convergence and coecological sorting, not for similarity of adaptation to the environment. There was no indication of convergence of the four carrs to a common texture, compared to this null model, when species presences were considered; on the contrary there was considerable divergence between sites for all variates, significant for three of them. The native New Zealand carr was atypical in having high SLW, and the N.Z. mixed exotic/native carr in its PSU width and area. Weighting the species by abundance (measured as photosynthetic biomass), convergence was seen for PSU width and possibly for area. Since this gives considerable weight to the canopy trees, it may reflect mainly their adaptation to canopy conditions, compared with that of the understorey species. It is concluded that there is some convergence, at least in the attributes of the canopy species, but convergence cannot be shown for the whole community.
3236892| The allometric relationships of trees in temperate and tropical forests are relatively well known, but not those of woody shrubs or transitional (shrub/tree) life forms. We explored the transition of Prosopis glandulosa var. torreyana from tree to shrub along a semi-arid topographic sequence comprising of six landforms (hillslope, footslope, upper and lower bajada, playa and dune) with varying soil texture and water availability. In each landform, we measured P. glandulosa shoot pre-dawn water potentials () in one 'dry' and one 'wet' year. We also measured plant height, widest basal stem diameter, crown area and number of basal branches. Total basal stem area was calculated. We used simple (Model II linear regression) and expanded (incorporating an asymptote to height or crown area) allometry models to compare height with widest basal stem diameter and crown area with total basal stem area. There were significant correlations between maximum plant size and inter-year  means suggesting that soil water availability decreased down the topographical sequence. The height asymptote was statistically significant in all landforms and lower toward finer-textured soils. On the other hand, crown area was a linear function of total basal stem area and was also site specific. Our results suggest that more basal branches are produced as plant height decreases in more stressful environments, effectively increasing crown area with a minimum investment in supporting tissues. The polymorphic characteristics of Prosopis may partly explain their occurrence in many arid and semi-arid environments. 
3236652|Density-dependence in tree population dynamics has seldom been examined in dry tropical forests. Using long-term data from a large permanent plot, this study examined 16 common species in a dry tropical forest in southern India for density-dependence. Employing quadrat-based analyses, correlations of mortality, recruitment and population change with tree densities were examined. Mortality in 1-10 cm diameter trees was largely negatively correlated with conspecific density, whereas mortality in > 10 cm diameter trees was positively correlated. Mortality was, however, largely unaffected by the basal area and abundance of heterospecific trees. Recruitment was poor in most species, but in Lagerstroemia microcarpa (Lythraceae), Tectona grandis (Verbenaceae) and Cassia fistula (Fabaceae), species that recruited well, strong negative correlations of recruitment with conspecific basal area and abundance were found. In a few other species that could be tested, recruitment was again negatively correlated with conspecific density. In Lagerstroemia, recruitment was positively correlated with the basal area and abundance of heterospecific trees, but these correlations were non-significant in other species. Similarly, although the rates of population change were negatively correlated with conspecific density they were positive when dry-season ground fires occurred in the plot. Thus, the observed positive density-dependence in large-tree mortality and the negative density-dependence in recruitment in many species were such that could potentially regulate tree populations. However, repeated fires influenced density-dependence in the rates of population change in a way that could promote a few common species in the tree community.
3236974|Wet dune slacks occur as small, naturally fragmented systems in the dune landscape, isolated from other slacks. We studied the effects of slack isolation and area on the rate and direction of primary succession in a chronosequence of dune slacks. The results indicate that important changes occur in community characteristics over a period of 50 yr. Total cover and number of species increase as a result of the endogenous succession process, during which organic matter and nutrients accumulate. Consequently, competitive interactions shift from competition for nutrients to competition for light. Local factors thus determine, at least partially, the community composition in the slack. However, differences in community composition with increasing age are smaller when the slack is more isolated or smaller, suggesting a slower succession rate and biomass accumulation. Together with a lower contribution of slow dispersing species in more isolated slacks, this indicates that species accumulation is dispersal limited and thus influenced by regional factors. The stochastic variation resulting from this dispersal limited species accumulation causes a divergent successional pathway.
3236709|We analysed the relationship between seed traits (weight, shape and dispersal structures) and the abundance and habitat segregation of Mediterranean grassland species. To take into account possible correlations with other plant traits, the study also includes 5 vegetative traits (growth form, plant longevity, clonality, onset of flowering and plant size) of commonly accepted functional importance. Data were recorded for 85 species from dehesa grasslands in central Spain. Species abundance was measured in upper (dry and less productive, high stress) and lower (moist and more productive, low stress) slope zones in the same area. Habitat segregation was estimated using an index based on the relative frequencies of species in upper and lower slope zones. Multiple regression models were fitted using species, as well as phylogenetically independent contrasts, as data points. Annual small-seeded species without specialised dispersal structures are over-represented in dehesa grasslands. Abundance was negatively related to seed weight in upper slope zones. None of the recorded plant traits were related to abundance in the lower slope zones. Habitat segregation was mainly related to seed weight, but also to some vegetative traits. Annual, early flowering and small-seeded species were relatively more abundant in the upper than the lower slope zones. This pattern is independent of phylogeny. Our results suggest that in dry Mediterranean grasslands, abundance of many species is determined by dispersal (production of numerous small seeds) rather than by competitive ability.
3236552|In 1991, the catastrophic Typhoon 9119 created many treefall gaps in an old-growth beech (Fagus crenata) forest on Mt. Garyu, southwestern Japan. In a 3.3-ha plot, the density and basal area of fatally damaged trunks (DBH 20 cm) were 29.1 trunks/ha (16.9% of all pre-typhoon trunks) and 9.1 m<sup>2</sup>/ha (24.4% of total pre-typhoon basal area), respectively. Many of the dominant beech were lost and larger trunks were damaged. The pre- and post-typhoon DBH distribution both had an inverse J-shape. Spatial distribution of living trunks was not random but clustered irrespective of typhoon damage or DBH size, suggesting that the stand structure of the study plot would be an unusual one as compared with the previous study stands in Japanese beech forests. The death of pre-typhoon trunks, seemed to die standing or to be killed by snap-off, occurred singly; however, the typhoon fatally damaged many clustered trunks at the same time. Uprooting was the most frequent cause of gaps created by the typhoon. The intermediate DBH size class (40 - 70 cm) would be more likely to be uprooted than snapped-off. The DBH distribution of snap-off may reflect the total pre-typhoon trunk distribution. Branch-fall had a flat DBH distribution. Uprooting might have a clustered distribution, while snap-off and branch-fall both had random distributions. The smaller trunks of snap-off and branch-fall seemed to result from injuries caused by the fall of larger trunks.
3235573| Two mixed-mire complexes in the southern Alps (Italy) were analyzed for vegetation patterns and water and peat chemistry. Six vegetation units were distinguished, representing three phytosociological orders, the Sphagnetalia magellanici, Scheuchzerietalia palustris and Caricetalia fuscae. Boundaries between these units are sharp and marked by difference in calcium concentrations in mire water and pH values. Relatively high Ca concentrations (up to 150 eq/1) were measured at ombrotrophic sites. They mirror similarly high concentrations in precipitation and are probably correlated with dry deposition of calcium-rich particles. Phosphorous appears to be the main differentiating nutrient between the units; no significant differences are found for nitrogen. The vegetation is mainly characterized by the distributional pattern of Caricetalia fuscae species, being restricted to minerotrophic sites. 
3237101|The seed bank in the soil and litter of an annual grassland in the upper salt marsh of the Guadalquivir delta (SW Spain) contained on average 49 110 seeds/m<sup>2</sup>; 29 species were represented. Field censuses of the grassland, in two consecutive springs, yielded 7 410 and 9 520 plants/m<sup>2</sup> respectively. A combined Correspondence Analysis of the seed bank samples and field censuses showed differences in grassland composition between wet and dry years. The environmental changes induced different expressions of the soil seed bank, mediated by demographic processes. The effect of salinity (25 dS/m of NaCl) was studied on intact soil blocks transplanted to a greenhouse. Salinity did not affect the emergence of seedlings, but reduced the growth of the dominant species, Trisetaria panicea. The importance of the role of seed banks in community dynamics and their use for conservation management are discussed.
3237371|Correlations between five floristic gradients at small spatial extents (10 - 20 m) and one successional gradient over a larger spatial extent (1.5 km) are analysed. Floristic data (62 taxa) were sampled on five terminal moraines of known age deposited after the 'Little Ice Age' (1750-1930). The floristic gradients on the moraine ridges were sampled by two or three transects on each moraine, and the successional gradient by 114 plots on all moraines. The sequential orders of species were determined by constrained and unconstrained Correspondence Analysis. The similarities between species order on the successional gradient and the exposure gradients at the same age were tested against the null hypothesis of no correlation. The null hypothesis was rejected using both Monte Carlo permutation tests and Spearman's rank correlations, except on the oldest moraine. Here a closed canopy has developed, which eliminates the environmental variability associated with ridge morphology. The similarity between the successional gradient and the moraine-ridge gradients is attributed to variation in environmental severity, mainly caused by glacier wind and related factors such as temperature and moisture. Similarity was highest on the moraines in the middle of the glacier foreland, which have many successional stages present and have a relatively exposed relief. The distribution of growth/life-forms along gradients of small spatial extent are comparable to the successional gradient, but lichens, herbs and graminoids differ in their behaviour. The resemblance between species gradients at a small spatial extent and species gradients on a larger spatial extent is interpreted as an ecological self-similar pattern, where young and old substrate are linked to exposed-xeric and protectedmesic habitats, respectively.
3236352| Human impact influences patterns of plant distribution and dominates disturbance dynamics in the agricultural landscape of Haut-Saint-Laurent, Qubec. We investigated the influence of such impact on the dynamics of Thuja occidentalis in the hardwood forest of southern Qubec. A bimodal species of either dry or wet habitats, T. occidentalis has successfully invaded mesic sites of the study area where, although generally considered a poor competitor, it persists as dense populations that seem to resist invasion by more tolerant species. As Acer saccharum is expected to be a dominant late-successional species under mesic conditions, we first evaluated the relative importance of abiotic and historical factors in the distribution of 34 T. occidentalis stands and 21 A. saccharum stands. We then classified 55 stands that include T. occidentalis and investigated the dynamic relationships between the species and its associates in 13 mixed mesic sites. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) of T. occidentalis and A. saccharum stands suggested that land use and drainage are the most important variables correlated with plant community composition. A partial CCA with drainage as the constraining variable showed that T. occidentalis stands were significantly associated to present or past use as pasture. Correspondence analysis of 55 stands where T. occidentalis is present produced a clear segregation between nearly monospecific stands and mixed communities, but the chosen environmental variables were not significant in explaining the vegetation gradient at this scale. In all mixed stands, Thuja occidentalis was most often associated with Ulmus americana, Acer rubrum, Betula populifolia, Fraxinus americana, A. saccharum, and Tsuga canadensis. Finally, size-class ordination of 13 mixed mesic stands did not show convergence toward A. saccharum. Our results suggest that grazing has played a significant part in the appearance of T. occidentalis stands on mesic sites, whereas competition processes and landscape patterns possibly contribute to the maintenance of relatively persistent T. occidentalis stands in the landscape. 
3236114|Gas exchange, leaf-nitrogen concentration and water potential were measured in early and late spring in early successional herbaceous plants occurring after cutting and after fire, and in mature woody species from the Mediterranean climax community Quercetum ilicis in central Italy. Net photosynthesis peaked in early spring in all species studied when values for temperature and light were lower but leaf-nitrogen content was higher as compared to late spring, suggesting that nitrogen more than energy input controlled photosynthetic rates. Herbaceous pioneer species occurring after cutting showed higher field photosynthetic capacity than evergreen climax trees and shrubs. By contrast, net photosynthesis of herbaceous species occurring in a persistent stage after fire, was in the same range as that of climax trees. This evidence suggests that carbon-gaining appears to be partly related to the dynamic stage of succession and not solely to the growth form.
23012741|Question: What is the relative importance of environmental and spatial factors for species compositional and phylogenetic turnover? Location: High-rainfall zone of the Southwest Australian Floristic Region (SWAFR). Methods: Correlates of species compositional turnover were assessed using quadrat-based floristic data, and establishing relationships with environmental and spatial factors using canonical correspondence analyses and Mantel tests. Between-quadrat phylogenetic distance measures were computed and examined for correlations with environmental and spatial attributes. Processes structuring patterns of beta diversity were also evaluated within four broad floristic assemblages defined a priori. Results: Floristic diversity was strongly related to environmental attributes. A low significance of spatial variables on assemblage patterns suggested no evident effect of dispersal limitations. Species compositional turnover was especially high within the swamp and outcrop assemblage. Phylogenetic turnover was closely coupled to species compositional turnover, implying the occurrence of many locally endemic and phylogenetically relict taxa. Beta diversity patterns within assemblages were also significantly correlated with the local environment, and relevant correlates differed between floristic assemblage types. Conclusion: Phylogenetic diversity in the SWAFR high-rainfall zone is clustered within edaphic microhabitats in a generally subdued landscape. A clustered rather than dispersed distribution of phylogenetic diversity increases the probability of significant plant diversity loss during periods of climate change. Climate change susceptibility of the region's flora is accordingly estimated to be high. We highlight the conservation significance of swamp and outcrops that are characterized by distinct hydrological properties and may provide refugial habitat for plant diversity during periods of moderate climate change.
3236300|Old-field plots used for a study of succession in Mediterranean France were revisited after 12-14 yr. Our aims were: (1) to verify if predicted patterns of species richness, turnover and composition are confirmed; (2) to compare the development in disturbed plots with that in undisturbed ones; (3) to discuss the impact of management changes. In undisturbed plots species richness and turnover decreased with successional age. Floristic composition changed in a way consistent with the predicted successional development in most plots. Therophytes decreased and phanerophytes increased; anemochorous species decreased and endozoochorous species increased, as expected. In plots disturbed since the first analysis richness decreased with successional age, but generally remained higher than in undisturbed plots. Floristic composition, species turnover and an increase in therophytes indicated changes towards younger successional stages. Thus, disturbance changed succession but not much. This is probably linked with the regeneration abilities typical of mediterranean species, e.g. resprouting. At the landscape scale, richness did not change and species turnover was low. The plots studied were situated in two distinct locations. One had not been disturbed between the two observation periods, while the other is a mosaic of undisturbed and disturbed sites. Observations fitted predictions much more closely at the undisturbed location. We conclude that permanent plot studies are powerful in identifying successional trends and can also provide additional insights into the effects of disturbance some of the mechanisms underlying the dynamics of diversity.
3236538|The decline in tree density on sandy soils in savannas is highly correlated with declining mean annual rainfall along the North Australian Tropical Transect (NATT). We re-analyse various data on water use by individual trees and argue that a common relationship can be used to estimate annual water use by tree stands along the NATT from ca. 600 mm mean annual rainfall to at least 1600 mm. Where rainfall is less than 600 mm, trees of a given size use less water than at sites where rainfall is higher. We use these relationships to relate water use at the stand scale with mean annual rainfall along the NATT. From this we show that the empirical data imply that the minimum depth of sandy soil that needs to be exploited by trees declines with increasing aridity along the NATT from more than 5 m to less than 1 m. This finding is consistent with other observations and the pattern that with increasing aridity, an increasing proportion of rainfall coming from isolated storms rather than from periods of extended monsoon activity.
3237108|Historical aerial photographs are an important source for data on medium- to long-term (10 - 50 yr) vegetation changes. Older photographs are panchromatic, and manual interpretation has traditionally been used to derive vegetation data from such photographs. We present a method for computerized analysis of panchromatic aerial photographs, which enables one to create high resolution, accurate vegetation maps. Our approach is exemplified using two aerial photographs (from 1964 and 1992) of a test area on Mt. Meron, Israel. Spatial resolution (pixel size) of the geo-rectified photos was 0.30 m and spatial accuracy (RMS error) ca. 1 m. An illumination adjustment prior to classification was found to be essential in reducing misclassification error rates. Two classification approaches were employed: a standard maximum-likelihood supervised classifier, and a modification of a supervised classification, which takes into account spectral properties of individual pixels as well as their neighbourhood characteristics. Accuracy of the maximum likelihood classification was 81 % in the 1992 image and 54 % in the 1964 image. The neighbour classifier increased accuracy to 89 % and 82 % respectively. The overall results suggest that computerized analysis of sequences of panchromatic aerial photographs may serve as a valuable tool for the quantification of medium-term vegetation changes.
3235984|The dynamics of the seed production and seed bank of two dominant perennial species of calcareous fens were investigated in response to different mowing frequency, fallow or pasture. The production of fertile shoots responded strongly to management practices. On sites where mowing alternated with fallow, autumn mowing led to an increase of fertile shoot density in Schoenus ferrugineus and a decrease in Molinia caerulea in the subsequent season. Repeated annual mowing after long-term fallow raised the density in Schoenus and inhibited initiation of flowering shoots in Molinia. Seed set and viability were influenced mainly by climatic or other factors. Variation of seed production between sites and in consecutive years at the same site could thus be large. The relationship between total seed production and seed bank was weak, but it improved when germination rates were included in the calculation. As the seed bank was generally smaller than the viable seed production, low survival and a high turnover of seeds in the upper soil layers is assumed for both species. Implications for recruitment strategies are discussed.
40925531|In the boreal forest of eastern Canada, how does forest vegetation change in the sustained absence of fire? Location: Eastern boreal forest in Quebec's North Shore region, Canada (4930'-5000'N; 6730'-6835'W). Methods: Aerial photos from three different periods (1930, 1965 and 1987) were used to characterize changes in vegetation composition in 23 scenes of 200 ha. Time since fire, presence of secondary disturbances and data on soil and topographic variables were obtained. Ordination and clustering techniques were used to define compositional trajectories of change over the 57-yr period. These trajectories were further grouped into pathways based on compositional changes, time since fire and preferential deposit-drainage types. Results: Among the 26 compositional trajectories, three successional pathways were distinguished. Two start post-fire succession with a dominance of intolerant hardwood. In one of these, this is followed by an increase in Abies balsamea, while in the second the importance of Picea mariana increases with time. In the third pathway P. mariana is an important component from the outset. In this pathway, we observed modest fluctuation in the relative dominance of P. mariana and A. balsamea and variation in stand structure. Conclusion: The boreal forest vegetation of Eastern Canada is diverse and dynamic even in the absence of fire, notably under the influence of partial disturbances. Such disturbances can be associated with changes in composition or stand structure. The development of management strategies aimed at maintaining stand diversity by emulating a broader variety of partial and secondary disturbances should be encouraged.
3235632|Post-fire seed germination, seedling mortality and seed banks were investigated in scrub-heath (kwongan) in SW Australia. Study species included herbaceous and woody, obligate seeders and resprouters in two non-bradysporous but significant plant families (Restionaceae and Epacridaceae). In all species, seedlings were recruited only in the first autumn-spring after fire and occurred in similar densities as the estimated germinable annual seed input. Seedlings were absent from unburnt vegetation. Although most species retained some residual seeds after fire, tests (excised embryo culture) indicated that a negligible number of seeds were germinable. Regardless of fire response or species, there appeared to be a large loss of seeds each year and in most cases, only a small proportion of the annual seed production was used in post-fire recovery of plants. Based on seedling:parent ratios, all species had the capacity to reconstitute parent densities from germinants in the first year after fire, but high seedling mortality and no further recruitment resulted in less seedlings than replacements for four resprouter Restionaceae and three Epacridaceae (all obligate seeders) at the end of the third year after fire.
3237149| We propose a mechanistic model to relate - and -diversity to area per se, moisture status and environmental variation (local and total), and explored the effects these abiotic variables have on species richness per unit area (-diversity) for plant communities in a network of wetland habitats located in a Mediterranean mountainous region of central Spain. In this study, environmental status is measured as actual evapotranspiration (as an expression of energy), slope and soil wetness, and environmental variation refers to slope variation and soil wetness variation. Species richness per unit area was related to soil wetness, soil wetness variation, ground slope and ground slope variation. There were also positive correlations among moisture status and environmental variation variables. There is a joint effect of slope and soil wetness variation in explaining species richness per unit area of these wetland habitats, but area effects and energy are relatively unimportant. We conclude that species richness per unit area of wetland vegetation can be explained by moisture status and local environmental variation, and that habitat area may not have an important effect. Area could affect -diversity directly through random sampling and/or indirectly through increasing -diversity, and energy may be important in areas with larger energy ranges. Complete surveys of environmental status, local and total environmental variation, and their associated species assemblages are needed to explain the processes that give rise to the rule that larger areas have larger species richness. 
4096635|Question: Are there hot spots of algal mat deposition in space and time at the marsh scale and, if so, how does this affect the coexistence of a dominant (Spartina anglica) and gap dependent (Salicornia europaea) species? Location: The Rattekaai salt marsh in the Scheldt estuary in the southwestern Netherlands (NW Europe). Methods: Mat cover and the abundance of the gap dependent species Salicornia europaea were monitored at the scale of a marsh. The effects of mat cover on the vegetation structure were studied by applying three mat removal treatments over three growing seasons. Results: The low marsh border was found to be a hot spot of algal mat deposition during the growing season, which had a correlated spatial pattern between two successive years at a 20 m x 20 m scale. The combination of duration, timing and repetition of mat cover determined growth inhibition of the competitive dominant Spartina anglica, and thereby the abundance of subordinates such as Salicornia europaea. Mat cover reduced the storage of carbon reserves in Spartina and our results imply that repetition of non-lethal mat cover can lead to 'gap creation'. Gaps gave only temporary habitat to less dominant species since Spartina quickly re-invaded them. The gap dependent annual Salicornia was most abundant at intermediate levels of disturbance measured as a function of both space and time. Conclusions: In addition to disturbance level, the spatial and temporal distribution of disturbance are important in creating and maintaining habitat for gap dependent species. Relatively small disturbances will have a large effect on diversity if the spatial and temporal distribution of the disturbances leads to 'disturbance hot spots'.
4499234|Question: How does Alnus alnobetula colonization affect plant communities in sub-alpine grasslands undergoing land abandonment on a regional scale? Location: Savoie, French Alps. Methods: Variations within and between communities were monitored in 243 plots within three types of stands representing an A. alnobetula colonization chronosequence from grassland to dense vegetation. They were tested for species richness, species strategies and species distribution through multivariate analysis. Regional variations were assessed at three sites along a rain shadow gradient. Results: We detected a convergence of the understorey communities along an A. alnobetula colonization gradient at all sites, associated with a reduction in species richness and the replacement of stress related strategists by competitor strategists. This convergence was unaffected by the rain shadow gradient although it was a key factor of plant distribution. Conclusions: The dense cover and the soil properties provided by A. alnobetula stands buffered the heterogeneity of sub-alpine communities induced by a rain shadow gradient throughout the study region. It facilitated the development a homogeneous understorey community dominated by competitor related strategists while excluding grasslands stress adapted species through competition processes. The resulting community, although species-poor, has an interesting conservation value. Accordingly, as a 'native invader', A. alnobetula does not display typical traits of biological invaders. Future experimental research on the interactions between A. alnobetula and components of the understorey would be particularly interesting in a severe environment that promotes facilitation among plants.
40925542|Question: How does climate change influence plant species population dynamics, their time to extinction, and proportion of occupied habitats in a fragmented landscape? Location: Germany and Central European lowland. Methods: We apply a mechanistic general simulation model to test the response of plant functional types to direct and indirect effects of climate change.Three functional types were chosen to represent a set of well-studied perennial plant species: Juncus atratus, Gentiana pneumonanthe and Primula veris. We link local population dynamics within a heterogeneous, fragmented landscape context. "Species spheres", i. e. multi-dimensional parameter ranges rather than single parameter realizations, based on field and literature data served as proxy for life stage transition parameters. Four climatic scenarios summarizing different cumulative weather effects on demographic rates and different local disturbance frequencies were run. The model predicts "time to extinction" (TE) and "proportion of occupied habitat" (POH) as regional indicators for species extinction risk. Results: TE decreased for all species when weather conditions worsened, and even more so when the frequency of local destructive events additionally increased. However, management towards fewer disturbance events could buffer the negative effect of climate to some extent. The magnitude of these responses varied with species type. POH declined with an increase in bad weather as well as with increasing disturbance frequency. The better the climatic conditions, the less severe were disturbances on population performance. Conclusions: The "species spheres" proved to be a valuable approach for predictive trends. As climate change usually also implies destructive events such as land-use change, flooding or fire, our model on local and regional extinction risks can support conservation issues and management actions.
3237191|In this study, we examined two sets of contact neighbour data from lichen-dominated communities (one saxicolous, the other epiphytic) to determine whether the diversity of contact neighbours is significantly less than expected, indicating segregation of species. We also wanted to test whether the observed neighbour diversity changed with the species' own frequency. Using two measures of diversity, we found that in both saxicolous and epiphytic communities, there was a significant tendency for neighbour diversity to be lower than expected. The results are consistent with Pacala's spatial segregation hypothesis but may indicate that the plants' responses to environmental variables act at very small scales in these communities.
3236050| The annual cycle of canopy structure in two mediterranean shrubs in a pioneer zone of the mobile dune system in the Doana National Park, Scrophularia frutescens and Halimium halimifolium, has been analyzed. Destructive methods were used as well as a new non-destructive method, based on frequency analysis of organ distribution within the plant canopy. S. frutescens shows strong seasonal changes of photosynthetic biomass, but little annual increment in dry weight. In H. halimifolium, seasonal changes are not as strongly differentiated as in S. frutescens, but a higher annual increment is shown. The canopy structure of both species and its temporal changes are compared with existing plant strategy models. 
3236129|Tree size and age structure, tree-fall and gap characteristics, and regeneration in gaps were studied in Nothofagus-dominated old-growth forests in Tierra del Fuego, Argentina. Gap-phase regeneration has resulted in all-aged populations for N. pumilio, N. betuloides, and Drimys winteri, and regeneration in gaps appears to be maintaining coexistence between species in mixed stands. N. betuloides fills many gaps via advance regeneration and some individuals persist for > 150 yr in the understory. Multiple periods of release and suppression indicate that N. betuloides may take advantage of several gap events to reach the main canopy. Likewise, Drimys grows well under closed canopy and can rapidly respond to gap formation, sometimes impeding the regeneration of N. betuloides. In contrast, N. pumilio regenerates in gaps mainly from seed or from advance regeneration of small, ephemeral seedlings. Gap turnover times in Fuegian forests were estimated at 300 - 500 yr, although gap formation was highly episodic and possibly associated with regionally extensive windstorms, earthquakes, and stand-level dieback. 92 % of gaps involved multiple tree-falls, and at least 53 % involved secondary expansion. Gap and tree-fall characteristics in Tierra del Fuego were similar to results from northern Patagonia, Chile, and New Zealand; however, we emphasize that regeneration of Nothofagus spp. and Drimys winteri in gaps depends on associated vegetation and varies along both local and regional environmental gradients.
40925554|A methodology for partitioning of biodiversity into ,  and  components has long been debated, resulting in different mathematical frameworks. Recently, use of the Rao quadratic entropy index has been advocated since it allows comparison of various facets of diversity (e. g. taxonomic, phylogenetic and functional) within the same mathematical framework. However, if not well implemented, the Rao index can easily yield biologically meaningless results and lead into a mathematical labyrinth. As a practical guideline for ecologists, we present a critical synthesis of diverging implementations of the index in the recent literature and a new extension of the index for measuring -diversity. First, we detail correct computation of the index that needs to be applied in order not to obtain negative -diversity values, which are ecologically unacceptable, and elucidate the main approaches to calculate the Rao quadratic entropy at different spatial scales. Then, we emphasize that, similar to other entropy measures, the Rao index often produces lower-than-expected -diversity values. To solve this, we extend a correction based on equivalent numbers, as proposed by Jost (2007), to the Rao index. We further show that this correction can be applied to additive partitioning of diversity and not only its multiplicative form. These developments around the Rao index open up an exciting avenue to develop an estimator of turnover diversity across different environmental and temporal scales, allowing meaningful comparisons of partitioning across species, phylogenetic and functional diversities within the same mathematical framework. We also propose a set of R functions, based on existing developments, which perform different key computations to apply this framework in biodiversity science.
3236282|Due to the complexity of coastal barrier vegetation, it is useful to apply a functional-type approach to assess the response of barrier island vegetation to climate change. In this paper, a simple clustering analysis is applied to a group of 19 plant associations, based on six plant attributes and six environmental constraints. This analysis results in the suggestion that the main division of the vegetation types at Virginia Coast Reserve is between herbaceous and woody types, which differs from the existing classification which recognizes three groups: xeric-mesic herbaceous, woody and hydric-halophytic herbaceous. Considerations about grouping plant functional types are also addressed in this paper. At a global scale, inclusion of barrier plant functional types may not be so important for the climate-change response of vegetation, but it may be necessary to consider these important systems for spatially explicit modelling of landscape responses.
3235851|Seed germination of three perennial grasses, Agrostis curtisii, Avenula marginata and Pseudarrhenatherum longifolium was studied in relation to the position (basal, intermediate, apical) in the panicle and two factors typically associated with fire, high temperatures and ash. Two similar germination responses were observed in A. curtisii and A. marginata: (1) germination rates were lower for seeds from higher positions in the inflorescence; and (2) watering with a plant-ash solution improved the ability of apical seeds to germinate, but had the opposite effect on basal seeds. In A. curtisii, the latter response was also dependent on whether or not the seed was exposed to high temperatures. In P. longifolium the exposure to high temperatures and the position of the seeds in the inflorescence influenced the effect of ash. This could be due to the different degrees of development of the seeds.
3236866|The habitat type system developed by R. Daubenmire has been widely adopted throughout the western United States. Habitat types result from a site classification derived from the classification of late seral plant communities using selected indicator species. It has been suggested that the classification of late successional vegetation used to derive habitat types does not substantially differ from phytosociological classification in the sense of Braun-Blanquet approach, and that habitat types can be adopted in their present form into floristically-based vegetation classifications. Despite the many commonalities between the two systems, however, the classification methods, and specifically the use of indicator species in the habitat type system, yield a significantly different classification than the phytosociological approach. This is demonstrated in the comparison of a habitat type classification with the results of a recent phytosociological classification of forest vegetation in the northern Salish Mountains of Montana.
3236810| In European phytosociology, national classifications of corresponding vegetation types show considerable differences even between neighbouring countries. Therefore, the European Vegetation Survey project urgently needs numerical classification methods for large data sets that are able to produce compatible classifications using data sets from different countries. We tested the ability of two methods, TWINSPAN and COCKTAIL, to produce similar classifications of wet meadows (calthion, incl. Filipendulenion) for Germany (7909 relevs) and the Czech Republic (1287 relevs) in this respect. In TWINSPAN, the indicator ordination option was used for classification of two national data sets, and the extracted assignment criteria (indicator species) were applied crosswise from one to the other national data set. Although the data sets presumably contained similar community types, TWINSPAN revealed almost no correspondence between the groups derived from the proper classification of the national data set and the groups defined by the assignment criteria taken from the other national data set. The reason is probably the difference in structure between the national data sets, which is a typical, but hardly avoidable, feature of any pair of phytosociological data sets. As a result, the first axis of the correspondence analysis, and consequently the first TWINSPAN division, are associated with different environmental gradients; the difference in the first division is transferred and multiplied further down the hierarchy. COCKTAIL is a method which produces relev groups on the basis of statistically formed species groups. The user determines the starting points for the formation of species groups, and groups already found in one data set can be tested for existence in the other data set. The correspondence between the national classifications produced by COCKTAIL was fairly good. For some relev groups, the lack of correspondence to groups in the other national data set could be explained by the absence of the corresponding vegetation types in one of the countries, rather than by methodological problems. 
3237106|Seedling establishment and survival of the main woody species of early-successional shrubland in northeastern Spain were studied from 1992 to 1995 with emphasis on the importance of vegetation cover (existence of open areas and the situation beneath the plant canopy) and microhabitat (occurrence of stones, litter and bare soil). In the absence of fire, vegetation cover (measured at a scale of 30 cm x 30 cm) was not correlated with seedling emergence of most species, nor with growth and survival of seedlings up to one year old. Seedlings older than one year showed a similar pattern: their density was not significantly different in both kinds of habitats. The emergence of seedlings was mainly associated with the presence of mature plants - which can provide seeds - and with the absence of unsuitable microhabitats (large stones, deep litter and bare soil). In April 1994 a wildfire burned the study area. This enabled a study of the pattern of post-fire establishment. After the wildfire, seedling emergence of several species increased and most species produced seedlings with higher survival and growth rates than in the period before the fire. Pre-fire cover, however, did not show significant effects on post-fire seedling dynamics in most cases.
40925485|Questions: What are the nurse effects of Rhodomyrtus tomentosa in degraded land of South China? Are canopy or soil factors responsible for the main nurse effect? Do facilitative effects increase with the shade tolerance of the target species? Location: Degraded shrubland in South China. Methods: Seedlings of three native climax woody species (Schima superba, Michelia macclurei, Castanopsis fissa) that differ in shade tolerance were subjected to four treatments by transplantation: (1) under the canopy of R. tomentosa shrubs; (2) in open interspaces without vegetation cover (control); (3) under the canopy of R. tomentosa from which canopies had been removed; and (4) in open interspaces without vegetation but covered by branches and leaves of R. tomentosa. Results: At low soil nutrient levels, increased canopy shade, soil porosity and soil moisture under the canopy of R. tomentosa increased seedling survival of the climax tree species S. superba, fissa and M. macclureu and shoot height of S. superba. The nurse effect (a form of facilitation) of R. tomentosa depended more on canopy shade than on soil amelioration. The magnitude of facilitation or nurse effect was positively correlated with shade tolerance of the target species. Conclusions: Use of nurse plants in restoration differs from traditional reforestation (clearing and/or burning to reduce interspecific competition between target tree species and non-target species) because it focuses on positive interactions between nurse plants and target plants that increase establishment of target species and reduce time required for restoration. Because nurse effects of R. tomentosa shrubs tended to be larger on target species with greater shade tolerance, shade-tolerant plants are suggested as target species to accelerate restoration.
3236758|We investigated the responses of two co-existing Mediterranean trees with different regeneration strategies (Phillyrea latifolia seedlings and Quercus ilex sprouts) to experimental drought below the forest canopy. We considered different recruitment stages and used leaf isotopic discrimination to estimate water use efficiency (WUE) and nitrogen availability and use. Drought decreased the emergence and survival of seedlings and sprouts. Survival and growth of older saplings were not influenced by drought. Seedling emergence of P. latifolia was higher than Q. ilex sprout production, but Q. ilex sprouts had higher survival and growth rates. These differences disappeared in the sapling stage. Carbon isotopic discrimination suggested that Q. ilex sprouts had higher WUE than P. latifolia seedlings. Drought increased WUE of recruits, particularly in Q. ilex. Water use regulation increased with ageing, particularly in P. latifolia. Q. ilex had higher <sup>15</sup>N values than P. latifolia; these were also higher under drier soil conditions. Current year seedlings had higher <sup>15</sup>N than saplings, particularly in P. latifolia, suggesting they exploit superficial soil layers. These results suggest that sprouts obtain benefit from resources stored in parent plants. At earlier stages, they perform better than seedlings. This response is not coupled to adult vulnerability to drought for these species, revealing the difficulty of predicting species dynamics during climate change.
40925530|Questions: We tested the hypothesis that if competition had a significant influence in structuring this boreal plant community, removal of neighbours, addition of fertilizer and addition of water would all benefit the transplanted seedlings. Alternatively, if facilitation had a greater influence, then removal of neighbours would be detrimental to the transplants but fertilization and watering would still be beneficial. Location: Understorey of the boreal forest in southwestern Yukon Territory, Canada (13822'W; 6102'N). Methods: Ten of the most common species were transplanted as seedlings into transects from which all neighbours had been removed, and also into transects with intact vegetation. We used a factorial design with two levels of watering and two levels of fertilization; this allowed us to test effects at both species and community level. Results: The summed survival and total biomass of all transplants was significantly higher in the presence of neighbours than without neighbours, indicating a facultative effect of neighbouring plants, but there were significant increases in only six of the ten species. The combined survival and biomass of all species increased with watering, survival decreased and biomass increased with fertilization, but only two species had significant responses to fertilization: Anenome parviflora decreased and Mertensia paniculata increased in biomass. Watering increased the biomass of Achillea millefoliurn, Festuca altaica and Solidago multiradiata; there were also some interaction effects. Conclusions: (1) The presence of neighbours was generally facilitative. (2) Fertilization had negligible effects, and watering had minor beneficial effects. (3) This study demonstrates the importance of facilitation in structuring this boreal understorey community.
41059545|Question: Can a simple measurement of nitrogen (N) availability be related to an ecologically relevant response, i.e. mean Ellenberg N indicator value (E N )? Location: UK (England, Wales and Scotland). Methods: Soil cores from a stratified sample of UK habitats were analysed for mineralizable  with a conventional incubation and a new flushing method, which uses a single mineral  extraction. Predictions of mean E N using mineralizable N and other soil measurements were assessed by fitting linear mixed-effect models, using the Akaike information criterion (AIC) as a measure of model parsimony. Results: Mineralizable N measurements using the flushing method described a component of the variation in mean E N that was more orthogonal to bulk soil properties such as moisture content, total N/C ratio and pH than that described by conventionally measured mineralizable N. Mineralizable N as measured using the flushing method improved the accuracy of predictions obtained using only bulk soil measurements, and appeared in the best two-term and threeterm models. Conclusions: Much of the variation in mean E N can be related to soil N/C ratio, pH or moisture content, but mineralizable N distinguishes variation in mean E N that is independent of these bulk soil properties. The new measure will be useful for studies of the exposure of plants to N, in particular when assessing N pollution effects on plant species composition.
3236624| This paper deals with the influence of edaphic conditions on the spatial structure of banded thickets or tiger bush (brousse tigre). It is based on two sites in West Africa, with similar climatic conditions but located on contrasting substrates. The spatial structure was described with standardized characteristics including thicket spacing, thicket/inter-thicket contrast, upslope/downslope asymmetry and species zonation throughout the vegetation band. Recruitment and senescence features of woody stands were emphasized in order to understand current dynamics. Data were collected on transects oriented perpendicular to the contours and so to the thickets as well. A standardized analytical procedure was applied to data from both sites to ensure consistent and thorough delienation of thickets. The overall periodicity of thickets, the woody flora and the dominant species Combretum micranthum were similar at the two sites. However, thicket spacing, thicket/inter-thicket contrast and upslope/downslope floristic asymmetry of the thickets were higher in the less favourable site. Also seedlings were less abundant, with a greater dependence on pre-existing thickets. Not all banded vegetation systems show sharp contrasts and are strongly asymmetric, since such characteristics are likely to be reinforced by adverse environmental conditions. As a consequence, current dynamics may be more diverse than expected. Quantified inter-site comparisons can greatly help to classify African banded vegetation systems and to discuss potential dynamic outcomes. 
4499296| Question: What is the variation in species composition of Central European semi-dry grasslands? Can we apply a training-and-test validation approach for identifying phytosociological associations which are floristically well defined in a broad geographic comparison; can we separate them from earlier described associations with only a local validity? Location: A 1200 km long transect running along a gradient of increasing continentality from central Germany via Czech Republic, Slovakia, NE Austria, Hungary to NW Romania. Methods: Relevs with > 25% cover of Brachypodium pinnatum and/or Bromus erectus were geographically selected from a larger database. They were randomly split into two data sets, TRAINING and TEST, each with 422 relevs. Cluster analysis was performed for each data set on scores from significant principal coordinates. Different partitions of the TRANING data set were validated on the TEST data set, using a new method based on the comparison of % frequencies of species occurrence in clusters. Clusters were characterized by statistically defined groups of diagnostic species and values of climatic variables. Results: Species composition changed along the NW-SE gradient and valid clusters were geographically well separated. Optimal partition level was at 11 clusters, six being valid: two clusters Germany and the Czech Republic corresponded to the Bromion erecti; two clusters from the Czech Republic and Hungary to the Cirsio-Brachypodion, and two clusters were transitional between these two alliances. Conclusion: The training-and-test validation method used in this paper proved to be efficient for discriminating between robust clusters, which are appropriate candidates for inclusion in the national or regional syntaxonomic overviews, and weak clusters, which are specific to the particular classification of the given data set. 
3236934|This paper explores whether plant breeding system and pollination specialization influence the reproductive response of plants to habitat fragmentation. It is meaningful for conservation to predict a plant species' extinction risk. We found 25 studies in the literature assessing the effects of habitat fragmentation on either pollination or reproductive success of 46 plant species to answer the following questions: 1. Are pollination and reproductive success of self-incompatible species more likely to decline with habitat fragmentation than the pollination and reproductive success of self-compatible species? Although most of the species showed statistically significant negative effects, the pollination and reproduction of self-incompatible species were as likely to decline with fragmentation as those of self-compatible species. 2. Are pollination and reproductive success of specialist plants more affected than the pollination and reproduction of generalist plants? Comparisons of fragmentation-related changes in pollination and reproductive success between specialists and generalists do not support the hypothesis that specialization in pollination increases the risk of plant extinction. 3. Can self-incompatible species offset their expected higher vulnerability to fragmentation by being, on average, more pollination generalist than self-compatible species? In a larger data set on 260 species, we did not find significant differences in either the mean number or frequency distribution of numbers of flower-visiting species or orders between self-compatible and self-incompatible species. Our review suggests that no generalizations can be made on susceptibility to fragmentation based on compatibility system and pollination specialization.
41059623|Question: Do New Zealand tree ferns have recognizable shade tolerance niches? Location: Lowland temperate rain forest of New Zealand (4120'S, 17458'E). Methods: Growth, death and recruitment of five tree fern species were estimated from a 38-year record of stem heights, collected within a 2.25-ha block of forest, and electron transport rates (ETR) of photosystem II of fronds were measured. Results: Two species of Cyathea were comparatively common (603 and 351 stems in total) and two were comparatively rare (155 and 17 stems in total) on the site. The common species had lower rates of growth, recruitment and mortality than the rare species, had skewed age distributions typical of shadetolerant species and were probably recruited soon after a catastrophic earthquake in 1855. The two rare species were failing to recruit under closed forests; their age distributions indicated that all had regenerated long after the earthquake. ETR were higher for faster-growing than for the shade-tolerant species. A tree fern that regenerates vegetatively from aerial buds, Dicksonia squarrosa, was common on the site (361 stems in total). Its age distribution suggested it was relatively shade tolerant, but its mortality and recruitment rates were much higher than those of the two shade-tolerating Cyathea species, suggesting that this multi-stemmed species functions differently from the monopodial Cyathea species. Conclusions: New Zealand Cyathea tree ferns occupy distinct niches along a shade tolerance spectrum and their relative abundances are strongly influenced by disturbance history. The study provides evidence that tree fern species differ strongly in their responses to canopy disturbance and are not ecologically equivalent.
3236477|Question: Can above-ground biomass of naturally growing Alhagi sparsifolia shrubs be estimated non-destructively? Location: Qira oasis (37 01' N, 80 48' E, 1365 m a.s.l.) at the southern fringe of the Taklamakan desert, Xinjiang, NW China. Methods: Two methods were compared to estimate above-ground biomass (AGB) of Alhagi. At first shrub AGB was estimated by manual ground measurements (called 'allometric approach') of length, width and height of 50 individuals. Subsequently regression equations were established between calculated shrub canopy volume and shrub AGB (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.96). These equations were used to calculate AGB from manual ground measurements in 20 sample plots within the Alhagi field. Secondly, kite-based colour aerial photography coupled with the use of a Geographic Information System (called 'GIS approach') was tested. First and second order polynomial regressions between AGB data of the 50 individual shrubs and their respective canopy area allowed to automatically calculate the AGB of all remaining shrubs covered by the photograph (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.92 to 0.96). The use of non-linear AGB regression equations required an automatised separation of shrubs growing solitary or in clumps. Separation criteria were the size and shape of shrub canopies. Results: The allometric approach was more reliable but also more time-consuming than the GIS-based approach. The latter led to an overestimation of Alhagi dry matter in densely vegetated areas. However, this systematic error decreased with increasing size of the surveyed area. Future research in this field should focus on improvements of AGB estimates in areas of high shrub density.
3236384|The development of secondary Pinus densiflora (Japanese red pine) forests after pine wilt disease was studied through phytosociological analysis, estimation of forest structure before disease and size-structure, tree ring and stem analyses. Following the end of the disease, the growth of previously suppressed small oak trees was accelerated. This is quite different from the development of forests following fire, which starts with the establishment of pine seedlings. Pine wilt disease shifted the dominance of secondary forests from Pinus densiflora to Quercus serrata oak forest. In pine forests, disturbance by fire is important for forest maintenance. In contrast, disturbance by pine wilt disease leads to an acceleration of succession from pine forest to oak forest.
3237285|We used a forest chronosequence at the Barro Colorado Nature Monument (BCNM) to examine changes in the abundance and species composition of seeds in the soil during forest succession. At each of eight sites varying from 20 yr to 100 yr since abandonment, and at two old-growth (> 500 yr) forest stands, we established two 160-m transects and sampled the surface 0 - 3 cm of soil in cores collected at each 5 m interval. Seed densities were estimated from the number of seedlings germinated from the soil over a six-week period. Contrary to expectation, neither the density of the soil seed bank, nor species richness or diversity were directly related to age since abandonment, but the density of the soil seed bank was correlated with the abundance of seed-bank-forming species in the standing vegetation. In marked contrast to published studies, herbaceous taxa were rare even in the youngest stands, and the common tree species, which accounted for most seeds in the soil, were present in all stands. The pioneer tree Miconia argentea (Melastomataceae) was the single most common species in the seed bank, accounting for 62 % of seeds and present in 92 % of soil samples. Rapid recovery of the vegetation of young regrowth stands on BCNM, when compared to sites elsewhere may be partly due to allochthonous seed rain from nearby mature forest stands and the lack of seed inputs of weeds and grasses from agricultural and pasture lands which may inhibit forest succession.
3236753| Patterns of moss and liverwort species diversity species richness and species turnover (-diversity) - in three conifer-dominated boreal forest stands of northern Alberta, Canada are described. We examined the relationship between bryophyte species diversity and micro-environment at two sample grains, the microsite - substrate types for moss colonization; logs, stumps, tree bases, undisturbed patches of forest floor (dominated by feather moss species), and disturbed patches of forest floor - and the mesosite (25 m x 25 m plots). Microsite type and properties (e.g. decay class, hardwood vs softwood, pH) were the principal predictors of bryophyte species diversity and not micro-environment variation among mesosites. Microsite type was the strongest predictor of microsite species richness and -diversity was higher among microsites and types and within microsites than among mesosites or stands. Microsite properties were significant predictors of species richness for all microsite types. Log and stump decay classes, influenced also by hardwood vs soft-wood predicted species richness of woody microsite types and soil pH and moisture predicted species richness of forest floor microsites. -diversity was highest for tree bases and disturbed patches of forest floor and lowest for logs. Mesosite diversity was lower than that among microsites, and mesosite species richness was not well explained by measured environmental parameters. Results suggest that in conifer-dominated boreal stands, species richness of microsites is only negligibly influenced by within-stand variation at the mesosite grain and that substrate characteristics are the most important predictors of bryophyte species diversity in this ecosystem. 
3236081|Seed dispersal and early revegetation processes were studied in an area devastated by a debris avalanche that occurred on volcano Ontake, Central Japan in 1984. The avalanche was initiated by a volcanic earthquake, and a 3.4 x 10<sup>7</sup> m<sup>3</sup> land mass destroyed the vegetation over 700 ha. The revegetation of the first five years was slow in the area of higher elevation (subalpine area). Both the speed of revegetation and the species richness of trapped seeds varied with the elevation. The post-disturbance vegetation on the deposit with surface soil or plant fragments was richer in species than that without any surface soil. Almost all of the seeds caught by sticky traps and most of the species with frequent occurrence in the vegetation after disturbance were wind dispersed. Wind dispersal was especially important on the deposit without surface soil or plant fragments.
4096727|Question: Does the influence of plant canopy on seedling establishment interact with climate conditions, and particularly, do intensified drought conditions, enhance a positive effect of the vegetation canopy on seedlings in Mediterranean-type ecosystems. Location: Mediterranean shrubland near Barcelona, Spain at 210 m a.s.l. Methods: Over the course of four years we recorded seedling emergence and survival in open areas and below vegetation under control, drier and warmer experimental climatic conditions. Results: Seedling emergence is more sensitive to climate conditions than later stages of growth. When considering the whole set of species, the total number of established seedlings at the end of the experiment was lower in the drought and warming stands than in control ones, and vegetation canopy increased the number of these seedlings in the drought stands. Drought reduced seedling emergence but not warming, while the interaction between climate treatments and vegetation canopy was not significant. Seedling survival was lower in the warming treatment than in the control. Under drought conditions, vegetation canopy increased seedling emergence of the dominant Globularia alypum. In control stands, vegetation canopy reduced their survival. Vegetation canopy increased the survival of the dominant Erica multiflora in warming stands, and it reduced the survival of G. alypum in drought stands. No significant effects of drought and warming were observed in the seed rain of these two species. Conclusions: The balance of the facilitation-competition interactions between vegetation canopy and seedling establishment in Mediterranean-type ecosystems determined by water availability, and drought conditions enhance the positive effect of vegetation canopy. This interaction is species-specific and shows important between-year variability.
40925568|Questions: Does plant species richness and composition of eastern Mediterranean dwarf shrubland (phrygana) correlate with soil pH? How important is the effect of pH on species diversity in relation to other environmental factors in this ecosystem? What is the evolutionary background of the diversity-pH relationship? Location: Western Crete, Greece. Methods: Species composition of vascular plants, soil and other environmental variables were sampled in 100-m plots on acidic and basic bedrock in phrygana vegetation. The relationships between species composition and environmental variables (including climate) were tested using canonical correspondence analysis, and relationships between species richness and environment using correlation and regression analyses. Data were analysed separately for different plant functional types based on life form and life span. Results: Although soil pH varied across a narrow range (5.9-8.1), species composition changed significantly along the pH gradient within all plant functional types. For most functional types, the effect of soil pH on species composition was stronger than that of other environmental variables. Species richness of annuals, geophytes and suffruticose chamaephytes increased with soil pH, while richness of hemicryptophytes and shrubs was not correlated with pH. Conclusions: The results are consistent with the evolutionary species pool hypothesis. High numbers of caldcole annuals, geophytes and suffruticose chamaephytes may be a result of the evolution of these groups on base-rich dry soils in the Mediterranean climate. In contrast, hemicryptophytes, a life form typical of the temperate zone, evolved on both acidic and basic soils and therefore their species numbers do not respond to soil pH across the narrow range studied. The lack of a relationship between shrub species richness and pH is difficult to explain: it may reflect the more diverse or older origin of Mediterranean woody species and their conservative niches.
23012756|Questions: How does plant diversity (species richness, species abundance and rate of change) evolve in early succession on bare peat? Does succession converge towards one equilibrium stage or end up in several stages? Is there a regular pattern in succession velocity? Location: A mire in the calcareous Jura Mountains of northwest Switzerland. Method: Twenty-one 1-m 2 permanent plots on bare peat were used to monitor temporal stages over a 21-year period (1988 to 2008) in a Swiss mire where a slide occurred in 1987. Species diversity and life forms were analysed based on Shannon's equitability index and cover. We used classification and metric ordination techniques to investigate patterns of successional rates and trends. The high temporal resolution of the survey allowed the pattern of succession velocity to be analysed. Results: Species richness increased continuously over the 21 years of succession. The highest cover throughout the study period was the life form sedge. Time trajectories of the 21 plots revealed three alternative pathways towards intermediate equilibrium stages in the first years, still not converging in the later stages. Changes in succession velocity reached a first maximum about 6 years after the slide had occurred and a second maximum 12 years later.
3236471| Question: In seeds which are regularly consumed by waterbirds in the field, how does gut-passage modify their response to salinity gradients? Location: Doana National Park salt marsh, south-west of Spain. Methods: Seeds of Scirpus litoralis and Scirpus maritimus were collected and force fed to mallards (Anas platyrhynchos). Both the ingested seeds (passage) and non-ingested seeds (controls) were exposed, in germination chambers, to a salinity range similar to that observed in the field (0-32 dS/m). After 30 days, the total percentage germination, the duration of the dormancy period and the germination speed were computed. The response of the different germination parameters to ingestion and salinity was analyzed using generalized lineal models. Recovery tests on seeds that did not germinate in the various treatments and tests of the effect of ingestion on the intrinsic variability in seed response were also performed. Results: An increase in salinity reduced germinability and increased the length of dormancy, while gut passage increased the intrinsic variability of the temporal seed response in both species. In S. litoralis there was a significant interaction between the effects of salinity and passage on germination rate. Passage increased germination rate at low salinities ( 2 dS/m) but decreased it at high salinities (4 dS/m). Conclusion: Gut-passage by ducks significantly changes seed response to salinity. The outcome of plant-animal interactions can be influenced by environmental gradients. Studies of germination in response to gut passage that do not take such gradients into account may produce misleading results. 
3237059| We used dendro-ecological techniques to investigate fundamental relationships between climate and growth of Abies alba (silver fir) in eastern France. Seven Abies forests in the Trives region of the French Alps were chosen to represent a wide range of ecological conditions based on the results of previous forest vegetation surveys. In each forest, four trees were sampled in each of five different stands with two cores per tree. These 280 cores were studied using two separate dendro-ecological methods: the pointer years method (based on extreme growth events), and correlation functions between tree ring-widths and monthly climatic data. Data from 11 meteorological stations were combined to provide a regional analysis of precipitation and minimum and maximum temperatures. The two dendro-ecological methods appear to be complementary, as the first technique emphasizes common and low intensity linear correlations between ring-widths and climatic variations, and the second method emphasizes extreme and unusual climatic events such as exceptionally cold or dry years. Across all sites, drought in the previous year was consistently correlated with a low growth rate; however, other climatic variables varied substantially among sites. For example, drought in the current year reduced growth more in the low elevation sites than in the high elevation sites and severe winter frost reduced growth the most in the high altitude sites and the driest site. Moreover, certain growth responses are better correlated with the age of the stands, the canopy closure and the floristic composition of the community than the abiotic factors, emphasizing the value of dendro-ecological sampling based on phytosociological units. 
3236115|Vegetation switches are those processes in which there is positive-feedback between vegetation and environment, i.e. a vegetation state modifies its environment producing conditions more favourable to itself (Wilson & Agnew 1992). Switches can produce and maintain abrupt ecotones between plant communities. Such a sharp ecotone exists between beech-podocarp forest and mire vegetation, both on deep peat, in southwest New Zealand. One such site was examined. There was no apparent explanation for the ecotone in the present topography nor in the substrate. Levelled transects through the forest demonstrated that most seedling establishment occurred on dead fallen tree boles. These microsites were significantly richer in N, P and K than the wet sump microsites. We argue that this is a mechanism whereby trees can become established in the forest, but not in the open mire. In the forest, the presence of trees ensures the presence of dead-log microsites on the ground, permitting tree seedlings to grow. In the mire, there are no such microsites, and trees cannot establish. The ecotone may be sharpened because of the presence of an ecotonal band of the small tree Leptospermum scoparium between forest and mire. This species can reproduce vegetatively by root suckers in the mire. Its boles are light, and even if they fall to the mire surface they are not thick enough to form a substrate for tree-seedling establishment. The larger tree species may be prevented from falling onto the mire by the wind-sheltering of the forest, and by the zone of Leptospermum. The postulated process would represent a new kind of water-/nutrient-mediated switch, of Type 1 ('One-sided'). It may occur in many waterlogged forests worldwide.
3236274|Globally applicable sets of terrestrial plant functional types (PFTs) have been identified as a major need in the development of dynamic global vegetation models for use with global atmospheric models. Global sets of PFTs should represent the world's most important plant types; characterize them through their functional behavior; and provide complete, geographically representative coverage of the world's land areas. Three main schools of thought on PFTs have emerged: (1) a physiological focus on internal function, especially at the level of basic metabolism; (2) an ecological focus on function in relation to plant form and environmental conditions; and (3) a geophysical focus on how plant functions affect the adjacent atmosphere. A structural approach based on pheno-physiognomy permits ready identification of relatively familiar, recognizable plant types. Many of the criteria cited by other approaches also are intimately related to structure and its seasonal changes. An earlier global system of structural-functional PFTs and their climatic relations has been improved, including addition of less well-known plant types, and is briefly described. A more strictly 'functional' approach is proposed, in which major aspects of plant function, initially metabolism and water balance, are used to classify functional types and suggest how these are constrained by climate. Such functional considerations, however, are closely linked to structural manifestations - but also require other functional criteria for more completely functional classifications. A recent global model of potential natural vegetation types suggested ca. 15 major plant types as necessary to cover the world's main terrestrial vegetation patterns. These essential types correspond well with a first-cut set of structural types implied by metabolic considerations.
3235609| Analysis of fire statistics revealed that there are steep gradients in the distribution of lightning-caused fire ignitions in Sweden. The highest ignition density was found in the southeastern provinces of Kalmar and stergtland, ca. 0.23/10 000 ha/yr. From there, densities generally declined both to the north and to the west, with a density averaging ca. 0.05 in the six northernmost provinces, and an equally low density in the southwestern province of Halland. For both northern and southern Sweden, lightning ignitions peaked in early July, but in the south the season for ignitions started 2 - 3 weeks earlier and ended 2 - 3 weeks later. The geographical gradients in lightning ignition density correspond to the average precipitation during summer. The patterns of lightning ignition densities may also indicate gradients in natural fire frequencies. This hypothesis is supported by the distribution of certain fire-adapted plant species. 
4096670|Questions: 1. How do physiography, flooding regime, landscape pattern, land-cover history, and local soil conditions influence the presence, community structure and abundance of overstorey trees? 2. Can broad-scale factors explain variation in the floodplain forest community, or are locally measured soil conditions necessary? Location: Floodplain of the lower 370 km of the Wisconsin River, Wisconsin, USA. Methods: Floodplain forest was sampled in 10 m x 20 m plots (n = 405) during summers of 1999 and 2000 in six 12- to 15-km reaches. Results: Species observed most frequently were Fraxinus pennsylvanica, Acer saccharinum and Ulmus americana. Physiography (e.g. geographic province) and indicators of flooding regime (e.g. relative elevation and distance from main channel) were consistently important in predicting occurrence, community composition, and abundance of trees. Correspondence analysis revealed that flood-tolerant and intolerant species segregated along the primary axis, and late-successional species segregated from flood-tolerant species along the secondary axis. Current landscape configuration only influenced species presence or abundance in forests that developed during recent decades. Land-cover history was important for tree species presence and for the abundance of late-successional species. Comparison of statistical models developed with and without soils data suggested that broad-scale factors such as geographic province generally performed well. Conclusions: Physiography and indicators of flood regime are particularly useful for explaining floodplain forest structure and composition in floodplains with a relatively high proportion of natural cover types.
3237142|Plant mobility was studied in a species-rich grassland in S. Moravia (Czech Republic) at scales from 0.0025 to 2.25 m<sup>2</sup>. Cumulative species numbers, cumulative species frequencies and the distribution of distances between sites of occurrence in particular years were established using data collected from 1991 to 1997. The observed values were compared with null models of completely random and restricted random movement of the plants. Most plants persisted at a spot more frequently than expected from the completely random model and with a few exceptions they also spread to neighbouring subplots more often than expected. Cumulative species numbers were between the ranges predicted by the two random models and increased linearly during the 7-yr period at all scales, indicating a large species pool. The role of clonal spreading and of generative reproduction depended on the growth form of the species. I conclude that a high species richness is not necessarily linked with a high plant mobility, even if coexistence of plant species may be promoted by plant mobility.
3236871|We studied the effects of neighbours on the biomass of seven randomly chosen species in species-rich sub-alpine meadows in the central Caucasus Mountains by comparing the performance of plants with neighbours removed experimentally to that of paired plants with their neighbours left intact. In most cases the removal of neighbours led to significant increases in vegetative and total above-ground biomass implying the species were limited by competition. However, the neighbour removal led also to an increased leaf wilting for target plants, as well as to strong decline in reproductive effort for some species. We hypothesise that competition may be the prevailing type of interaction in species-rich sub-alpine meadow communities, but competitive effects on vegetative production may be balanced, if not outweighed, by facilitation, at least for some species. Such a balance may enhance species coexistence in communities.
3235707|Contrary to observations and models in which trees and herbaceous plants are viewed as competitors, we found that trees in an African savanna have positive impacts on herbaceous biomass production and composition, and on soil nutrient status. In the Turkana District of northwestern Kenya, we investigated vegetation and soil gradients along equi-angular transects radiating from the boles of individual Acacia tortilis trees. Total herbaceous biomass averaged 260  17(se) g/m<sup>2</sup>at the bole and declined to 95  8 g/m<sup>2</sup> in the tree interspaces. Soil organic carbon and total nitrogen concentrations were greatest (0.72 % and 0.083 %, respectively) in shallow soils near the bole and declined rapidly toward the interspaces and with increasing depth. Transects were also established between tree pairs to assess effects of differential canopy proximities. Grass production averaged 220  21 g /m<sup>2</sup> below overlapping canopies, 150  15 g /m<sup>2</sup> under individual canopies, and 95  8 g/m<sup>2</sup> in interstitial areas. Detrended correspondence analysis revealed that shifts in species composition were correlated with distance from tree bole out to the edge of the canopy. Species response, in terms of relative cover, to increasing distance from the bole, seemed to fall into five general classes: 1) greatest at the bole, 2) increasing with distance from the bole, 3) greatest in the mid canopy zone, 4) least at the bole and 5) no response. Trees did not influence herbaceous composition beyond tree canopies. It is assumed that shade cast by the tree canopy with subsequent reductions of understory water stress and temperature and increased nutrient concentrations may be the most important factors affecting understory soil and vegetation.
4096710|Question: The formation of large woody debris (LWD) piles during floods has significant impacts on riparian succession through pioneering plants often establishing in association with wood. We assess the importance of LWD for seed regeneration of riparian plants after a century-scale flood disturbance in a semi-arid environment. Location: The Sabie River within Kruger National Park in the semi-arid northeast of South Africa. Methods: Our approach was to quantify the riparian soil seed bank, to record the frequency of establishment of riparian plants in woody debris piles, and to conduct experimental outplantings of common riparian trees in plots with and without LWD. Results: We found the abundance and diversity of seedlings were higher in soils taken from wood piles than from open reference areas, and most seedlings were herbaceous species. Surveys indicated that numbers of seedlings recorded within woody debris were significantly greater than in open reference areas or within established vegetation. Seedling establishment in various cover-types also varied for different riparian tree species. Experimental out-planting of seedlings of two riparian tree species (Philenoptera violacea and Combretum erythrophyllum) revealed that, after 433 days, planted seedlings survived only in woody debris piles. Conclusion: LWD formed after a large flood creates heterogeneous patches that may influence post-disturbance regeneration of riparian vegetation by providing a variety of environmental niches for seedlings establishment. We suspect that higher seedling survival in LWD is due to increased moisture (particularly in the dry season) and nutrients, and protection from seasonal flooding and herbivory.
3235805|The grassy meadow on the top of Marys Peak, in the Oregon Coast Range, is being invaded, primarily along the margins, by Abies procera. To examine vegetation and environmental changes across the forest-meadow transition and to evaluate factors affecting tree invasion, belt transects were established at 10 sites. Correlations of environmental variables with ordination axes from Detrended Correspondence Analysis suggest that the sites were distributed along a moisture gradient. Although the sites varied considerably in species composition and environment, tree invasion of the meadow was occurring at all sites. Reduction in abundance of the dense herbaceous vegetation of the meadow is required before the small seedlings of Abies procera can become established. Almost all tree invasion of the meadow occurs in the narrow forest-meadow ecocline because trees at the edge of the forest reduce the cover of herbaceous plants in the adjacent meadow. On some sites, above average snow accumulations further reduce vigor of meadow vegetation and increase tree establishment. On the driest sites wet summers facilitate tree establishment. Infrequent fires, which remove the fire sensitive Abies procera, are probably required to reverse the slow but persistent trend of forest expansion and ultimately maintain the meadow.
3235732|Variation in the abundance of species in space and/ or time can be caused by a wide range of underlying processes. Before such causes can be analysed we need simple mathematical models which can describe the observed response patterns. For this purpose a hierarchical set of models is presented. These models are applicable to positive data with an upper bound, like relative frequencies and percentages. The models are fitted to the observations by means of logistic and non-linear regression techniques. Working with models of increasing complexity allows us to choose for the simplest possible model which sufficiently explains the observed pattern. The models are particularly suited for description of responses in time or over major environmental gradients. Deviations from these temporal or spatial trends may be statistically ascribed to, for example, climatic fluctuations or small-scale spatial heterogeneity. The applicability of this approach is illustrated by examples from recent research. A combination of simple, descriptive models like those presented in this paper and causal models as developed by several others, is advocated as a powerful tool towards a fuller understanding of the dynamics and patterns of vegetational change.
3235960| Seedling and sapling distribution of the deciduous tree Quercus robur was studied in a grazed, partly open forest, ca. 20 km S of Linkping, Sweden. Numbers of seedlings and saplings were compared between open and shaded parts of the forest. Cover values for the shrub and tree layers, proportion of bare ground and of stones and soil water content were determined. Q. robur was shown to germinate equally well in open and shaded parts of the forest; however, most saplings were found in the shade. No correlation was found between seedlings or saplings and cover of shrub layer or proportion of stones in the soil surface or with soil water content. 
3236259|A syntaxonomic study of the major plant communities in neotropical North American deserts (Sonoran, Mojave and Baja California Deserts) is presented. The field method of the Braun-Blanquet approach was combined with a numerical syntaxonomical analysis (cluster analysis and principal coordinate ordination). 21 associations are described for the first time: Ambrosio chenopodifoliae-Larreetum tridentatae, Acamptopappo sphaerocephali-Larreetum tridentatae, Hymenocleo monogyrae-Baccharidetum glutinosae, Bergerocacto emoryi-Agavetum shawii, Burseretum hindsianomicrophyllae, Cercidio microphylli-Carnegieetum giganteae, Bursero microphyllae-Cyrtocarpetum edulis, Hymenocleo salsolae-Daleetum spinosae, Echinocereo engelmannii-Agavetum deserti, Euphorbio californicae-Fouquierietum diguetii, Fouquierio splendentis-Larreetum tridentatae, Agavo cerulatae-Idrietum columnaris, Mascagnio macropterae-Lysilometum candidae, Maytenetum phyllanthoidis, Opuntio basilaris-Larreetum tridentatae, Prosopidetum torreyanae, Roso minutifoliae-Aesculetum parryi, Opuntio taponae-Agavetum subcerulatae, Tidestromio oblongifoliae-Atriplicetum hymenelytrae, Eurotio lanatae-Larreetum tridentatae and Yucco validae-Fouquierietum diguetii. Some associations include subassociations. Ecological, biogeographical and floristic bioclimatic data are given for each association.
3236033|A field experiment encompassing both neighbour-and nutrient-manipulations was conducted in a nutrient-impoverished old-field habitat to investigate how the intensity of plant competition was affected by soil nutrient level. Three perennial grasses were used as target species: Agropyron repens, Poa pratensis and Phleum pratense. Neighbour manipulations involved the removal (through herbicide application) of all neighbouring vegetation within a 20 cm or 40 cm radius around target plants. Target performance was measured under five levels of added nutrients (N-P-K) in both the neighbour-removal plots and in non-removal (control) plots. Both neighbour and nutrient manipulations had a highly significant effect on both biomass and tiller production but the interaction between these treatments was generally insignificant. Below-ground/above-ground biomass quotient was affected only by neighbour manipulations and was greatest in the control plots (with no neighbours removed) for all three species. The suppressive effect of neighbours was not markedly affected by nutrient level. However, yield suppression showed a significant decreasing trend with increasing nutrient level for biomass production in Agropyron and an increasing trend for tiller production in Phleum. For Poa, there was no trend in the intensity of competition across nutrient level. The results suggest that the general intensity of competition within this community neither increases nor decreases with increasing nutrient level. Rather, coexisting species appear to respond individually in terms of the intensity of competition that they experience. These results conflict with predictions from the triangular C-S-R model of plant strategies. However, they are consistent with a recently modified `habitat templet' model for vegetation.
3237306|The long-term growth dynamics of natural forest stands on the island of Hokkaido were described on the basis of an analysis of data from 38 permanent plots spanning 15 - 22 yr. Stand structure was characterized by basal area, stem density and tree size variability. To detect trends in stand structure, regression models for recruitment rate (per ha per yr), mortality rate and the rate of change in stem density and tree size variability were developed by a stepwise method using initial basal area, stem density, tree size variability, species composition summarized by LNMDS ordination, altitude, annual mean temperature, annual precipitation, type of understorey vegetation, topography and slope aspect as candidates for predictor variables. The same analyses were conducted for basal area increment (net growth) and its components: survivor growth = basal area gain by growth of surviving individuals and mortality = basal area loss by death of individuals. Stem density remained generally unchanged; recruitment was relatively low even in very sparse stands. Stand basal area generally increased as survivor growth was approximately double the mortality. Recruitment rate was strongly affected by the presence of dwarf bamboo (Sasa spp.) vegetation on the forest floor which inhibited tree regeneration. Mortality rate was density-dependent; dense stands had higher mortality than sparse stands. Density change rate (recruitment rate - mortality rate) was, therefore, determined by both the type of understorey vegetation and stem density. Survivor growth was high in stands with high stem density and basal area. Mortality was dependent on basal area and altitude. Net basal area increment (net growth) was dependent only on stem density with other factors that influenced survivor growth and mortality omitted. Tree size variability decreased in stands with high tree size variability whereas it increased in stands with low size variability. Based on the obtained models for density change rate and net basal area increment, trajectories of stands were illustrated on a log-log diagram of stem density and basal area. The predicted differences in trajectories as affected by the understorey vegetation type indicated the importance of dwarf bamboo vegetation for forest dynamics on Hokkaido.
4096743| Question: How does changing resource availability induced by fertilization and defoliation affect seedling establishment and mycorrhizal symbiosis in a subarctic meadow? Location: 610 m a.s.l., Kilpisjrvi (6903' N, 2050' E), Finland. Methods: A short-term full-factorial experiment was established, with fertilization and defoliation of natural established vegetation as treatments. Seeds of two perennial herbs Solidago virgaurea and Gnaphalium norvegicum were sown in natural vegetation and their germination and growth followed. At the final harvest we measured the response in terms of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) colonization, biomass and nitrogen concentration of the seedlings and the established vegetation. Results: Germination rate was negatively affected by defoliation in the unfertilized plots. The shoot biomass of S. virgaurea seedlings was reduced by the defoliation and fertilization treatments, but not affected by their interaction. In G. norvegicum, the germination rate and the seedling shoot biomass were negatively correlated with moss biomass in the plots. In the established plants the arbuscular colonization rate was low and defoliation and fertilization treatments either increased or did not affect the colonization by AM fungi. In the seedlings, the colonization rate by AM fungi was high, but it was not affected by treatments. Both seedlings and established plants were colonized by dark septate fungi. Conclusions: Reduction of plant biomass by herbivores can have different effects on seedling growth in areas of high and low soil nutrient availability. The weak response of AM colonization to defoliation and fertilization suggests that AM symbiosis is not affected by altering plant resource availability under the conditions employed in this study. 
3236690|Consequences of sulfide toxicity on succession in wet calcareous dune slacks were investigated. Sulfide may exert an inhibitory effect on dune slack plants, but several pioneer species exhibit ROL (Radial Oxygen Loss) and thereby protect themselves against free sulfide. Under oxic conditions free sulfide will be oxiginated to harmless sulfate. However, successive species when not capable of ROL may be sensitive to free sulfide and cannot invade the area. Therefore, the occurrence of free sulfide may have a stabilizing effect on the pioneer vegetation. Data on the vertical distribution of oxygen, redox and sulfide were collected in mesocosms with Littorella uniflora or Carex nigra, with and without microbial mats and compared to control mesocosms. Also, in situ data were collected in a dune slack on the Frisian Island of Texel. In the mesocosms, free sulfide was detected only at night-time in C. nigra populated mesocosms and in unvegetated units, but not in L. uniflora vegetated mesocosms. In the field, sulfide and redox profiles showed distinct differences between the groundwater exfiltration and infiltration site of the dune slack. At the exfiltration site, sulfide was only occasionally found; in contrast, measurable amounts of free sulfide were regularly found at the infiltration site of the slack. Since Phragmites australis dominates in the infiltration site of the slack, the results suggest that free sulfide accelerate the succession, rather than slowing it down by the exclusion of some plant species.
3237373|Species composition and biomass of four plant communities were investigated in two coastal polar desert areas in eastern North Greenland, bordering the North East Water Polynya - an ice-free sea area kept open by upwelling - and compared with inland areas in North Greenland. Herb barren, the poorest type, has a species richness of 6 species/m<sup>2</sup>, a cover of 0.7 %, and an above-ground biomass of 0.6 g/m<sup>2</sup> (vascular plants). The richest type, Saxifraga oppositifolia snowbed, has 10 species/m<sup>2</sup>, 5.0 % cover, and 11.2 g/m<sup>2</sup> biomass. A floristic and vegetation boundary exists a few kilometres from the coast. The coastal areas bordering the North East Water Polynya had an impoverished flora and vegetation compared to areas near the ice-covered sea, possibly caused by very low summer temperatures and high frequency of clouds. A new delimitation of the polar deserts of Greenland is proposed on the basis of the number of vascular plant species, the occurrence of species with a specific inland distribution in North Greenland and the dominating life forms. At present the polar desert zone includes only areas within a zone up to ca. 15 km from the outer coast of high arctic Greenland - north of ca. 80 N. Large areas formerly classified as polar deserts in eastern North Greenland, as well as in Washington Land in western North Greenland, are excluded. New floristic data confirm that Greenland is correctly included in the Canadian province of the arctic polar deserts, whereas there is no reason for subdividing the polar deserts of the Canadian province.
3237095| We analysed the heterogeneity of high-elevation vegetation on three mountains along a west-east transect at 41 S lat. in the Andes of northwestern Patagonia, Argentina. In this area, high-Andean vegetation occurs as islands on mountain tops above Nothofagus pumilio forests - with the timberline at ca. 1700 m a.s.l. We recorded floristic, topographic and substrate data in 166 sites stratified according to longitude, altitude, slope and aspect. Vegetation data were classified with TWINSPAN and ordinated with Detrended Correspondence Analysis. The relationship between environmental and floristic variation was analysed using Canonical Correspondence Analysis. In order of importance, geographical longitude, altitude and aspect were the major determinants of vegetation variation, whereas substrate texture and slope appeared less important. The combination of these factors resulted in two main vegetation gradients. The first gradient is related to a moisture availability gradient, primarily determined by longitude and secondarily to variation in wind exposure (east vs. west aspect). The second vegetation gradient is related to variation in temperature, primarily determined by altitude, and secondarily by variation in insolation related to the contrast between north and south aspects. The four communities obtained with TWINSPAN are therefore associated with four characteristic habitat types: moist-cold, moist-warm, dry-cold and dry-warm. The community of warm and dry environments is the richest and has elements in common with dry steppe communities situated at lower elevations to the east, while the vegetation of the cold-moist habitat type has unique elements that are typical of the southern Andes. Although current climatic factors appear to be the major determinants of high-Andean vegetation gradients, historical events of Pleistocene times probably also affected the vegetation patterns we see today. 
3235574|The purposes of this study were to elucidate the floristic and structural characteristics of the vegetation in the Mapimi subdivision of the Chihuahuan Desert, Mexico, and to relate them to environmental variation. The main question addressed was: How does floristic composition, total species richness and life-form species richness vary in relation to environmental change? 154 sites, randomly selected and stratified over seven landscape units, were analyzed. Results showed the existence of a land form gradient along which vegetation types were ordered. Species richness varied along the gradient, the richest land form was bajada, indicating that the maximum species richness did not occur at one extreme of the water availability gradient but in a moderately poor situation. The lowest species richness was found in the playa land form. Cover-based life form spectra varied significantly with land forms, while presence-absence based life form spectra did not. It is suggested that this may be a consequence of the relatively young age of this desert.
3236470|Question: Does disturbance reduce competition intensity and thus favour weak competitors that are presumably less affected by disturbance than strong competitors? Methods: We used a single flooding event with increasing duration to simulate disturbance with increasing intensity. Six flood-plain grass species, typical of different flood regimes were grown in monocultures and in an additive species mixture. Flooding took place early in the first growing season and changes were monitored until the end of the second growing season. Results: Longer flooding durations initially decreased competition, but only a single species (Agrostis) increased its abundance in mixtures after flooding. The two weakest competitors in our selection (Poa trivialis and Elytrigia repens) failed to benefit from flooding because direct losses from flooding exceeded gains from reduced competition. Accordingly, we found no trade-off between flooding tolerance and competitive ability indicating that floods affect strong and weak competitors equally, although some species tolerated floods better than others. Conclusions: Since competition is only temporarily weakened after disturbance, increased competitive ability relative to other species may provide a more effective strategy for persistence in flood-disturbed sites. Above-ground runners seem an important prerequisite for enhanced competitive ability of clonal species in flood-disturbed sites.
3235600|Both size structure and variability (spatial heterogeneity, disturbance, stochasticity, variation in species attributes, etc.) are regarded as regulatory mechanisms of species coexistence. However, none of the models so far proposed consider both size structure and variability simultaneously. A size-structured variation model for plant-community dynamics is proposed, which is based on the diffusion model for growth dynamics of plant populations. This model has four functions: (1) mean growth rate of individuals of size x at time t, G(t,x) (species-specific mean traits, e.g. competitive ability); (2) variance in growth rate of individuals of size x at time t, D(t,x) (stochastic factors due to genetic variation, environmental heterogeneity, spatial variation of individuals, etc.); (3) mortality rate of individuals of size x at time t, M(t,x); and (4) recruitment rate at time t, R(t), as a boundary condition. The interference function for individuals of size x at time t, C(t,x), is introduced, which expresses the degree of interactions between individuals and hence averaged effects of local neighbourhood competition; the G(t,x), D(t,x), M(t,x) and R(t) functions are given in terms of C(t,x). These four functions describe the growth dynamics of individuals of each species in the plant community. Effects of the G(t,x), D(t,x), M(t,x) and R(t) functions on species coexistence in plant communities were evaluated by simulation and the relative importance of the D(t,x) function as well as size structure was shown for species coexistence especially in plant communities where competition among species is non-transitive or niche limitation does not work.
3236735|The study was conducted in deciduous forests of two Swedish regions, Oland and Uppland. It had two objectives: to (1) test the species pool hypothesis by examining if differences in small-scale species richness are related to differences in large-scale species richness and the size of the regional species pool, and (2) to examine the relationship between species richness and productivity and its scaledependence. The first data set comprised 36 sites of moderate to high productivity. In each site, we recorded the presence of vascular plant species in nested plots ranging from 0.001 to 1000 m<sup>2</sup> and measured several environmental variables. Soil pH and Ellenberg site indicator scores for nitrogen were used as estimators of productivity. The second data set included 24 transects (each with 20 l-m<sup>2</sup> plots) on Oland in sites with low to high productivity. Species number, soil pH and relative light intensity were determined in each plot. The forest sites on Oland were more species-rich than the Uppland sites on all spatial scales, although environmental conditions were similar. Small-scale and large-scale species richness were positively correlated. The results present evidence in favour of the species pool hypothesis. In the nested-plots data set, species number was negatively correlated with pH and nitrogen indicator scores, whereas a unimodal relationship between species number and pH was found for the transect data set. These results, as well as previously published data, support the hump-shaped relationship between species richness and productivity in Swedish deciduous forests. Two explanations for the higher species richness of the sites with moderate productivity are given: first, these sites have a higher environmental heterogeneity and second, they have a larger 'habitat-specific' species pool.
40295775|Question: Do species traits explain differences in productivity in grazed and ungrazed plots? Location: Ro de la Plata grasslands, Uruguay (3154'S, 5815'W). Methods: In a greenhouse experiment, we measured the relative growth rate (RGR) of grasses with contrasting responses to grazing (increasers and decreasers). We performed six harvests at weekly intervals in order to calculate the RGR and assess 12 plant traits. We compared the RGR between increaser and decreaser species after 2 and 5 weeks using /-tests. Linear and potential regression models were fitted to time versus natural logarithm of total dry biomass relationships. The RGR temporal trajectories of increaser and decreaser species were obtained from the derivatives of the best-fit functions. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to sort species according to their traits. Results: The RGR of decreaser grasses was higher than that of increasers at the second week, while at the fifth week the opposite was observed. The RGR of decreasers dropped through time, while the RGR of increaser species was constant. The PCA separated increaser from decreaser species. The attributes related to increaser species were: high specific leaf area, tillering rate, green leaf rate, total leaf number, root weight ratio and leaf weight ratio; while those associated with decreaser species were: high dead biomass, senescence rate, reproductive biomass, leaf elongation rate and total biomass. Conclusions: Traits possessed by decreasers reduce light availability and increase the reproductive investment, explaining the drop in RGR. Specific differences in RGR seem to scale up to the ecosystem level and would explain the pattern in aboveground net primary production observed in the field under contrasting grazing regimes.
3236862|The response of geophyte species diversity and frequency of individual geophyte species to cattle grazing was measured at 68 site pairs along fences separating ungrazed from grazed grassland and woodland on different geological formations in northern Israel. Over all site pairs, geophyte species density per 4 m<sup>2</sup> was significantly greater in grazed (2.37) than in protected (1.96) sites of the same site pair. There was considerable variation between site pairs in the magnitude and in the direction of the grazing effect. Part of this variation could be explained by differences in site altitude and in geological formation. The positive effect of grazing on geophyte diversity was lower in sites with low productivity. Of 22 geophyte taxa for which sufficient data were available, nine indicated greater frequency in grazed sites compared to only two in ungrazed sites. In 11 other taxa the response was not consistent. A positive response to grazing was most common in geophytes with narrow leaves of the Iridaceae, Liliaceae and allied families. Conservation of the entire geophyte flora in Mediterranean vegetation requires livestock grazing at moderate to high intensities in parts of the area of each community, and light or no grazing in other parts.
4096780|Question: Temporal and spatial shifts in competitive and facilitative interactions among plants have important implications for species coexistence and community diversity. Many studies have focused on inter-seasonal variation in these interactions, but very few have examined short-term intra-seasonal shifts between competition and facilitation. In the central Caucasus Mountains the subalpine climate changes considerably over the season, with a relatively benign (humid and cooler) first part followed by a much more stressful (drier and warmer) second part. We ask: do plant interactions shift from competitive to facilitative during the growing season as environmental conditions change from mesic to dry? Location: The central Caucasus Mountains, Georgia. Methods: We experimentally investigated shifts in the balance of positive and negative interactions in plant communities over the course of a single growing season by conducting sequential removal experiments on two co-dominant species. Results: We found that during the wet and cool first half of the growing season, target plants without neighbours accumulated significantly more biomass than individuals with neighbours, indicating competition. However, in the drier second half of the growing season competitive interactions were shifted to facilitation as individuals without neighbours accumulated significantly less biomass. Conclusions: In general, these results support the view that competitive and facilitative effects exist in dynamic tension in plant communities with facilitation intensifying as abiotic stress increases, also within a growing season.
3236441|The separate and combined effects of fire and cattle grazing on structure and diversity of productive Mediterranean grasslands in northern Israel were examined within a set of climatically and edaphically similar sites. Cover and height of green and dry plants in winter, and species richness and diversity in spring, were measured in paired transects on both sides of cattle fences, and on both sides of boundaries of both incidental and experimentally lit fires. Early in the first growing season after a fire, plant cover as well as height of green plants were reduced, compared to unburnt grassland. These structural effects of fire were similar to the effects of grazing, but they were greater in ungrazed than in grazed grasslands, indicating a fire-grazing interaction. The effects of fire were considerably attenuated in the second growing season after the fire. Species richness and diversity tended to be higher in grazed than in adjacent ungrazed grasslands. Richness consistently increased after a fire only in grazed grasslands with a strong perennial component. In ungrazed grasslands, and in predominantly annual grasslands, fires reduced species richness and diversity at least as often as they increased it. Fire and grazing should be regarded as two agents with distinct and interactive effects on the community, rather than as two alternative mechanisms of a general disturbance factor.
4499219|Question: How are the effects of mineral soil properties on understory plant species richness propagated through a network of processes involving the forest overstory, soil organic matter, soil nitrogen, and understory plant abundance? Location: North-central Arizona, USA. Methods: We sampled 75 0.05-ha plots across abroad soil gradient in a Pinus ponderosa (ponderosa pine) forest ecosystem. We evaluated multivariate models of plant species richness using structural equation modeling. Results: Richness was highest at intermediate levels of understory plant cover, suggesting that both colonization success and competitive exclusion can limit richness in this system. We did not detect a reciprocal positive effect of richness on plant cover. Richness was strongly related to soil nitrogen in the model, with evidence for both a direct negative effect and an indirect non-linear relationship mediated through understory plant cover. Soil organic matter appeared to have a positive influence on understory richness that was independent of soil nitrogen. Richness was lowest where the forest overstory was densest, which can be explained through indirect effects on soil organic matter, soil nitrogen and understory cover. Finally, model results suggest a variety of direct and indirect processes whereby mineral soil properties can influence richness. Conclusions: Understory plant species richness and plant cover in P. ponderosa forests appear to be significantly influenced by soil organic matter and nitrogen, which are, in turn, related to overstory density and composition and mineral soil properties. Thus, soil properties can impose direct and indirect constraints on local species diversity in ponderosa pine forests.
3236672|We examined patterns of shrub species diversity relative to landscape-scale variability in environmental factors within two watersheds on the coastal flank of the Santa Ynez Mountains, California. Shrub species richness and dominance was sampled at a hierarchy of spatial units using a high-powered telescope from remote vantage points. Explanatory variables included field estimates of total canopy cover and percentage rock cover, and modeled distributions of slope, elevation, photosynthetically active radiation, topographic moisture index, and local topographic variability. Correlation, multiple regression, and regression tree analyses showed consistent relationships between field-based measurements of species richness and dominance, and topographically-mediated environmental variables. In general, higher richness and lower dominance occurred where environmental conditions indicated greater levels of resource limitation with respect to soil moisture and substrate availability. Maximum richness in shrub species occurred on high elevation sites with low topographic moisture index, rocky substrate, and steep slopes. Maximum dominance occurred at low elevation sites with low topographic variability, high potential solar insolation, and high total shrub canopy cover. The observed patterns are evaluated with respect to studies on species-environment relations, resource use, and regeneration of shrubs in chaparral and coastal sage scrub. The results are discussed in the context of existing species-diversity hypotheses that hinge on reduced competitive dominance and increased resource heterogeneity under conditions of resource limitation.
40295774|Question: Could we better estimate plot species richness by asking several botanists to survey the same plots and using non-parametric estimators of richness? Location: Two French deciduous forests. Methods: Using replicated, independent censuses made by 11 professional botanists on the same eight 100-m forest plots, the relative performance of different richness estimators (Lincoln-Petersen, Jackknife 1& 2, Chao 1& 2, Bootstrap, Chao Mth, Darroch) and the variation in their performance with the number of botanists involved (teams with two to eight botanists) were investigated. The sensitivity of these estimators to the presence of misidentifications in the data was also assessed. Results: When misidentifications are removed, Chao Mth estimators converged fastest to true richness, but none of the tested estimators correctly accounted for differences in exhaustiveness between the teams. Finally, all estimators were highly sensitive to misidentifications. Conclusions: Richness estimators are of little help in the presence of misidentifications and are ineffective at removing between-team discrepancies, thus strongly limiting their usefulness in practice. Methods are presented to show how surveys can be designed to remove misidentifications and limit between-team discrepancies. A sensible sampling design for 100-m plots in temperate forests would involve triplets of botanists and correcting data with the Chao Nl. Pairs of botanists would already significantly improve the richness estimates, but such estimates would still be biased low. However, further research is needed to design new richness estimators that are more robust to observer effects.
3236595| Question: Have recent increases in temperature caused a decline in arctic-alpine plants at the southern margin of their range? Location: Above tree line; Glacier National Park, Montana, western USA. Methods: We monitored the abundance of seven arctic-alpine vascular plants at or near the southern limits of their ranges at three sites in Glacier National Park, Montana from 1989 through 2002. In addition we recorded canopy cover of all plant species in sample plots once at the beginning and again at the end of the study. Results: Mean summer temperature during this period averaged 0.6 C higher than the previous four decades. Results of ordinations with non-metric multidimensional scaling suggested that vegetation moved toward the dry end of a moisture gradient at two sites during the course of the study. At the same time four of the peripheral arctic-alpine indicator species demonstrated 31-65% declines in abundance, while none increased. Conclusions: We cannot rigorously infer causality from our descriptive study; however, changes in both indicator species and the vegetation matrix were consistent with predictions of climate-induced extirpation of high-elevation species and the northern migration of floras. Our results also suggest that species responded to the decade of warming individualistically with little relationship to growth form. 
3236501|The success of invasive species has been attributed to the ability to displace other species by direct competition. We studied growth and possible competition between the two macrophyte species Elodea nuttallii and E. canadensis, because the former has been observed to replace the latter in the field. Additional experiments were conducted in aquaria with mixed plantings of Elodea species. Species growth was measured and competitive abilities of each species determined by applying the reciprocal yield model to mean plant weight and length. In monocultures the growth rates of the two species were similar, while in mixtures the growth rate of E. canadensis was significantly lower than that of E. nuttallii. E. canadensis was more sensitive to intraspecific than to interspecific neighbours, whereas E. nuttallii was indifferent to the presence of neighbours. Differential growth characteristics of Elodea species can explain the displacement of E. canadensis by E. nuttallii under eutrophic field conditions.
3236901|In a montane mixed Fagus-Abies-Picea forest in Babia Gora National Park (southern Poland), the dynamics of an old-growth stand were studied by combining an 8-yr annual census of trees in a 1-ha permanent sample plot with radial increments of Abies and Picea growing in the central part of the plot. The mortality among the canopy trees was relatively high (10% in 8 yr), but the basal area increment of surviving trees slightly exceeded the losses caused by tree death. DBH increment was positively correlated with initial diameter in Abies and Picea, but not in Fagus. For individual trees smaller than the median height, basal area increment was positively related to the basal area of old snags and the basal area of recently deceased trees in their neighbourhood, but negatively related to the basal area of live trees. Dendrochronological analysis of the past growth patterns revealed numerous periods of release and suppression, which were usually not synchronized among the trees within a 0.3 ha plot. The almost normal distribution of canopy tree DBH and the small number of young individuals in the plot indicated that stand dynamics were synchronized over a relatively large area and, hence, were consistent with the developmental phase concept. On the other hand, the lack of synchronization among periods of growth acceleration in individual mature Abies and Picea trees conforms more closely to the gap-dynamics paradigm.
40925523|Question: What are the relative roles of tree growth, mortality and recruitment in variations of aboveground biomass in tropical forests? Location: Paracou, French Guiana. Methods: We quantified the contribution of growth, recruitment and mortality to total biomass of stands (trees DBH  10 cm) in six 6.25-ha permanent plots over 16 yr. Live biomass stocks and fluxes were computed for four separate size classes. Results: All plots showed increasing biomass stocks over the study period, with an average value of + 0.9 Mgha-1 yr-1. Plots aggrading biomass were characterized by either minor biomass losses due to mortality or substantial increases in the biomass of large trees (DBH  60 cm). Conclusions: Within the study period, the rarity of mortality events could not counter-balance the slow permanent increase in biomass, resulting in an apparent increase in biomass. Accounting for such rare events results in no net change in biomass balance.
3237208|A geographic and taxonomic overview of the non-indigenous plant species of Europe, based on the 'Flora Europaea' is given. The flora of Europe includes 1568 species which have either expanded their ranges within Europe under human influence (naturalized European species) or are of non-European origin (exotic species). The latter group consists of 580 species (37%) which form a diverse group in terms of their taxonomic composition and geographic origin. The exotics are represented by 113 families, of which the Compositae, Rosaceae and Gramineae are most important. The ratio of species to families is low. Most exotic species in Europe originate from the Americas and Asia. Countries of southern Europe have a higher relative number of exotics in their non-native flora than northern ones. The species-range size distribution differs between naturalized European and exotic species; the latter are on average more widespread than the naturalized.
4499236| Question: In November 2000, Chusquea culeou, a bamboo species dominating Andean forest understories in southern Argentina and Chile, massively flowered and died over a north-south distance of ca. 120 km. Because bamboo is the major forage for large herbivores in these forests, we examined the interactive influences of the bamboo die-off and herbivory by introduced cattle on understory and tree regeneration. Location: Lann National Park, Argentina. Methods: Permanent plots, in and outside livestock exclosures, were installed in a Nothofagus dombeyi forest in patches of flowered and non-flowered C. culeou. Plots were monitored over four years for changes in understory composition and tree seedling densities and heights. Results: After the C. culeou die-off, new establishment of N. dombeyi was low, both with and without herbivory. Livestock alone directly increased N. dombeyi seedling mortality through physical damage. However, tree seedling browse ratings and height growth were interactively affected by bamboo flowering and herbivory; unfenced plots in flowered bamboo patches had the shortest seedlings, highest browse ratings, and lowest tree seedling annual growth rates. Understory cover was higher where livestock were excluded, and this effect was intensified in the patches of flowered bamboo. Neither herbivory nor bamboo flowering resulted in major changes in species composition, with the exception of Alstroemeria aurea. Conclusion: Effects of livestock on N. dombeyi regeneration were contingent on flowering of C. culeou. Prior to introduction of livestock, N. dombeyi regeneration was probably successful beneath canopy gaps during windows of opportunity following bamboo die-off, but now livestock impede tree regeneration. Herbivory during bamboo withering periods also produces more open understories, particularly affecting palatable heliophyllous herb species such as Alstroemeria aurea. The results underscore the importance of assessing herbivore impacts on tree regeneration during relatively short periods of potential tree regeneration immediately following rare bamboo flowering and die-off. 
3236239|The history of a rapidly changing mosaic of prairie and oak savanna in northern Indiana was reconstructed using several methods emphasizing different time scales ranging from annual to millennial. Vegetation change was monitored for 8 yr using plots and for 30 yr using aerial photographs. A 20th century fire history was reconstructed from the stand structure of multiple-stemmed trees and fire scars. General Land Office Survey data were used to reconstruct the forest of A.D. 1834. Fossil pollen and charcoal records were used to reconstruct the last 4000 yr of vegetation and fire history. Since its deposition along the shore of Lake Michigan about 4000 yr ago, the area has followed a classical primary dune successional sequence, gradually changing from pine forest to prairie/oak savanna between A.D. 264 and 1007. This successional trend, predicted in the models of Henry Cowles, occurred even though the climate cooled and prairies elsewhere in the region retreated. Severe fires in the 19th century reduced most tree species but led to a temporary increase in Populus tremuloides. During the last few decades, the prairie has been invaded by oaks and other woody species, primarily because of fire suppression since A.D. 1972. The rapid and complex changes now occurring are a response to the compounded effects of plant succession, intense burning and logging in the 19th century, recent fire suppression, and possibly increased airborne deposition of nitrates. The compilation of several historical research techniques emphasizing different time scales allows this study of the interactions between multiple disturbance variables.
40925545|Questions: The quality of any inferences derived from field studies or monitoring programmes depends on expenditure of time and effort to make the underlying observations. Here, we used a long-term data set from a succession-monitoring scheme to assess the effect of different survey scenarios. We asked: (1) how well does a survey reflect successional processes if sampling effort varies (a) in space (b) in length of total observation period, (c) in observation frequency and (d) with a combination of these factors? (2) What are the practical implications for devising monitoring programmes? Location: Lignite mining region of Central Germany, post-mining landscape of Goitzsche (Saxony-Anhalt). Methods: Based on our full data set, we constructed subsamples. For the full data set and all subsets, we constructed Markov models and compared them based on the predictions made. We assessed effects of survey intensity on model performance using generalized linear models and multiple logistic regressions. Results: Exploring the effects of different survey scenarios revealed significant effects of all three main features of survey intensity (sample size, length, frequency). The most important sampling feature was study length. However, we found interactive effects of sample size with study length and observation interval on model predictions.This indicates that for long-term observations with multiple recording intervals a lower sample size in space is required to reveal the same amount of information as required in a shorter study or one with fewer intervals. Conversely, a high sample size may, to some degree, compensate for relatively short study periods. Conclusions: Monitoring activities should not be restricted to intensive sampling over only a few years. With clearly limited resources, a decrease of sampling intensity in space, and stretching these resources over a longer totally abandoning monitoring activities after an intensive, but shourt, compaign.
3236385|Fuzzy set ordination is employed to evaluate sites on the basis of their suitability for particular tree species. The technique orders sites along an axis defined by the presences and absences of a given species of interest. A rationale is given in terms of noise reduction; in many situations the overall vegetation of a site will reflect habitat conditions better than the presence, absence, or quantitative performance of any single species. A data set of tree presence/absence covering a large part of the southeastern United States was analyzed and habitat suitability scores were calculated for each species. Monte-Carlo tests were used to measure the statistical power of the data set with regard to habitat preferences; 38 of the 49 species have cumulative frequency distributions showing significant departures from random expectation. Most statistically significant habitat preferences seem to be related to geographic range limits located within the study area, but some species found throughout the area also show significant departures from random expectation. The method may find applications in autecological studies of species, selection of representative site conditions for simulation modeling, and the solution of certain technical problems in ordination.
3237352|The ecological literature is ambiguous as to whether the initial diversity of a plant community facilitates or deters the diversity of colonizing species. We experimentally planted annual crop species in monoculture and polyculture, and examined the resulting weed communities. The species composition of weeds was similar among treatments, but the species richness of weeds was significantly higher in the polycultures than in the monocultures. This supports the 'diversity begets diversity' hypothesis. Environmental microheterogeneity, diversity promoters, and ecological equivalency do not seem able to explain the observed patterns.
3236782|We studied the effect of burning frequency on the density and species richness of understory flowering stems in a Florida sandhill. Flowering stems were censused weekly for 54 weeks in six sites that had been burned one to six times in the previous 16 years. We concurrently measured overstory characteristics such as species composition, density and basal area. We used maximum likelihood and Akaike's Information Criterion to compare linear, quadratic, saturating, and null models of community response to repeating burning. We did not find a relationship between species richness, diversity or flowering stem density and fire frequency. Tree density was related to fire frequency and may represent an indirect pathway for fire effects on understory characteristics. While we found no support for the Intermediate Disturbance Hypothesis, an analysis of our experimental design indicated that we had low statistical power. We develop the hypothesis that a saturating model of response to fire best describes understory species richness in our system. We test this hypothesis using the most extensive published fire data set we are aware of and find support for a saturating model.
3236775|This study reports temporal (based on cross-dated dead trees) and spatial patterns of availability of coarse woody debris (CWD) from Picea abies in a Swedish boreal landscape with discrete old-growth forest patches in a wetland matrix. Data were collected from 29 patches ranging in size from 0.3 to 28 ha. A total of 897 dead trees with a minimum diameter of > 15 cm occurred on the 7.2 ha area analysed. The year of death was established for 50 % of these trees. CWD volume ranged from 17 to 65 m<sup>3</sup>/ha for downed logs and from 0.5 to 13 cm<sup>3</sup>/ha for standing snags. CWD of all decay stages and diameter classes occurred abundantly and the probability of finding logs of all decay stages and sizes was very high at the scale of single hectares. Tree mortality differed among 5 yr periods. However, during the last 50 yr no 5 yr period produced less than 3 logs/ha. Decay rates were highly variable among different logs. Logs with soft wood and some wood pieces lost (decay stage 5) died ca. 34 years ago. This suggests a fairly rapid decay in this northern forest. The data indicate a high and continuous availability of CWD of all types. It is likely, therefore, that selection pressures for efficient dispersal among CWD dependent species may not be very high. Consequently, species with narrow habitat demands and/or low dispersal ability may have evolved and this may contribute to the decrease of certain species in the managed landscape.
4096659|Question: Is a mosaic structure apparent in the spatial distribution of trees in old-growth Abies amabilis forests? Location: Montane forests of the western Cascade Range, Washington, USA. Methods: Maps of tree locations were created for study areas located in two, 300-year old stands and a single 600-year old stand. Stand structure parameters were calculated using several subsample quadrats sizes (
3236220|Seedling densities on the forest floor and on elevated microsites (logs and stumps) were compared for eight woody species in a temperate rain forest in southern Chile. Degree of association with elevated microsites varied significantly between species, showed no systematic relationship with reported shade tolerance, but was significantly negatively correlated with seed mass. Large-seeded Podocarpus nubigena established preferentially on undisturbed forest floor sites, whereas seedlings of small-seeded species such as Nothofagus nitida and Laurelia philippiana were found mainly on fallen logs and stumps. The abundance of large seedlings and saplings of N. nitida on logs/stumps, and the growth forms of canopy trees, confirm that recruitment of this species occurs mainly on decaying wood. The relationship between seed size and microsite preferences may be caused by effects of seed size on (1) ability to establish in forest floor litter and (2) retention of seeds on logs. Seedling occupancy of logs and stumps varied with state of decay. Few seedlings of any species were present on logs in the early stages of decay. N. nitida established earlier than the other species, attaining maximum abundance on wood in the middle decay classes. Species richness and overall seedling abundance were highest on wood in advanced stages of decay. Seed size differences are suggested as a determinant of differential utilization of forest floor heterogeneity, and hence of plant species coexistence.
3236759|We examined forest structure and regeneration in a 350-ha forest dominated by Pinus sylvestris 31 yr after a wildfire in the Vienansalo wilderness, Russian Karelia. In most parts of the area, the 1969 fire was not stand replacing but had left larger trees alive so that the area generally remained forest covered. In some localities, however, all trees apparently died and distinct gaps were formed, suggesting that the fire severity varied considerably, contributing to increased variation in stand structure. Living and dead wood volumes were similar, 112 and 96 m<sup>3</sup>, respectively. The tree species proportions of dead vs living wood indicated that prior to fire disturbance Picea was more common in the area. Regeneration was abundant (saplings, ca. 14 000 ind.ha<sup>-1</sup>245-2}, height 20 200 cm) and tree seedling recruitment had occurred over a long period of time. Regeneration density was highest on the mesic Vaccinium-Myrtillus forest site type, decreasing towards nutrient-poor site types. The most common regeneration microsites were level ground (56% of saplings), immediate surroundings of decayed wood (23%) and depressions (11%). The high proportion of saplings on level ground suggests that after the fire regeneration conditions have been favourable across the whole forest floor. Nevertheless, the areas in the vicinity of decayed wood have been particularly important microsites for seedling establishment. The results provide an example of the effects of wildfire on forest structure in a natural Pinus sylvestris dominated forest, demonstrating the non stand replacing character of fire, high variability in stand structure and the abundance of post-fire regeneration.
3235733| The first broad-based, paleoecological analysis of a sedimentary sequence on the British chalk, dating to the terminal Pleistocene, reveals a history of climatic, vegetational and faunal change. The past co-occurrence of currently allopatric species among molluscs, beetles and plants supports hypotheses of the impermanence of communities. Modern pollen rain data are utilized to refine the ecological interpretation of the fossil pollen data. The presence of the Windermere Interstadial (Allerd) and the Loch Lomond re-advance (Younger Dryas) are represented by decreased abundances of arboreal taxa and increased representation of cold grassland elements. Open grassland habitats appear to have been a continuous landscape element, at least locally, since the late-glacial period on the northern British chalklands, although their species composition has changed greatly in the last 11 400 yr. 
3237061|The objective of this study was to quantitatively describe vegetation-environment relationships at a regional scale within the Province of New Brunswick, Canada, using vegetation and environment data from 3947 provincial forestry sample plots. The major plant community types in the province were identified using cluster analysis. Relationships of these communities to climate, topography and soil variables were analyzed by Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA), using both a reduced data set consisting of cluster likelihood scores x sample plots and an unreduced species x sample plots data matrix. The vegetation types and major axes of environmental variation were mapped to examine the geographic distributions of these factors within the province. Eight communities were identified and described in terms of enhanced/ reduced species (significantly higher or lower frequencies of occurrence in a specific community type relative to all plots) and common species (species in the community type with the highest frequencies of occurrence). The canonical axes explained 25 % of the variation in the vegetation cluster data. Vegetation composition was related to three major environmental gradients representing climate and elevation, soil moisture, and soil fertility. The geographic distributions of vegetation communities exhibited predictable but weak correspondence to the geographic distributions of individual environmental factors. Our findings emphasize the overriding importance of climate and topography and the secondary importance of soil factors in controlling vegetation pattern at the regional scale.
3236757|We investigated some of the factors influencing exotic invasion of native sub-alpine plant communities at a site in southeast Australia. Structure, floristic composition and invasibility of the plant communities and attributes of the invasive species were studied. To determine the plant characteristics correlated with invasiveness, we distinguished between roadside invaders, native community invaders and non-invasive exotic species, and compared these groups across a range of traits including functional group, taxonomic affinity, life history, mating system and morphology. Poa grasslands and Eucalyptus-Poa woodlands contained the largest number of exotic species, although all communities studied appeared resilient to invasion by most species. Most community invaders were broad-leaved herbs while roadside invaders contained both herbs and a range of grass species. Over the entire study area the richness and cover of native and exotic herbaceous species were positively related, but exotic herbs were more negatively related to cover of specific functional groups (e.g. trees) than native herbs. Compared with the overall pool of exotic species, those capable of invading native plant communities were disproportionately polycarpic, Asteracean and cross-pollinating. Our data support the hypothesis that strong ecological filtering of exotic species generates an exotic assemblage containing few dominant species and which functionally converges on the native assemblage. These findings contrast with those observed in the majority of invaded natural systems. We conclude that the invasion of closed sub-alpine communities must be viewed in terms of the unique attributes of the invading species, the structure and composition of the invaded communities and the strong extrinsic physical and climatic factors typical of the sub-alpine environment.
4096656|Questions: Do ordination patterns differ when based on vegetation samples recorded in plots of different size? If so, how large is the effect of plot size relative to the effects of data set heterogeneity and of using presence/absence or cover-abundance data? Can we combine plots of different size in a single ordination? Methods: Two homogeneous and two heterogeneous data sets were sampled in Czech forests and grasslands. Cover-abundances of plant species were recorded in series of five or six nested quadrats of increasing size (forest
3235854| A new method of arranging phytosociological tables by species-relev groups (blocks) on the basis of the density of rows and columns (relative species frequency and relative species number) is presented. Each block fulfils a given minimum criterion regarding its density. With a density threshold of e.g. 50 %, blocks are formed with only those species that are present in at least 50 % of the block's relevs, while at the same time the block's relevs comprise at least 50 % of the block's species. The procedure starts with the complete table and iteratively masks species and relevs with the smallest densities. This is performed step by step with species and relevs and continues until the given density threshold for all species and relevs is exceeded. Without any further parameters other than the minimum density, species-relev groups of gradually decreasing size are formed. Data processing is performed with a computer program (ESPRESSO). The main application of the method is found in an effective pre-sorting of relev data. The blocks formed can be arranged in the final table as desired. 
41059555|Questions: What impact do a wet and a dry growing season have on CO dynamics of mire plant communities along a primary succession gradient from the initiation stage to the bog stage? Location: Mires on a land uplift coast, Finland. Location: Mires on a land uplift coast, Finland. Methods: We measured CO dynamics and vascular plant green area development on five mires that form a sequence of mire succession. TWINSPAN was used to define successional mire plant communities and regression analyses were used to explore the temporal variation in CO dynamics of the communities. Results: CO dynamics of successional plant communities reacted differently to a wet and a dry growing season. The net CO uptake rate of the earlier successional communities decreased in the dry growing season due to a decrease in photosynthesizing leaf area. Concurrently, CO uptake of the later successional communities moderately increased or did not change. Generally, the difference in net ecosystem exchange (NEE) between a dry and a wet year resulted from the altered rate of gross photosynthesis (P G ) rather than ecosystem respiration (R E ). Conclusions: Criticl factors for the more stable carbon (C) gas dynamics in the later stages of mire succession were (1) higher autogenic control of the physical environment and (2) an increase in the number of factors regulating the P G rate. These factors may buffer mire ecosystems (in terms of the C sink function) from extreme and unfavourable variations in environmental conditions.
3236034|Rates of decomposition were determined for the boles of Pinus contorta var. latifolia Engelm. and Picea engelmannii Parry ex. Engelm. in five lower subalpine forest stands in the Southern Canadian Rocky Mountains. Stands ranged in age from 58 to 222 yr since last fire. The date of death of standing dead and fallen boles was determined by cross-dating their ring-width patterns to stand master ring-width chronologies. Boles could be dated which had been dead for up to 35 years in a 58-yr old stand and 100 yr in a 222yr old stand. An empirical relationship between mass density and diameter of live trees was used to predict the mass density at death for trees already dead. The falling rate of dead standing boles was estimated from the dead bole's time of death and whether it was standing or on the ground at the time of observation. The falling rates for both Pinus contorta and Picea engelmannii ranged from 0.020 to 0.064/yr falling with most stands in the 0.050 range. No effect of size was found on the falling rate probably as a result of the small size of the boles (< 20 cm). Because of their dry condition standing dead boles do not decompose. An equation was developed which estimates the time a dead bole has been on the ground, given that it would have stood for some time before falling over and been subject to little decomposition during this time. Decomposition rates, using a negative exponential model, gave only marginally better r<sup>2</sup> than linear models. Pinus contorta had exponential decay rates from 0.0299 and 0.0171 mass density loss/yr for the most recent 15 and 25 yr in stands 58 yr old, to 0.0045 and 0.0035 mass loss/yr for the most recent 65 and 80 yr in stands 215 and 222 yr old. Picea engelmannii had exponential decay rates of 0.0054 and 0.0025 mass loss/yr for the most recent 20 and 65 yr in stands 99 and 215 yr old.
