4522864|A new species of thick-knee, Burhinus luc orum, is described from the early Miocene (Sheep Creek Formation, late Hemingfordian) of Nebraska, providing the first Tertiary record of the family. Contrary to the widely held view that thick-knees are necessarily indicative of dry, sparsely vegetated country, the extant species of Burhinidae in fact live in a broad range of habitats. Thus, the use of extinct species of Burhinidae as paleoclimatological indicators is compromised. Evidence from other sources on early Miocene climates is summarized and suggests that Burhinus lucorum may have inhabited stream-side woodlands.
4523573|The Upper Pennsylvanian sedimentary rocks exposed in the Kinney Brick Company quarry, central New Mexico, contain a diverse megaflora with abundant foliage of the pteridosperm Sphenopteridium manzanitanum. A few of the frond fragments carry many small (to 2.0 mm in diameter), compressed spherical bodies, which occur as linear or random groups on both foliar rachises and laminae; also present are two compact, isolated aggregates not attached to any organic substrate. The individual bodies are delimited by a thin, amorphous wall that evidently was membranous, flexible, and adhesive, forming flattened areas of mutual contact. These bodies are interpreted as animal eggs. Their association with spirorbid worm tubes and other evidence indicates that the eggs were deposited under water, on floating or suspended vegetation or in compact, unattached masses. Neither terrestrial nor aquatic invertebrates yield satisfactory clues as to the egg source. However, the aquatic or semi-aquatic vertebrates (fishes and amphibians) are both feasible candidates, with the preponderance of evidence of comparative egg morphology and ovipositing strategies weighing in favor of a probably chondrostean origin for the Kinney eggs. They represent the oldest known vertebrate egg masses.
4523240|Three taxa of Sciuridae are recognized from the early Hemingfordian (early Miocene) Thomas Farm locality, Gilchrist County, Florida. Petauristodon pattersoni, sp. nov. is a large "flying squirrel" that is distinguished from the Barstovian species P. mathewsi and P. jamesi by the presence of complete metalophs on the upper cheekteeth and anteroconids on the lower cheekteeth. Petauristodon has been tentatively assigned to the subfamily Petauristinae but its relationships to Old World flying squirrels are not clear. Nototamias hulberti, gen. et sp. nov. is a small chipmunk-like sciurid, distinguished from its Recent sister taxa by posteriorly placed mental foramen and masseteric fossa and fused roots on the lower molars. N. hulberti differs from the Barstovian and Clarendonian N. ateles by smaller size and absence of metaconules on the upper cheekteeth. An isolated M3 is provisionally referred to cf. Miospermophilus sp.
4522955|Preparation of the syntypes of Cheilophis huerfanoensis Gilmore permits the designation of a lectotype. Whereas Gilmore considered Cheilophis a snake of "unknown family reference," this genus is now referred to the Boidae; it may belong to the subfamily Boinae, but its precise relationships within the Boinae are obscure.
4524386|We report here the first unequivocal record of a pre-Late Pleistocene lizard from the island of Madagascar, based on a nearly complete lower jaw, elements of both the pectoral and pelvic girdles, several vertebrae and ribs, and numerous osteoderms of what is presumed to be a single individual. The specimen, recovered from the Upper Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) Anembalemba Member, Maevarano Formation, Mahajanga Basin, northwestern Madagascar, is identified as a scincoid scincomorph and, more specifically, a new genus and species of ?Cordylidae (Cordyliformes), based on a combination of gnathic, dental, and postcranial characters. The new taxon is the first identifiable lizard from the Late Cretaceous of the African continent (sensu lato). If the new taxon is correctly attributed to the ?Cordylidae, it constitutes a significant temporal and geographic range extension for the clade since cordylids have no definite representatives in the fossil record and extant forms are restricted to the sub-Saharan portion of mainland Africa. This new record also indicates that cordylids, after their occurrence in the Maastrichtian, became extinct on Madagascar, leaving only zonosaurine Gerrhosauridae as extant representatives of Cordyliformes on the island. Owing to limited knowledge concerning the time of divergence for cordylids and gerrhosaurids relative to the tectonic separation of Africa and Madagascar, and in light of the paucity of Mesozoic lizard fossils in general, and from Gondwana in particular, the discovery of the new taxon in the Late Cretaceous of Madagascar does little to otherwise constrain scenarios concerning the biogeographic history of early cordyliforms. Finally, we document here the observation that lizards appear to have been much less speciose than snakes in Late Cretaceous faunas of Gondwana, whereas the reverse is true in Laurasia. Lizards do not appear to become common in Gondwana until the Early Tertiary.
4523810|Two articulated skeletons of an omrnithopod dinosaur from the Early Cretaceous of Texas form the basis for description of a new species of Tenontosaurus. The new ornithopod, Tenontosaurus dossi sp. nov., is a sister species to Tenontosaurus tilletti Ostrom found in Montana and Wyoming. Specimens of the new species are temporally older than those of T. tilletti, and in most cases of unequivocal polarity they are more primitive. The Texas species is clearly the most primitive iguanodontian, and thus shares many primitive characters with the weakly supported clade Hypsilophodontidae. The specimens from Texas represent unscavenged carcasses entombed in a brackish-water lagoonal or estuarine sands.
4524297|A new elasmosaur, Terminonatator ponteixensis, gen. et sp. nov., from the Upper Campanian Bearpaw Formation of southwestern Saskatchewan, Canada, is one of the youngest plesiosaurs from the Western Interior, and one of the few plesiosaurs for which detailed osteology of both skull and postcrania is available. The skull includes the upper side of the inner ear cavity and a median portion of the roof of the braincase. This taxon is distinguished from other elasmosaurs by a combination of several osteological characters variable among elasmosaurs, as well as the unique feature of a high and pointed coronoid process. Anomalous ossification is seen in the fused or pronged gastralia, development of tubercules in metacarpals, and healed fracture of the limb. The dorsal portion of the braincase is compared with other plesiosaurs, showing a variation in plesiosaur braincase morphology. Identity of carpal and tarsal elements is examined based on recent debates on the homology of mesopodials.
40666197|Several fragmentary frontoparietal domes from the San Carlos and Aguja Formations (Campanian) of Brewster and Presidio Counties, Texas, are referable to Pachycephalosauridae (Dinosauria: Ornithischia) and represent a southern extension of the known range of these dinosaurs in North America. Although the specimens are insufficient for confident generic identification, the size, relative dome height and width, continuity of frontal and parietal portions of the dome, and obliteration of sutures between these bones suggest affinity with pachycephalosaurids as Stegoceras and Gravitholus. More than one taxon is probably represented in the collection. Sections taken from one of the domes reveal histological tissue zonation comparable to that found in other pachycephalosaurids and growth lines indicating that at least 5 years were required to attain adult size. The bone tissue is well suited for strengthening the dome to resist compressional loading, and is compatible with the hypothesis that these animals engaged in head-butting behavior.
42568661|A partial postcranial skeleton (vertebrae and ribs) of an indeterminate sirenian is described from Selminum Tem cave in the Hindenburg Range, Western Province of Papua New Guinea. It was derived from a section of the Darai Limestone dating to the Burdigalian-Serravallian (early-middle Miocene) and representing shallow platform carbonates. The thoracic vertebrae are remarkably small, being comparable in size to the vertebrae of Nanosiren garciae and implying small body size, although it is uncertain whether the specimen represents a diminutive adult or juvenile individual. These fossils represent the geologically earliest mammal recorded from the island of New Guinea and the earliest evidence of Sirenia in Australasia. Thus, this fossil evidence provides a minimum date (~11.8 Ma) for the earliest presence of sirenians in Australasian coastal marine ecosystems, as well as their primary food source, seagrasses.
20062017|A new genus and species of acanthomorph teleost, Spinocaudichthys oumtkoutensis, gen. et sp. nov., is described from the Cretaceous (Cenomanian) of Morocco. This taxon is the first Cretaceous acanthomorph ever recorded from a freshwater deposit. Its caudal fin displays dorsal and ventral procurrent spines, a feature only present in some acanthopterygian fishes. It also shares features with paracanthopterygians. However, this fish cannot be a holacanthopterygian (sensu Johnson and Patterson, 1993) because it lacks a pelvic spine and has a plesiomorphic caudal skeleton. Here, we consider it as an acanthomorph incertae sedis and we discuss relationships of the Acanthomorpha.
40666158|Mylopharyngodon wui, sp. nov., based on a completely preserved right pharyngeal bone with teeth from a middle Miocene deposit of the IVPP 346 Locality (4324' 53.4" N, 11307'06.1"E) in the Tairum Nor area of Suniteyou Qi (Banner), Inner Mongolia, China, is described and compared with the living counterpart. It is different from the living black carp in having a generally smaller anterior angle, pharyngeal teeth a and a almost similar in size, and much rounder teeth a and a. The ecological niche model of the living black carp, based on the Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Production (GARP), shows that the fossil black carp is no longer in the niche model area, indicating that the regional environment has changed greatly, and that the black carp's niche has shrunk southeastward. The niche model also confirms that the distribution of the black carp is restricted by altitude above sea level. It may be inferred that the Inner Mongolia Plateau has risen more than 1000 m since the middle Miocene if the niche remained stable or evolved little over a long period of time.
4523809|The evolution of theropod flight has been characterized as a shift from one to three locomotor modules. Basal theropods, which were terrestrial bipeds, had a single locomotor module composed of the hind limb and tail. In birds, aerial locomotion was acquired with the origination of the wing module and a decoupling of the hind limb and tail into separate pelvic and caudal modules. This increase in modularity is thought to have granted birds more locomotor "options" than non-avian theropods. More specifically, an aerial loco system could have eased constraints on the hind limb and allowed specialization for habitats and lifestyles unavailable to non-birds. If so, bird hind limbs should be more disparate than those of non-avian theropods. We addressed this hypothesis by visualizing one aspect of limb design, the proportions of the three main segments, using ternary diagrams. Our results show that avian hind limb proportions are much more disparate than those of non-avian theropods. This broad range of limb design correlates with a radiation in locomotor diversity founded on three locomotor modules. We propose that birds have reached regions of proportion morphospace that are off limits to bipeds with only one locomotor module. In comparison, the limbs of non-avian theropods are conservatively proportioned. Despite great variation in body size, theropods other than birds do not exhibit specializations for locomotion other than terrestrial bipedalism. Although other aspects of size and shape need to be analyzed, the relationship between modular flexibility and morphological disparity appears to play an important role in theropod locomotor evolution.
23361082|A new Eocene locality in southern France has yielded a poorly diversified vertebrate fauna but does contain abundant material representing a new species of early equoid, Pachynolophus eulaliensis, sp. nov. Biostratigraphic data for this new locality of Sainte-Eulalie suggest a middle Ypresian age. The new species is the oldest representative of the Palaeotheriidae, here including the controversial pachynolophs. The abundant remains of this taxon from a single locality allow the recognition of a high degree of unsuspected variability within this taxon, including sexual dimorphism, thus permitting discussion of the reliability of commonly used characters. A phylogenetic analysis led us to emend the diagnosis of the genus Pachynolophus as well as to suggest the exclusion of 'Pachynolophus' hookeri from the genus. This study proposes new hypotheses of relationships among the basal Equoidea and allows us to distinguish the two main groups (Equidae and Palaeotheriidae) earlier in the Eocene, close to the reference level MP89. The new material appears to be a fundamental cornerstone in solving the question of the controversial systematics and phylogeny of pachynolophs. It also sheds new light on the temporal and spatial distribution of the initial radiation of European equoids.
4523073| Geographic position strongly influenced evolution of species within Cupidinimus, a Miocene genus of pocket mice. One group of species evolved in the California-Nevada-Arizona region from about 16 to 5 million years ago (Barstovian through Hemphillian land-mammal ages), and includes C. avawatzensis n. sp., C. halli (holotype illustrated), C. tertius, C. eurekensis, C. quartus (holotype illustrated), C. cuyamensis, and C. bidahochiensis. High molar crowns and relatively frequent accessory cusps on P characterize this western group. A second group evolved farther to the northeast, in the Great Plains and north-central Rocky Mountains, from about 16 to 12 million years ago (Barstovian). This eastern group includes C. whitlocki n. sp., C. madisonensis, C. nebraskensis, and C. saskatchewanensis, which differ from Barstovian species to the southwest in possessing lower molar crowns and relatively infrequent accessory cusps on P. A population from California previously referred to C. nebraskensis represents a separate, relatively primitive species, C. lindsayi n. sp., which is not closely related to either of the major species groups. C. kleinfelderi also seems to be of a slightly different lineage. C. boronensis, the only Hemingfordian species, is morphologically closest to the eastern species group. Traits shared by C. whitlocki and C. madisonensis (small P relative to molars) and by C. whitlocki and C. avawatzensis (similar size, enamel chevrons, cingulum on M) may indicate gene flow within the Rockies and between the Rockies and California. Hypsodonty and extreme bilophodonty of cheek teeth, characters found even in the earliest Cupidinimus, were accentuated through time in both species groups by parallel evolution. 
4522915|New preparation of the British Museum specimen of Archaeopteryx has exposed the left side of the braincase and the sagittal suture. The skull is much broader and more bird-like than earlier interpreted by deBeer (1954), supporting the estimates of brain size by Jerrison (1973). The braincase has an elongate laterosphenoid and parietal. There is no sagittal crest. The prootic is ventrolaterally depressed, with several pneumatic foramina. There is a single cotyle for the quadrate, formed by the otoccipital and prootic. The skull appears to have had a squamosal of unusual form. Arachaeopteryx differs from theropod dinosaurs in the morphology and position of the quadrate articulation, the structure of the prootic, and the morphology of the occiput.
4522923|We here report the results of a primarily histological study of jaw growth and tooth replacement in the Early Permian captorhinomorph reptile Captorhinus aguti. Preliminary histological examination shows that "drift" of teeth from the lingual to the labial side of the jaw apparently occurred through a combination of bone growth + remodelling. Simple graphical analysis of proportional changes in the C. aguti skull and jaws over a threefold span of size increase demonstrates that growth was essentially isometric. This fact and our preliminary histological observations are combined into a model of jaw growth plus tooth replacement, in which the positions and relative ages of teeth are described in terms of the Zahnreihen of Edmund (1960). Detailed histological observations are then used to test the model, which is confirmed in all essentials but shown to be incomplete as first formulated. With incorporation of the fact that during growth the older, smaller parts of the dentary and maxilla were progressively relocated anteriorly, our Zahnreihen-based model appears to be an accurate representation of tooth replacement in C. aguti. The C. aguti replacement system may have been derived with little change from that of single-rowed ancestors. It is uncertain whether this is true also of later multiple-rowed captorhinids. The exact mechanism of tooth loss in C. aguti and in modern reptiles, including control of timing, is uncertain.
4524413|The original description of the pectoral fin of the rhizodontid Barameda decipiens emphasized the narrowness of the fin, based on a narrow radius and low number of preserved lepidotrichia. Elements of the vertebral column were said to be most similar to the tristichopterid Eusthenopteron. A more complete description of the pectoral fin and vertebral column of Barameda, based on new silicone molds and X-rays, indicates that the fin is much wider than previously estimated and that the radius has a morphology more comparable to that of other rhizodontid taxa. Branching occurs both in the lepidotrichia of the distal fringe of the fin, and at the distal end of the more proximal elongate and unjointed basal elements. The latter branching may be restricted to Barameda and Gooloogongia among the Rhizodontida. Branching and jointing appear to be greater in the trailing edge of the fin, enhancing flexibility in this region. Newly described features of the humerus include the distal groove housing the entepicondylar foramen. The fin element previously identified as the ulnare is reinterpreted as a branchial element (hypobranchial) and a portion of the scapulocoracoid can be recognized. Ten rhachitomous intercentra are preserved, similar to those of Eusthenopteron in possessing well-developed parapophyses, but differing in the presence of these parapophyses on all preserved vertebrae, believed to represent the anterior vertebral column in Barameda.
4524343|Dissociated remains of the acanthodian Poracanthodes punctatus are described from Upper Silurian (Pridoli) limestones of the Roberts Mountains Formation at Pete Hanson Creek, Eureka County, Nevada. The vertebrate microremains in sample residues comprise scales, a dentigerous jaw bone fragment, and a fin spine fragment assigned to P. punctatus, plus one possible acanthothoracid placoderm scale. Some macroremains from the same locality are also assigned to P. punctatus. This taxon has been nominated as a zone fossil for the Silurian vertebrate biozonal scheme, and its presence has been recorded throughout the circum-Arctic region. Identification of the taxon in Nevada extends its known geographic range.
25835807|Sixteen isolated theropod teeth were discovered in two areas in the upper Middlelower Upper Jurassic Shishugou Formation of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, northwest China. This sample can be divided on the basis of qualitative features and simple quantitative metrics into seven tooth morphotypes, each of which probably represents a distinct taxon. Three of the morphotypes may be attributable to theropods already known from the Shishugou Formation, namely the alvarezsauroid Haplocheirus and the basal tetanurans Monolophosaurus and Sinraptor. The other four morphotypes, however, appear to represent new taxa, taking the known theropod diversity of the Shishugou Formation from six species to at least ten. One of the new taxa is probably a dromaeosaurid. Another appears to represent a troodontid or a relative of the potentially troodontid-like Paronychodon, itself so far known only from isolated teeth. Of the remaining two taxa, one appears to be a basal tetanuran or tyrannosauroid, whereas the other either belongs to one of these same groups or represents a ceratosaur. The probable deinonychosaurian teeth in our sample are among the oldest fossils known for this clade, and highlight the diversity of coelurosaurs in the Shishugou Formation.
4522851|Geomyids have been recovered from 1,693 m of section, temporally ranging from mid-Blancan (Pliocene) to early Irvingtonian (Pleistocene). They are represented by Geomys (Nerterogeomys) anzensis n. sp., G. garbanii, and Thomomys sp. The new species resembles G. (Geomys) arenarius in size and proportions of the skull, possibly implying an ecomorphic relationship. The difference in size between G. anzensis and G. garbanii may explain the coexistence of these two species through a large part of the stratigraphic section, by implying two different pocket gopher habitats.
20491009|The study of an isolated skull discovered in early late Pliocene (Piacenzian) sands at Antwerp, northern Belgium, southern margin of the North Sea Basin, leads to the description of a new genus and species of porpoise (Odontoceti, Phocoenidae), Septemtriocetus bosselaersi. This is the first clear record of a fossil phocoenid from the North Atlantic. With a cranium slightly larger than the largest Recent phocoenid (Dall's porpoise Phocoenoides dalli), the new species is characterized by a constriction of the premaxilla anterior to the rostrum base, a longitudinally elongated frontal boss, and a large temporal fossa. A cladistic analysis of fossil and Recent phocoenids confirms the monophyly of the Recent phocoenid subgroup and suggests a sister-group relationship between Septemtriocetus and the Japanese Pliocene phocoenid Haborophocoena. The geographic pattern of fossil and Recent phocoenids mainly in the Pacific Ocean, combined with phocoenid phylogenetic relationships, suggests an initial early to early late Pliocene north dispersal via the Arctic Ocean to the North Atlantic for the lineage of Septemtriocetus. A subsequent late Pliocene-Pleistocene dispersal event accounts for the Recent distribution of the harbour porpoise Phocoena phocoena in the North Atlantic.
4524573|The basal therapsid clade Burnetiamorpha is currently known from six genera of Middle-to-Late Permian age. Bullacephalus, Bumetia, Lemur osaurus, and Lobalopex are from the Beaufort Group of South Africa, whereas Niuksenitia and Proburnetia are from Russian deposits. Here we describe a new taxon from the Upper Permian Teekloof Formation of South Africa that is remarkably similar to Proburnetia. Paraburnetia sneeubergensis, gen. and sp. nov., is diagnosed by the following autapomorphies: supratemporal 'horn' oriented vertically with bulbous terminal end, supraorbital boss with well- defined apical crest, and palatine-pterygoid boss elongate. Paraburnetia and Proburnetia share features indicating a sister-taxon relationship, including the presence of a well-developed median nasal crest and tall supraorbital bosses. Along with the close morphological similarity and phylogenetic relationships of several dicynodont taxa from Russia and South Africa, the discovery of Paraburnetia indicates that long-distance, north-south interchange was commonplace during the Late Permian and that burnetiamorphs likely had a Pangean distribution.
4524507|A nearly complete but badly crushed elasmosaurid plesiosaur skull is described from the Upper Albian Toolebuc Formation of northern Queensland. Australia. The specimen has a long history, being previously referred to the Australian Aptian genus kwoolungasaurus' (considered a nomen dubium). as well as provisionally to Elasmosauridae gen. et sp. nov., and most recently to Tuarangisaurus (Campanian-Maastrichtian. New Zealand and potentially Patagonia). The present assessment alternatively proposes assignment to a new taxon. Eromangasaurus carinognathus, gen. et sp. nov., uniquely characterized by the presence of seven premaxillary teeth (three lateral pairs, one midline), an elongate mandibular symphysis with prominent ventral midline keel and a combination of osteological features variably developed in other elasmosaurids. Cladistic analysis using 43 discrete cranio-dental and vertebral characters coded for 16 ingroup and one outgroup taxon supports this conclusion, indicating that E. carinognathus is a crown-group elasmosaurid of more derived grade than Occitanosaurus (Lower Jurassic. Toarcian. France). Affinities with other Cretaceous elasmosaurids are poorly resolved. Nevertheless, a close relationship with Tuarangisaurus is not substantiated; instead, E. carinognathus forms a discrete clade with Terminonatator (Campanian, Canada).
4524484|A new sphenodontid is described from the Middle Jurassic red beds in Huizachal Canyon, Tamaulipas, northern Mexico. The new taxon is characterized by the presence of two fang-like acrodont teeth at the anterior end of the lower jaw similar to those of the upper Jurassic sphenodontian Theretairus antiquus from the Morrison Formation. However, the new sphenodontian has a single well established groove on the anteromedial surface of each fang, here interpreted as a venom conducting groove convergent with those of opisthoglyphous colubrids and helodermatid lizards. The presence of a complex venom apparatus is supported by the reduction of the postcoronoid portion of the lower jaw to only 30% of the total jaw length and the anterior displacement of the jaw articulation by an unusual, medially inflected condyle. The shortening of the postcoronoid portion of the jaw reduces the estimated jaw moment-arm, trading bite strength for speed; simultaneously the mouth gape is increased by an additional 100% compared to other sphenodontians. Both modifications are necessary in an akinetic skull to facilitate venom injection to the victims. The phylogenetic relationships of the new sphenodontian are uncertain although the presence of propalinal jaw action and caniniform teeth suggests close relationship with Theretairus, Cynosphenodon, and Sphenodon. The transformation series leading to the presence of one or two caniniform teeth can be reconstructed either as an independent origin for both conditions or as an ordered transformation from one to two caniniform teeth. The new sphenodontian adds to the growing list of unusual forms and corroborates the view that Rhynchocephalia were once a very diverse group.
20627095|We report for the first time the presence of the cynodont Diademodon tetragonus Seeley, 1894 in the South American Triassic. The specimen, represented by a fragmented skull and lower jaws, was found in levels of the Ro Seco de la Quebrada Formation (Puesto Viejo Group), Mendoza Province, Argentina. It is assigned to D. tetragonus based on its overall skull shape (narrow and elongated snout with a concave outline in dorsal view), the morphology of the jugal that forms most of the dorsoventral depth of the zygoma and shows a well-excavated external auditory meatus, and a postcanine series including circular outlined anterior teeth, ovoid gomphodont teeth in the middle, and posterior sectorial teeth. The association of this taxon with the cynodonts Cynognathus crateronotus and Pascualgnathus polanskii, along with comparisons to African Triassic assemblages, suggest an Early to Late Anisian age for the Ro Seco de la Quebrada Formation. These levels are most likely correlated to the subzones B and C of the South African Cynognathus Assemblage Zone, where both Cynognathus and Diademodon are known. This discovery represents the fourth report of shared cynodont genera between allegedly Lower to Middle Triassic African and South American terrestrial faunas.
4523737|Material representing at least six different species of rodents, one insectivore, and two carnivores was recovered from a submerged paleochannel deposit in the lower part of the Fleming Formation, near the Toledo Bend Dam in easternmost Texas. A "middle" Arikareean Land Mammal Age for this Gulf Coastal Plain fauna is implied by its similarity with other faunas of comparable age in Florida and the northern Great Plains, such as the Buda Local Fauna and the Monroe Creek Fauna, respectively. The rodents from the Toledo Bend Local Fauna include the squirrel Protospermophilus, the castorid "Monosaulax" hesperus, and a possible new genus and species of eomyid or cricetid remarkably similar to the European middle Oligocene cricetid Pseudocricetodon montalbanensis. Two new species of heteromyid, Proheteromys sabinensis and P. toledoensis, are described, and a temporal and spatial range extension is noted for the rare geomyoid Texomys. A tiny "mustelid" tentatively referred to Palaeogale is recorded, as is the first occurrence outside of Florida of the amphicyonid Daphoenodon notionastes.
40864391|A recent find of an articulated skeleton of Silesaurus opolensis at its early Late Triassic type locality Krasiejw (Poland), with skull, neck, pectoral girdle, and thorax, supplemented by additional preparation of previously collected articulated specimens, enables complete restoration of the vertebral column and associated skeletal parts. Cervical ribs of Silesaurus, well preserved in their original disposition, are parallel to the neck and extend backward for a few vertebral lengths. There is a sudden change in their morphology behind the seventh vertebra, although otherwise the transition from the cervical to the dorsal vertebrae is very gradual. Parapophyses slowly migrate upward along the anterior margin of the centrum and leave the centrum at the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra. Narrowing of the dorsal extremities of the neural spines of the fourth and neighboring vertebrae suggests the ability of this region of the vertebral column to bent upward. There is thus a disparity between the structural and functional neck-thorax transition. The presence of three sacrais firmly connected by their ribs with the ilia and the long tail of Silesaurus, providing a counterbalance to the weight of the body in front of the pelvis, suggests the ability for fast bipedal running. However, unusually long but gracile forelimbs of Silesaurus suggest that it represents a transition towards secondarily quadrupedal locomotion, characterizing most of the later herbivorous dinosaurs.
20490997|Heterodontosaurids are an enigmatic group of primitive ornithischian dinosaurs best known from the Early Jurassic of southern Africa. Because fossil material is rare and often poorly preserved, the taxonomy, systematics, and palaeobiology of this clade are controversial. Here we describe a new partial skull of a juvenile Heterodontosaurus tucki from the 'Stormberg' of South Africa. This skull provides new information on the cranial anatomy of this taxon as well as insights into cranial ontogeny, sexual dimorphism and tooth replacement in heterodontosaurids. Few ontogenetic changes in dental morphology occur in Heterodontosaurus, supporting previous suggestions that tooth characters are informative for species-level taxonomy in heterodontosaurids. Furthermore, the presence of well-developed caniniform teeth in the juvenile specimen does not support the hypothesis that these represent secondary sexual characteristics in heterodontosaurids. Computed tomography reveals that replacement teeth are absent in both juvenile and adult specimens of Heterodontosaurus; however, the difference in the absolute size of the teeth between the juvenile and adult specimens demonstrates that replacement must have occurred during ontogeny.
30126367|Of the North American gomphotheres, the status of Tetralophodon, primarily known from the Old World, is among the most controversial. This controversy stems from the incompleteness of the North American specimens. Along with elongation of the M/m3s and a tendency towards double trefoiling on the cheek teeth, Tetralophodon is diagnosed by complete tetralophodonty (i.e., four lophs on D/d 4-M/m2). However, of those progressive North American gomphothere specimens that have plausibly been referred to Tetralophodon only the M/m2s are known to be tetralophodont, with the condition of the M/m1s and P/p4s unknown. Thus, it has proven impossible to determine whether these purported Tetralophodon species represent true Tetralophodon immigrants, or one or more parallel radiations from North American Gomphotherium stock. The discovery of an unusual gomphothere in the Clarendonian Kepler Quarry fauna of Nebraska has possible bearing on North American Tetralophodon. This gomphothere resembles North American Tetralophodon in having M/m3 that are both highly elongated and double trefoiled only on the anterior two lophs, and a tetralophodont M/m2. However, more significantly its M/m1 and D/d4 are preserved, neither of which is tetralophodont. Thus, the Kepler Quarry gomphothere cannot be referred to Tetralophodon and along with the other North American Tetralophodon species is referred to a new genus, Pediolophodon. The existence of Pediolophodon suggests that during the Clarendonian North American Gomphotherium stock was evolving in parallel with progressive Old World gomphotheres such as Tetralophodon.
4524149|An articulated partial skeleton, including a nearly complete skull and left forelimb, of a crocodylomorph reptile from the Upper Triassic Chinle Formation of Ghost Ranch, New Mexico, is referable to Hesperosuchus agilis Colbert, 1952. It contributes much new information on the skeletal structure of this previously poorly known taxon. A large, circular palpebral bone is present in each orbit. The quadratojugal is particularly well preserved and suggests a reinterpretation of this element in related taxa including Sphenosuchus. Previous analyses of sphenosuchian relationships reached conflicting results, and a critical review of the characters used in these analyses is presented. A phylogenetic analysis of basal crocodylomorph taxa provides weak support for sphenosuchian monophyly, placing Hesperosuchus with Saltoposuchus, Dibothrosuchus, and Sphenosuchus.
4523900| A new acanthomorph genus is described from the Greenhorn Formation (Turonian) of north eastern Nebraska. The type and only specimen of this genus is a nearly complete skull and postcranial skeleton characterized by an interesting combination of features such as a prominent, anteriorly thickened supraoccipital crest, protrusile upper jaw with well developed premaxilla, opercular bones without spines, 39 vertebral centra, pectorals very low on the flank, pelvic fins in abdominal position, medial pelvic process distally ossified, true dorsal fin-spines present, and spinoid scales covering the trunk. The Late Cretaceous acanthomorph Aipichthys shares a few characters with the new genus including deeply cleft caudal fin and nine principal caudal rays on the upper lobe of the caudal fin. Characters are shared also with Araripichthys from the Early Cretaceous of Brazil. The material described resembles in certain characters (e.g., supraneurals, abdominal vertebrae and probably paired fin placement) the acanthomorph Ferrifrons rugosus, represented by a single incomplete specimen from the Niobrara Chalk (Santonian). Based on a few synapomorphies, the new genus and Ferrifrons are included in the new fossil family Ferrifronsidae. 
25835837|We describe here a new species of gigantic otter, Enhydriodon dikikae, sp. nov., from the Pliocene of Dikika, in the lower Awash valley of Ethiopia. The holotype consists of an associated snout and mandible, and is the most complete fossil specimen of a large bunodont otter. In some features, such as its very large size, the loss of anterior premolars, the tall protocone of P4, and the divided paraconid of m1, this species illustrates the culmination of general trends in this group, but the most remarkable part of its dentition is the broad incisor arch and powerful canine battery. The purported distinction between Enhydriodon and Sivaonyx is discussed, and the hypothesis of distinct African and Asian lineages is rejected. Postcranial remains confirm that Enhydriodon dikikae, sp. nov., was probably mostly terrestrial, but its diet remains uncertain, as none of the suggested preys fully explains the anatomical adaptations and relative abundance of this species.
20062008|Based on new material collected from the Upper Devonian, "Catskill Formation" of Pennsylvania, and a comparison with variation in Bothriolepis canadensis and B. yeungae, it is suggested that the species Bothriolepis minor, B. virginiensis, B. coloradensis, and B. darbiensis, pending the discovery of more complete materials, cannot reliably be distinguished from Bothriolepis nitida (Leidy, 1856). Although some of the present named species may be invalid, Bothriolepis as a whole (some 70 species world-wide, over 20 million years) is not abnormally speciose when compared with modern bottom-living species. A better understanding of the species of Bothriolepis is essential if the potential of this genus for palaeobiogeography is to be realized.
4523978|Rocks of the Palm Spring and uppermost Imperial formations in the Fish Creek-Vallecito Creek area of southern California preserve diverse Blancan and Irvingtonian land mammal faunas in stratigraphic superposition. The 4,300 m section of predominantly clastic rocks spans about 3.6 Ma, preserves a continuous paleomagnetostratigraphic record, and documents the local strati ranges of terrestrial mammals during the Blancan and Irvingtonian. Improved stratigraphic and paleontologic data suggest that the distinctions among the Layer Cake, Arroyo Seco, and Vallectio Creek local faunas no longer exist and that these terms be abandoned. The Fish Creek-Vallecito Creek section has the potential to serve as the Irvingtonian boundary stratotype. The Irvingtonian possesses characterization and identification, but not definition because no genus or species has been proposed to define the Irvingtonian boundary, a situation that must be rectified by field data. The present state of knowledge indicates that none of the possible boundary-defining taxa, Mammuthus, Smilodon, Euceratherium, and Lepus, are appropriate to define the boundary. Current data suggest that the Irvingtonian boundary lies between 1.95 and 2.15 Ma. Only the Fish Creek-Vallecito Creek area and the San Pedro Valley in Arizona provide long, continuous stratigraphic sections that span the BlancanIrvingtonian boundary. Definition of the and documentation of the biochron by a chronostratigraphic unit can be accomplished in these two sections.
20490998|The new sauropod dinosaur Tastavinsaurus sanzi, gen. et sp. nov., from the early Aptian of Spain is described. The holotype is a partially articulated skeleton of an adult individual recovered from the Arsis-1 site in Pearroya de Tastavins (Teruel) at the base of the marine Xert Formation. It is one of the most complete and best-preserved sauropod dinosaur skeletons from the European Early Cretaceous. The fossil remains comprise the three caudalmost thoracic vertebrae, part of a fourth, nine thoracic rib fragments, sacrum, 25 caudal vertebrae, 21 chevrons, both ilia, pubes, ischia and femora, right tibia, right fibula, six metatarsals, and seven pedal phalanges (including four unguals). The new taxon is defined by 19 autapomorphies. In our cladistic analysis, Tastavinsaurus is the sister-taxon of the North American Venenosaurus within Titanosauriformes, which includes the Brachiosauridae, Somphospondyli, and Titanosauria. The new taxon provides new information about the diversity of non-brachiosaurid titanosauriforms during the Early Cretaceous in Europe and paleobiogeographic relationships between Europe and North America.
4523318|A new genus of trematopsid amphibian, based upon the type of Acheloma pricei Olson, 1941, and in the new combination Phonerpeton pricei, gen. nov., is described from material collected from the Lower Permian redbeds of Texas. Phonerpeton is interpreted as a small, lightly built, terrestrially adapted carnivore, and is distinguished by the presence of a semilunar curvature of the squamosal, domed parietals, an unossified sphenethmoid, long and slender mid-dorsal ribs, and a radius with a semicircular cross section. The composition and diagnosis of the family Trematopsidae are revised. Three genera of trematopsids, Phonerpeton, Acheloma, and Anconastes, are recognized. Anconastes is assigned tentatively to the Trematopsidae because available material allows confirmation of only two of the five synapomorphies that unite the other two genera. The families Trematopsidae and Dissorophidae (Superfamily Dissorophoidea) share several derived features of the cranium which support a sister group relationship. However, monophyly cannot be demonstrated for the Dissorophidae, and available morphological information is insufficient to resolve the taxonomic positions of the numerous genera assigned currently to this family. A reexamination of the family Dissorophidae is needed before any attempt is made to determine the intrarelationships of the Superfamily Dissorophoidea.
4524729|The probable diets of members of the extinct ruminant family Dromomerycidae were determined via an assessment of gross anatomical correlates of feeding strategy, mesowear analysis, and microscopic scar topography of enamel surfaces of cheek teeth. Discriminant models derived from 108 extant ruminants of known diet were applied to fossil taxa to ascertain probable trophic habits in dromomerycids. Microwear and mesowear analyses of molar tooth wear supplemented this gross skull and tooth morphological assessment as a means of providing more direct and independent sources of evidence for the nature and potential shifts in diet within dromomerycid lineages. In general, estimations of diets obtained from the study of gross morphology correlated well with those obtained from wear patterns. However, this was not always the case, suggesting that independent means of dietary analysis are critical when attempting to reconstruct paleodiets. In addition, hypsodonty (relative molar crown height) proved to be problematic as a variable in determining the diet of these extinct taxa. Information obtained from gross morphology, microwear, and mesowear support the hypothesis that later species of the Dromomerycidae within the tribe Cranioceratini had a shift in diet toward coarser food materials as a response to a trend toward increasing aridity and a shift in vegetational structure in the late Miocene-early Pliocene of North America.
4523358| The subfamily Leporinae probably had its origin from the Archaeolaginae in the North American Clarendonian (late Miocene) and include the following genera and species from late Miocene Clarendonian to latest Pliocene Blancan: Alilepus hibbardi, sp. nov., A. vagus, A. wilsoni, sp. nov., Pratilepus kansasensis, Aluralagus bensonensis, A. virginiae, Nekrolagus progressus, Aztlanolagus agilis, Sylvilagus hibbardi, Lepus, cf. L. californicus, Pronotolagus apachensis, gen. nov., Notolagus velox, N. lepusculus, and Paranotolagus complicatus. Two specimens of Hypolagus parviplicatus from the late Barstovian of Saskatchewan have two shallow grooves in the enamel of the lingual side of P that may be incipient anterointernal and posterointernal reentrants, suggesting a precursor to the ancestry of the Leporinae. 
4523835|The Poposauridae are a group of Middle to Late Triassic rauisuchian archosaurs that are the sister-group of the Crocodylomorpha. A new specimen from the Ischigualasto Formation (Carnian) of Argentina (PVSJ-85) is the first clear record of this group from Gondwana, and is designated the holotype of a new genus and species, Sillosuchus longicervix. The specimen consists of most of the vertebral column, both femora, pubes, and ischia, a partial right ilium, and a single paramedian plate. A distinctive feature shared with Chatterjeea, a poposaurid known from the Dockum Formation of Texas, is the presence of elongate cervical vertebrae with deep, dorsoventrally foreshortened excavations in the sides of the centra. The ilium of Sillosuchus has a prominent overhang that makes the upper surface of the acetabulum concave and partially encloses its dorsolateral edge. The pubes are elongate and narrow with a modest distal expansion forming a small foot. At least four and possibly as many as six sacral vertebrae are present. A number of other poposaurids are known from North America and Europe, although all are currently represented by fragmentary material. Sillosuchus has derived characters (e.g., increased number of sacral vertebrae, cervical morphology, acetabular shape) in common with more derived poposaurids such as Poposaurus and Chatterjeea.
4523175|New specimens of hyracoids collected from the Jebel Qatrani Formation, Fayum, Egypt, provide additional information about the evolutionary radiation of Hyracoidea during the early Oligocene. The genus Pachyhyrax is revised on the basis of well-preserved specimens of the lower dentition, and "Pachyhyrax" pygmaeus is transferred to the genus Thyrohyrax. A new species of Titanohyrax and a new species of Saghatherium are described from the upper part of the Jebel Qatrani Formation. We also describe a new monotypic genus, Selenohyrax, which has more gracile, selenodont teeth than any other Oligocene hyracoid. The Fayum hyracoids represent an unusually diverse radiation of herbivorous mammals that were probably ecologically differentiated from each other by size and dietary specialization. The diverse radiation of hyracoids and their later decimation when ungulate groups arrived from the northern continents are somewhat analogous to the radiation and extermination of litopterns and notoungulates in South America.
40666161|A new pleurodiran turtle, Cerrejonemys wayuunaiki, from the middle to upper Paleocene, Cerrejn Formation of Colombia, is described on the basis of a complete skull, lower jaw, partial carapace and plastron, two cervical vertebrae, a right coracoid, and both pelvic girdles. Cerrejonemys wayuunaiki shares a suite of diagnostic characteristics with Podocnemididae, including a fully developed, medially extensive cavum pterygoidei that is almost completely covered by the prolonged posterolateral flanges of the pterygoid, a posterior elongation of the secondary roofing of the skull composed of the parietal and the quadratojugal covering two-thirds or more of the cavum tympani, a dentary covered laterally by the surangular, and no contact between the exoccipital and quadrate. Cerrejonemys wayuunaiki is unique among podocnemidids in having ridges on the ventral margin of the dentary, dentaries that form an acute angle at the fused symphysis, and a relatively thick (up to 35 mm) carapace and plastron. Results from a cladistic analysis of panpodocnemidids indicate that C. wayuunaiki is the sister taxon of the genus Podocnemis, which ranges from the Miocene to Recent, implying that stem of Podocnemis spp. were inhabiting tropical South America early in the Paleogene.
4523788|The first archosaurs from the Middle Triassic were described unwittingly by Sir Richard Owen in the 1840s. He combined a variety of archosaurian postcranial elements with skull material of temnospondyls, thus producing his image of giant Triassic frogs. Archosaur bones have been collected from Middle Triassic (Anisian) sediments of Warwick and Bromsgrove in the West Midlands, and more recently, from south Devon. Some of the vertebrae and pelvic elements belong to the poposaurid Bromsgroveia, and other elements and teeth to unidentified archosaurs, one perhaps a dinosaur. The English faunas help fill a gap in knowledge of archosaurs in the early part of the Middle Triassic. If Bromsgroveia is a poposaurid, it is the oldest member of a family known otherwise from the Late Triassic of North America.
42568653|Many recent studies have detailed the morphology of archosaurian endocrania. However, the outgroup to Archosauria, Phytosauria, has yet to be studied with modern techniques that would allow reconstruction of their internal anatomy. Pseudopalatus mccauleyi is a derived phytosaur from the Upper Triassic Chinle Formation, Arizona. A skull of P. mccauleyi, USNM 15839, was imaged using computed tomography in order to create the first high-quality, digitally reconstructed phytosaur endocast. Pseudopalatus mccauleyi exhibits overall endocast morphology that is similar to that of an extant crocodylian. These clades, phytosaurs and extant crocodylians, exhibit convergent Bauplne and similar inferred ecologies. A notable difference between the endocasts of the two clades is a considerable durai expansion in P. mccauleyi that denotes a large pineal body. This expansion, and the overall morphology of the endocast, is consistent with the historic endocranial reconstructions of the phytosaurs Pseudopalatus buceros, Smilosuchus gregorii, and Parasuchus hislopi. A comparison with phylogenetically diverse archosaurian endocasts reveals that endocast morphologies are highly conserved within Pseudosuchia, regardless of Bauplan or ecology. This conservatism is in contrast to the diversity of endocast morphology observed within Theropoda and Sauropodomorpha, or between members of those clades and Pseudosuchia. The most pronounced variability in pseudosuchian endocast morphology is a trend in size reduction of the pineal region, from a large basal condition to a reduced derived condition wherein the pineal region is indistinguishable from the rest of the endocast. A similar trend in pineal reduction is also seen in theropods and sauropods.
41515052|Three skeletons collected from the late Oligocene Kokoamu Greensand of New Zealand are among the most complete Paleogene penguins known. These specimens, described here as Kairuku waitaki, gen. et sp. nov., and Kairuku grebneffi, sp. nov., reveal new details of key elements of the stem penguin skeleton associated with underwater flight, including the sternum, flipper, and pygostyle. Relative proportions of the trunk, flippers, and hind limbs can now be determined from a single individual for the first time, offering insight into the body plan of stem penguins and improved constraints on size estimates for 'giant' taxa. Kairuku is characterized by an elongate, narrow sternum, a short and flared coracoid, an elongate narrow flipper, and a robust hind limb. The pygostyle of Kairuku lacks the derived triangular cross-section seen in extant penguins, suggesting that the rectrices attached in a more typical avian pattern and the tail may have lacked the propping function utilized by living penguins. New materials described here, along with re-study of previously described specimens, resolve several long-standing phylogenetic, biogeographic, and taxonomic issues stemming from the inadequate comparative material of several of the first-named fossil penguin species. An array of partial associated skeletons from the Eocene-Oligocene of New Zealand historically referred to Palaeeudyptes antarcticus or Palaeeudyptes sp. are recognized as at least five distinct species: Palaeeudyptes antarcticus, Palaeeudyptes marplesi, Kairuku waitaki, Kairuku grebneffi, and an unnamed Burnside Formation species.
40666170|A new species and genus of acanthisittid wren (Aves: Passeriformes: Acanthisittidae) is described from the Early Miocene (19-16 Ma) St Bathans Fauna from Otago, New Zealand, based on four fossil bones. The first Tertiary fossil passerine to be described from New Zealand, it is similar in size to New Zealand's smallest extant bird, the Rifleman Acanthisitta Moris. A phylogenetic analysis of 53 osteological characters and 24 terminal taxa, including four suboscines, basal corvoids (Menuridae, Atrichornithidae, Climacteridae, Ptilonorhynchidae, Maluridae, Dasyornithidae, Acanthizidae, Pardalotidae, Meliphagidae), and all seven Recent acanthisittid species, identifies it as the sister group to Acanthisitta. This, the first phylogenetic analysis of the basal passerine groups to use morphological characters, recovers a similar pattern of relationships of basal corvoid taxa to that obtained by recent molecular studies. The analysis also suggests that Acanthisitta chloris and the new species are the most deeply nested taxa within the family, suggesting that the radiation of Recent acanthisittids originated no later than the Early Miocene.
20627168|In this study, we review the previous evidence on the paleobiology of the giant, 'short-faced' bear Arctodus simus (Mammalia: Carnivora: Ursidae) and contribute new ecomorphological inferences on the paleobiology of this enigmatic species. Craniodental variables are used in a comparative morphometric study across the families Felidae, Hyaenidae, Canidae, and Ursidae. Principal components analyses (PCAs) do not show an ecomorphological adaptation towards bone-cracking or hypercarnivory in the 'short-faced' bear. In contrast, PCAs and discriminant analyses restricted to the craniodental data set of ursids suggest close morphological resemblance between A. simus and the extant omnivorous bears. In addition, the scaling of snout length on neurocranial length in bears indicates that the face of A. simus was not particularly short. Body mass estimates obtained from major limb bone measurements reveal that A. simus specimens of around 1000 kilograms were more common than previously suspected. Scaling relationships in extant bears of limb lengths on the least width of the femoral shaft (the variable best correlated with body mass) indicate that A. simus was not as relatively long-legged as previously thought. For these reasons, although the isotopic signature of A. simus has been interpreted as evidencing that it consumed large amounts of flesh relative to some contemporary populations of Ursus arctos, our results do not support the previous views of A. simus as a fast-running super-predator or as a specialized scavenger. In contrast, the picture that emerges from this study is one of a colossal omnivorous bear whose diet probably varied according to resource availability.
4523096|On the basis of a single, virtually complete specimen of a baurioid ("scaloposaur") therocephalian, the first full reconstruction of a member of this group is given. It shows that these therapsids were very mammal-like in their proportions, with relatively long limbs, attenuated lumbar ribs, and a highly reduced tail. The specimen is referred to Regisauridae, indet. The degree of differentiation of the axial skeleton is similar to that found in cynodont therapsids, although the head was probably capable of less dorso-ventral movement at the occipito-atlas joint, and there is evidence for a greater degree of lateral undulation of the trunk in the lumbar region. The shoulder girdle was probably highly mobile. The structure of the pelvis and hindlimb supports the hypothesis that the primitive therapsid hindlimb could operate in either a sprawling mode, or in a more advanced, parasagittal mode facultatively. The lack of periosteal bone over the ends of the centra and other bones, and the open nature of the sutures between the centra and neural arches, and between the centra and the lumbar and sacral ribs, support the view that 'scaloposaurs' such as this were immature specimens.
40864384|We describe herein the only known fossil dipnoans from Uruguay, recovered from continental deposits of Kimmeridgian-? early Cretaceous age (Batovi Member of the Tacuaremb Formation). The material includes several tooth plates referred herein to "Ceratodus" tiguidiensis Tabaste, 1963 (the current generic assignment being either Arganodus or Asiatoceratodus), and one to Ceratodus africanas Haug, 1905. "C." tiguidiensis was so far only recorded in the Upper Jurassic-Lower Cretaceous of Saharan Africa and the ' middle' Cretaceous of Brazil (and perhaps the Lower Triassic of Australia), and C. africanus in the Lower to Upper Cretaceous of Saharan Africa and the 'middle' Cretaceous of Brazil. Hence, these are the oldest and southernmost South American records of both taxa, and the oldest and southernmost record of C. africanus in the world. These findings reveal an unrecognized dipnoan diversity in South America prior to 'middle' Cretaceous times. In the Late Jurassic-Early Cretaceous of western Gondwana only the ceratodontiform genera Ceratodus, Arganodus/Asiatoceratodus, and Retodus were present, Neoceratodus being absent. The Tacuaremb Formation paleoichthyofauna comprises a low-diversity freshwater assemblage including, besides dipnoans, putative semionotids (the most abundant fossils) and hybodontid sharks.
4524250|Elongate and asymmetric eggs of the oospecies Prismatoolithus levis occur regularly in the Upper Cretaceous Two Medicine Formation of western Montana. These eggs had previously been assigned to the ornithischian Orodromeus makelai, for both juvenile and adult remains are typically associated with these eggs. Reexamination of the embryos shows them to exhibit at least 24 apomorphies of the clades Dinosauria, Theropoda and Paraves. The embryos also display a pneumatic quadrate, closely placed basal tubera, a high tooth count, a metatarsal II much narrower than IV and a strongly constricted metatarsal III, all possible synapomorphies of the Troodontidae. Presence of large basal tubera and a broadly rounded anterior border of the maxillary fenestra permit assignment to Troodon formosus. Most but not all bones appear ossified, suggesting a developmental level comparable to stages 35-38 of avian embryos and a time approaching hatching. Embryos show a consistent level of development from one egg to another indicating synchronous hatching of the clutch. Embryonic Troodon exhibit long distal segments and radically different hindlimb proportions in comparison to adults. Orodromeus and other small vertebrate remains associated with Troodon egg horizons may represent prey of the adults during egg-laying and brooding. Troodon eggs show several aspects either shared or convergent with some birds, and further demonstrate the close relationship of Troodontidae and Aves. These features include: asymmetric egg form, non- branching angusticanaliculate pores, distinct structural differentiation of the mammillary and overlying prismatic layer, barrel-shaped mammillary cones with a blocky calcite cleavage, and prismatic structure visible throughout the second structural layer.
41407657|Tambaroter carrolli is a new genus and species of medium-sized ostodolepid ' microsaur' from the Lower Permian Tambach Formation, lowermost formational unit of the Upper Rotliegend, Thuringia, central Germany. Based on a single skull, it is the first ' microsaur' to be described from this formation and the first vertebrate fossil known from the Tambach Formation outside of the well-known, nearby Bromacker locality. It possesses typical ostodolepid features, including presence of a recumbent snout, ventral embayment of the cheek, a notch in the posterolateral margin of the tabular, and a well-developed retroarticular process. It can be distinguished from other ostodolepids by proportional characters and bones forming the cheek embayment rim. The presence of Tambaroter in Europe, as the first ostodolepid known from outside of the midcontinent of North America, indicates that the geographic occurrence of this family was more widespread than previously known.
4523407|A new vertebrate fauna has been recovered from the Dogtown Member of the Torreya Formation, Hawthorn Group (early to middle Miocene), northern Gadsden County, Florida. Fossils were recovered from four fuller's earth clay mines. This new fauna, called the Willacoochee Creek Fauna (WCF), contains at least 68 vertebrate taxa, including 29 mammals, from marine, freshwater, and terrestrial environments. The WCF is restricted to the early Barstovian land-mammal age based on the presence of Copemys, Perognathus, Rakomeryx, and Ticholeptus, and the overlapping chronologic ranges of 8 other mammals. Lanthanotherium, Perognathus, and a squalodont whale are reported from the southeastern U.S. for the first time. Biochronological range extensions into the early Barstovian are proposed for Lanthanotherium, Anchitherium clarencei and "Merychippus" primus. The WCF is the first well documented early Barstovian fauna in the southeastern U.S., thus filling a large gap in the temporal distribution of vertebrate faunas in the region. The Torreya Formation records a transition from early Hemingfordian to early Barstovian faunas. Important faunal events include the transition from parahippine to merychippine horses and their subsequent diversification, and the local first appearances of Copemys, Mylagaulus, and Perognathus. The WCF is the youngest vertebrate fauna known from the Torreya Formation and provides a new upper age limit to that unit. The occurrence of the Midway Local Fauna (late Hemingfordian) and the WCF at the same lithostratigraphic intervals indicates the Dogtown Member is time-transgressive, i.e., younger to the north.
4523206| In Barbourofelis lovei, from the latest Clarendonian Love Bone Bed, Alachua County, Florida, the eruption of the deciduous upper canine was so delayed that it functioned not as part of the deciduous dentition, but as a "first" permanent canine. In an almost complete left juvenile maxilla with a heavily worn deciduous carnassial and a permanent carnassial that was starting to erupt, the developing crowns of both the deciduous and permanent canines are confined within alveoli and have not started to erupt. Other maxillary material and three juvenile mandibles provide supportive evidence. The late eruption of the deciduous canine is necessitated by its large size which approaches that of the permanent canine. B. lovei is also unusual in the timing and order of appearance of the incisors and the replacement of the upper carnassial. A moderately to extremely large dC and the delayed eruption of C are synapomorphies for members of the Nimravidae including Barbourofelis, and differentiate this group from the Felidae. The late eruption of dC in Barbourofelis suggests that an extended period of parental care was required in this species. 
4524539|Cranial elements of Suuwassea emilieae (Sauropoda: Diplodocoidea) from the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation of Montana, U.SA., represent one of only a few flagellicaudatan skulls known. Preserved elements include a left premaxilla, a fragment of right maxilla, a right squamosal, a right quadrate, a basicranium and skull roof lacking only the rostral end of the frontals, basipterygoid processes, and parasphenoid rostrum. Autapomorphic features of the skull include: premaxillary teeth projecting parallel to long axis of premaxilla; single optic nerve foramen; postparietal foramen present and larger than parietal foramen; supraoccipital with elongate ventral process contributing little to dorsal margin of foramen magnum; basioccipital not contributing to floor of median condylar incisure; and antotic processes with no dorsal contact with frontals. The basicranium more closely resembles that of Apatosaurus rather than Diplodocus and is also unlike the skull of Dicraeosaurus, despite its possession of a similar postparietal foramen, a feature unique among Morrison Formation sauropods. Pending reanalysis of Tornieria africana, which also possesses it, the postparietal foramen must be viewed as a symplesiomorphic retention in the Dicraeosauridae, with its loss a synapomorphy of the Diplodocidae, or at least of the North American members of the latter clade.
4522876|The type specimen of Pelobates decheni Troschel, 1861, from Rott near Bonn, has been reinvestigated and described. It is shown to be identical with the type (and only) specimen of Zaphrissa eurypelis Cope, 1866, described from the same locality. The latter name thus must be regarded as a junior synonym of the former. This also implies the reassignment of Zaphrissa from Discoglossidae to Pelobatidae. Some unique plesiomorphic characters of P. decheni not known in Recent frogs are pointed out.
4523812|A large number of eggshell fragments from a single locality of the lower Eocene (?Wa5-Wa6 biochron) DeBeque Formation of northwestern Colorado are interpreted as representing a single, disintegrated avian egg. These eggshells, and eggshells from two other localities within the formation, are of the ratite morphotype within the ornithoid basic type. They are unlike any previously described eggs and are assigned to Incognitoolithus ramotubulus oogen. et oosp. nov. This oospecies is distinguished by its smooth outer surface, assumed ellipsoidal shape, relatively large size, relatively thick eggshell, and presence of both non-branching and branching pore canals. Pore openings are clustered in grooves and pits on the outer surface, exhibiting the "aepyornithid" pore pattern. The eggshell fragments preserve a number of holes that were produced by impact from the outside. These marks are thought to have been produced by a predator, most likely avian. Fractures on many of the eggshell fragments occur on the inner surface but do not extend to the outer surface. These fractures are thought to be the result of lithostatic pressure following burial.
4523697|A new genus of eomyid, Metanoiamys, is described from the Uintan of southern California. Two new species, M. agorus and M. marinus are also named. All Eocene species previously referred to "Namatomys" are included in Metanoiamys. Species of Metanoiamys increase in crown height and lophodonty of the cheek teeth through time, though no species lineages are recognizable. Metanoiamys represents the stem genus for the Namatomyini and possibly Eomyinae, but not for the entire Eomyidae.
30117466|The species Myosorex meini Jammot, 1977 was a nomen nudum because it was named in an unpublished dissertation. The species is here revised using the new material found in the Late Pliocene fissure infillings of Almenara-Casablanca 1 and 4 (province of Castell, East of Spain) and from the Tollo de Chiclana localities 1B, 3, 10, and 10B in the Guadix Basin (province of Granada, Southeastern Spain). A new diagnosis is given with some differential characters to identify the species within the family. The species definitively belongs to the genus Myosorex. A definitive new allocation for the genus into the subfamily Crocidosoricinae is proposed as an alternative to the classical assignment to the Crocidurinae. This is justified by available data coming from different fields of research, such as genetics, reproductive biology, morphology, and paleontology. Within the Crocidosoricinae, the tribe Myosoricini Kretzoi, 1965 is resurrected, and two other ones, the Crocidosoricini and the Oligosoricini, are redefined. From the paleobiogeographical point of view, the occurrence of the African genus Myosorex constitutes a new striking evidence of the faunal exchange between Eurasia and Africa that took place during the Messinian Salinity Crisis.
20627136|Two eobaatarid multituberculate genera including three species from the Lower Cretaceous (Aptian-Albian) Shahai and Fuxin formations in Liaoning Province, northeastern China are described here: Sinobaatar xiei sp. nov., S. fuxinensis sp. nov., and Liaobaatar changi gen. et sp. nov. Sinobaatar xiei is characterized by m1 with cusp formula 3:2 (labial:lingual), P4 with cusp formula 2:4, blade-like P5 with three cusps anteroposteriorly arranged, M1 with cusp formula 4:4, and M2 with cusp formula 3:4. P1 to P3 of S. xiei lack distinct posterior cingulum. Sinobaatar fuxinensis has a more distinct posterior cingulum on P1 to P3, and its M2 has cusp formula 3:3. Sinobaatar xiei is within the size range of most other eobaatarids, and S. fuxinensis is slightly larger than S. xiei. Liaobaatar changi is clearly larger than other eobaatarids. The ratio of p4 length and height of L. changi and S. xiei (L./S.) are 1.9 and 1.7, respectively. Liaobaatar changi is also characterized by m1 with cusp formula 3:3. A specimen of S. fuxinensis indicates that tooth replacement in eobaatarids occurred in the typical backward sequence seen in Late Cretaceous-Tertiary multituberculates.
4523471|We show that Procompsognathus triassicus, long held to be a primitive theropod, is actually a paleontological chimera composed of the postcranial skeleton of a Segisaurus-like ceratosaur and the skull of a basal crocodylomorph. We dismember the holotype of P. triassicus on convincing evidence-theropod synapomorphies in the postcranium and crocodylomorph synapomorphies in the skull and referred material. We demonstrate, furthermore, that the holotype skull and a referred skull and partial forelimb belong to the contemporary basal crocodylomorph Saltoposuchus connectens. Saltoposuchus connectens, now with a nearly complete skull, carpus, and manus, is compared in detail to other basal crocodylomorphs. Current opinion maintains that S. connectens is the sister-group to all other crocodylomorphs and that other sphenosuchians constitute a paraphyletic assemblage of sister-taxa to Crocodyliformes. This view is overturned by a quantitative cladistic analysis of 20 characters, which suggests that by the Late Triassic crocodylomorphs had already split into two clades, Sphenosuchia and Crocodyliformes. Sphenosuchians evolved cursorial locomotor capabilities, with a digitigrade manus and particularly gracile long-bone proportions appearing in a subgroup including S. connectens. Crocodyliforms, in contrast, were more heavily armored, with stouter long-bones and a plantigrade manus and pes, and may not have evolved from cursorial predecessors as has generally been assumed.
23251302|Computed tomography (CT) has become a major tool to elucidate the anatomy of fossil taxa, including the braincase and inner ear. However, sample size is still limited and studies have concentrated mainly on saurischian dinosaurs. Here we report on the braincase anatomy of the Upper Jurassic ornithopod Dysalotosaurus using high-resolution X-ray micro-CT (CT). The main trunk of the vena capitis dorsalis was found between the parietal and supraoccipital, leading to a nomenclatural revision of cephalic veins and reidentification of their bony correlates. Contrary to the condition in hadrosaurid ornithischians, the posterior semicircular canal is the shortest canal in Dysalotosaurus, whereas the lateral is the longest, lying dorsal to the vestibule, as in basal archosaurs. The anteroventral inclination of the lateral semicircular canal suggests that Dysalotosaurus must have oriented its head dorsally while alert. Because the cochlea is relatively short, Dysalotosaurus had reduced ability to discriminate between high- and low-frequency sounds, as in sauropods, basal ceratopsians, and other basal archosaurs. The metotic foramen, however, was fully subdivided into a fenestra pseudorotunda and a vagus foramen, a derived character for archosaurs that is usually associated with a more refined sense of hearing. Lack of a refined capacity for discrimination of sound frequencies due to a short cochlea together with the equal-size and thick semicircular canals represent plesiomorphic characters for Dinosauria. The middle and inner ears of Dysalotosaurus bear a mosaic of primitive and derived features, pointing to a more complex evolutionary history of these structures.
20627060|Plausible poses were identified for the hind limb of Tyrannosaurus rex and three other non-avian theropod dinosaurs at mid-stance of locomotion using constraint-based exclusion. This new method, validated by analysis of two species of birds, involves applying demonstrably realistic geometric and kinetic (force-based) constraints from extant animals to exclude, rather than include, potential poses. Starting with a "configuration space" of millions of candidate poses, we used a step-wise series of criteria to constrict the volume to a small subset of solutions, which can serve as starting points for reconstructing complete stride cycles. It was found that the maximum relative mid-stance limb force, as well as the relative number of configurations at lower forces, decreased with increasing body size. Constraint-based exclusion restricted Tyrannosaurus to a narrow region of neither very columnar nor very flexed poses that may have allowed relatively slow running, but no reasonable combinations of input parameters and pose produce forces large enough for high speeds. This analysis shows that skeletal information alone has limited value for discerning mid-stance poses. Despite additional assumptions, unpreserved parameters such as masses, forces, and moments are required to study a fossil as a functioning animal, rather than as a moving set of bones. Constraint-based exclusion is a transparent, reproducible framework for evaluating functional hypotheses in dinosaurs and other taxa.
24523217|New Zealand's first pre-Pleistocene mystacinid bat fossils have been recovered from early Miocene sediments of the Manuherikia Group near St. Bathans, Central Otago. Mystacinidae, which belongs to the Gondwanan bat superfamily Noctilionoidea, is the only living mammalian family endemic to New Zealand, although its distribution included Australia in at least the Oligo-Miocene. The only member of the family definitely surviving is the peculiar walking bat Mystacina tuberculata. The St. Bathans mystacinid fossils consist of isolated teeth and postcranial fragments that appear to represent two new taxa of similar size and functional morphology (dental and wing) to Quaternary mystacinids. They suggest an Australasian mystacinid radiation now numbering at least eight species: four from New Zealand and four from Australia. The St. Bathans fossils demonstrate that mystacinids have been in New Zealand for at least 1916 Ma and signal the longest fossil record for an endemic lineage of island bats anywhere in the world. They add to the list of endemic vertebrate lineages present in Zealandia by the early Miocene, including leiopelmatid frogs, sphenodontids, acanthisittid wrens, adzebills, moa, and kiwi.
4524120|Vertebrate remains from the Late Albian-Early Cenomanian Candeleros Formation of northwestern Patagonia include those of a pipoid frog, which is described herein. The fossils consist of partially articulated and disarticulated elements, some of them badly broken, that are mostly exposed in ventral aspect. The description is based on one incomplete skeleton that presumably belongs to a single individual; this specimen possesses a combination of character states not present in other known non-palaeobatrachid pipimorph taxa and is identified here as a new genus and species, Avitabatrachus uliana. The species is moderately small (estimated snout-vent length ca. 35 mm) and shares with Pipidae conch-like squamosals, deeply excavated prootics to form channels for the Eustachian tubes, articulations for the lower jaws at the anterolateral corners of otic capsules, and fused sacrum and urostyle. Avitabatrachus possesses at least eight presacral vertebrae, the first two of which are fused, with flat, opisthocoelous centra. Unique features of this taxon are the presence of parasagittal flanges along the posterior halves of the otic capsules and the wide transverse processes of the posterior presacral vertebrae, which are only slightly anteriorly directed. Preliminary comparisons with other fossil pipoid taxa in the context of recent parsimony analyses suggest that it is the sister taxon of Pipidae. However, this phylogenetic placement of the new taxon should be corroborated in a future rigorous analysis that should include some putative stem pipid taxa that currently are being restudied.
4522881| Several recently discovered fossil specimens add to our knowledge of plesiadapiform primates. Micromomys willwoodensis, new species, is a diminutive microsyopid from the early Eocene (early Wasatchian) Willwood Formation of the Clark's Fork Basin, Wyoming. It is larger and more specialized than late Paleocene M. vossae and M. silvercouleei. Elwynella oreas is a new genus and species of paromomyid from the middle Eocene (early Bridgerian) Aycross Formation of northwestern Wyoming. It is most closely related to Phenacolemur, but differs from all other post-Tiffanian paromomyids in retention of P and in details of incisor morphology and molar trigonid structure. New specimens of the microsyopid Tinimomys graybulliensis are described, including a nearly complete dentary from the Wasatchian of the Bighorn Basin and the first record from probable Clarkforkian (latest Paleocene-earliest Eocene) beds of the Powder River Basin. The first Wasatchian specimen of Plesiadapis is described and illustrated. 
4523228|The tridactyl horse Hipparion (s.l.) has long attracted the attention of paleontologists and geologists alike for its potential use as a stratigraphic and paleoenvironmental index. A central dogma surrounding this horse's record is that it first occurred abruptly and instantaneously throughout the Old World ca. 12.5 Ma, heralding a general late Miocene environmental shift from forest to savanna ecosystems. We present data on the oldest known Central European hipparions, "Hipparion" primigenium (s.s.), that bear on these issues. Our analysis of the local Vienna Basin stratigraphic sequence and Paratethys geochronology suggests that hipparion's first provincial occurrence was ca. 11.0-11.5 Ma. We falsify the hypotheses of an Old World "Hipparion Datum" and the purported initial association of this horse with savanna habitats. An explicit cladistic analysis of "Hipparion" primigenium (s.s.), its North American sister taxon Cormohipparion occidentale, and several Old World primitive hipparions ("Group 1") suggests that several distinct lineages may have been derived from "Hipparion" primigenium (s.s.). We attribute trans-Eurasian and North African speciation of "Group 1" horses to provincial environmental change which fragmented species ranges (environmental vicariance), and adaptations to newly emergent ecosystems.
4523192|The fossil record of condors (Ciconiiformes: Vulturidae) in the New World is reviewed with a description of a new species of Gymnogyps from the early Pleistocene (Irvingtonian) of Florida. This new species shared a common ancestor with the California condor, G. californianus, and provides new information on the origin and evolution of condors in North America. A phylogenetic analysis of 39 cranial and postcranial characters indicates that the condors form a monophyletic assemblage with Gymnogyps as a distinct North American genus, and Vultur as a distinct South American genus. Condors probably originated in North America and may have reached South America in the mid Pliocene (Montehermosan) near the beginning of the Great American Interchange.
20491036|New axial and appendicular material permits a detailed re-description of the postcranial skeleton of the derived mid-Maastrichtian California mosasaur genus Plotosaurus. Centrum morphology, vertebral process shape, and extreme hyperphalangy provide compelling evidence to demonstrate that Plotosaurus achieved the highest level of aquatic adaptation among mosasaurs. A re-examination of the type material of P. bennisoni and of P. tuckeri indicates that only one taxon, P. bennisoni, is present, of which P. tuckeri is a junior synonym.
4523905|A large number of dinosaur nesting sites have been documented from the Upper Cretaceous (Maestrichtian) Lameta Formation of India. A remarkable diversity is noticeable in the eggshells. Based on the general morphology and the histostructure, they are parataxonomically assignable to oofamily Megaloolithidae (Tubospherulithic morphotype) and Elongatoolithidae (Ratite morphotype). Ten new oospecies of these eggshells are described in the present paper. Of these, the eight oospecies are assignable to oogenus Megaloolithus, one to the newly established oogenus Ellipsoolithus and the remaining one has been categorised as Incertae sedis. In addition, associated chelonian eggshells are also described. The Indian Upper Cretaceous dinosaur fauna is dominated by the titanosaurids (sauropods), and reports of theropods (megalosaurid and tyrannosaurid) and ornithopods are few. The eggs, whose shells are here attributed to a number of oospecies, must have had their parentship amongst these known dinosaurs. Many eggs are unhatched and completely preserved and may have a significant bearing on the extinction of dinosaurs. The majority of the eggshells are observed to be normal, except a few which exhibit pathologic features. The presence of numerous nesting sites and the skeletal remains of the dinosaurs, suggest that the palaeoenvironment in the Late Cretaceous of India provided an ideal habitat for titanosaurid and megalosaurid dinosaurs.
4524538|The braincase of the rauisuchian pseudosuchian archosaur Arizonasaurus babbitti, from the Middle Triassic of the western United States, is described from two specimens. There are no obvious braincase autapomorphies and most of the other braincase features of A. babbitti are plesiomorphic for pseudosuchians/crurotarsans. The results of phylogenetic analyses of archosaurian braincase characters indicate that A. babbitti is not especially closely related to other rauisuchians for which braincase anatomy is known (Batrachotomus kupferzellensis, Saurosuchus galilei, Postosuchus kirkpatricki, Tikisuchus romeri). Given that A. babbitti is a member of a clade that includes Poposaurus and chatterjeeids to the exclusion of most other rauisuchians, braincase data suggest that Rauisuchia are not monophyletic. This is in accordance with a recent appraisal of non-braincase data but, in contrast, our analyses suggest that Poposaurus and its closest allies are more distantly related to Crocodylomorpha than are other rauisuchians.
4523250|Chasmosaurus mariscalensis is a new species of ceratopsian dinosaur (Ornithischia; Ceratopsia) from the upper part of the Aguja Formation (late Campanian, Judithian) in Big Bend National Park, Brewster County, Texas. This species is distinguished from other species of Chasmosaurus by its relatively short and broad squamosal bearing six very large epoccipitals, maxilla without pronounced lateral shelf, premaxilla without posterodorsal extension, and very long supraorbital horncores in adults. A bone bed accumulation comprising disarticulated remains of 10-15 juvenile, subadult, and fully adult individuals forms the hypodigm of C. mariscalensis, and allows the first full description of the postcranial skeleton for the genus. Males and females are separated on the basis of brow horncore orientation. This is the most advanced species of Chasmosaurus and is morphologically intermediate with Pentaceratops in several characters.
20627082|Detailed description of the skull morphology of Winterswijk pachypleurosaurs expands the diagnosis of Anarosaurus heterodontus greatly. A. heterodontus is characterized by a broad and roughly shield-shaped sculptured nasal. The maxilla is separated from the anterolateral frontal processes by the nasal and the largely protruded prefrontal. The parietal in A. heterodontus exhibits a very characteristic lateral process that forms most of the dorsal margin of the upper temporal opening. The squamosal and quadrate are distinctly large and massive. The posterior part of the lower jaw is unusually stout. The pterygoid has an ascending posterior process that is ventrally articulated with the quadrate, supporting the mandibular condyle. The comparison of skull morphology with known pachypleurosaurs shows that A. heterodontus is most similar to Anarosaurus pumilio and Dactylosaurus. On the basis of the massive construction of the posterior part of the skull and the lower jaw, it is hypothesized that Anarosaurus heterodontus was able to crush hard-shelled prey.
25835834|The anatomy of a new subadult specimen of eutherocephalian therapsid, attributed to Promoschorhynchus cf. P. platyrhinus, is described from lowermost Triassic Lystrosaurus Assemblage Zone strata in the main Karoo Basin of South Africa. The specimen preserves information previously unknown in the genus, including details of the posterior region of the skull and intertemporal region, and a partial (though disarticulated) postcranial skeleton. A cladistic analysis of 32 therapsid taxa, including 24 Permo-Triassic therocephalian genera, and 121 craniodental and postcranial characters supports the specimen's placement within the Permian akidnognathid genus Promoschorhynchus (making it the youngest documented occurrence of this taxon) within a monophyletic Therocephalia. Inclusion of new postcranial characters strengthens support of the therocephalian clade. The new record of Promoschorhynchus offers insights into the diversity of eutheriodonts across the Permo-Triassic boundary (PTB) in the Karoo Basin. In contrast to cynodonts, therocephalians exhibited decreased rates of cladogenesis across the PTB, with several Triassic lineages having roots in the Late Permian rather than representing earliest Triassic radiations.
4522867|Maxillary fragments, rami, and postcrania referred to the hyaenid Chasmaporthetes ossifragus are recorded from two Florida faunas, Santa Fe River (probably late Blancan) and Inglis IA (early Irvingtonian). C. ossifragus with its reduced premolars, deep mandible, and long blade-like carnassials probably filled the ecologic role of an active predator occupied today by the spotted hyaena, Crocuta. The fore and hind quarters of the hunting hyaena were heavily muscled and its elongate limbs and feet suggest that it was well adapted for cursorial life. Review of the phylogenetic history of the group suggests that Asian C. kani, European C. lunensis, and North American C. ossifragus and C. johnstoni are all closely related. C. ossifragus is recognized as the most derived taxon. The fossil record suggests immigration of this genus from Eurasia to North America prior to 3.5 mya. Chasmaporthetes became extinct in Eurasia during the late Villafranchian and survived in North America into the early Irvingtonian.
4523967|The evolution of forefins within the Ichthyopterygia is re-evaluated based on the largest set of data available up to present, including recently reported Early Triassic forms. Three humeral morphotypes are recognized; one is plesiomorphic, and the other two characterize two of the major clades. The forefin elements of various ichthyopterygians are identified, based on osteogenetic sequences and topological arrangements. Both lines of evidence, ontogenetic and morphological, support a single conclusion that Stenopterygius, and all other ichthyopterygians belonging to the clade that survived into the Jurassic, lack digit I of the forelimb. Digits I and II are probably absent in Shastasaurus and closely related forms. The topology along the primary axis and digital arch is conservative among all ichthyopterygians examined, as expected from the underlying mechanism of limb development.
41407706|A new species of Cacops, C. woehri, is described on the basis of a well-preserved skull from the Dolese Quarry locality in Oklahoma (Leonardian). Although its relatively small size and pattern of sculpturing indicate that the specimen probably represents a sub-adult individual, C. woehri differs from other members of the genus in the shallower shape of the skull, more dorsally located orbits, a distinct sculpturing pattern of radial ridges and grooves, and an ' L'-shaped, narrow opening in the tympanic embayment. In addition, it differs from C. morrisi, the other anatomically well-known species of the genus, in the presence of a small posterior process of the postorbital contacting the supratemporal, in the presence of an ectopterygoid fang, large occipital flanges of the postparietal and tabular, and in the shape of the basal plate of the parasphenoid. This new taxon highlights the morphological diversity of species within the enigmatic genus Cacops, with variation encompassing a distinct cranial morphology.
4523676|     M2-4      ,    : Asiadidelphis tjutkovae     25-30%   A. zaissanense ,   , 1990. Asiadidelphis   Herpetotheriinae             .             ,  Asiadidelphis     Herpetotherium      Peratherium. 
4524615|Samples of the new middle Eocene tapiroid Hesperaletes are analyzed to determine the merits of their referral to particular species. Criteria for recognizing species not only include documenting apomorphic morphologies, but also statistically estimating similarity and variability between and within samples. These criteria are consistent with the general lineage species concept that considers species to be segments of population lineages. Statistical comparisons use Student t tests and an analysis of the coefficient of variation in different samples and combinations of pooled samples. Application of these criteria to samples of Hesperaletes leads to confident referral of late Uintan material to a single species, Hesperaletes borineyi, but indicate that early Uintan samples cannot confidently be referred to a single species. Accordingly, most of the early Uintan samples are referred to a second species, Hesperaletes walshi, with the exception of one sample of uncertain taxonomic status. Although several evolutionary scenarios are consistent with these patterns of variability, they are interpreted to be the result of a cladogenetic speciation event.
4524695|Isolated fragmentary anuran remains from several fossil-bearing levels of the continental succession exposed in the Salla-Luribay basin, Eastern Cordillera, are described herein. The anuran material consists of poorly preserved postcranial bones that are referable to toads of the nearly cosmopolitan genus Bufo, now widely distributed in South America. Moreover, these remains strikingly resemble skeletal elements of extant South American species of the B. marinus group, most of which inhabit humid to semiarid lowlands. Based on the ilial morphology, two species appear to be represented in the Salla Beds: one close to B. arenarum and another, possibly new, that attained large size. This study does not confirm an earlier suggestion that a taxon closely related to the living South American aquatic leptodactylid Caudiverbera is represented in the Salla succession. This record supports an Early Tertiary, or even older, major diversification of bufonids.
4524719|Branchiosaurids are small Permo-Carboniferous temnospondyls that retained an immature morphology and external gills throughout ontogeny. Their preservation of numerous size classes makes them outstanding examples for the study of ontogenetic patterns. Here, ontogenetic data of several branchiosaurids are analyzed in order to reconstruct and compare developmental trajectories. These trajectories are based on numerical changes, marked by the successive appearance of bones in the skeleton. The earliest phases in the formation of the skull are preserved only in two species, Apateon caducus and Melanerpeton humbergense. Despite being distant relatives within the clade, their ontogenetic trajectories are similar in the early formation of dentigerous elements in the jaws and palate, and a slower development of the median skull roof as compared with the smaller branchiosaurids Apateon pedestris, A. gracilis, and A. dracyi. Patterns shared by all five species are (1) the late formation and slow completion of circumorbital elements and most details of their temporal succession, (2) an anteroposterior progression of ossification in the postcranium, and (3) a delayed appearance of the interclavicle with respect to outgroups. In addition, Melanerpeton humbergense and Apateon caducus share the earlier appearance of the humerus relative to the femur. Apart from differences in growth rates of single elements, the analyzed trajectories differ in the chronological order of bone formation. These discrepancies are largely restricted to the late phase of larval development, and they affect the formation of the hyobranchial apparatus, sclerotic ring, scapula, and the last dermal bones to appear in the skull roof (postfrontal, postorbital, tabular, and jugal). The observed variation is probably a result of disassociated heterochrony, which is supported by comparison with outgroups such as Sclerocephalus.
4523692|Diverticula of the tympanic pneumatic system were present lateral to the basicranium in Allosaurus, as evidenced by depressions on the basicranium and the presence of pneumatic foramina. An examination of an ontogenetic series of basicrania of A. fragilis shows this system to exhibit both ontogenetic and individual variation. Anteriorly, diverticula initially invade the basipterygoid process and withdraw with age (ontogenetic variation). Posteriorly, depressions for the diverticula are variably developed (individual variation). Although recesses on basipteryygoid processes are reported in several theropod families this condition is likely to be a parallelism.
30126301|The fossil vertebrate localities near Humboldt, Richardson County, Nebraska, have produced a diverse assemblage of amphibians from near the Permo-Carboniferous (C-P) boundary, including at least one species of dissorophoid (described here), a trimerorhachid, juvenile and adult specimens of the dvinosaur Acroplous vorax, gymnarthrid microsaur material, numerous skeletons, skulls, and isolated vertebrae assignable to two species of the lysorophian Brachydectes, and diadectid teeth. A new genus and species of amphibamid dissorophoid, Plemmyradytes shintoni, is described from the lower half of the Permian-aged Eskridge Formation (early Asselian) near Humboldt. P. shintoni is only the second amphibamid species described from the Permo-Carboniferous midcontinent sequence in the Kansas-Nebraska region. Among amphibamids, it is set apart by the following suite of characters: (1) reduction of the lateral exposure of the palatine, (2) a long, narrow supratemporal (at least twice as long as broad) roofing the otic notch, (3) a posteriorly elongated squamosal, (4) long anterior maxillary teeth, decreasing in size posteriorly, (5) a shallow dentary with a long lateral dentary trough, and (6) dentary teeth that are slightly smaller than the maxillary teeth (approximately one-half to two-thirds as long). A cladistic analysis of 67 dissorophoid characters from 17 taxa supports a clade uniting P. shintoni with 'Tersomius' sp. and Micropholis stowi within a monophyletic Amphibamidae. The demonstration of evolutionary trends within the family based on the new data allows a comparison of competing phylogenetic hypotheses.
4524325|Described here is a new fossil species of crane (Aves: Gruidae), Palaeogrus mainburgensis, sp. nov., from the early middle Miocene fossil site of Sandelzhausen in Bavaria, southern Germany. The study includes morphological and metric comparisons with all known Tertiary gruids from Eurasia, along with a discussion of the taxonomic distribution of morphological characters in fossil gruids. The new species is represented by a distal tibiotarsus, a proximal tarsometatarsus, and a distal radius. It is the smallest species within the genus Palaeogrus that is known from the middle Eocene through the early Miocene. Palaeogrus mainburgensis, sp. nov. is the only known gruid taxon from Sandelzhausen.
4523644|Four new osteostracan species are described from the basal part of the Lower Devonian Spokoinaya Formation on October Revolution Island, Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago, Russia: Tauraspis rara, gen. et sp. nov., Hapilaspis apheles, gen. et sp. nov., Severaspis rostralis, gen. et sp. nov. and Benneviaspis urvantsevi, sp. nov. All are referred to the order Benneviaspidida, with some reservation in the case of T. rara. S. rostralis is regarded as the sister-group of the Boreaspididae, hitherto recorded only from the Wood Bay Formation of Spitsbergen. B. urvantsevi is similar to some of the species of Benneviaspis from the basal part of the Wood Bay Formation of Spitsbergen. The latter two species suggest a correlation between the base of the Spokoinaya Formation and that of the Wood Bay Formation or the top of the Red Bay Group (Ben Nevis Formation) of Spitsbergen; the osteostracan assemblage would be early Pragian in age. In addition, an undetermined cornuate osteostracan from the base of the Severnaya Zemlya Formation is similar to some of the large species of Pattenaspis of the Red Bay Group of Spitsbergen. The presence of the closest relative of the Boreaspididae in Severnaya Zemlya strongly suggests close biogeographic relationships between this area and Spitsbergen during Early Devonian times.
20627046|Megapiranha paranensis from the Upper Miocene of Argentina is described based on a large, partially toothed premaxilla as a new genus and species of serrasalmid fish (pacus and piranhas) and is diagnosed and distinguished from other serrasalmids based on the following unique combination of characters: seven premaxillary teeth with the first four arranged in a shallow, zig-zag row, and third tooth shaped similarly to the fourth and fifth teeth; large, triangular, unicuspid crowns with finely serrated cutting edges. The phylogenetic position of Megapiranha was determined by parsimony analysis of morphological characters. The resulting analysis recovered Megapiranha as sister to the piranha clade (Pygopristis, Pygocentrus, Pristobrycon, Serrasalmus) and is supported by two synapomorphies: (1) teeth triangular in labial view with well-developed cutting edges, and (2) serrations along both sides of tooth cutting edges. The pattern of tooth placement exhibited by the fossil Megapiranha is intermediate between the double-row condition of pacus and the single-row condition of piranhas, and suggests how the double row of teeth may have been rearranged into a single row in the evolution of piranhas.
4524319|It is widely recognized that missing entries can render some taxa unstable in phylogenetic parsimony analyses, leading to multiple most parsimonious trees and poorly resolved consensus trees that fail to reveal strictly supported relationships (relationships that are common to all the most parsimonious trees). An illustrated and non- technical review of strategies for ameliorating this problem, including safe taxonomic reduction and the strict reduced consensus method, is presented. Importantly, taxon instability is not necessarily a problem of missing entries per se, but it may be exacerbated by missing entries. A less widely recognized, but nonetheless important potential impact of missing entries and instability is obfuscation of the levels of the support provided by the data for particular relationships. Low bootstrap proportions and/or decay indices may reflect the instability of a subset of the taxa rather than more systemic deficiencies of the data. Even when there is no gross instability, relative instability can negatively impact upon measures of support. Rather than eschewing measures of support because of such problems, phylogeneticists should use methods of evaluating support that are not unduly affected by relatively unstable taxa. The majority-rule reduced consensus method provides one method that can be used to enhance bootstrap and jackknife analyses so as to reveal 'hidden support'. Double decay analysis provides an analogous extension to traditional decay analysis. Non- technical summaries of these methods are presented and their potential benefits and limitations are discussed and illustrated.
20627098|Pachyarmatherium is an enigmatic cingulate genus formerly recognized as Dasypodoidea, but tentatively assigned to the poorly known subfamily Glyptatelinae (Glyptodontidae) by later authors. A new species is described from the late Pleistocene of northeastern Brazil. The material comprises several isolated osteoderms, carapace fragments, and miscellaneous postcranial material. The new species, Pachyarmatherium brasiliense, differs from the North American Pachyarmatherium leiseyi in being larger and in having osteoderms with heptagonal shape, main figures with oblong, subrounded and polygonal outline (instead of only polygonal), and a larger number of peripheral figures. To clarify the affinities of Pachyarmatherium, a cladistic analysis was conducted of 48 morphological postcranial characters and scored for 11 cingulates (the new species, four dasypodids, one pampathere and five glyptodontids) and two pilosans used as outgroup taxa. In the most parsimonious topology obtained, Pachyarmatherium is the sister-group to a clade including Pampatheriidae and Glyptodontidae. This result contradicts the previous tentative allocation of Pachyarmatherium to the Glyptodontidae, and indicates that the glyptodont-like characters of the carapace and osteoderms of Pachyarmatherium are homoplasies shared with glyptodonts. The taxonomic validity of the genera Pachyarmatherium and Neoglyptatelus is recognized, but the morphological evidence from the external ornamentation of osteoderms does not offer support for the placement of Pachyarmatherium within Glyptatelinae.
4523742|Lothagam is a richly fossiliferous late Miocene site near the western shore of Lake Turkana, northern Kenya. This site has yielded a diverse fauna documenting a chronological interval poorly known from elsewhere in Africa. Lothagam was first collected by an American research group in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Field studies by the National Museums of Kenya between 1989-1993 have recovered many additional vertebrate fossils, including species previously unknown from Lothagam. This contribution presents a revised, formal stratigraphic framework, initial results of a vertebrate systematic revision, and new interpretations of the paleoenvironmental setting. Analysis of the sedimentary facies and their fossil content indicates the presence of a large, slow moving, well-oxygenated perennial river with abundant backswamps and ponds. Comparisons with faunas from earlier middle to late Miocene Kenyan localities suggest that a major environmental change occurred at the end of the Miocene.
4524715|Teeth, spines, and dermal denticles of chondrichthyans are reported from the Middle Pennsylvanian (Desmoinesian) Naco Formation of central Arizona. The most common elements are crushing teeth of the cochliodont Deltodus angularis, less common are teeth of D. sublaevis, Venustodus leidyi, Lagarodus angustus, "Cladodus" occidentalism Petalodus ohioensis, Orodus sp., and Hybodontoidea. Fin spines of Acondylacanthus sp., Amelacanthus sp., and Physonemus sp., and the dermal denticle Petrodus patelliformis are also present. The material of Venustodus leidyi shows for the first time that this animal was heterodont, having arched anterior teeth with a v-shaped profile grading posteriorly into lower crescentic, and finally flattened teeth. Lagarodus angustus is shown to have at least three tooth morphotypes, and a new tooth arrangement is proposed in which small anterior teeth are replaced posteriorly by large crushing teeth arranged in whorls. This fauna is similar to others in New Mexico, Colorado, and Ohio and constitutes a western extension of such faunas in North America. In addition, the presence of Deltodus sublaevis and Lagarodus angustus documents a range extension from a known European distribution, reinforcing the cosmopolitan nature of chondrichthyan faunas at this time.
41407653|Habitat partitioning and site fidelity of spawning grounds are well-documented phenomena in extant selachians, but little is known about the reproductive strategies of their fossil relatives. Here we describe the selachian fauna of the Middle to Late Triassic Madygen Formation in southwestern Kyrgyzstan, Central Asia, based on several dozen tooth crowns and egg capsules. The material is assigned to three new taxa: Lonchidion ferganensis, sp. nov., and Palaeoxyris alterna, sp. nov., being teeth and egg capsules of hybodontid sharks, and Fayolia sharovi, sp. nov., being egg capsules of probable xenacanthids. Teeth of L. ferganensis, sp. nov., were almost exclusively found in pelecypod-rich shallow lacustrine mudstones and belong to juvenile individuals. Oxygen and strontium isotope data of tooth enameloid indicate freshwater conditions of the ambient water at the time of tooth mineralization. The egg capsules are common findings in near-shore lake deposits as well. Considering the mass co-occurrence of juvenile teeth and egg capsules in the study area, we propose that hybodontid/xenacanthid sharks recurrently occupied littoral zones of the Madygen lake for spawning. The small number of full-grown individuals points to habitat partitioning of juveniles and adults wherefore the study site is interpreted as a shark nursery. The oviposition strategies inferred from this fossil example are remarkably similar to those of modern sharks, suggesting that the reproductive patterns seen in extant sharks originated well before the Cenozoic.
4524669|Based on a review of troodontid specimens from the territories of the former Soviet Union, including new discoveries from Uzbekistan, two dental morphotypes can be distinguished among Troodontidae from the Cretaceous of Asia: (1) unserrated teeth, present in Mei from Lujiatun (China; Early Cretaceous: Hauterivian-Barremian), an unnamed taxon from Hovoor (Mongolia; Early Cretaceous: Aptian-Albian), Urbacodon itemirensis, gen. et sp. nov. from Itemir and Urbacodon sp. from Dzharakuduk (Uzbekistan; Late Cretaceous: Cenomanian and Turonian, respectively), and Archae- ornithoides from Bayn Dzak and Byronosaurus from Ukhaa Tolgod (Mongolia; Late Cretaceous: Campanian); and (2) serrated teeth, present in Sinornithoides from Huamuxiao (China; Early Cretaceous) and Sinornithoides-Mke taxa from Khamryn Us (Mongolia; Early Cretaceous: Aptian-Albian), Shestakovo (Russia; Early Cretaceous: Aptian-Albian), and Sheikhdzheili (Uzbekistan; Late Cretaceous: Cenomanian); Troodontidae indet. from Kansai (Tajikistan; Late Cretaceous: Santonian) and Alymtau (Kazakhstan; Late Cretaceous: Campanian), Sauromithoides (Mongolia and China; Late Cretaceous: Campanian- Maastrichtian), and Troodon from Kakanaut and Blagoveshchensk (Russia; Late Cretaceous: Maastrichtian).
4524676|A new specimen of Trogosus from the Akasaki Formation, Amakusa City in Kumamoto Prefecture, Japan, is represented by 12 teeth, mandibular fragments, and cervical vertebral remains of an old individual. This is the most informative specimen of Trogosus from Asia. Comparisons with all known species of Trogosus indicate that the specimen is comparable to the largest species, Trogosus latidens, which has been recorded only from the Bridgerian North American Land Mammal Age. In addition to few diagnostic features of T. latidens except for the large size, the poor preservation of the new specimen makes its taxonomic identification at the species level debatable. However, the presence of the Japanese Trogosus further supports the intercontinental diversity and distribution of the genus via Beringia.
4523930|The classic Early Jurassic age theropod footprints Eubrontes giganteus, Anchisauripus sillimani, and Grallator parallelus were established by Edward Hitchcock in 1836-1847 and are the type ichnospecies of their respective ichnogenera. We identify, describe, and figure the type specimens in detail for the first time since they were named. We also figure and describe the other elements of the type series as well as specimens mistakenly thought to be the types. All of the tracks come from cyclical lacustrine and marginal lacustrine to fluvial strata from an interval spanning about one million years in the Early Jurassic age Meriden and Agawam groups of the Hartford and Deerfield basins of Connecticut and Massachusetts. Based on osteometric comparisons with skeletal material, these three ichnospecies were most likely made by theropod dinosaurs, as usually assumed. Although treated here as distinct ichnogenera, it is possible that their major proportional differences derive from allometric growth with individuals of several related species in one genus or even within one species of trackmaker. The rigorous establishment of these classic ichnological taxa forms a basis for more wide ranging studies of theropod diversity in the early Mesozoic.
4523971|Eucoelophysis baldwini is a new genus and species of theropod dinosaur from the Upper Triassic Petrified Forest Formation of the Chinle Group in north-central New Mexico. Eucoelophysis baldwini is diagnosed by the autapomorphous structure of its pubis (presence of ischio-acetabular groove), and femur, which has a sulcus in its proximal surface. It differs from Coelophysis bauri and Syntarus rhodesiensis in lacking a well-developed posterior femoral notch below the femoral head. It is further distinquished from Coelophysis bauri in having a tibia that has a distinct appressed surface along the distal two-thirds of the bone and lacks a fibular crest. The original syntypes of Coelophysis longicollis (Cope, 1887a) include a pubis with autapomorphies of Eucoelophysis baldwini and can be assigned to that taxon. Many of the other syntypes of C. longicollis, C. bauri and C. willistoni probably also belong to E. baldwini, but this cannot be demonstrated with certainty. The type horizon of E. baldwini is in the upper part of the Petrified Forest Formation, about 45 m stratigraphically below the locality of the neotype of Coelophysis bauri, the Whitaker (Ghost Ranch) quarry, which is in the Rock Point Formation.
4523787|A detailed description of the early archosaur Sarmatosuchus otschevi Sennikov, 1994, from the Middle Triassic Donguz Formation of southern European Russia, is presented. New morphological data forms the basis of a preliminary investigation of the phylogenetic relationships between a selection of the earliest archosaurs. A parsimony analysis based on 9 taxa and 35 characters recovers two most parsimonious trees that support the referral of Sarmatosuchus and Fugusuchus to a proterosuchid clade, as well as the paraphyly of the Proterosuchia. Characters from the structure of the braincase are more homoplastic than those from the rest of the skeleton. The presence of Sarmatosuchus in the Middle Triassic affords evidence that the proterosuchids were a more diverse and persistent clade than has been previously envisaged. Evidence suggesting that proterosuchids may have existed with erythrosuchids and early crowngroup archosaurs in the Middle Triassic requires a revision of our understanding of the early part of the archosaurian radiation.
20627052|Abundant, readily identifiable, and biostratigraphically resolved specimens make mosasaurs ideal candidates to test fluxes in generic richness and morphological trends among marine vertebrates during the late Cretaceous. More than 1800 globally distributed mosasaur specimens are allocated to fifteen substage-level stratigraphically correlated assemblages. These data are quantitatively analyzed to illuminate trends within the group. Following their first appearance in the Cenomanian, mosasaurs experienced a significant radiation in the Coniacian and Santonian. Richness levels continued increasing into the Maastrichtian while mosasaurs incrementally exploited new predatory niches recognized via accumulation of novel dental morphologies. Their extinction at the end of the Cretaceous occurred at the zenith of mosasaur morphological and ecological diversity.
4524571|A new aetosaur, Tecovasuchus chatterjeei gen. et sp. nov., from the Upper Triassic (middle or upper Carnian) Tecovas Formation of Texas is described, based primarily on osteoderms from several individuals. The diagnosis is based on a unique suite of osteoderm characters: very wide dorsal paramedian osteoderms; a low, keel-shaped dorsal boss on the dorsal paramedians that does not reach the posterior margin of the osteoderm; a strut on the ventral surface of the dorsal paramedians; ornamentation on the dorsal paramedians with both deep pits and fainter radiating grooves; a unique strongly thickened and beveled posterior edge on the dorsal paramedians; a prominent raised anterior bar on both the dorsal paramedian and lateral osteoderms; lateral osteoderms with dorsoventrally flattened, posteriorly excavated horns, reduced, tongue-like dorsal flanges, and larger, plate-like ventrolateral flanges. The low number of diagnostic criteria for identifying aetosaur osteoderms results in mandatory splitting at the generic level. Some specimens of Tecovasuchus have been misidentified previously as Paratypothorax, suggesting that shoehorning osteoderms into previously recognized taxa may conceal greater taxonomic diversity among aetosaurs than has generally been appreciated. Specimens with multiple osteoderms assignable to a single individual are important in naming and characterizing new aetosaur taxa, and at least one complete osteoderm is usually necessary when assigning specimens to pre-existing taxa.
4524290|There is little consistency in the notation and orientation terminology used in discussions of non- mammalian fossil vertebrate dentitions. The standardization of this terminology, as done in the medical and dental sciences, would facilitate all future research on fossil teeth. For mammals, we recommend following convention, where incisors, canines, premolars, and molars are abbreviated as In, Cn, Pn, and Mn (n = tooth number) in upper jaws and as in, cn, pn, and mn in lower jaws. Right, left, and deciduous teeth are indicated by R, L, and D (e.g., DP4, Rp2). For non-mammals, which can have dentigerous premaxillae, maxillae, and dentaries, as well as additional tooth-bearing bones (e.g., vomers, palatines, pterygoids, ectopterygoids, sphenoids, splenials, and even parasphenoids), we encourage identifying teeth using the bone abbreviation (e.g., pmn, mxn, dn, vn, pain). A number and slash (/) combination can be used to distinguish between multiple tooth rows (e.g., Pall/n, Pal2/n), and specimen-specific maps can be created for very complicated dentitions. We suggest the use of the terms mesial and distal to designate tooth surfaces and directions facing toward and away from the mandibular symphysis. Labial is offered for those surfaces and directions facing the lips or cheeks and lingual for those facing the tongue. We offer the terms basal for the direction toward crown bases, apical for the direction toward crown tips, occlusal for views of the occlusal surfaces, and basal and root apical for views of crown bases and roots, respectively.
4523086| The village of Linton in Jefferson County, Ohio, was the site of the Ohio Diamond Coal Mine, a drift mine exploiting the Upper Freeport coal of the Allegheny Group, Middle Pennsylvanian (equivalent to late Westphalian D, Upper Carboniferous). Beginning in 1856, extensive collecting from the cannel underlying the coal has yielded a diverse assemblage of nearly 40 vertebrate genera making Linton the most prolific Upper Carboniferous vertebrate locality in the world. Examination of over 6000 Linton specimens indicates that fish remains are approximately ten times more abundant than tetrapods, with coelacanths, haplolepid palaeoniscoids, and xenacanth sharks predominating. The most common tetrapods are small aquatic amphibians, including urocordylid and keraterpetontid nectrideans, trimerorhachoid and colosteoid temnospondyls, astopods, and lysorophid microsaurs. Other amphibian and reptilian genera are exceedingly rare and show more terrestrial adaptations, suggesting that they were biological transients within an otherwise aquatic biocoenose. 
4524642|The narrow- and wide-gauge trackways attributed to sauropod dinosaurs are hypothesized to be a consequence of the relative positions of their centers of mass. This hypothesis was tested using three-dimensional, trackway-producing computer models of two sauropods and studies of Asian elephants. Centers of mass of sauropod models were computed using density distributions that reflect the high degree of pneumatization of the skeletons and air sacs within the body. A close correspondence was found between the relative areas of hand and foot prints in different trackways and the relative fractions of the body weight borne by the forefeet and hindfeet in the different types of sauropods inferred to have made the trackways. Experimental studies of Asian elephants corroborated the close correspondence between relative areas of the hindfeet and forefeet and body weight distribution. Replicating actual sauropod trackways with the walking models enabled testing of proposed gaits for a sauropod model. Brachiosaurus brancai, with its more centrally positioned center of mass, was stable and possessed a wide safety margin only when replicating a wide trackway. Conversely, Diplodocus camegii, with a more posteriorly placed center of mass, was most stable when replicating a narrow trackway. A trend for large sauropods (>12 tons), independent of clade, to have more anteriorly positioned centers of mass was identified, and it is proposed that all large sauropods were restricted to producing wide-gauge trackways for stability reasons. The primitive gait state for Sauropodomorpha was determined to be one that produced narrow-gauge trackways.
4523501|New, well-preserved specimens of the Upper Pennsylvanian synapsid Haptodus garnettensis from Garnett, Kansas, represent more mature individuals than those available previously and indicate that H. garnettensis is diagnosed by several autapomorphies: septomaxilla with small facial exposure; prefrontal pocket shallow; pineal ridge present; supratemporal notched; anterior end of angular overlapped dorsally and ventrally by splenial; robust, chisel-shaped teeth; teeth present on palatal ramus of premaxilla. A phylogenetic analysis of early synapsids indicates that H. garnettensis is not a sphenacodontid.
4522952|Additional research on Late Pennsylvanian ichthyoliths from the midcontinent region has necessitated the modification and expansion of a previous identification system (Tway, 1979a). This coded classification scheme consists of a series of letters and numbers to describe the ichthyolith morphology without implying biological relationships. The key is based on observations of ichthyoliths in three dimensions as seen in reflected light and the scanning electron microscope. This scheme provides a means of utilizing ichthyoliths for geological studies without assigning binomial names to them before their biological relationships are understood.
4524783| The type material of Genyodectes serus, the first unquestionable non- avian theropod dinosaur to be described from South America, is redescribed in detail and its provenance and systematic position are discussed. Although no detailed information about the provenance of the specimen exists, it is probably derived from the lower part of the Cerro Barcino Formation (Chubut Group; Aptian-Albian) at Caadn Grande, central Chubut Province, Argentina. Genyodectes is characterized by closely-spaced premaxillary teeth that are arranged in an overlapping en-echelon pattern and extremely transversely compressed maxillary teeth, the longest of which exceed the minimal height of the dentary in apicobasal length. Although systematic information is limited by the fragmentary nature of the material, the combination of fused interdental plates, maxillary and dentary teeth with a pronounced flat or even slightly concave area adjacent to the serrated carinae, premaxillary teeth that are considerably shorter than the maxillary teeth and strongly compressed and very long maxillary teeth indicates neoceratosaurian and, more specifically, ceratosaurid affinities for Genyodectes. Thus, this taxon adds a further lineage of neoceratosaurs to the already diverse South American record of this group. 
4523949|A new mosasaur from the lullemmeden Basin in S.W. Niger, Pluridens walkeri gen. et sp. nov., has a highly anteriorly elongated dentary with at least one and a half times the number of teeth of any other recorded mosasaur. Referred material of P. walkeri is also recorded from southern Nigeria, providing vertebrate evidence that a seaway connected the lullemmeden Basin to the Gulf of Guinea in the south and to the Tethys in the north, i.e., that the seaway was apparently open-ended. The ecology and evolution of mosasaurs from west and southwest Africa are discussed in relation to a Trans-Saharan Seaway and faunal migrations. Mosasaurs in the lullemmeden Basin appear to have been adapted to a shallow sea and lagoonal environment. A new feeding strategy is proposed for mosasaurs i.e., it is possible that Pluridens walkeri occupied the vacated feeding niches of the early ichthyosaurs.
4524641|Fossils and casts of forelimb bones of the dromaeosaurids Deinonychus antirrhopus and Bambiraptor feinbergi were manually manipulated to determine range of motion and to test functional hypotheses. Shoulder motion in Bambiraptor resembles that found by a previous study on Deinonychus. The humerus can be retracted and elevated to subhorizontal positions and protracted somewhat beyond the vertical. In both taxa, the elbow can be strongly flexed but cannot be fully extended. Supination and pronation cannot occur by movement of the radius, which is immobile relative to the ulna. The palms therefore face medially except during wrist extension, which causes obligatory supination. The fingers of Deinonychus remain spread during flexion. In contrast, torsion of the distal articular surface of metacarpal I and the long axis of phalanx III-3 cause the first and third digits of Bambiraptor to approach each other during flexion, the first known instance of opposable fingers in a dinosaur. The morphology and range of motion in the forelimbs of Deinonychus and Bambiraptor enable two-handed prehension with the wrist flexed, one-handed clutching of objects to the chest, use of the hand as a hook, arm-swinging or -raising displays, and use of the forelimbs to maintain balance. Feathered wings, if present, precluded manual apprehension of objects on the ground, two-handed clutching of objects to the chest, and use of digit II to probe crevices. The forelimbs could not be used to dig. Opposability of the fingers of Bambiraptor enabled one-handed prehension, whereas Deinonychus required both hands to hold objects.
4522929|A sample population from Friesenhahn Cave, Bexar County, Texas, is used to describe the juvenile dentition of Homotherium serum. Analysis of thirteen juvenile dentitions of Homotherium serum Cope results in identification of eight stages in the eruption of deciduous and permanent teeth. These stages permit a direct comparison between Homotherium and modern felid dentitions. The eight stages progressively describe the teeth in terms of eruption and replacement, position, cusp patterns, and degree of wear. Comparisons are made between deciduous and permanent teeth of Homotherium serum to aid in future identifications and to suggest a functional significance. The deciduous dentitions of Homotherium serum and Smilodon floridanus are compared and contrasted. The bimodal age distribution of Homotherium serum is used to suggest that Friesenhahn Cave was a denning cave. Data on the eruption sequences of four modern cats are summarized and compared with Homotherium serum to propose a time-table for the eruption of Homotherium dentition.
4523018|Mammalian megafauna from Ethiopia's mid-Pliocene Hadar Formation is compared with those from sites in eastern and southern Africa. The presence of archaic taxa in the lower Hadar succession gives more support to an older (3.6 my) rather than younger (3.0 my) age for the KMB Basalt. Makapansgat is biochronologically younger than nearly all of the Hadar Formation. Chronological placement of the Australopithecus afarensis fossils from Hadar has no bearing on the validity of the species.
4524473|A fossil salamander is described based on specimens from a Lower Cretaceous deposit near Ningcheng, Inner Mongolia, China. Recently reported as Jeholotriton paradoxus, this form represents a neotenic salamander as indicated by larval features such as external gills, tooth-bearing coronoids, pterygoids with anteromedially oriented anterior processes, and underdeveloped maxillae, in combination with adult features such as extensive medial contact of the nasals and posteriorly directed tooth rows in the palate. This taxon is distinguished from other Mesozoic salamanders by having 15-16 presacrals, proximally expanded unicapitate ribs, vomers with large tooth patches anteriorly and longitudinal dentigerous bars posteriorly, large nasals with no anterior notch, frontals with no anterolateral extension, premaxillae with distinct alary processes, short transverse processes on the vertebrae, and phalangeal formulae of 2-2-3-2 for the manus and 2-2-3-3-2 for the pes. Including Laccotriton, Liaoxitriton, Sinerpeton and Chunerpeton, five taxa of Mesozoic salamander have now been found in China. Jeholotriton has especially well-preserved impressions of articulated skeletons, a type of preservation that is uncommon in Mesozoic strata throughout the world and provides important anatomical details of this early salamander. The great diversity of fossil salamanders from the late Mesozoic of north- eastern China implies that East Asia was an important center for the early evolution of urodeles.
4523765|A small squamatofauna from the early Paleocene (Puercan) Denver Formation includes a new scincomorph lizard, Palaeoscincosaurus middletoni new genus and species (?Scincidae), Odaxosaurus piger (Anguidae), an indeterminate anguid and other indeterminate lizards. Palaeoscincosaurus middletoni is represented solely by mandibular and maxillary elements that demonstrate its scincomorph affinities. This Puercan squamatofauna departs from other early Paleocene faunas (Puercan and Torrejonian) in being taxonomically less diverse and somewhat unique in composition.
4523264|The revised taxonomy of the subfossil hippopotami of Madagascar suggests that of the hitherto described four species, only two are valid. Lectotypes of these two species, Hippopotamus lemerlei Grandidier and H. madagascariensis Guldberg, are designated and the species are redescribed. Cranial features suggest differences in functional anatomy and ecology between these two species. The short and deep glenoid fossa together with the lateral wear facets of the incisors in H. lemerlei indicate restricted lateral movements of the mandible, while the long and shallow glenoid fossa and the horizontally worn incisors of H. madagascariensis demonstrate extensive lateral mobility. The long, narrow skull of H. lemerlei, with its elongated facial portion and short postorbital part, points to an amphibious mode of life; while the proportions of the more robustly built skull of H. madagascariensis indicate a mainly terrestrial habit. Tip-to-tip occlusion of the incisors, a posterior groove in the upper canines, and double-rooted first premolars are present in H. madagascariensis, but not in H. lemerlei. Since the two Madagascan species are closely related, these features cannot be used as distinguishing characteristics on the generic level. The ancestral form(s) of the Madagascan hippopotami is not known, but H. amphibius, with its well-developed aquatic adaptations, seems to be a possible ancestor. Like many other fossil hippopotami from isolated islands, the two Madagascan species are dwarfs.
42568545|'Crocodylus' pigotti is a relatively small crocodylid from the Miocene of Rusinga Island in Lake Victoria, Kenya. Known only from one relatively complete skull and limited, fragmentary, referred material, 'Crocodylus' pigotti lacks a detailed description. Moreover, recent analyses have shown 'Crocodylus' pigotti to be an osteolaemine crocodylid, more closely related to the extant dwarf crocodiles (Osteolaemus) than to true Crocodylus. Here, we describe numerous new remains of 'Crocodylus' pigotti recovered from localities within the Fossil Bed Member of the Hiwegi Formation at Kaswanga Point, Rusinga Island. We recovered parts of several individuals and report on previously unknown parts of the anatomy, provide an updated phylogenetic analysis, and reallocate the species 'Crocodylus' pigotti to a new genus, Brochuchus.
20627131|This paper provides the first detailed description of the only known postcranial skeletal elements of "Miacis" uintensis. The morphology of the skeleton differs markedly from previously described "miacids" (a paraphyletic assemblage of early fossil carnivoramorphans), invalidating the notion that all "miacids" were very similar in their postcranial morphology and locomotor styles. The majority of the differences indicate an animal less well adapted to an arboreal lifestyle than has been inferred for other early "miacid" carnivoramorphans. A phylogenetic analysis clearly nests "Miacis" uintensis within the paraphyletic array of taxa previously referred to as the "Miacidae," in a position closer to the crown clade Carnivora than is Vulpavus, a "miacid" whose postcranium has been previously described. When compared with the early canid Hesperocyon, this specimen shares many features thought to relate to the acquisition of a more terrestrial mode of life. This result indicates that, in contrast to prior models suggesting arboreality for all "miacids," at least one independent 'descent from the trees' occurred much earlier within the array of stem carnivoramorphan taxa.
4524298|Aristonectes parvidens Cabrera, 1941, and Morturneria seymourensis (Chatterjee and Small, 1989), two plesiosaurs from the Maastrichtian of South America and Antarctica whose phylogenetical position is controversial, are reviewed and found to be congeneric and conspecific. Most differences between the two type specimens are interpreted as related to ontogenetic growth: Morturneria is based on an immature, whereas Aristonectes is based on an adult, probably an old individual. Aristonectes exhibits an unique set of characters among Plesiosauria: a low and wide ogival skull, a paired vomero-nasal fenestra, a mandible high anteriorly with a very short and high symphysis, a homodont dentition composed of numerous, strongly outwardly directed and poorly ornamented teeth (dental formula: 10-13 premaxillary, at least 51 maxillary and probably 60-65 dentary teeth, depending upon individual ontogeny). Moreover, Aristonectes shares several synapomorphies with the elasmosaurid clade, mainly strongly binocular-shaped and platycoelous cervical centra with lateral ridges. In contrast to cryptoclidids, it retains some plesiomorphic characters (e.g., horizontal jugal and poorly ventrally excavated cheek, glenoid fossa at about the same level as the alveolar row). The dental morphology and peculiar occlusal pattern, forming an interlocking trap, suggest that Aristonectes strained a diet of small, soft organisms from the water.
41515057|Pipids are odd-looking frogs with a derived morphology that has been considered to be the result of a successful adaptation to a fully aquatic lifestyle. This monophyletic group comprises 33 extant species arranged in three clades mainly distributed in tropical regions of northern South America (Pipa) and sub-Saharan Africa (Xenopodinae and Hymenochirini). Their fossil record, however, documents greater diversity and wider distribution in South America in the Cretaceous and Paleogene. Recently, isolated postcranial bones bearing distinctive pipid features have been collected from Pleistocene beds in Argentina, nearly 2000 km farther south than their present distribution on the continent. Here, we describe a well-preserved pipid ilium possessing features unknown in the living taxa. The fossil is from a new Lujanian (late Pleistocene) locality of the Pampean Region, thereby confirming the intriguing presence of this group in southern South America. We provide a detailed anatomical evaluation of the adult iliac morphology of pipimorphs and use these data, along with molecular data, in a parsimony analysis of living and extinct pipoid taxa to estimate the relationships of the new material. This analysis places the fossil as a stem xenopodine in an unresolved polytomy together with "Xenopus" romeri from the upper Paleocene-lower Eocene of Brazil and two taxa from the Eocene of Patagonia. These Pleistocene pipid records in the Pampean region and subsequent disappearance may reflect latitudinal shifts owing to the rapid climate changes related to the glacial/interglacial cycles.
4524069|We describe a skeleton from the late early Paleocene (Torrejonian) of the San Juan Basin, New Mexico, which represents the oldest and most primitive known member of the Palaeanodonta. It is here named Escavadodon zygus, gen. et sp. nov., and is assigned to the new family Escavadodontidae. The specimen is one of the most complete skeletons of a small mammal known from the San Juan Basin Paleocene. The skeleton combines fossorial postcranial adaptations closely similar to, but somewhat less specialized than, those of early Eocene palaeanodonts, with teeth reminiscent of those of Leptictidae and to a lesser extent Pantolestidae. It thus appears to be morphologically intermediate between Leptictidae and Palaeanodonta, suggesting that Palaeanodonta evolved from Leptictidae or a leptictid-like mammal, and pushing back the origin of Palaeanodonta to at least early Paleocene time.
41407713|A partial skeleton of an adult mylagaulid rodent was collected in 1959 near Durham, Roger Mills County, Oklahoma, but the specimen was not prepared until 2010-2011. The specimen is a part of the Durham local fauna, of late Clarendonian (late Miocene) age. Several other isolated premolars previously published from the same locality give some indication of dental and morphological variation in the population sample. The new skeleton includes a complete cranium with two large horns on the nasals, associated dentaries, and some of the postcranial skeleton. The only mylagaulids previously reported to have nasal horns are Ceratogaulus rhinocerus, C. hatched, C. anecdotus, and Ceratogaulus (or Mylagaulus) minor (Hibbard and Phillis). There is discord about the classification of horned mylagaulines; problematically, an abundance of isolated teeth and paucity of skulls are found as fossils and sometimes were named as new taxa. Some authors place all horned mylagaulines in Ceratogaulus, whereas others place the taxon minor in Mylagaulus, indicating that at least one species (M.minor) of that genus has horns. The Oklahoma specimen has P4s with occlusal features considered diagnostic of Mylagaulus and is referred to that genus. Dentally the new specimen is most similar to the type specimen of Epigaulus minor Hibbard and Phillis, which is now variously placed in the genus Mylagaulus or Ceratogaulus. The nasal horns on the Durham cranium are distinct from the horns of all known horned mylagaulids in bearing large longitudinal furrows posteriorly. Accordingly, the Durham specimens are placed in a new species, Mylagaulus cornusaulax.
4523212|The neurocranium, pectoral fin, and teeth of a second specimen of Squatinactis caudispinatus from the Upper Mississippian Bear Gulch Limestone of Montana are described. The cladodont teeth place this chondrichthyan in the order Cladodontida, but the postorbitally elongate braincase is not similar in detail to those of the marine Mississippian Tamiobatis and the predominantly fresh-water xenacanthids. The pectoral fin endoskeleton is most parsimoniously derived from one similar to that of Cladoselache, and reinforces the isolated position of Squatinactis.
4524511|The osteology of the postcranial skeleton of the holotype of Diibreuillosaurus valesdunensis (Allain, 2002) from the Middle Jurassic Calcaires de Caen Formation (Bathonian) is described here. In addition to previous phylogenetic analyses, characters of the caudal vertebrae show that Diibreuillosaurus, gen. nov., is distinct from Poekilopleuron. Some features of Diibreuillosaurus are unique among Spinosauroidea. including the medioventrally directed femoral head and the convex anterior surface of the distal end of the femur. A re-examination of the observations made by Eudes- Deslongchamps on Poekilopleuron suggests that megalosaurids were piscivorous to a certain extent.
30126328|Paleogene bats from Africa are rare with only scant records from Tunisia, Egypt, and Tanzania having been described in the past. Four new genera and six new species of microchiropteran bats are described here from the late Eocene (37-34 Ma) of the Fayum Depression in northern Egypt. Included among these new taxa are the first and only African record of a fossil rhinopomatid and the earliest African records of megadermatids, emballonurids, and vespertilionids. Additionally, a new genus and two new species of the Afro-Arabian bat family Philisidae are described. The new Fayum philisids are the oldest representatives of this family, are represented by the largest species thus far recorded for the group, and include one of the largest fossil bats known. Previous biogeographic reconstructions suggest that most Old World bat families had their origin in Laurasia but several modern bat families may have diversified only after their initial dispersal into Africa. Bats and primates may have entered Africa during the same dispersal event early in the Paleogene.
4524447|In the eyes of many extant reptiles there is an osseous ring embedded within the sclera and around the cornea. This sclerotic ring was well developed and is frequently preserved in ichthyosaurs. Significant information can be drawn from it, such as eyeball diameter and relative size of the cornea. Estimation of these parameters in extinct forms is significant as they are closely related to vision capability. This paper presents insights into the growth pattern and vision capabilities of some Jurassic ichthyosaurs as inferred from the analysis of the sclerotic rings and orbit sizes. The suggested growth pattern of ichthyosaur eyes is similar to that of human eyes. Thus, the cornea did not grow as much as the rest of the eye. The relative size of the sclerotic ring and orbits can be used as a complementary criterion for estimating relative age in some ichthyosaurs. In juveniles the aperture of the sclerotic ring represents approximately 20% of the orbital area. This percentage decreases in adults.
4523951|Skin impressions from the tail region of an indeterminate hadrosaur recently excavated from the Upper Cretaceous Ringbone Formation, southwest New Mexico represent the first known dinosaur specimen from New Mexico with impressions of the integument preserved in association with skeletal remains. The mid- to distal-caudal region is represented by 20 articulated centra, other disarticulated centra, a single chevron, ossified tendons and fragmentary bone, including poorly preserved neural spines. The skin impressions are preserved in negative and positive relief between two very fine-grained sandstone beds, interpreted as part of a fluvio-lacustrine facies package. The impression surface is directly below the ossified tendons, and 2.5 m from the articulated vertebral column. The skin impressions are six discrete patches characterized by predominantly apical, circular to ovate tubercles. Measurements of the long and short axes of individual tubercles demonstrate that a distribution of relatively homogenous tubercle sizes occur along the tail section. The tubercles range from 3 to 12 mm and 10 to 16 mm on the short and long axes, respectively. All tubercles examined are ornamented with radiating ridges and grooves that converge at their apex. Presently, the material cannot be identified below the level of Hadrosauridae; however, a comparison of tubercle size, shape and ornamentation described previously from hadrosaur skin impressions indicates the integument morphology of the Ringbone hadrosaur has some similarities to that of the gryposaurs. In general, the complexity of the radial sculpturing, specifically the number of ridges and rugosity, increases with increasing tubercle size. This specific type of ornamentation is not known from modern reptiles or birds; however, the tubercular morphology is similar to that of the lizard Heloderma. Although it is impossible to determine whether the ridges and grooves may have had a physiologic function, these features would increase the surface area of the skin, and therefore may have afforded more efficient heat exchange across the skin, or possibly provided added resistance to tearing and puncturing.
4524440|Phyllolepid placoderms from the Devonian Boyd Volcanic Complex on the south coast of New South Wales are described as Cobandrahlepis petyrwardi, gen. et sp. nov., and Yurammia browni, gen. et sp. nov. Both are more primitive than other described phyllolepids in retaining a posterior dorsolateral plate in the trunk armor. Cobandrahlepis resembles Placolepis Ritchie, 1984, in the shape of the nuchal plate in the skull, and Austrophyllolepis Long, 1984, in the more lateral position of the sensory groove on the paranuchal plate. Yurammia, gen. nov., differs from all other phyllolepids in lacking ridged ornament on the dermal bones. These new taxa add to the diversity of early members of the order Phyllolepida from East Gondwana, before the appearance of the genus Phyllolepis in the Northern Hemisphere during the last stage of the Late Devonian (Famennian). Phyllolepid placoderms, only recorded from non-marine deposits, have a unique disjunct distribution in both time and space between the Southern and Northern hemispheres. They document a major dispersal event indicating continental connection between Gondwana and Laurussia near the Frasnian- Famennian boundary, at about the time of the Late Devonian mass extinction.
4522889|The new family Chongichthyidae is based on Chongichthys dentatus n. gen. et sp. from the Oxfordian marine deposits of the Domeyko Range, southeast of Antofagasta, northern Chile. Chongichthys dentatus differs from other Late Jurassic teleosts of South America and Europe in having: fenestrae between the prootic, autosphenotic and pterotic, and between the basioccipital, exoccipital, prootic and parasphenoid; a prootic fenestra; a large basisphenoid; a small, elongate basioccipital; a distinctive lower jaw; wide supraneurals; epineurals fused to the neural arches; ribs on the first abdominal centra and a distinctive enlargement of the last pleural ribs. The family Chongichthyidae shows some morphological similarities to elopiforms, pachyrhizodontoids, clupeomorphs, osteoglossomorphs and euteleosts, but it also differs from all of them in certain respects and is therefore regarded as Teleostei incertae sedis.
4524304|The first braincase belonging to an Early Cretaceous sauropod from North America is described. The diagnostic characters of this well preserved partial braincase are: prominent supraoccipital crest, with a distinct median ridge extending almost to the foramen magnum; short, ventrally directed basitubera, divided by a deep groove extending to the basipterygoid; single foramen for cranial nerve XII; accessory foramen for cranial nerve XL A lack of juvenile characters suggests this specimen, although quite small, belongs to an adult individual. Comparison of this specimen with other sauropod crania indicates strong similarities with brachiosaurids and titanosaurids.
40864389|The Otis Chalk quarries in the Upper Triassic Dockum Group of West Texas have produced aetosaur material that most workers have suggested represents two distinct morphotypes. We use characters from aetosaur specimens with articulated or semi-articulated carapaces in which the anteroposterior placement of osteoderms can be established with certainty to compare homologous osteoderms in the Otis Chalk material. This study confirms that the genera Longosuchus and Lucasuchus are distinct morphotypes, which differ in that the former taxon has paramedian osteoderms with random pitted ornamentation and low pyramidal bosses that contact the posterior margin, and spines on the lateral osteoderms that are posteriorly emarginated, whereas the latter taxon has paramedians with a strongly radial ornamentation and large conical eminences, and spines on the lateral osteoderms that are not posteriorly emarginated. Both taxa also have paramedians that are overlapped anteriorly by the laterals, a character that may be a synapomorphy of desmatosuchine aetosaurs. The arguments that these morphotypes represent ontogenetic stages or sexual dimorphs of a single biological species cannot be corroborated using either comparisons with modern pseudosuchians, other aetosaur taxa, or stratigraphie ranges. Longosuchus is known only from the type area and has no utility as an index taxon of the Otischalkian land-vertebrate faunachron, although Lucasuchus suggests a tentative correlation between part of the Dockum Group of Texas and the Pekin Formation of North Carolina.
20061955|The Pliocene Ringold Formation of eastern Washington has yielded important new materials of tremarctine bears of the anagenetic Plionarctos lineage. The genus is reviewed in light of this new material and observations made on other described specimens. One of these was previously described from the medial Hemphillian Rattlesnake Formation of Oregon and is recognized as a tremarctine bear, thus extending the earliest record of the group into the early part of the late Miocene. The late Hemphillian P. edensis, the genotypic species, is rediagnosed, although no new material is added to its hypodym. A new species from the early Blancan White Bluffs sites, P. harroldorum, appears to have been derived from P. edensis. Referred Plionarctos sp. from the medial Blancan Taunton Locality has some dental features that are more derived and approach those of the Pleistocene Tremarctos floridanus. Plionarctos forms a paraphyletic stem-group for the Tremarctinae. Species of this genus can be traced successively into the Pliocene where they form the stock from which the Pleistocene and Recent species of Tremarctos, Arctodus, and Pararctotherium arose.
20491046|A new plagiolophine equoid from the Eocene of the Iberian Peninsula, Iberolophus gen. nov., is herein reported. This new genus includes two species: I. arabensis sp. nov. (type species) from the Late Eocene (Headonian) of Zambrana (Araba, Basque Country) and I. jimenezi sp. nov. from the late Middle Eocene (Robiacian) of Mazatern (Soria, Castilla y Len). Iberolophus exhibits an unusual dental pattern that has not yet been reported in any other perissodactyl or ungulate to date. A complete (with P1/p1) and very long non-lophoid premolar series, in which premolars exhibit one (in the earlier members) or two (in the later members) high and pointed cusp(s) anteriorly and a low and long backward extended talon/talonid posteriorly, with a bumpy surface texture, is combined with a typical plagiolophine type lophodont and heterodont molar series. The new taxa are ranked as members of the endemic fauna of the Western Iberian Bioprovince. The latter includes the Eocene sites of the central and western Iberian basins (Duero, Almazn, Oviedo, and Miranda-Trebio Basins), which have yielded Middle and Late Eocene mammal fossil assemblages (mainly perissodactyls, rodents and primates) which differ from those of the Southern Pyrenean Basins and the rest of Europe. The endemism of the perissodactyl faunas persisted during the Late Eocene in the central and western Iberian basins, on the basis that the perissodactyl fossils from the middle Headonian beds at Zambrana (Miranda-Trebio Basin) are related to endemic taxa from the late Robiacian beds of the Duero, Almazn, and Oviedo Basins.
42568634|Partial eggs from the Eocene Willwood Formation of Wyoming contain unidentifiable embryonic remains; the eggs are referable to a theropod on the basis of their structural layering of calcite and to an avian theropod because of their Eocene age. We assign the specimens to the oofamily Medioolithidae as Microolithus wilsoni, oogen. et oosp. nov., on the basis of the following unique combination of characters: 600-m-thick eggshell composed of three structural layers; abrupt and undulating contact between the mammillary and continuous layers; smooth and glossy outer egg surface; faint or obscure prisms of the continuous layer; non-branching pores; and mammillary-to-total shell thickness ratio of 1:4. The eggshell microstructure resembles that of some extant neognath bird eggs. We refer a single egg from Chadron Formation of eastern Nebraska to incertae sedis as Metoolithus nebraskensis, oogen. et oosp. nov. A combination of characters distinguishes the egg from other fossil and modern avian eggs, namely, thicker eggshell, prominent ornamentation, flared upper portion of the prisms, variable mammillary thickness, and irregular squamatic texture in the continuous layer. These characteristics more closely resemble Mesozoic non-avian theropod eggs and likely reflect mosaic evolution in the non-avian to avian-theropod transition. Finally, an external layer occurs in a wide range of Paleogene and Cretaceous eggs of variable size and taxonomic affinities, indicating that this feature may not represent an apomorphic character for the avian crown group with respect to non-avian theropod eggshell. Therefore, an external layer cannot be used to identify neognath birds in the Mesozoic.
41515068|Here we describe Bohaskaia monodontoides, a new taxon of beluga-like odontocete cetacean from the early Pliocene Yorktown Formation of Virginia and North Carolina. Among odontocetes, Bohaskaia shares key characteristics of the rostrum and face with belugas (Delphinapterus leucas), narwhals (Monodon monoceros), and Denebola brachycephala from the late Miocene of Baja California, thus placing it as a member of the Monodontidae. It also displays autapomorphies that merit its placement in a new genus and species. Both Denebola and Bohaskaia occurred in warmer latitudes than those of extant monodontids, even accounting for extralimital records. Such data from the fossil record of Monodontidae indicates that putative cold climate adaptations of living monodontids might have appeared under different environmental conditions and that their Holarctic and sub-Arctic distribution is a relatively recent phenomenon.
20490989|Ilemoraspis kirkinskayae is a poorly known genus of Osteostraci (stem-gnathostome) yet is one of the most distinct in terms of its anatomy and biogeography. It is paleobiogeographically isolated from all but one other genus of Osteostraci on the Altaid microcontinents and is one of the few genera to survive into the Middle Devonian. Discovery of a new locality in Khakassia, Russia, has yielded a number of exceptionally well-preserved specimens of the genus and subsequently a wealth of new anatomical information. A new reconstruction of Ilemoraspis is provided, including post-cranial anatomy and a sensory line extending onto the trunk. The latter is a novel observation for the Osteostraci and allows the proposal of a scenario for the evolution of trunk lateral lines. New anatomical data for I. kirkinskayae allow testing of established hypotheses on its affinity. Our analyses yield two equally parsimonious solutions that appear unlikely on the basis of comparative anatomy or paleobiogeographic grounds, respectively. This situation is likely to be a consequence of the sporadic sampling of osteostracans in central Asia.
4524514|New specimens of the unusual theropod Spinosaurus cf. S. aegyptiacus from the Late Cretaceous (early Cenomanian) of Morocco reveal new information about the structure of the snout and the very large adult body size attained by the species. The external naris is retracted farther caudally on the snout than in other spinosaurids and is bordered exclusively by the maxilla and nasal. The fused nasals preserve a longitudinal, fluted crest. The size of the snout suggests that Spinosaurus may well have exceeded the maximum adult body size of other large Cretaceous theropods such as Tyrannosaurus and Giganotosaurus. The new material also supports the monophyly of the Spinosaurinae and the separation of Spinosaurus and Irritator.
4524517|We describe new material of the insectivoran genus Centetodon and discuss its anatomy and relationships in the context of recently developed hypotheses of mammalian phylogeny. Centetodon shows characters common among insectivoran-grade placental mammals, such as an expanded maxillary contribution to the orbital mosaic and relatively small optic foramina. Additional characters such as an enlarged piriform fenestra and a ventrally convex plane of the alveolar maxilla support its position in a clade with extant Holarctic insectivorans (i.e., erinaceids, Solenodon, soricids, and talpids). Our analysis of a combined genetic-morphological matrix supports the recently proposed hypothesis that Solenodon is the basal-most member of a clade of Holarctic insectivorans, including Centetodon and excluding African tenrecoids. Even though DNA sequences are missing for this and most other extinct taxa, they nevertheless help to identify its phylogenetic relationships by better resolving the clades of extant taxa to which it is related. DNA sequences can also influence the topology of fossils by altering the optimization of morphological characters that are known for extinct taxa. The extent of anatomical convergence in Holarctic and African clades of insectivoran-grade mammals is considerable; nevertheless there are diagnostic features that can help determine the affinities of fossil insectivorans with one of these clades.
4524061|The braincase of Leptopleuron lacertinum Owen, a leptopleuronine procolophonid from the Late Triassic (lower Norian) of Scotland, is described for the first time. Morphologically, the braincase of Leptopleuron is similar to that of the Early Triassic genus Procolophon, and to a number of other procolophonids currently included in the subfamily Procolophoninae Romer, 1956. Several features of the braincase of Leptopleuron are derived within the Procolophonidae, but others are unique to this genus. Apomorphies include a strongly tripartite occipital condyle, a metotic foramen that is not walled by bone anteriorly, an 'ascending process' of the basisphenoid that forms a robust flat-ended expansion, and bears ventrally a thin laterally directed lamella, a 'processus infrastapedialis columellae' of the stapes that is aligned with the long axis of the footplate, loss of the foramen for nerve IX on the ventral ramus of the opisthotic, and a greatly expanded, vertical basisphenoid rostrum. These features may be autapomorphic for Leptopleuron, or represent synapomorphies of the Leptopleuroninae Ivakhnenko, 1979.
4523650|An incomplete well-preserved skull of a small phytosaur from the Upper Triassic New Oxford Formation of York County, Pennsylvania, resembles skulls previously referred to Rutiodon carolinensis in the plesiomorphic possession of a slender, uncrested rostrum. It differs from the latter only in the course of the palatal suture between the premaxilla and maxilla and the sharply notched anterior margin of the supratemporal fenestra. The type species of Rutiodon Emmons, 1856, R. carolinensis from the Cumnock Formation of North Carolina, cannot be adequately diagnosed at present and is considered a metataxon sensu Gauthier (1986). A very large tooth of a phytosaur from the same locality as the skull is not conspecific with the latter and indicates the existence of a second, much larger phytosaur in the New Oxford Formation.
4524220|The poorly known genera Burnetia and Proburnetia, which are the only members of the therapsid family Burnetiidae, are redescribed and revised generic diagnoses are provided. Both genera are similar in having a prominent antorbital depression, a parasagittal ridge on the basicranial ramus of the pterygoid that extends from the transverse processes to the basisphenoid, a small temporal fenestra with no external area for adductor muscle attachment, and the same complement of bony protuberances on the skull roof including characteristic posteriorly projecting supratemporal "horns" formed by the squamosal and parietal bones. The morphology identified here is consistent with grouping the Burnetiidae in the Biarmosuchia, rather than in the Dinocephalia or Gorgonopsia as has been previously suggested.
4524171| Body mass is an important determinant of most biological functions, and knowing the mass of extinct animals is essential in order to learn about their biology. It was the aim of this paper to develop a method of mass estimation which would make it possible to determine allometric length-mass relationships for the different groups of dinosaurs. Mass is calculated from graphical reconstructions of fossils, or from photos of skeletal mounts or live animals. Body shape of animals is described by high order polynomial equations. Integration of the polynomial gives body mass of a 'round' animal, which is then corrected for animal width by intersection with a second equation (Y = 1 - ax). The method was validated by predicting body mass of extant animals of known mass and with complex body shapes (kangaroos, emu, elephant, giraffe, rhinoceros). Body mass increased allometrically with total length in all groups of dinosaurs (Ankylosauria, Ceratopsia, Ornithopoda, Prosauropoda, Sauropoda, Stegosauria and Theropoda), but 95% confidence intervals were very large for Ankylosauria and Stegosauria so that, for those groups, the resulting regression equations have little predicting power. Scaling exponents were least for the Sauropoda which may have grown less massive to function at their great body size. Scaling exponents were greatest for the Theropoda, but it was speculated that small coelurosaurs, as the precursors of birds, may have grown less massive compared to other theropods. Mass estimated by the 'polynomial' method presented here did not differ significantly from mass estimates in the literature where these were available. 
4522946| There is an extensive Pleistocene record, from early Irvingtonian to present, of pocket gophers (genus Geomys) in Florida. Evolutionary trends include the widening of lower cheekteeth and the expansion of the retromolar fossa; these changes resulted in progressively more efficient mastication. Other trends in dental characters include the loss of enamel from the posterior face of P and a change in the occlusal shape of M from elongate and bilophate to subtriangular. Mandibular and dental features distinguish early and middle Irvingtonian samples from late Irvingtonian to modern samples, which are referred to the extant Geomys pinetis. The new species may be diagnosed both quantitatively from mandibular characters and qualitatively from characters of the upper dentition. 
4522962|The animals that ultimately attained craniotedness are suggested to have followed an evolutionary pathway including: (1) a pelagic, single-layered and externally ciliated blastiscus stage; (2) a benthonic, double-layered, bilaterally shaped gastriscus stage, from the internal layer of which two bilateral generations of mesodermal outpocketings, branchiothyric and pleurohylomeric, arose in sequence, and from the external layer of which a mid-dorsal tube, the egrediduct, appeared that, along with a pair of posteriorly located flaps, functioned in water-jet locomotion; and (3) a myomerozoon stage, the diagnostic character of which is a paired series of myomeres derived from upper parts of the pleurohylomeres and used for natation. It is further suggested that two evolutionary lineages diverged from the early myomerozoan stock. The holoptychophoric lineage led to the abranchiate myochordates ("Amphioxus") and the entobranchiate cyclostomes. The hemiptychophoric lineage led to the ectobranchiate gnathostomes. Hence it follows that the cyclostome and gnathostome crania have evolved independently of one another, and coincidentally that the term craniotes (or craniates) should be recognized as merely a convenient hold-all category for the myomerozoans exhibiting a cephalic skeleton.
30126315|A fossil pangolin is described from the early Pliocene of Langebaanweg, South Africa. Morphological adaptations indicate that the specimen was not arboreal as are the living African species Manis tricuspis and M. tetradactyla, but was probably ground dwelling and may have engaged in a quadrupedal gait similar to that of the living representatives of the African species, Manis gigantea. In addition, it may have used its forelimbs for more extensive digging than does the living African Manis temminckii. The tail length, limb bone widths and proportions, and humeral morphology support the assignment of this specimen to Manis gigantea, making it the oldest known fossil representative of this species and the only confirmed fossil pangolin from South Africa.
20491082|A new fossiliferous locality is reported from southwestern France (Moissac III) that yielded two skulls referred to the anthracotheriid Elomeryx crispus and the rhinocerotid Protaceratherium albigense, and an isolated rodent tooth. The anthracotheriid skull indicates a close relationship with E. borbonicus based on its cranial morphology. The rhinocerotid skull improves our knowledge concerning its anterior dentition, cranial morphology and proportions, and enables a more precise specific diagnosis. We suggest an early late Oligocene biochronological age (Mammal Paleogene European reference level MP25-26) for Moissac III, which is substantiated by the co-occurrence of P. albigense and of the theridomyid rodent Issiodoromys cf. pauffiensis. The European stratigraphic range of E. crispus, so far restricted to the late Eocene-early Oligocene interval (MP18-MP22), extends up to the MP25-26, which in turn supports an origination of 'Miocene bothriodontines' from a European ancestor.
4523191| Anas[?] blanchardi (Milne-Edwards, 1863), an abundantly represented fossil duck from the lower Miocene of Saint-Grand-le-Puy, Allier, France, has been recognized as systematically problematic in recent decades. Most recently, Cheneval (1983b) moved this fossil and closely related forms to Dendrochen (Miller, 1944), a purportedly dendrocygnine genus from the lower Miocene of South Dakota. We reexamined blanchardi using characters shown to be of phylogenetic utility in a recent phylogenetically analysis of the Anseriformes (Livezey, 1986). This reappraisal showed that blanchardi diverged from the rest of the Anatidae after Dendrocygna but before Stictonetta. A single "best" branching sequence for the included taxa-blanchardi, Thalassornis, and the Anserinae (geese and swans)-is not possible at present. Several possibly convergent characters indicate that blanchardi was moderately specialized for diving. We conclude that blanchardi (and provisionally its close relatives Anas[?] consobrina and Anas[?] natator) should be placed in a new genus Mionetta, and that Dendrochen should be listed tentatively as its sister genus. Together these two genera comprise the new subfamily Dendrocheninae, which should be listed following the Dendrocygninae. 
4522968|The presence of enlarged molariform teeth in some groups of lizards has been known since the early nineteenth century. Few papers, however, have documented ontogenetic variation in the development of such teeth. This paper discusses and evaluates both new and previously described examples of molariform teeth in fossil and Recent squamates of the families Iguanidae, Teiidae, Lacertidae, Scincidae, Xantusiidae, Anguidae, Varanidae, Mosasauridae, and Amphisbaenidae. New data on ontogenetic change in Iguanidae (Chamaeleolis, Diplolaemus), Teiidae (Ameiva), Scincidae (Tiliqua), and Anguidae (Diploglossus) are given. Most species with enlarged teeth as adults have unmodified teeth in hatchling or young individuals, but in a few species (Dracaena guianensis, Teiidae; Tiliqua scincoides, Scincidae; Amphisbaena ridleyi, Amphisbaenidae) the dental modification is already present in early ontogenetic stages. Lack of information on the diet of lizards in general and young animals in particular prevents formulation of well founded hypotheses regarding the adaptive value of molariform teeth. Such dietary information as is available, however, suggests that such lizards may be functioning as generalists, being omnivorous rather than specializing in durophagy.
4523311|A virtually complete skeleton of the pinniped Enaliarctos mealsi is described from the Pyramid Hill Sandstone Member of the Jewett Sand (late Oligocene or early Miocene) in central California. Skeletal evidence supports the sister group relationship of ursids and pinnipeds and the monophyly of pinnipeds. The structure of the vertebral column, especially the long transverse processes on the lumbar vertebrae and loose-fitting zygapophyses, indicates that the spine was capable of considerable flexion and extension. The limbs, modified as flippers with strongly developed bony processes and expanded areas for muscle attachment, provide evidence of their use in both aquatic and terrestrial locomotion.
40666174|The fossil shrews (Soricidae, Lipotyphla, Mammalia) from the Pliocene continental deposits of Tollo de Chiclana (Guadix Basin, southern Spain) are described. Remains of Asoriculus gibberodon, Blarinoides aliciae, Petenyia hungarica, Paenelimnoecus pannonicus, Myosorex meini, and an indeterminated species of Soricidae have been recognized. With the exception of A. gibberodon, these species are very uncommon in the south of the Iberian Peninsula; in fact, this finding represents the first record of Petenyia, Blarinoides, Paenelimnoecus, and Myosorex in the Guadix Basin. The changes in the abundance of Soricidae in the studied levels indicate wet and warm climatic conditions during the late Ruscinian and early Villanyian, and a decrease in the temperature and precipitation in the late Villanyian.
4524725|The Upper Cretaceous marine squamate Pontosaurus lesinensis is redescribed. Extensive re-preparation has exposed new details of the skull, mandibles, and postcranial skeleton. Important new characteristics include a unique supraoccipital-parietal articulation, elongation of all postdentary bones, at least twelve cervical vertebrae, hypapophyses with large unfused peduncles, twenty-eight dorsal vertebrae, and a fused scapulocoracoid with a primary coracoid emargination. Cladistic analysis of all anguimorph squamates, including mosasaurs, aigialosaurs, dolichosaurs, snakes, and Pontosaurus, resulted in 3-most parsimonious trees: 334 steps; C.I. 0.78; H.I. 0.42; R.I. 0.81. Both the strict consensus tree and the 50% majority-rule consensus tree found support for the monophyly of the Pythonomorpha, containing mosasaurs, aigialosaurs, dolichosaurs, and snakes (pachyophiids and modern snakes). Pontosaurus is found to be a dolichosaur nested within the clade Pythonomorpha as the sister taxon to Adriosaurus and the Ophidia.
20061988|Hambach 6C, a recently discovered middle Miocene vertebrate locality in northwestern Germany, produced the fourth occurrence of the extremely rare ruminant Orygotherium escheri. The new record is an isolated M3. In Central Europe, O. escheri is known only from lignitic deposits of zone MN5, and may have been restricted to swampy habitats. Figures and measurements of the lecto- and paralectotypes are published for the first time. The phylogenetic position of Orygotherium within the Ruminantia remains uncertain despite 160 years of research.
4523424|The genus Paenelimnoecus Baudelot, 1972 and its species have in the course of time been assigned to the subfamilies Limnoecinae, Crocidurinae, Soricinae and Crocidosoricinae; it was still included in both latter subfamilies in the most recent literature. This enigmatic taxonomical situation is discussed. It is concluded that Paenelimnoecus belongs to the subfamily Allosoricinae Fejfar, 1966, which subfamily is here resurrected.
4524520|We describe an associated skull and lower jaws of a new species of primitive skunk, Martinogale (subfamily Mephitinae), from the late Miocene Dove Spring Formation (late Clarendonian), Kern County, California. It is also the first occurrence of this genus in the Tertiary of the West Coast of North America. The new species is among the best-preserved primitive fossil skunks and represents one of the earliest members of the New World mephitines. As the smallest skunk so far known, the new Martinogale features some of the most primitive cranial and dental morphologies in mephitines. The new information permits a phylogenetic analysis of basal taxa from North America, which suggests a New World clade for all known fossil and living taxa from North and South America. We place this New World clade in a tribe (Mephitini) of its own. New World mephitines share the following derived characters: presence of a P4 parastyle, ml hypoconid dominant in talonid, and presence of a lingual cingulum on lower canines. We further postulate that New World skunks are the result of a single immigration event, and the new California skunk is close to the origin of the New World skunks.
4524664|A well-preserved vertebral column from the Late Permian of Southern France (Lopingian, La Lieude Formation, Lodeve Basin) is described. It is composed of diplospondylous vertebrae and is most comparable with the temnospondyl Tupilakosaurus previously known from the Early Triassic of Greenland and Russia. This new specimen therefore represents the earliest occurrence of a diplospondylous tupilakosaur, and extends the geographic range of the group to Western Europe. It is an aquatic temnospondyl that used the anguilliform undulatory mode of swimming.
4523346|Numerous remains of Mesopithecus have recently been recovered from the late Miocene mammalian localities of Macedonia, northern Greece. Three mandibles from the early Turolian are identified as M. delsoni, sp. nov., probably ancestral to M. pentelicus of Pikermi. Others, dated to the latest Turolian, differ from M. pentelicus, but most of the teeth are so worn that they must be identified as Mesopithecus, aff. M. pentelicus. A last set, coming also from the latest Turolian, could possibly be attributed to Mesopithecus, cf. M. monspessulanus. The evolution of the genus Mesopithecus can be used as a biostratigraphic tool in late Miocene continental deposits.
4524037|Long bone allometry has been analyzed in a large sample of non-avian theropod dinosaurs spanning almost the entire size range of known adult species. Theropod long bone allometry closely parallels the trends observed in extant mammals. Like mammals, large theropods scale with significantly lower regression slopes than do smaller species. As in extant mammals non-avian theropods are neither geometrically nor elastically similar. Large non-avian theropods tend to be elastically similar, whereas small species approach geometric similarity. As in extant mammals non-avian theropods appear to show a size dependent change in limb posture, aligning the individual long bones more steeply to vertical with increasing size, thus probably reducing the mass specific amount of force necessary to counteract moments about the joints. The main difference between non-avian theropods and mammals appears to be the retention of very long limbs among large non-avian theropod species, which, however, is not unparalleled among extant large mammals.
4523473|The Terlingua local fauna is a rich assemblage of predominantly terrestrial microvertebrates from the Upper Cretaceous Aguja Formation of Trans-Pecos Texas. Marine invertebrates (which include elements of both Cretaceous Western Interior and Gulf Coast zoogeographic provinces) from conformably underlying strata suggest that the fauna is of late Campanian age, probably correlative with Judithian assemblages of the Western Interior. A Judithian "age" for the fauna is further supported by its mammal and theropod assemblages, and by the faunas of overlying deposits. The previously reported diversity of the Aguja Formation, which we summarize, is significantly enriched by this new fauna. The fauna also fills a major gap in the biogeography of Campanian terrestrial vertebrates. Notable occurrences in the Terlingua local fauna include the therian mammal Gallolestes, previously known only from Baja California, and a hitherto unrecorded type of primitive 'tribothere.' At least 4 marsupial and 6 multituberculate taxa are present, several of which represent new taxa. Squamates comprise at least 10 taxa, including xenosaurs, necrosaurs, glyptosaurines, scincids, teiids, and a snake, several of which represent new taxa. In addition, the fauna includes at least 7 dinosaurs, 1 pterosaur, 2 crocodylomorphs, 3 turtles, 3 lissamphibians, 3 actinopterygians, and 8 chondrichthyans. Wood, amber, leaves, seeds, pollen, molluscs, and dinoflagellates are also preserved. The fauna is not strictly comparable to others from the Western Interior. It includes taxa that are either endemic or otherwise known only from relatively low latitudes, indicating an appreciable degree of latitudinal differentiation among Campanian terrestrial faunas bordering the Western Interior seaway.
30126303|The holotype of Sauropareion anoplus, a procolophonoid reptile from the Lystrosaurus Assemblage Zone of the Beaufort Group, lowermost Triassic of South Africa, is described in detail. New information includes the presence of fields of teeth on the vomer, the palatine, and the pterygoid, and the presence of a relatively long, tear-shaped interpterygoid vacuity. The parabasisphenoid features relatively broad posterolateral wings. A cleithrum is present. An entepicondylar foramen is present, but neither an ectepicondylar foramen nor a supinator process are present. We coded Sauropareion for the data matrices in two recent studies that had excluded this genus from consideration in phylogenetic analyses. Running of these slightly augmented matrices results in numerous optimal trees (8 and 15 optimal trees), i.e. the inclusion of Sauropareion greatly weakens the resolution of the tree topologies; in one case the inclusion of Sauropareion highlights the lack of anatomical information available for most procolophonids, and in the other it reveals weaknesses that are possibly attributable to character selection. We conducted a new phylogenetic analysis of Procolophonoidea, incorporating new phylogenetic characters from other studies. Our results confirm the position of S. anoplus as the sister taxon of a clade comprising all procolophonoids exclusive of Coletta seca. New phylogenetic definitions are devised for Owenettidae and Procolophonidae, making the latter one of the two primary clades within Procolophonoidea; Owenettidae and Procolophonidae are now sister taxa. As a result, the non-owenettid procolophonoids species S. anoplus and C. seca can be recognized as the most basal members of Procolophonidae.
20627051|A large collection of recently prepared, complete specimens of Keichousaurus hui provides a wealth of new anatomical data for this taxon. Sexual dimorphism can be unambiguously quantified by proportions of the humerus as well as ratios of humerus length to standard length and femoral length. Multivariate (principal components and discriminant) analysis identified ratios most useful in distinguishing the sexes. Sexual maturity was reached in males at approximately 126 mm snout-vent length (SVL), and in females by 122 mm SVL. Mean SVL for mature males is approximately 161 SVL, and for mature females, at most 149 mm SVL. Although the last dimension predicts a mean hatchling SVL of approximately 50 mm based on data from extant squamates, the relationship between mean SVL of mature females and mean SVL of hatchling/neonate in squamates is quite variable. As a result, a mean value of 40.4 mm SVL for several tiny isolated individuals of Keichousaurus is well within the 95 percent confidence ellipse calculated from data from extant squamates. Therefore, there is not reason to postulate that the common occurrence of tiny individuals of between 33.5 mm and 48.2 mm SVL is the result of spontaneous abortions.
4524645|Previous descriptions of the postcranial skeleton of the primitive stegosaur Huayangosaurus taibaii (Middle Jurassic: People's Republic of China) are insufficient for character determinations in cladistic analysis. Reexamination of the postcranium has revealed several important characters, most of which are retained plesiomorphies that have not been identified previously. For example, Huayangosaurus retains ossified tendons, the loss of which has been used as a synapomorphy of Stegosauria. These purported stegosaurian synapomorphies now serve to unite the monophyletic clade Stegosauridae, defined as all stegosaurs more closely related to Stegosaurus than to Huayangosaurus. In addition, some anatomical characters previously used as 'ankylosauromorph' synapomorphies have now been identified in Huayangosaurus: this suggests that these characters occur more basally within Thyreophora. The plesiomorphic status of Huayangosaurus suggests that substantial convergence between ankylosaurs and stegosaurs occurred during their respective evolutionary histories, reflecting coincident functional morphological changes associated with the adoption of obligate quadrupedality.
4523372|Two recently discovered specimens of a medium-sized embolomerous amphibian contribute to our knowledge of the vertebrate fauna of Joggins, Nova Scotia (Cumberland Group; Pennsylvanian, Westphalian B). One specimen comprises a series of vertebrae from the sacral and proximal caudal regions, left ilium, and portions of the left hind limb, and the other includes an articulated series of nine posterior trunk vertebrae and associated ribs, most of the hind limb, and gastralia. It is unique among embolomeres in possessing both complete, disc-shaped intercentra and dorsally open, crescentic intercentra in a single presacral vertebral series. Both are interpreted as larger individuals of Calligenethlon watsoni, an embolomere once believed to be characterized by small adult size. These specimens pertain to the largest tetrapod recovered to date from an upright lycopod stump at Joggins.
4523417|The marine waters of present-day Antarctica contain an exceedingly depauperate elasmobranch fauna. Recent investigations into the Eocene marine sediments of the La Meseta Formation of Seymour Island, Antarctic Peninsula yielded 13 fossil sharks new to the Antarctic region. Two, Stegostoma cf. S. fasciatum and Pseudoginglymostoma cf. P. brevicaudatum, were unknown as fossils. Squalus woodburnei, S. weltoni, and Anomotodon multidenticulata are new species. Heptranchias howelli, Centrophorus sp., Deania sp., Dalatias licha, Odontaspis rutoti, O. winkleri, Lamna cf. L. nasus, and Scoliodon sp. are reported in Antarctica for the first time. In addition, the new fossil shark material increases the representation of the four previously known fossil sharks from Seymour Island: Squatina sp., Pristiophorus lanceolatus, Carcharias macrota, and Carcharocles auriculatus.
41407659|A new ophthalmosaurid ichthyosaur, Sveltonectes insolitus, gen. et sp. nov., is described from a sub-complete and three-dimensionally preserved specimen from the late Barremian of western Russia. This new taxon is supported by 11 cranial, dental, and postcranial autapomorphies, and is also characterized by features previously considered as autapomorphic for some other Ophthalmosauridae, such as a processus narialis on the prefrontal and relatively long hind fins with pre-and postaxial accessory digits. We conducted a new phylogenetic analysis of Thunnosauria, which supports a ' Stenopterygius' origin for Ophthalmosauridae. Sveltonectes is regarded as the sister taxon of Aegirosaurus, which shares a similar skull roof construction. Contrary to most other Cretaceous ichthyosaurs, Sveltonectes is characterized by delicate and sharply pointed teeth, confirming that the ophthalmosaurids were ecologically highly diversified during the Early Cretaceous.
4524043|Observations of four crania of the homacodont artiodactyl Bunomeryx suggest that this taxon has strong affinities with the Tylopoda. In particular, Bunomeryx possesses a deep mastoid fossa on the endocranial surface of the petrosal, a feature which is confined, within the living artiodactyls, to the Camelidae. Mastoid fossae are also found in members of the Cainotheriidae, Anoplotheridae and Xiphodontidae (collectively Anoplotheroidea), suggesting that the presence of a mastoid fossa may be a feature linking Bunomeryx to more derived artiodactyl taxa in the late Eocene of North America and Europe. Expansion of the ventral margin of the petrosal and its contribution to the roof of the petrobasilar canal, together with a reduction in the size of the internal auditory meatus, are characters which may unite a broader grouping of camelids, anoplotheroids, oreodonts and bunomerycids. While not providing any additional evidence for the ongoing debate on the ruminant affinities of the protoceratids, the information obtained from Bunomeryx may strengthen the case for a monophyletic clade including the taxa listed above, but excluding protoceratids.
25835854|Basal ornithopods exhibit a very low diversity in Cretaceous deposits of Asia, with only two diagnostic taxa published to date. A new basal ornithopod, Haya griva, gen. et sp. nov., is described here based on several well-preserved specimens from the Late Cretaceous Javkhlant Formation of Mongolia. Haya is diagnosed by a unique combination of characters, some of which are also present in other Asian Cretaceous basal ornithopods such as a bifid caudal ramus of the jugal and a tapering and beveled predentary. Traits, such as presence of separate maxillary fenestra, otherwise only known in Hypsilophodon, show more homoplastic distributions. Phylogenetic analysis provides weak support for grouping Haya with the Chinese Cretaceous taxa Jeholosaurus and Changchunsaurus, suggesting a greater hidden diversity of such animals in Asia. The most complete prepared specimen of Haya exhibits a sizeable gastrolith mass, representing only the second occurrence among ornithopods.
4522934|In order to facilitate the use of ichthyolith subtypes described in parts I and II of this catalog, colloquial names have been assigned. These names are briefly descriptive of each ichthyolith and can be used in a way similar to binomial names. They provide a means of referring to the ichthyoliths in a more standard way which may be found easier to use than multiple letters and numbers.
41407661|Anchiceratops is a chasmosaurine ceratopsid from the Upper Cretaceous Horseshoe Canyon Formation (HCF) of Alberta. It is distinguished primarily by its unique parietosquamosal frill ornamentation and possibly by the presence of a ventrally flexed olfactory bulb of the brain. Although Anchiceratops is known from at least ten partial skulls, only two of these have been formally described. These skulls are not stratigraphically segregated, but they differ markedly in their proportions (e. g., supraorbital horncore and frill dimensions), causing previous authors to account for this disparity with reference to either interspecific or sexual differences. Both of these hypotheses assume that variation in Anchiceratops is dimorphic; however, this assumption has never been tested with reference to all available material. The present study describes all material from the HCF that can be positively attributed to Anchiceratops, and tests the assumption of dimorphism by subjecting this material to a series of morphometric analyses. We find no compelling evidence for dimorphism in Anchiceratops, although sample size is still too small for convincing statistical support. We conclude that there is a single, variable species of Anchiceratops, A. ornatus. Average sedimentation rates for the HCF suggest that A. ornatus is a particularly long-lived species compared with other ceratopsids (~ 1.5-2.0 Ma), and the paleoecological implications of this are discussed. A cladistic analysis that includes the new data presented here indicates that Anchiceratops is more closely related to Chasmosaurus than to Triceratops, in contrast with previous studies.
41515277|The second member of the Trematosaurinae (Temnospondyli, Stereospondyli) from Australia is described as Microposaurus averyi, n. sp., from the Anisian Rouse Hill Siltstone (Ashfield Shale, Wianamatta Group, Sydney Basin). This is the first occurrence of the genus from outside South Africa. M. averyi and the South African M. casei share an anterior emargination of the nostril that accommodated the dentary fangs (a condition unique among temnospondyls), but the emargination is much larger in the Australian taxon. The Anisian stereospondyls from the Sydney Basin occur in sediments younger than the early Anisian and may fill a worldwide gap in terrestrial tetrapod faunas from that time.
41407685|New material of the traversodontid cynodont Dadadon isaloi from the Triassic of southwestern Madagascar is described. The new material consists of a complete, well-preserved skull (FMNH PR 2232) and an unassociated, partial lower jaw (UA 10608). The new material reveals several novel aspects of Dadadon's morphology. Newly recognized autapomorphies that diagnose Dadadon include a fourth upper incisor with posterior accessory cusp, deep interorbital depressions confined to the frontals, and a very tall, robust mid-frontal ridge. Dadadon can further be distinguished from the similar traversodontids Massetognathus and Santacruzodon by the presence of shorter, broader prefrontals with prominent dorsal depressions, robust anterolateral processes overhanging the orbits, a single cusp in the anterior cingulum of the upper postcanines, and relatively elongate, striated, conical upper incisors. In a revised phylogenetic analysis incorporating data from the new specimens, Dadadon is recovered in a clade with Massetognathus and Santacruzodon. This clade is the sister taxon to the well-supported traversodontid subclade Gomphodontosuchinae. The ' basal Isalo IF cynodont fauna from Madagascar is more similar in composition to that of South America than to mainland Africa, although this is probably attributable to the lack of Ladinian-Carnian therapsid fossils on the mainland rather than an actual biogeographic pattern.
20491048|The fossil record of Neotropical Lutrinae is very incomplete, with a few specimens of Lontra and three records of Pteronura. The published records of Pteronura correspond to remains of Pteronura sp. from Lujanian beds in Entre Ros province (Argentina) and P. brasiliensis found in the "Late Pleistocene" of Brazil, but they lack stratigraphic context and their age could range from at least 380-0.9 Ka. P. brasiliensis, the giant river otter, inhabits rivers and lakes of northern central South America, and has been related to the North American fossil otter Satherium. In this work we describe and compare a very complete specimen of Pteronura found in Entre Ros province using classical morphological descriptive and multivariate analyses, discuss the importance of this specimen for the fossil record of the taxon, and perform a preliminary phylogenetic analysis. The specimen agrees in morphometric and qualitative characters with the recent species P. brasiliensis, but is slightly larger and presents some minor differences in skull and dental morphology. These differences are interpreted as intraspecific variation, thus the fossil is interpreted as P. brasiliensis. In the phylogenetic analysis, the studied specimen clusters with P. brasiliensis, corroborating the taxonomic determination and supporting a relationship between Satherium and Pteronura. The specimen is the first fossil record of the genus for Argentina, and the oldest corroborated record, with a 130-125 Ka tentative age.
4523111|A new genus of archaeocete cetaceans, Remingtonocetus, is based on revision of previously described and recently collected well preserved skull material from the Middle Eocene (Lutetian) Chocolate Limestone, Babia Stage, Harudi, Kutch. Remingtonocetus harudiensis, new combination, was previously described as a species of Protocetus (Sahni and Mishra, 1975). Present studies suggest that R. harudiensis is related to Andrewsiphius kutchensis Sahni and Mishra, 1975, which is known from a slightly younger horizon, about 17 km northeast of Harudi. A. kutchensis was previously classified as an agorophiid (Odontoceti), but is here grouped with R. harudiensis in a new family Remingtonocetidae (Archaeoceti). A slightly smaller species of Remingtonocetus, R. sloani, new combination, is present in the same horizon; it was also originally referred to Protocetus. The cetacean beds are of shallow water marine origin and yield abundant foraminifers and mollusks. Catfishes also occur associated with cetacean elements. The foraminiferal biostratigraphy of these beds indicates a Lutetian age (Tewari, 1957; Biswas and Deshpande, 1970; Tandon, 1971, 1976). The remingtonocetids are characterized by their remarkably long and narrow skulls with long beaklike rostra and mandibles with unusually long symphyses that may extend as far back as the last molar. In Remingtonocetus, the dentition was of the primitive eutherian type with all incisors, canines, premolars and molars present. The Remingtonocetidae were a primitive rapidly evolving group of archaeocetes that had acquired certain derived characters, e.g., large accessory air sinuses, partially isolated ear bones and teeth with crenulated cutting edges. In these features, they were more derived than the protocetids. The remingtonocetids have closer resemblance to the Odontoceti than have the basilosaurids. Their restricted geographical distribution in the Indo-Pakistan region suggests the possibility of their being endemic to the south Asiatic Tethys. The reasons for their limited distribution, and for the dissimilarity in the archaeocete taxa of the eastern and western Tethys, are the loss of connection between the two seaways during the Middle Eocene and the possible origin of archaeocetes in the south Asiatic Tethys. A restudy of all presently known archaeocete material from Kutch indicates that the genus Protocetus Fraas, 1904 was absent in India. The distinctness of Protocetus and Pappocetus Andrews (1920) is justified on the basis of differences in the dentition. The assignment of the genus Pakicetus Gingerich and Russell, 1981, to the family Protocetidae is opposed because Pakicetus was not a truly aquatic animal, as is evident from the structure of its tympano-periotic bone and its relationship with other cranial bones. The presence of odontocetes in Kutch as reported by Satsangi and Mukhopadhyay (1975) is doubtful.
4523636|The Leporidae from the Taunton local fauna include Hypolagus edensis, H. furlongi, H. gidleyi, H. ringoldensis, Alilepus vagus, Alilepus cf. A. wilsoni, and ?Nekrolagus sp. This assemblage suggests that the Taunton local fauna is approximately the age of the Sand Point l.f. of Idaho.
4524575|Recent fossil discoveries of early cetaceans and sirenians document the functional transitions that occurred as each group adapted to a completely aquatic existence, but the timing and path of their ecological transition remain uncertain. We analyzed the stable-isotope composition of tooth enamel from several early members of each group to reconstruct the dietary, foraging, and habitat preferences of basal taxa. Carbon isotope (813C) values provided evidence of foraging within freshwater, terrestrial, and marine environments, including seagrass beds, whereas oxygen isotope (SlsO) variation was used as a measure of commitment to aquatic habitats. Enamel samples were collected from four regions (south Asia, north and west Africa, and southern Europe) spanning the late early Eocene (ca. 53.5 Ma) to the late Eocene (ca. 36 Ma). Sirenian and cetacean taxa included species that were likely capable of some terrestrial locomotion, and more specialized forms that were morphologically fully aquatic. Cetacean 813C and 8lsO values indicate that some early members of this group (some pakicetids) inhabited freshwater environments, but later members (e.g., remingtonocetids, protocetids, and basilosaurids) moved quickly into estuarine and marine environments. Low 8lsO variation confirms that all of these early forms were primarily aquatic, but 813C and 8lsO values for early sirenians indicate an early transition to a marine seagrass diet without any evidence of an intermediate connection to freshwater habitats.
4524483|An articulated skeleton of Messelastur gratulator Peters, 1994, from the middle Eocene of Messel in Germany is described. This species was hitherto known from two skulls with associated vertebrae only, and has been tentatively classified in the Accipitridae (hawks). The new specimen shows that M. gratulator closely resembles the Lower Eocene Tynskya eocaena Mayr, 2000a, which is known from an articulated skeleton from the North American Green River Formation and isolated bones from the London Clay in England. Both species, M. gratulator and T. eocaena, are assigned to the new taxon Messelasturidae. The new specimen exhibits previously unknown osteological details bearing on the phylogenetic position of the Messelasturidae, most notably the absence of an ossified supratendineal bridge on the distal tibiotarsus. Cladistic analysis of 110 characters supports sister-group relationship between Messelastur and Tynskya, and shows the Messelasturidae to be the sister taxon of owls (Strigiformes). The clade (Messelasturidae + Strigiformes) is shown to be the sister group of the clade (Falconidae [falcons] + Accipitridae). Among the known fossil raptorial birds, the Messelasturidae most substantially differ from the extant taxa. They provide a morphological link between Strigiformes and Falconiformes (diurnal birds of prey), and support the highly disputed falconiform affinities of owls in combining derived tibiotarsus and tarsometatarsus characters of owls with a more plesiomorphic, 'falcon-' or 'hawk-like', skull morphology.
4524257|New specimens of procellariiform birds are described from the Oligocene of Germany and Belgium, including a virtually complete and extraordinarily well preserved articulated skeleton. These birds show a peculiar foot morphology which to a striking degree resembles that of the recent Polynesian Storm-petrel Nesofregetta fuliginosa (Oceanitinae, Hydrobatidae). The pedal phalanges are dorso-ventrally compressed and especially the proximal phalanx of the fourth toe is grotesquely widened. The Oligocene Procellariiformes trenchantly differ, however, from Nesofregetta, the closely related genus Fregetta, and all other taxa of recent Hydrobatidae in the remainder of the skeleton. Possibly the feet served as a brake for rapid stops in order to catch prey, and we consider the similarities to Nesofregetta to be a striking example of convergence among birds. The specimens described in this study are referred to Diomedeoides brodkorbi, D. lipsiensis, and to Diomedeoides sp. The genus Frigidafons is a junior synonym of Diomedeoides, and Diomedeoides minimus is a junior synonym of Diomedeoides (= "GaWota") lipsiensis. An incomplete articulated specimen of Diomedeoides brodkorbi is of special taphonomic interest, since in the close vicinity of its left wing two fairly large shark teeth can be discerned which probably stuck in the soft tissues of the bird when it was embedded in the sediment.
25835801|The Amphibamidae are undergoing intensive investigation at present, with many new species recently described to better understand their interrelationships and role in the origin of extant amphibians. A new genus and species of amphibamid, Rubeostratilia texensis, represented by a skull from the Early Permian of Texas, shows many similarities with a recent described species from Richards Spur, Oklahoma, Pasawioops mayi. The skull is elongate and oval, with enlarged external naris and orbits, typical of the other amphibamids within the Micropholis-Tersomius cluster. The skull exhibits the laterally exposed palatine (LEP) and the dorsal quadrate process typical of the Dissorophoidea. Unlike Pasawioops, the new species preserves only a few additional characters relevant to amphibamid relationships: the pterygoid contacts only the ectopterygoid, the postfrontal's shape is falciform, and the alary processes do not extend further posteriorly than one-half of the length of the external naris. We included Rubeostratilia in a recently published amphibamid matrix, to which we added four characters, and conducted two separate phylogenetic analyses, differing in the coding of three characters in the genus Plemmyradytes. The results demonstrate the importance of precision in coding for each character, because these minor changes lead to two different topologies. A brief morphometric analysis of amphibamid cranial anatomy was conducted to better understand the nature of the different morphotypes among which the new species clusters. The results of both morphometric and phylogenetic analysis add support to the emerging consensus that amphibamids cluster into two distinct clades.
25835814|Diplacodon gigan is a new species of uintan brontothere recognized from an exquisitely preserved skull from the Wiggins Formation, Hot Springs County, Wyoming. Close affinity to Protitanotherium emarginatum has been suggested based on similarities of canine size and horn shape. However, evidence suggests that canine size and horn morphology were sexually dimorphic among brontotheres, and differences in these traits between single specimens or very small samples of specimens are suspect. Analysis of coefficients of variation of canines and other craniodental variables in brontotheres demonstrates a marked increase in the intraspecific variability of canines among horned brontotheres and closely related hornless species. The evolution of sexual dimorphism in the Brontotheriidae follows a pattern repeated in the evolutionary histories of other ungulates, including ruminants and rhinoceroses, where the evolution of sexually dimorphic canines or canine-like incisors commonly precedes the evolution of horns or horn-like cranial appendages. A phylogenetic analysis, which incorporates new character data on horn size, horn shape, canine size, and canine dimorphism, places D. gigan as the sister of D. elatus, and is the basis for the referral of this new species to Diplacodon. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrates that similarities between P. emarginatum and D. gigan, particularly with respect to canine and horn morphology, are plesiomorphic traits shared with basal horned brontotheres, such as Protitan. The shared nasal bone morphology of D. elatus and D. gigan, where the lateral margins of the nasal bone are angled markedly dorsalward, is a synapomorphy of the genus Diplacodon and is not observed in other brontotheres.
4523437|Dyslocosaurus polyonychius, a new genus and species of diplodocid sauropods from eastern Wyoming, differs from other Diplodocidae in having at least four, and possibly five, unguals on the pes. The specimen is recorded as collected from the Lance Formation, which is consistent with the scant locality data, but the preservation and the known distribution of the family Diplodocidae suggest derivation from the Morrison Formation.
4523657|Proboscidean material collected from the upper Eocene of Dor el Talha, southern Libya, has been considered to include two species of the genus Barytherium, one large species referable to Barytherium grave of the Fayum, Egypt and a small undescribed species. Study of the fragmentary, small Libyan species indicates that this material is better referred to the genus Numidotherium and the new species Numidotherium savagei is erected. Recent advances in knowledge of numidothere anatomy are then analyzed in a cladistic treatment of basal proboscidean genera using dental, cranial, and postcranial data. The phylogenetic hypothesis generated differs from pervious analyses in the relative positioning of Numidotherium and Moeritherium. Aspects of cranial, dental, and postcranial anatomy are shown to be primitive in Numidotherium relative to Moeritherium and all other proboscideans. Numidotherium is therefore considered to be the least transformed of basal probos The traditional use of Moeritherium as the closest approximation to the proboscidean ancestral condition in interordinal phylogenetic analysis is shown to be flawed. Moeritherium is better treated as an early specialized offshoot of the lineage leading to more derived, graviportal proboscideans.
42568663|A new species of the genus Aceratherium, A. porpani sp. nov., from the Tha Chang sand pits in Nakhon Ratchasima Province, northwestern Thailand, is described. It is a mid-sized rhinocerotid in the subfamily Aceratheriinae, and represents the first discovery of Aceratherium in Thailand. The material includes a well-preserved skull and mandible. A. porpani has broadly separated parietal crests, slightly expanded zygomatic arches, a straight nuchal crest, moderate supraorbital tuberosities, a flat skull roof, a deep nasal notch above the P4/M1 boundary, a moderately wide mandibular symphysis with a posterior border at the p3/p4 boundary, a short diastema between i2 and p2, absence of DP1 and dp1, strong crochets, constricted molar protocones, and long metalophs. This new species has a mixture of primitive and derived characters that differ from the known species of Aceratherium, A. incisivum, and A. depereti. The evolutionary stage of A. porpani is consistent with the latest Miocene age of the associated fauna and flora in the Tha Chang sand pits.
20062015|A well-preserved neurocranium with attached partial skull roof is described from the Early Devonian Taemas Formation at Wee Jasper, southern New South Wales, Australia. The dermal ornament, skull roof pattern, and general proportion and structure of the endocranium are typically actinopterygian and the specimen is tentatively assigned to the actinopterygian genus Ligulalepsis. Other features more closely resemble some other groups, such as sarcopterygians (widely-spaced orbital walls, and short, broad telencephalon cavity), acanthodians (position of hyomandibular facet), and placoderms (many similarities including position of foramina for oculomotor, profundus, and trigeminal nerves, pituitary vein, and ophthalmic and orbital arteries in and around the orbit). This specimen is the first early osteichthyan to demonstrate the presence of an eyestalk, previously known only in placoderms and chondrichthyans. The unusual mix of characters and presence of an eyestalk provide new insights into primitive osteichthyan anatomy.
41515067|Early Miocene floridatraguline camels are characterized by having an elongate snout, shallow and narrow symphysial area, and relatively primitive dentitions. Their fossil record is restricted to subtropical assemblages including the Hemingfordian Thomas Farm Local Fauna (L. F.) in Florida, the Zoyotal L. F. in Mexico, and the Arikareean Castolon L. F. in Texas. Here we describe the first floridatraguline camels from the early Miocene Las Cascadas Formation, Panama Canal area, Central America. We describe two new species that are similar to Aguascalientia wilsoni from the Zoyotal L. F. in having (1) a primitive lower dental formula, (2) brachydont teeth, (3) an unusually elongate jaw with caniniform c1 and p1 that are well separated by a diastema, (4) a long and narrow mandibular symphysis, (5) lower molars with small intercolumnar pillars, (6) an m3 hypoconulid divided by lingual and labial selenes, and (7) no diastema between p2 and p3. Aguascalientia panamaensis, sp. nov., and Aguascalientia minuta, sp. nov., are represented by partial lower dentitions and isolated upper molars. Both new species are distinct from A. wilsoni in having (1) p1 and c1 similar in size, (2) less inflected paraconids on lower premolars, and (3) less reduced premolars. Interpreted primitive characters are similar to a small, unnamed camel from the earliest Miocene Buda L. F. of Florida (middle late Arikareean NALM A). The Las Cascadas fossil assemblage probably constitutes a distinctive Arikareean (Ar3-Ar4) faunal province characterized by the arrival of northern immigrants into a small continental basin connected with North American continental terrains.
4523369|Two genera of kinosternids in the Eocene of North America exhibit specializations of the Kinosterninae such as the presence of incised musk ducts, loss of one suprapygal, and a generally derived neural pattern. The shell of Baltemys staurogastros, gen., et sp. nov., from the Wasatchian (early Eocene) of Wyoming shows striking phenetic resemblance to that of Staurotypus but these are judged as primitive features on the basis of out-group analysis. Xenochelys lostcabinensis, sp. nov., from the Wasatchian and X. bridgerensis, sp. nov., from the Bridgerian of Wyoming exhibit additional derived features of the extant kinosternines such as the reduction in musk duct length, development of an intergular scale, and expansion of the plastron. Baltemys and Xenochelys lack plastral kinesis. The morphology of the fossil forms bridges much of the morphological gap between the extant Kinosterninae and Staurotypinae. The wealth of derived morphological features that the two subfamilies share indicate that they are sister groups and best retained within the concept of the Kinosternidae. Baltemys and Xenochelys were contemporaneous during the Wasatchian and Bridgerian. Their cladistic relationships and stratigraphic occurrence indicate that the division of Staurotypinae and Kinosterninae (sensu lato) predates the early Eocene. The fragmentary record of the family suggests divergence times between 56 to 65 million years for the Staurotypinae and Kinosterninae.
4523984|An historical review of the literature relating to placoderm scales preserved in association with articulated dermal plates, or as isolated units in microvertebrate assemblages, is followed by a discussion of their relevance in phylogenetic analyses of the Placodermi. The dentinous tissue forming the tubercles of Early Devonian acanthothoracid scales and dermal bone is similar to that of the dermal bone ornament of some osteostracans, and denticles of the vertebrate Skiichthys from the Ordovician Harding Sandstone. This similarity supports the proposition that the gnathostomes are the sister-group of the Osteostraci, with the Placodermi branching earliest within the gnathostomes, and the Acanthothoraci branching earliest within the Placodermi. The meso-semidentine in acanthothoracid tubercles, rather than semidentine (sensu stricto), is most likely to be synapomorphic for the Placodermi.
23361046|Ptychodus (Elasmobranchii, Ptychodontidae) is an enigmatic durophagous shark that lived in Cretaceous seas. Based on multiple articulated tooth plates of Ptychodus mortoni from the Niobrara Chalk in Kansas, the dental pattern of P. mortoni and its paleobiological implications were examined. Each tooth plate consists of one medial tooth row and about nine lateral tooth rows on each side. One individual shark possesses a total of slightly over 550 teeth, with approximately 220 functional upper teeth and 260 functional lower teeth. The largest tooth plate of the species likely measured about 55 cm in length and 45 cm in width. Although this study does not resolve the ordinal placement of Ptychodontidae, it demonstrates that there are two different patterns of tooth plate organization in Ptychodus: a plesiomorphic condition characterized by juxtaposed, non-overlapping tooth rows (e.g., P. decurrens, P. marginalis, and P. occidentalis) and an apomorphic condition characterized by imbricated tooth rows (e.g., P. mortoni). It is hypothesized here that the imbrications of tooth rows in P. mortoni likely helped distribute the bite-induced load on its dentition more widely, and its sharp-tipped crowns were effective in shattering animals with comparably thin, brittle shells (e.g., bivalves and crustaceans). The recognized difference in tooth plate organization adds another level of complexity to the dental evolution of Ptychodus as well as to the already complex evolutionary history of predatory behaviors in cartilaginous fishes.
20491069|A detailed redescription of the Late Triassic archosauromorph reptile Doswellia kaltenbachi Weems, 1980 from the Poor Farm Member of the Falling Creek Formation in the Taylorsville basin (Newark Supergroup) in Virginia is presented based upon additional preparation of the holotype. The euryapsid skull has a distinctive occiput with a prominent supraoccipital process that is flanked by posterior "horn-like" projections of the squamosals. Postfrontals, tabulars, and postparietals are absent. Plesiomorphic features of the palate and braincase include a plate-like horizontal parabasisphenoid, a pair of foramina for the internal carotid arteries on the ventral surface of the basisphenoid, and two fields of teeth on the palatal surface of the pterygoid. A sharp angle along the cervical and anterior dorsal ribs clearly separates the dorsal and lateral sides of the neck and anterior thoracic region. The posterior thoracic region has shorter ribs that project laterally with only a slight curvature. The ilium has a laterally deflected blade with numerous deep grooves along its distal edge. The laterally extensive set of osteoderms includes a nuchal element that is composed of several interlocking osteoderms that lack the arrangement in distinct transverse rows that characterizes the remainder of the osteoderms. A phylogenetic analysis of basal archosauriforms incorporates new data of Doswellia and the taxa Turfanosuchus, Yonghesuchus, and Qianosuchus that have not previously been combined in a single study. Results include a sister-group relationship between Doswellia and proterochampsids, placement of Qianosuchus as a crurotarsan archosaur, and Yonghesuchus and Turfanosuchus as successive sister taxa to Archosauria.
4523048|Fossil voles (Pliophenacomys primaevus, Ophiomys meadensis), a muskrat (Pliopotamys near meadensis), and a lemming (Synaptomys) are described from the Shooting Iron Formation in Jackson Hole, Teton County, Wyoming. These microtines indicate that the base of the formation is of late Blancan age (=latest Gauss or early Matuyama magnetic epochs, between 2.4 and 1.8 million years old). All four taxa show affinity with species to the east, implying faunal continuity between Jackson Hole and the Great Plains in the late Blancan. After the late Blancan, barriers to microtine dispersal developed or were accentuated near Jackson Hole, so that the modern microtine fauna of the region lacks a strong eastern affinity. Probable mechanisms that helped to develop barriers and redefine microtine distributions near Jackson Hole include: (1) climate change, which altered vegetation and glacial limits; (2) competition from immigrant taxa; and (3) tectonism, all of which took place during the Pleistocene.
4524522|New dental specimens described here from the Barstovian CC South and Flint Creek localities of western Montana are determined to be of two geomyid rodent species, Lignimus transversus and Mojavemys sp. These species were known previously from sparse material and the new samples aid the clarification of their biogeography and evolution. The presence of Lignimus transversus at both localities extends the range of that species to the north. In Mojavemys, a cline of increasing tooth size from south to north is analogous to clines in extant geomyids that correlate with nutritional or climatic gradients. Comparisons of various dental morphologic features of the new material and of the previously described populations of both genera reveal that the examined traits as well as the populations themselves were not genetically linked, and suggest mosaic evolution operated in these species. The differences in dental morphology between the various depositional basins are consistent with the idea of a tectonic influence on mammalian evolution.
40666202|Deltatheroida is a small, mostly Asian, clade of Cretaceous mammals with a complicated systematic history and a poor North American fossil record. The recently described latest Cretaceous Nanocuris imprvida is a relatively large, morphologically distinctive taxon with carnivorous adaptations; it was tentatively referred to its own family Nanocuridae within Eutheria. Here, we describe a new specimen from the uppermost Cretaceous Lance Formation of Wyoming that is referable to Nanocuris imprvida, the second occurrence for the taxon. New morphological information from the specimen allows us to refer five additional Lancian specimens, some of which have been previously described as deltatheroidans, to Nanocuris improvida and INanocuris sp. Results from a phylogenetic analysis remove Nanocuris from Eutheria and reveal strong support for its deltatheroidan affinities and for its nested position within Metatheria. As a result, we subsume Nanocuridae within the deltatheroidan family Deltatheridiidae. Within Deltatheridiidae, Nanocuris forms a clade with the only other North American deltatheroidan in the analysis, Atokatheridium from the Aptian-Albian of Oklahoma. With three Asian deltatheroidans as outgroups to the North American clade, we find support for the hypothesis that deltatheroidans originated in Asia by the Aptian-Albian and undertook a single dispersal event to North America by the Aptian-Albian.
4523502|A striking diversity in limb morphology among fossil sloths suggests that the traditional distinction between extant "tree" sloths and fossil "ground" sloths merits closer scrutiny. Morphologically, xenarthrans (sloths, anteaters, and armadillos) are divergent from other mammalian orders. However, morphological shape indices of aspects of the elbow, hip, and knee joints that clearly discriminate locomotor modes in primates, carnivores, and bovids also succeed in differentiating the fully arboreal, semiarboreal, and terrestrial genera of anteaters. When compared to this extant data base, fossil sloths from both the Pleistocene radiation of the Antilles and the Santacrucian radiation of Argentina exhibit a range of values for these indices comparable to those of primates and anteaters. These results indicate that the diversity of limb structure in fossil sloths is associated with variation in posture and locomotor habits including arboreality, semiarboreality, and terrestriality.
4524747|Histological evidence of the bones of pterosaurs and dinosaurs indicates that the typically large forms of these groups grew at rates more comparable to those of birds and mammals than to those of other living reptiles. However, Scutellosaurus, a small, bipedal, basal thyreophoran ornithischian dinosaur of the Early Jurassic, shows histological features in its skeletal tissues that suggest relatively lower growth rates than in those of larger dinosaurs. In these respects Scutellosaurus, like other small dinosaurs such as Orodromeus and some basal birds, is more like young, rapidly growing crocodiles than larger, more derived ornithischians (hadrosaurs) and all saurischians (sauropods and theropods). Similar patterns can be seen in small, mostly basal pterosaurs such as Eudimorphodon and Rhamphorhynchus. However, superficial similarities to crocodile bone growth belie some important differences, which are most usefully interpreted in phylogenetic and ontogenetic contexts. Large size evolved secondarily in several dinosaurian and pterosaurian lineages. We hypothesize that this larger size was made possible by rapid growth strategies that are reflected by characteristic highly vascularized fibro-lamellar bone tissues that comprise most of the cortex. Dinosaurs and pterosaurs, like other tetrapods, generally grew more quickly in early stages and more slowly as growth neared completion. As in other vertebrate groups, taxa of small adult size may have grown at lower rates or for shorter durations than larger taxa did. Phylogenetic patterns suggest that by themselves, the low vascularity and inferred low growth rates seen in small dinosaurs and pterosaurs are not good indicators of thermometabolic regime, because they are correlated so strongly with size. They may reflect mechanical exigencies of small size rather than especially lower growth rates, tied to the process of deposition of particular kinds of bone tissues. The evolution of life history strategies in dinosaurs and pterosaurs, as they relate to rates of growth and adult body sizes, will be better understood as more complete histological studies place these data into phylogenetic and ontogenetic contexts.
40666190|Vertebrate fossils from the Ruhuhu Basin of southern Tanzania have been known for over 75 years, but the details of their stratigraphie distribution remain imperfectly understood. Recent fieldwork in the Upper Permian Usili Formation (Songea Group) has led to the discovery of a tetrapod assemblage in a conglomeratic unit at its base. The fossils are concentrated in matrix-supported intraformational clay pebble conglomerates interpreted as mass flow deposits in wide, shallow channels in the distal reaches of an alluvial fan. Included in this new collection are fossils representing the first record of a burnetiid therapsid from Tanzania. The anatomy of the interorbital and intertemporal skull roof indicates that the Usili burnetiid most closely resembles Burnetia from the Dicynodon Assemblage Zone of South Africa's Beaufort Group. Review of the Usili Formation tetrapod fauna recognizes 29 genera, 6 of which are endemic (Katumbia, Kawingasaurus, Pachytegos, Peltobatrachus, Ruhuhucerberus, Titanogorgon, as well as a new, undescribed cryptodontian dicynodont). In addition, eight genera are shared between the basal conglomerate and rocks higher in section, which suggests that the available data fail to support the recognition of two faunal horizons within the Usili Formation, as was suggested previously. The recognition of a single (undivided) Usili tetrapod fauna calls for several therapsid genera to have unequal stratigraphie ranges (and temporal durations) in the Ruhuhu and Karoo basins. We suggest that the fine-scale biostratigraphic utility of therapsids likely diminishes between basins, especially when rates of subsidence, depositional setting, and paleoenvironment are taken into consideration.
4524732|A new species of hippopotamid, Hexaprotodon bruneti, sp. nov., was discovered in both the Hata Member of the Bouri Formation and at upper Maka in the Middle Awash study area of Ethiopia. Hexaprotodon bruneti is characterized by an enlarged i3 and differs from all African fossil and living hippos in the shape of its mandibular symphysis. It has stronger phylogenetic affinities with Pliocene hippopotamids of southern Asia than with African species. This probable Asian origin agrees with a hypothesis of an important faunal turnover in Africa about 2.5 Ma, perhaps linked with climatic change.
4524787|Two egg types from the Upper Cretaceous Two Medicine Formation of Montana are described and incorporated into a phylogenetic analysis of egg characters. Small (7.5 x 3.5 cm), ellipsoidal eggs with a surface ornamentation consisting of isolated round tubercles represent a new, unnamed ootaxon. The microstructure includes narrow, prismatic shell units with three structural layers. The second egg type, oospecies Prismatoolithus levis, belongs to the theropod Troodon formosus. Although previously described, the presence of a third, external layer had been overlooked. Both eggs display several features typical of avian eggs: narrowly spaced nucleation sites, barrel-shaped mammillae with blocky crystal habit, a squamatic-like texture in the prismatic layer, and a third, structural layer. In addition, the new egg type exhibits a cuticle layer and the eggs of Troodon are asymmetric. Cladistic analysis of 14 fossil and extant taxa using 15 egg and shell characters favors a phylogeny consistent with more traditional analyses based on osteologic or genetic data and supports a theropod dinosaur origin for birds. No single character unambiguously distinguishes the eggs of avians from those of non-avian theropods, and the new Two Medicine egg type is recognized simply as that of a theropod. Results also indicate that resemblances in egg characters among non-avian and avian theropods are largely homologous and imply a high-level of similarity in reproductive physiology. Egg features are phylogenetically informative; better classifications and greater utility of eggs and eggshell will be gained through their phylogenetic treatment.
4523514|Adelobasileus cromptoni Lucas and Hunt, 1990 is based on an incomplete skull from the lower part of the Tecovas Member of the Dockum Formation near Kalgary, Crosby County, Texas. Its age is late Carnian (Tuvalian), about 225 Ma, based on palynostratigraphy, ostracods, vertebrate biochronology, and sequence stratigraphy. This indicates that Adelobasileus is at least 10 million years older than any previously described mammal. The cranium of Adelobasileus shares a large suite of basicranial apomorphies with Liassic mammals. The distribution of 36 characters among 13 taxa of non-mammalian cynodonts and mammals indicates that Adelobasileus, Sinoconodon, and other mammals form a monophyletic group. Adelobasileus is excluded from the monophyletic taxon consisting of Megazostrodon, Haldanodon, morganucodontids, triconodontids, multituberculates, monotremes, and therians. Partly because of incomplete knowledge of Adelobasileus, it is impossible to resolve the trichotomy of Adelobasileus, Sinoconodon, and other mammals. Some cranial features of Adelobasileus, such as the incipient promontorium housing the cochlea, represent an intermediate stage of the character transformation from non-mammalian cynodonts to Liassic mammals.
4523798|We redescribe the holotype skull of "Metaxytherium" kachchhense Bajpai, Singh, and Singh, 1987, and erect for it the new genus Bharatisiren. This skull is the best-preserved specimen of a fossil sirenian so far reported from the Indian Ocean region, and is also the first fossil from that region that is unequivocally referable to the subfamily Dugonginae. Bharatisiren kachchhensis (new combination) is related cladistically to other members of the subfamily as follows: (Crenatosiren (Dugong (Bharatisiren (other dugongines)))). The Dugonginae probably arose in the Caribbean-western Atlantic region, and underwent an adaptive radiation and pantropical dispersal in the late Oligocene and early Miocene.
25790805|Since 2006, new field studies at the late Oligocene site of Quebrada Fiera (Mendoza, Argentina) have increased the previous faunal record from these levels that are presently considered as the base of the Agua de la Piedra Formation. Former faunal lists included Pyrotherium and Proborhyaena gigantea, representatives of the Deseadan Age. Among new materials, a complete skull and two associated metatarsals, two maxillary fragments with left I1M2 and right I1P3, and five isolated upper teeth represent the Family Notohippidae. Even though some characters are not comparable between the skull and maxillaries, shared features lead us to consider them as a unique and new taxon, Mendozahippus fierensis, gen. et sp. nov., and the isolated molars as cf. M. fierensis. As in previous phylogenies, our analysis indicates the Family Notohippidae is a paraphyletic group. The inclusion of Plexotemnus, Pampahippus, and Puelia within Notohippidae is not supported, but without them, the group is still paraphyletic. Leontiniids appear as basal taxa to the remaining notohippids and toxodontids. Mendozahippus presents one autapomorphy (lingually projected protocone of M3) and four homoplastic characters. It occupies a basal position with respect to other notohippids plus toxodontids. Mendozahippus increases the diversity and geographic distribution of Notohippidae during the late Oligocene. This and other taxa add some distinctiveness to this Deseadan fauna compared to other better-known assemblages from Patagonia or Salla (Bolivia), whereas other groups maintain clear affinities. The intermediate latitudinal position of Mendoza might explain these faunal characteristics.
40666173|Caviidae and Hydrochoeridae (extant Cavioidea s.s.), probably the most peculiar among rodents, are characterized by their evergrowing double-heart-shaped cheekteeth. They have classically been rooted in Eocardiidae, which ranges from Deseadan to 'Colloncuran' (late Oligocene-middle Miocene) in Patagonia, although in the Deseadan and Colhuehuapian (early Miocene) remains are very scanty. For the Colhuehuapian, only one species coming from the southern cliff of the Colhu Huapi Lake (Gran Barranca, Chubut, Argentina) was known so far. In this paper, the first Colhuehuapian eocardiids from outside Gran Barranca are reported: Luantus minor, sp. nov., and Chubutomys leucoreios, sp. nov. They are represented by two fragmentary mandibles and a few isolated cheek teeth, from the Trelew Member of the Sarmiento Formation at Bryn Gwyn, lower valley of the Chubut River, Chubut. The new species enlarge the knowledge of eocardiid diversity, and reinforce the hypothesis of a basal dichotomy for the group. L. minor represents one of the smallest species of the series Asteromys + Luantus + Phanomys + Eocardia, which likely gave rise to modern Cavioidea s.s.C. leucoreios pertains to a group of species with precocious hypsodonty and apparently low diversity, but without modern descendant.
4523534|Field work recently completed in the Lake Eyre Basin, South Australia, has resulted in the development of a land mammal (marsupial) biostratigraphy of the Etadunna Formation. Whereas traditional interpretations of the age of this sequence suggest it is about 15 m.y. old, new information indicates that the Etadunna likely is 24-26 m.y. old. In either case, it appears possible to document a four-fold fossil mammal zonation of this rock unit at lakes Palankarinna, Kanunka, Pitikanta, and Ngapakaldi, in a composite section of strata that spans at least 30 m. Magnetostratigraphic data for the same succession are generally consistent with the correlation of the Etadunna Formation sites at Lake Palankarinna with of those at lakes Kanunka, Pitikanta, and Ngapakaldi to the north, as based on paleontological information. The magnetic polarity zonation of these Etadunna Formation strata is consistent with a correlation to the world magnetic polarity time scale at about 24-26 m.y. This is the first fine-scale zonation based on fossil land mammals for strata of late Oligocene age in Australia. The combined mammal and magnetic data show promise of developing the Etadunna Formation as a reference standard for land mammal correlations within Australia and the relation of these to land mammal zonations beyond the Australian continent.
40666162|In this paper we describe previously unpublished trionychid turtle material, consisting of numerous shell fragments, from two Late Cretaceous (Santonian-early Campanian) localities from Middle Asia and Kazakhstan (Central Asia in the U. S. tradition): Kansai (Tadjikistan) and Shakh-Shakh (Kazakhstan). This material can be attributed to two forms of trionychids present in both localities. One of them is the named species Trionyx riabinini Kuznetsov and Chkhikvadze, 1987, described from Shakh-Shakh. New data on its shell morphology provided by our study allow attribution to the genus Aspideretoides Gardner et al., 1995, known previously only from the Campanian-Maastrichtian of North America. The presence of this taxon in both Middle Asia and North America provides the first clear evidence for the relationship between Cretaceous Asian and North American trionychids. The second form is established as a new species, "Trionyx" kansaiensis, sp. nov., with unclear systematic position within Trionychinae. We lastly present a brief review of other named taxa of Cretaceous trionychids of Middle Asia and Kazakhstan.
4523855|A new tristichopterid, Cabonnichthys burnsi gen. et sp. nov. from the Upper Devonian Mandagery Sandstone near Canowindra, New South Wales, Australia, is the second tristichopterid to be described from this locality. The first, Mandageria fairfaxi, was interpreted as the sister group of the Laurussian taxon Eusthenodon. Cabonnichthys burnsi gen. et sp. nov. is similar to these two taxa in possessing a posterior supraorbital extending ventrally behind the orbit to exclude the postorbital from the orbital margin, a posteriorly positioned pineal surrounded by kite or teardrop shaped bones, and an enlarged fang-like tooth at the anterior end of the premaxillary tooth row. Cabonnichthys burnsi differs from Mandageria and Eusthenodon in retaining a contact between the intertemporal and posterior supraorbital, and in possessing "horn-like" processes on the postparietal shield that notch into the posterior margin of the postorbital. The Tristichopteridae is a clade characterized inter alia by the possession of postspiracular bones. A phylogenetic analysis of the Tristichopteridae yields the topology [Tristichopterus [Eusthenopteron [Jarvikina [Platycephalichthys [Cabonnichthys [Mandageria + Eusthenodon]]]]]]. This topology is consistent with the biostratigraphy of the group, and with a number of morphological trends including size increase and elaboration of the anterior dentition. It also suggests that the group has a northern origin and dispersed into Gondwana during the Upper Devonian.
4524219|The parareptile Owenetta rubidgei is known from several skulls, all found in Upper Permian sediments of South Africa. The anatomy of a new species of Owenetta, O. kitchingorum, from the Early Triassic is described here on the basis of three nearly complete skeletons. This new species is distinguished from O. rubidgei on the basis of three dental and three cranial features. Postcranial features cannot be used in the diagnosis because the postcranial anatomy of O. rubidgei is unknown. The small parareptile Barasaurus from the Late Permian of Madagascar and Owenetta are united in the clade Owenettidae, as the sister-taxon of Procolophonidae. Controversies surrounding parareptilian phylogeny are discussed as they relate to Owenetta.
42568628|Madtsoiidae are a group of archaic snakes, widely distributed in the Upper Cretaceous of Gondwanan landmasses (South America, Madagascar, India, Africa), but otherwise reported outside Gondwana based only on scarce material from a few southern European localities. Here, we describe associated snake remains from uppermost Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) beds of the Ha| eg Basin, Romania, as a new small-madtsoiid taxon, Nidophis insularis, gen. et sp. nov. Nidophis, represented by a large number of well-preserved vertebrae and ribs that apparently belonged to one individual, is one of the best-known Cretaceous madtsoiids, and the most completely documented member of the family from Europe. Phylogenetic analyses place the new taxon within a moderately supported Madtsoiidae, closely related to Herensugea from the Upper Cretaceous of Spain. The two European taxa, together with other small madtsoiids, are recovered as the sister taxon to a second madtsoiid clade including large-to-gigantic forms such as Madtsoia, Wonambi, and Yurlunggur. The presence of these small madtsoiids, together with that of Menarana, in the uppermost Cretaceous of Europe, suggests that early widespread distribution of madtsoiids, extending over the southern part of Europe, instead of late northward immigration from Gondwanan landmasses, as proposed previously, might account for the paleobiogeographic distribution of Cretaceous Madstoiidae.
4523333|The cranial morphology of Acroplous vorax Hotton, 1959, is restudied on the basis of new specimens collected from the Speiser Shale Formation (Council Grove Group, Lower Permian) of Wabaunsee County, Kansas. Acroplous, assigned to the trimerorhachoid family Saurerpetontidae, is characterized by complete absence of the intertemporal and shortened postparietal. Saurerpetontids are further distinguished from other trimerorhachoids by the presence of a dorsally exposed palatine.
4523249|Until now, Syntarsus was based on a single species, S. rhodesiensis, known only from southern Africa. The discovery of Syntarsus in North America adds significantly to the increasingly detailed resemblance of African and North American Early Jurassic terrestrial vertebrate faunas. The new species, Syntarsus kayentakatae, is based on a complete skull and partial skeleton, and more fragmentary remains of at least 16 additional individuals, all from a narrow stratigraphic interval in the Kayenta Formation. Syntarsus kayentakatae is diagnosed by parasagittal cranial crests and fusion of the fibula to the calcaneum in adults. Syntarsus is the most derived member of the newly diagnosed theropod taxon Ceratosauria, possessing 22 apomorphies that arose subsequent to the divergence of ceratosaurs from other theropods. Syntarsus shares 20 of these with Coelophysis bauri, one of the earliest well-known theropods. By their first appearance, probably late Carnian, ceratosaurs already possessed a history involving considerable morphological transformation. A number of these characters arose convergently much later in time in ornithurine birds.
4523317|Two new species of washakiin omomyids occur in deposits of early Bridgerian age. Shoshonius bowni, sp. nov., from the Aycross Formation, Absaroka Range, Wyoming, differs from S. cooperi in having enlarged conules on the upper molars and a second metaconule, features convergent with Washakius insignis. Washakius izetti, sp. nov., from the Green River Formation, Piceance Creek Basin, Colorado, is the most primitive known species of Washakius, showing incipient development of features present in the later W. insignis and W. woodringi. Washakius, cf. W. izetti occurs in the early Bridgerian of the Huerfano Basin. W. izetti is closely related to Utahia kayi, a washakiin possibly related to Stockia. Hemiacodon, sometimes included in the Washakiini, is probably more closely related to the Omomyini. Stockia is distinct from Omomys and is questionably included in the Washakiini, of which Loveina is the stem taxon. More advanced washakiins form two groups between which there was significant parallel evolution in dental morphology. One group includes Washakius, Dyseolemur, Utahia, and possibly Stockia, and is characterized by development of an open talonid notch before the consistent appearance of metastylids. The other group consists of Shoshonius, where the establishment of metastylids preceded the full opening of the talonid basins.
23251281|The pachycephalosaurian squamosal is one of the most diagnostic bones in this enigmatic group of dinosaurs, but little is known about variation in its morphology. Despite this, features of squamosal morphology are often used in diagnoses and phylogenetic studies. The recently proposed hypothesis of an ontogenetic transition from Dracorex to Pachycephalosaurus implies a large amount of ontogenetic variation in squamosal ornamentation that has not been well documented due to the small number of squamosals for these taxa. Stegoceras validum provides an important model for examining variation in squamosal morphology due to the large number of squamosals available. Here we examine the morphology of 14 S. validum squamosals both qualitatively and quantitatively. We find that although both node number and shape vary considerably, there is no clear ontogenetic pattern, which suggests a high degree of individual variation. The ornamental pattern, however, is maintained throughout the sample. Increase in node size is isometric for the enlarged medial node and normal posterior nodes, but negatively allometric for the vertex node. The squamosal bar is taller laterally than medially in nearly all specimens and increases in height with positive allometry at the same rate medially and laterally. We found no correlation between the width of the supratemporal fenestra on the squamosal and the size of the squamosal itself. Rather, this feature appears to exhibit a large degree of individual variation. Overall, these findings have implications for previous hypotheses of ontogenetic growth and function of the ornamentation, as well as the construction of phylogenetic characters.
4522914|The use of Paleozoic ichthyoliths in geology has been extremely limited due, in part, to the taxonomic problems involved in their identification and the lack of adequate documentation affording comparisons of elements from various studies. Part II of a catalog of 156 Late Pennsylvanian ichthyoliths consists of diagnoses and illustrations mainly of teeth. Each ichthyolith has been identified by a coded, utilitarian classification system.
4524670|A digital cranial endocast of Pucadelphys andinus, a Paleocene metatherian from Bolivia, is described. This is the first cranial endocast described for the taxon and the only one (to date) from a stem marsupial (i.e., non-marsupial metatherian). The Pucadelphys endocast is compared with others generated from skulls from six taxa of extant marsupials (Monodelphis domestica, Didelphis virginiana, Dasyurus hallucatus, Vombatus ursinus, Phascolarctos cinereus, and Dromiciops australis). The Pucadelphys endocast is generally similar to the didelphid marsupial Monodelphis. However, the olfactory bulb casts and the cerebellar space (approximated using vermis cast length) of Pucadelphys are relatively large in comparison to those of these extant marsupials. The cerebral hemisphere casts of Pucadelphys are dorsoventrally thin in comparison to those of the extant marsupials examined here. With other dimensions of the cerebral hemisphere casts being comparable between Pucadelphys and the extant marsupials, this suggests that the overall volume of the cerebral hemispheres was smaller in Pucadelphys. Thus, two possible synapomorphies for crown Marsupialia are a decrease in size of the cerebellar space and an increase in cerebral hemisphere volume.
42568541|The Albanerpetontidae, small salamander-like tetrapods from the Middle Jurassic-Neogene of Laurasia and northern Africa, are widely considered to be lissamphibians; however, relationships among major lissamphibian clades are unresolved. A recently identified, isolated, and three-dimensionally preserved neurocranium (early Pliocene, Hungary) referred to Albanerpeton pannonicum is described, incorporating information gained from the application of micro-computed tomography. It is revealed that the neurocranium is a robust, box-like structure composed of the coossification of the parasphenoid, otic capsules, and occipital elements. The otic capsule endocast reveals the morphology of the endosseous labyrinth, complete with well-defined endosseous semicircular canals and a modestly developed ventral endosseous auditory region; however, details of the individual auditory organs are not discernable from the endocast. Features of the neurocranium and endosseous labyrinth are consistent with the hypothesis that A. pannonicum, and albanerpetontids in general, were somewhat fossorial. The neurocranium and endosseous labyrinth exhibit a mosaic of anuran, urodele, and apodan traits, thus precluding refinement of the phylogenetic position of albanerpetontids. In general, the neurocranium and endosseous labyrinth appear most similar to urodeles, and similarities with apodans and anurans may be due to convergent evolution resulting from similar habits and responses to inner ear stimulation. This new neurocranium represents the best-known specimen of its kind for albanerpetontids, and the data presented here combined with future comparative studies will contribute to a better understanding of the biology and evolution of this group.
4524281|Highly detailed microscopic preparation of both newly discovered and previously undescribed nimravine crania from the White River Group of North America reveals hitherto unreported morphological features of the basicranium and auditory region, particularly the composition of the auditory bulla and form of the petrosal. The monophyly of Dinictis, Hoplophoneus, and Nimravus is supported by a remarkably uniform configuration of the auditory bulla: (1) the form and placement of the entotympanics; (2) a near-vertical ectotympanic with elaborate styliform process partially enclosing the Eustachian tube; and (3) an anterior bulla wall formed by a unique overlap of the anterior entotympanic lamina by the elongate styliform process. Although an intact auditory bulla is unknown in an Eurasian nimravine, the auditory regions of the species represented by crania (Eusmilus bidentatus and Nimravus cf. intermedius from Quercy) demonstrate a definite affinity with New World genera, affirming the Holarctic distribution of the Nimravinae. In addition to identifying basicranial similarities among nimravines, we describe the first largely intact turbinate bones within the nasal cavity of a nimravid. CT (computed tomography) scanning of nimravid rostra reveals differing configurations of the maxilloturbinate in Dinictis and Hoplophoneus, the former more derived than the latter. Compared to other Carnivora, nimravid maxilloturbinates are most similar to those of living aeluroids, which are confined to the ventral part of the anterior nasal cavity. Nimravids lack the elaborately branching (dendrolamellar) maxilloturbinates of arctoid and cynoid carnivorans.
40666164|An ichthyosaur from the Oxfordian-Kimmeridgian of Melville Island, Northwest Territories, Canada, is redescribed. This specimen was previously referred to as Ophthalmosaurus chrisorum Russell, 1993, but exhibits several features incompatible with this generic assignment. Here, I refer this specimen to a new genus, Arthropterygius, characterized by a basioccipital with an extremely reduced extracondylar area, a foramen for the internal carotid artery located on the posterior surface of the basisphenoid, a humrus with a well-developed distal facet for the articulation of a preaxial accessory element, and a radius and ulna with highly angular proximal surfaces for articulation with the humrus. Arthropterygius can be referred to the Ophthalmosauria based on the presence of a preaxial element anterior to the radius and ulna. This referral is supported by a phylogenetic analysis, in which a sister-group relationship between Arthropterygius and the South American genus Caypullisaurus is recovered. This specimen represents the most complete ichthyosaur from the Canadian Arctic, and has important implications for marine reptile diversity at high latitudes during the Jurassic.
23361070|The stratigraphic and paleogeographic distribution of the suspension-feeding pachycormiform fish Bonnerichthys is reviewed. Fossils attributable to this genus are known from the Western Interior Seaway (Niobrara Formation of Kansas, Sharon Springs Formation of Kansas, Nebraska, and North Dakota, DeGrey Formation of South Dakota, and possibly Mobridge Formation of Nebraska), the Eastern (Eutaw Formation of Mississippi and Mooreville and Demopolis formations of Alabama and Mississippi) and Western (Ozan Formation of Texas and Marlbrook Marl Formation of Arkansas) Gulf Coastal Plain, the Atlantic Coastal Plain (Wenonah Formation of New Jersey and possibly Marshalltown Formation of Delaware), and Pacific coast (Moreno Formation of California). Chronologically, occurrences of Bonnerichthys range in age from Coniacian to Maastrichtian. Fossils of Bonnerichthys from the Atlantic Coastal Plain, Eastern and Western Gulf Coastal Plain, and Pacific coast are definitively identified and figured here for the first time. Candidate deposits outside the United States that might yield Bonnerichthys are reviewed.
4522839|Mancalla emlongi, new species, is the fifth species described in this extinct genus of flightless auks and is the third to be described from the late Pliocene San Diego Formation of southern California. The species is based on a right ulna that is markedly larger than in any other member of the genus.
4523760|Fish remains from the Middle Devonian (Late Eifelian) were found in three limestone quarries in the Elm Point and Winnipegosis formations, near Lake Manitoba, south-central Manitoba. The arthrodire material represents a taxon previously unknown from Manitoba. Eastmanosteus lundarensis sp. nov., is described based on an articulated, nearly complete cranial roof and incomplete cranial roof, a suborbital plate and thoracic shield fragments. E. lundarensis is the oldest representative of the genus, and is the first record of the genus in Canada. E. lundarensis is most similar to the other North American and European Eastmanosteus species rather than the two Australasian Eastmanosteus species and Golshanichthys.
4523147|The early Miocene deposits of the Rotem and Yeroham basins in the Negev district of Israel have yielded 19 taxa of fossil mammals, of which two are new species: Gazella negevensis (Bovidae) and cf. Anasinopa haasi (Creodonta, Hyaenodontidae). This is the only early Miocene record of vertebrates from the southern Levant, with many typically African taxa including: Prodeinotherium sp., cf. Canthumeryx syrtensis, Dorcatherium cf. D. pigotti, Dorcatherium cf. D. chappuisi, Megapedetes cf. M. pentadactylus, Kenyalagomys sp., Crocodylus cf. C. pigotti, and Lates sp. (Teleostei). Owing to a quasi-spatial isolation of Gebel Zelten (Libya), Gebel Moghara (Egypt), Rusinga, Songhor (and others in East Africa), Bugti Hills (Pakistan) and the Negev, for which a general contemporaneity is suggested, endemism in these sites is relatively high, reflecting their different environments rather than heterochroneity. Hence similarity between these remote and rapidly changing regions was mainly based on congeneric level rather than conspecificity. On the basis of the general resemblance of the sedimentary sequence between the Negev deposits and the Marada Formation (Sirte Basin, North Africa), the generic affinities of the Negev fauna with early Miocene Afro-Arabian sites, and the relatively few Eurasian elements in its assemblage, we suggest that the Negev fauna records an early Afro-Asian migration event that may correspond to late (European Mammal unit) MN3a. It is shown that the spatio-temporal position of the Negev sites is crucial in interpreting the initiation of the biotic exchange between the Afro-Arabian and Eurasian realms. The vertebrate remains suggest the presence of diverse habitat types; aquatic, dense forest, woodland and grassland, and that a nucleus of open, drier habitats must already have existed along the Saharo-Arabian belt. We find the locomotor adaptations (cursoriality) of mammals occupying open habitats during this period to be far ahead of their adaptations for grazing.
4523511|The skull of the primitive baenid turtle Neurankylus demonstrates that it is distinct from Hayemys and is a primitive relative to the Baenodd. The course of the canalis caroticus lateralis in the Baenodd is reinterpreted and the identification of foramina altered accordingly. Neurankylus and the Baenodd share the derived features of a canalis caroticus lateralis that is smaller in diameter than the canalis caroticus internus and is located entirely within the pterygoid, rather than along the pterygoid-basisphenoid suture, a fully ossified hiatus acusticus, and a greatly reduced epipterygoid. A monophyletic taxon Paracryptodira including Baenidae and Pleurosternidae is supported by a greatly reduced perilymphatic fenestra.
4523950|Protohadros byrdi, gen. et sp. nov., from the Cenomanian Woodbine Formation, Texas, is described on the basis of a disarticulated skull and isolated postcrania. The possession of the fewest synapomorphies among hadrosaurids places Protohadros at the basal position within Hadrosauridae. The combination of a derived maxillopalatal unit and a primitive quadrate indicate a level of cranial kinesis intermediate between primitive iguanodontians and other hadrosaurids. Both the phylogenetic and chronological distributions of these characteristics describe an evolutionary sequence of adaptations in which modifications for increased masticatory ability of the maxillary region precede the evolution of both streptostylic cranial kinesis and a more derived mandible in Hadrosauridae. The taxon is unique among hadrosaurids in possessing a ventrally deflected muzzle, including a deep, rostrally massive mandible, that is interpreted to represent an exclusively low-browsing pattern of food acquisition in a deltaic environment. At 95 Ma, Protohadros is the oldest definitive hadrosaurid. This plus the phylogenetic and biogeographic position of the specimen indicate that a North American origin of Hadrosauridae is equally as likely as the prevalent Asian origin hypothesis.
20491066|New, undescribed material of the hybodont shark Tribodus limae, from the Lower Cretaceous of northeastern Brazil, provides new information on the pectoral endoskeleton in this taxon. This allows for a revision of its pectoral morphology, which may be broadly applicable to other Hybodontoidei. Four new specimens of Tribodus with well-preserved pectoral girdles are described, including the first complete, three-dimensionally preserved hybodont scapulocoracoid and partial pectoral fin. These specimens permit examination of the posterior surface of the scapulocoracoid, not visible in previously described hybodonts. Overall pectoral morphology of Tribodus is similar to that of other hybodontiforms and neoselachians. However, the new material shows that the pectoral articulation in Tribodus comprises an oblique posterior ridge on the scapulocoracoid, unlike previous reconstructions of pectoral anatomy in Tribodus and other hybodonts based on two-dimensionally preserved specimens. However, other elasmobranchs, including many neoselachians, Orthacanthus, and ctenacanths, also have an oblique posterior articulation, indicating that this feature may be primitive for elasmobranchs. The pectoral articulation of Tribodus differs noticeably from that of Cladoselache and similar Paleozoic chondrichthyans, which have an elongated, laterally positioned articular process, and from the outgroup (osteichthyans, acanthodians and placoderms). Tribodus also differs from the Paleozoic hybodontiform Onychoselache in which the articular region comprises a laterally positioned glenoid fossa and posterior condyle. Tribodus has an additional diazonal foramen not found in other hybodonts. Other pectoral features of Tribodus are in agreement with previous phylogenetic hypotheses, supporting the position of Tribodus within Hybodontoidei.
4523486|Much of a skeleton of Dibothrosuchus elaphros from the Lower Lufeng Group (Lower Jurassic) of Yunnan, China permits a detailed review of the anatomy and relationships of sphenosuchian crocodylomorphs. The skull is strongly built, akinetic, and monimostylic. The quadrate shows three dorsal processes that are firmly sutured to the skull roof and the braincase. The otic capsule is essentially crocodilian, and the tympanic pneumaticities are more elaborate than in extant forms. The animal possessed refined hearing ability and was probably vocal. The coracoid has an extremely elongated, posteriorly directed postglenoid process. The humerus bears an oval depression anteriorly near the head, and the radiale and ulnare are longer than the metacarpals. The limbs are long and slender, adapted for quadrupedal terrestrial gait. The estimated total length was 1.3 m. Phylogenetic analysis of 65 characters indicates the monophyly of the Sphenosuchia. Within the Sphenosuchia, Saltoposuchus (=Terrestrisuchus), Pseudhesperosuchus, Hesperosuchus, and Sphenosuchus are successively closer relatives to Dibothrosuchus. The Sphenosuchia, in turn, are the sister-group of Crocodyliformes.
40666172|We discuss large tracks recently discovered in Paleocene coal deposits from Svalbard. The age, large size, and excellent preservation of the tracks allows them to be identified to the pantodont Titanoides. This is the earliest evidence of a large mammal on the Arctic islands and the northernmost record from the Paleocene. The traces are described in detail and named Thulitheripus svalbardii, gen. et sp. nov. Large Paleocene pantodonts are previously only known from North America. The presence of pantodonts in the Paleocene strata of Svalbard confirms the postulated DeGeer route for migration of mammals in the Paleocene/Eocene.
4523095| The first crocodilian remains from the Spanish Upper Cretaceous (Campanian-Maastrichtian) have been found in the Tremp basin (province of Lrida). Procoelous vertebrae, very strongly keeled scutes, and short stout teeth are attributed to a single adult species of an eusuchian crocodile. The Tremp crocodilian differs from all compared genera in having lumbar vertebrae with a wider neural arch and osteoderms with a tall, spine-like keel. These features, along with the general tooth morphology, suggest that the Spanish crocodile is related to the Alligatoridae. 
4523014|A diverse late Eocene fauna of lower vertebrates is described based on collections made at the Crow Creek Quarry, St. Francis County, Arkansas. Many of the taxa are reported from the late Eocene deposits of Arkansas for the first time. Paleoecological conditions evidenced by the vertebrate remains indicate that deposition occurred under hyposaline conditions adjacent to warm marine waters. This is in agreement with earlier studies of associated molluscan remains and sporomorphs of the region.
4523792|The fragmentary skeleton of a new Late Cretaceous avialan theropod from Patagonia is described. Patagonykus puertai possesses caudal trunk vertebrae that are slightly convex caudally. The last sacral centrum is ballshaped caudally, a condition that is also found in the caudal vertebrae. Caudal synsacral vertebrae are keeled ventrally. The humerus is craniocaudally compressed, and the internal tuberosity is unusually robust. Distally, the humerus has only one large subspherical condyle for articulation with the ulna and radius. The ulnar olecranon is strongly developed. The carpometacarpal is dorsoventrally compressed and quadrangular in dorsal view. Phalanx 1 of digit I has a pair of strong proximoventral hooklike processes. The ilium lacks the cranioventral fossa for the origin of the femoral protractor M. cuppedicus. The pubic pedicel of the ilium is cranioventrally oriented. The long and slender pubis is caudoventrally directed and ends distally in a massive pubic "foot". The presence of a deep proximal socket on the calcaneum suggests that the fibula was in articulation with the tarsus. Metatarsal III is proximally narrower than metatarsals II and IV. Patagonykus puertai is closely related to another Patagonian taxon, Alvarezsaurus calvoi, and also to the Mongolian Mononykus olecranus. Alvarezsauridae encompass these three taxa, sharing outstanding synapomorphies such as procoelous sacral and caudal vertebrae, and a stout ungual in the first digit of the manus. The Patagonian taxa are geologically older and morphologically more primitive than Mononykus olecranus. Alvarezsauridae documents a group of theropods widely distributed in late Mesozoic times, relevant to discussions of bird origins.
4523164|Small eggshell fragments (from Takli 1 and Pisdura 2) or complete crushed eggs (Jabalpur) have been discovered in the intertrappean and Lameta beds from Deccan (India; Upper Cretaceous). Their microstructure is generally well preserved, allowing a fine interpretation of the eggshell pattern. They are referred to sauropod dinosaurs because of their single-layered structure, with distinct growth units. These units are fan-shaped and thin for the first two localities. They show parallel radial limits for the last one and are slightly thicker. This attribution is also supported by the discussion on skeletal remains (bones or teeth) found in the same localities.
4523057|Actinolepis spinosa n. sp. from the Early Devonian (Siegenian) of western Latvia, USSR, is rather close to the Middle Devonian type species A. tuberculata Agassiz. In its fused preorbitals Actinolepis is similar to Bollandaspis from the early Emsian of Belgium. Gnathalia are known only in few actinolepids. In A. spinosa anterior and posterior superognathalia and the inferognathal are described. The roughly triangular posterior superognathal resembles that of Dicksonosteus arcticus Goujet, and the long and slender inferognathal is close to the equivalent plate in an undetermined actinolepid from Utah figured by Denison (1958).
25835856|Fossils of pelagornithids (bony-toothed birds) have been reported from strata of Paleocene to Pliocene age, and from every continent. The extreme fragility of pelagornithid bones has no doubt contributed to their geographically and temporally sporadic record, and thus it has been difficult to appreciate any long-term phylogenetic trends through geologic time for this group. We report a well-preserved partial humerus of the gigantic bird Pelagornis from the late Neogene Purisima Formation of central California. Due to its incompleteness, we refrain from naming a new species. This fossil is fortuitously bracketed by two ash beds, which have been correlated with volcanic rocks at 3.35  0.05 Ma and 2.5  0.2 Ma, indicating a middle to late Pliocene age for this fossil. This fossil extends the record of the pelagornithids in the Northeast Pacific, previously only known up until the early late Miocene (1012 Ma). This fossil is the latest record of a pelagornithid for the Pacific Basin, and additionally represents the latest reliably dated pelagornithid record worldwide. This record suggests that the pelagornithids survived until the end of the Pliocene, and became extinct during the ocean restructuring and climatic upheavals that caused the demise of many other groups of marine vertebrates at that time.
4523474|We investigate the role of the ancestral ungulates Phenacodontidae in the evolution of Perissodactyla, Hyracoidea, Proboscidea, Sirenia, and Desmostylia on the basis of parsimony analysis of dental, cranial, and postcranial data. The monophyletic order Phenacodonta (Phenacodontidae and Meniscotheriidae) is the sistergroup to the mirorder Pantomesaxonia (consisting of the five mammalian orders mentioned), and these two clades are united as superorder Paenungulata. The relationships of taxa within Pantomesaxonia remain unresolved. Important characters of the ancestor of Pantomesaxonia include partially molarized premolars and a cursorial limb skeleton.
4523515|Mookomys(?) bodei Wilson, from the Arikareean of California, is referred to the genus Tenudomys Rensberger, and two species previously referred only questionably to this genus, T. dakotensis (MacDonald) and T. basilaris Korth are definitely assigned to this genus, based on the association of upper and lower dental elements of T. bodei. At present it is impossible to assign Tenudomys to a recognized geomyoid family, but several cranial features ally it more closely to the Heteromyidae and Geomyidae than other geomyoids.
25835838|New fossils representing two species of the fur seal Callorhinus are reported from the uppermost Pliocene to lower Pleistocene Rio Dell Formation of northern California. The finds include latest Plioceneearliest Pleistocene dentaries and postcrania of Callorhinus gilmorei, and a partial dentary of early Pleistocene age identified as Callorhinus sp. The aforementioned material is ascribed to C. gilmorei due to the incipient single-rooted condition of the p12, retention of double-rooted p3m1, and overall small size. The dentary identified as Callorhinus sp. exhibits a more derived pattern of tooth morphology, including single-rooted p1p4 (and double-rooted m1), larger size than C. gilmorei, and in the size range of extant Callorhinus ursinus (which typically exhibit fused roots on all postcanine teeth). Fusion of postcanine roots began with the p2 and continued posteriorly, and is likely an adaptation to accommodate crowded teeth anteriorly in the jaws. Callorhinus gilmorei has previously been reported from the upper Pliocene of southern California and Japan, and this new record extends the range of this taxon further north in the Northeast Pacific. Callorhinus sp. is the most complete pinniped fossil to be described from the early Pleistocene of the Northeast Pacific. The wide biogeographic range of Callorhinus during the Pliocene and Pleistocene documents the persistence of this taxon, potentially as a Pliocene-Holocene anagenetic lineage. This highlights the antiquity of the Callorhinus lineage, which has persisted in the Northeast Pacific since the Pliocene, establishing it as the oldest and earliest diverging crown otariid.
4523098|The presence of nodosaurid ankylosaurs in the Lance, Hell Creek, and Laramie formations of western North America is confirmed, thereby extending the geochronological range of this family into the Maastrichtian (Lancian). The material includes a cervical spine and a skull referable to Edmontonia sp., and numerous teeth, plates and a basioccipital, which are questionably assigned to Edmontonia sp. Comparison of the amount of nodosaurid material known from the Judith River Formation (Campanian) with that from the Lancian deposits indicates a substantial decrease in the relative abundance of nodosaurids in the Maastrichtian. Furthermore, the stratigraphic distribution of these nodosaurs is apparently limited to the lower part of the Lancian deposits, suggesting that they became extinct before the end of the Cretaceous. If true, this would support the hypothesis that the dinosaur extinction at the end of the Maastrichtian was gradual, not catastrophic.
4523880|The confusion between operational and theoretical terms has been common in stratigraphic paleontology. This science includes the descriptive subdiscipline of biostratigraphy and the more interpretational subdisciplines of biochronology and ecostratigraphy. Paleontostratigraphic terms ending in "-zone" refer to intervals of rock, while those ending in "-chron" refer to spans of time. Fossil datum terms (Lowest/Highest Stratigraphic Datum = LSD/HSD) refer to the lowest/highest stratigraphic occurrence of fossils of a taxon in a given section, and define the boundaries of biostratigraphic units (fossizones = intervals of strata). Fossizones may be divided into epizones (the known extent of the fossizone) and entozones (the actual extent of the fossizone). Fossil datum terms with intrinsic temporal connotations are Oldest/Youngest Known Record (OKR/YKR). The time between the presumed OKR and YKR of a taxon in a given area is the apparent temporal range (parachron), which must be separated from the even more theoretical concept of the true temporal range (biochron). Paleobiological event terms (First/Last Historical Appearance = FHA/LHA) refer to the evolution, immigration, dispersal, emigration, and extinction of living individuals of a taxon, and define the boundaries of biochronologic units (biochrons = spans of time). Biochrons may be divided into holochrons (temporal range of the defining taxon/taxa in either a given continent or the whole world) and teilchrons (temporal range in either an individual basin or paleobiogeographic province). Geochronologic units (geochrons) are spans of time defined by two "golden spikes" in designated boundary stratotype sections, and geochronostratigraphic units (geochronozones) are the sets of rock formed during such geochrons. In contrast, biochronostratigraphic units (biochronozones) are the sets of rock formed during biochrons, without reference to any particular stratigraphic section. Land Mammal "Ages" (LMAs) should not be redefined as formal geochronologic/geochronostratigraphic units. Single-taxon definitions of LMA boundaries may be appropriate in cases where few immigrational events seem to have occurred over an appreciable interval of time on a given continent. However, in view of the relatively low potential for continent-wide biochronologic resolution generally available in terrestrial sections, most LMAs should be regarded as Oppel disjunctive biochrons, whose beginnings are theoretically defined as the point in time corresponding to whichever of the immigrational or evolutionary appearances of a specified set of taxa is the oldest.
4522896|Basicrania of four Eocene artiodactyls, Diacodexis, Homacodon, ?Helohyus and Gobiohyus are basically similar to those of more primitive ungulates such as Hyopsodus and do not foreshadow derived basicranial characters of ruminants, anthracotheres, suids or any other specific artiodactyl group. These genera differ from more primitive ungulates in having more laterally oriented mastoids and a broader epitympanic recess roofing the middle ear cavity. Primitive artiodactyls are mastoid; amastoidy appears to have arisen independently in several different artiodactyl lineages.
4523968| Shonisaurus, from the Upper Triassic (Carnian) of Nevada, is represented by some 40 individuals. However, many comprise only a few elements, and not one of the skeletons is complete. Furthermore, preservation is often poor, so information is limited. Reaching lengths of up to 15 m, possibly slightly more, Shonisaurus was about the size of a Gray Whale. The only other ichthyosaur of comparable size was a little known and unnamed ichthyosaur from the English Lower Jurassic, which may have reached 15 m (McGowan, 1996). Shonisaurus was long-bodied, with about 60 presacral vertebrae. Some of the centra, at about the level of the 97th vertebra, are wedge-shaped, indicating a tailbend. However, their cambers are small, and their combined angle of deflection is only about 5, which hardly constitutes a tailbend. The paired fins were long and slender, with no more than three major digits in each, possibly only two. Contrary to previous descriptions, the emarginations on the free margins of many of the fin elements were probably preaxial rather than postaxial, as in all other ichthyosaurs. The coracoid does not have a hooked process distally, and is therefore much like that of Shastasaurus. The teeth are set in individual sockets, as previously described. Three species have been described, but S. popularis is here considered the only valid species. 
4524582|A medium-sized, counterclockwise spiral-horned antelope from the late Miocene (Turolian) locality of Perivolaki, Greece, is described and compared with several late Neogene and Quaternary taxa from Eurasia. The new form can be distinguished in several cranial and horn-core features and is the basis of a new genus and species: Pheraios chryssomallos. Pheraios is characterized by a flat cranial roof smoothly angled on the face, wide nasals, raised frontals, relatively long face, wide and low occipital facing posteriorly, low-crowned teeth, large premolars, and weakly twisted, very openly spiraled, and strongly laterally divergent horn-cores. Cladistic analysis based on 46 cranial features supports the close relationship of Pheraios to the African tragelaphins. Interpretation of the characters in comparison with fossil and extant Tragelaphini leads us to recognize Pheraios as a late Miocene tragelaphin stem taxon, necessitating a discussion of the origin and biogeography of this predominantly African group. We suggest that the common ancestry of Pheraios and of African tragelaphins occurred before 8 Ma, outside Africa.
42568664|A new genus and species of Ziphiidae, Notoziphius bruneti, gen. et sp. nov., from the late Miocene of Patagonia, is described on the basis of a well-preserved skull and partial left and right dentaries. It can be diagnosed by large, triangular, and markedly asymmetric nasals that strongly point anteroventrally, the ascending process of the maxilla not expanded posteriorly, supraoccipital strongly sloped posteroventrally; elliptical fossa on the nasal process of the premaxilla, small and anterolaterally directed premaxillary crest, and the presence of well-defined alveoli in the maxilla. A phylogenetic analysis including 25 ziphiid genera and 31 characters shows Notoziphius as nested within Ziphiidae in a basal clade with Aporotus, Beneziphius, Messapicetus, and Ziphirostrum. This clade is diagnosed by medial fusion of the premaxillae that closes the mesorostral groove, lateral margin of prenarial basin formed by a thick strip of maxilla, premaxillary crest anterolaterally directed, and reduced contact between nasal and premaxillary crest. The presence of Notoziphius in the Miocene of Patagonia increases our knowledge of ziphiid diversity in South America. Notoziphius bruneti and other Miocene records of ziphiids reinforce the idea that during the Miocene ziphiids were widely distributed and diverse.
4523547|The Chappo Type Locality in southwestern Wyoming has produced an extensive Tiffanian (late Paleocene) mammalian fauna. Thirty-three genera and 39 species of mammals are represented at Chappo, including three newly recognized taxa, a ?lipotyphlan insectivore Palaeoryctes cruoris, sp. nov., an erinaceomorph insectivore Cedrocherus aceratus, sp. nov., and an arctocyonid condylarth Lambertocyon gingerichi, sp. nov. Comparison with other middle and late Tiffanian localities suggests that Chappo represents a transitional Ti3-Ti4 fauna. The presence of mature paleosol horizons at Chappo indicates deposition on a distal floodplain. Faunal analysis (including body size distribution, trophic structure, and taxonomic diversity) indicates that the Chappo sample consists of small- to medium-sized mammals dominated by omnivores and insectivores. The relatively low frequency of frugivores indicates less forested, more open conditions. Diversity indices suggest that middle Tiffanian mammalian diversity was only slightly lower than comparable early and late Tiffanian diversity, but diversity distribution was uneven, with a few taxa dominating the fauna. Cenogram analysis of the Chappo fauna indicates that the paleoenvironmental setting at Chappo was one of open woodlands and relatively dry, seasonal conditions.
20627129|The braincase and endocranial cavity of a specimen of a nonmammalian eucynodont Chiniquodon is described and illustrated, and a tentative reconstruction of the gross anatomy of the brain offered. Salient features are the well-developed impression for the olfactory lobes, the extreme narrowness of the region available for the telencephalon, and the evidence for a large cerebellum. A two-step theory for the origin of the mammalian brain is proposed. The first step is represented by the nonmammalian cynodont level and consisted of enlargement of the cerebellum and possibly midbrain structures. This stage is associated with the evolution of more sophisticated neuromuscular control of the mandibular and locomotory apparatuses. The second step was the evolution of the mammalian six-layered neocortex, and did not occur until the origin of the mammals themselves. This stage was an integral part of a complex set of allometric changes associated with miniaturization. The origin of the neocortex was correlated with sensitivity to higher frequency sound, and a greater area of olfactory epithelium, both expected to result from miniaturization, and also with the availability of increased space within the cranial cavity expected as the adductor jaw musculature was relatively reduced in mass. Overall, neocortical function was associated with the high energy nocturnal foraging activity generally believed to have appertained in the first mammals, and also sophisticated social communication.
4522894|A distinctive suite of teeth assignable to the genus Hipparion has been recovered from the Clarendonian (late Miocene) Contra Costa Group of Bolinger Canyon, Contra Costa County, California. The teeth have been previously compared with Nannippus tehonensis [= Hipparion tehonense (Merriam) MacFadden], a gracile hipparion of southern California and Texas. The Contra Costa fossils share an array of characters in which they differ from H. tehonense. Some of the features suggest possible ancestry to the Neohipparion leptode Merriam or N. eurystyle (Cope) group. The new species Hipparion trampasense is based on the Bolinger Canyon collection.
4523767|The crocodyliform reptile Chimaerasuchus paradoxus Wu, Sues, and Sun, 1995 from the Lower Cretaceous Wulong Formation of Hubei (China) is characterized by its singular, extremely heterodont dentition. It also possesses a number of unusual cranial features including a shelf-like anterolateral expansion of the jugal, a distinct lateral process on the angular, a very small splenial, and an entirely open Meckelian canal. As in Notosuchus terrestris from the Upper Cretaceous of Argentina, the confluent external nares are large, vertically oriented, and face directly forward. Mandibular motion was apparently proal. Phylogenetic analysis indicates a sister-group relationship between Chimaerasuchus and Notosuchus, and between that clade and an as yet unnamed notosuchid from the Lower Cretaceous of Malawi. This casts further doubts on previous claims concerning the endemic distribution of the Notosuchidae and other "Gondwanan" tetrapod taxa during the Cretaceous.
4523285|The vertebral anatomy of the rare Early Permian pelycosaur Varanosaurus acutirostris is described and figured. The atlanto-axial complex is generally similar to that in ophiacodont pelycosaurs. The atlantal centrum and the axial intercentrum are fused together; however, the plane of fusion between the two elements is directed posteroventrally, an angle opposite to the condition observed in Ophiacodon. The axial neural spine is large, and its anterior projection between the paired halves of the atlantal neural arch may have aided in preventing them from occluding the foramen magnum during rotation of the cranium relative to the vertebral column. Angulation of the articular surfaces of the zygapophyses of the anterior presacral vertebrae probably allowed some rotation to occur posterior to the atlanto-axial complex. Dorsal vertebrae exhibit a complex of characters that include swollen neural arches, slightly tilted zygapophyseal facets and, in certain regions of the column, alternation in height and structure of the neural spines. Although a variety of other Late Paleozoic tetrapods also exhibit these characteristics, only Varanosaurus is known to possess them among pelycosaurs. The associated configuration of epaxial musculature could have allowed a muscular contribution to vertebral dorsiflexion. There are two sacral vertebrae that exhibit a characteristically primitive pelycosaurian structure. Anterior tail vertebrae are robust and the tail included at least 45 to 50 vertebrae.
30126365|The Paleocene locality of Punta Peligro (Hansen Member of the Salamanca Formation) in Argentina has yielded not only 'condylarths' but also an extraordinary assemblage of therian mammals derived from Laurasian immigrants and non-therian mammals, relicts of the Mesozoic Gondwanan radiation. The materials, a left jaw fragment with the talonid of the second molar and the third molar, and an isolated upper molar, allow the revalidation of Raulvaccia peligrensis considered previously as a junior synonym of Escribania chubutensis. In addition to other characters, Raulvaccia strongly differs from E. chubutensis in its lesser size, the development of the m3 talonid, the presence of a hypocristid, and a postcristid. Originally Raulvaccia and Escribania were considered as Mioclaenidae, Kollpaniinae, together with other ungulates from the Santa Lucia Formation, from the early Paleocene locality of Tiupampa in Bolivia. In contrast to the Tiupampan 'condylarths,' Raulvaccia shares derived characters with E. chubutensis, particularly in the upper molars, such as a strong parastyle and the presence of hypocone located close to, but well differentiated from the protocone. These characters support a previous hypothesis which argues for the removal of the Peligran 'condylarths' from the more primitive Kollpaniinae, and sustains its relationship to the exclusively South American Didolodontidae. The revalidation of Raulvaccia peligrensis shows that the diversity of placental mammals during the earliest known Paleocene in Patagonia was greater than previously thought, and supports for the early differentiation of the Didolodontidae.
30126311|A new specimen of Chaliminia musteloides Bonaparte is described from the upper section of the Los Colorados Formation (Late Carnian-Early Norian) of Argentina. A cladistic analysis of ictidosaurians supports its monophyly. Chaliminia and Elliotherium, grouped in the new subfamily Chalimininae, were placed as sister taxa to the new subfamily Pachygenelinae, which includes Pachygenelus, Diarthrognathus, and Tritheledon. Irajatherium is basal to both subfamilies as a stem Tritheledontidae. Riograndia represents the most basal non-tritheledontid ictidosaurian. The resulting tree topology agrees with the age of the fossil record of each ictidosaurian species. Although our analysis does not test the relationship of ictidosaurians with regard to Mammaliaformes, it is clear from our tree that ictidosaurians are closely related to them. Several derived characters seem to have been acquired convergently in both lineages and relate to food processing, development of primary chewing musculature and ancillary structures. In other aspects, ictidosaurians remained very conservative, or reverted to ancestral morphologies, such as the presence of interpterygoidal-vacuities. Analysis of the vacuities indicates that they represent an ancestral condition that facilitated the development of the mammalian skull base constituted by the reduced pterygoids, the basisphenoid, and posteriorly the development of the presphenoid by the ventral extension of the braincase. Possibly, the main factors in the remodeling of this area are the development of the sphenoid sinus and the forward and ventral expansion of the cranial cavity. The re-acquisition of interpterygoid vacuities among ictidosaurians could be the result of a paedomorphic (neotenic or progenetic) alteration of the developmental pattern.
20061978|A newly-discovered skeleton of Terminonaris (=Teleorhinus) robusta (=robustus) from the early Turonian marine deposits of east-central Saskatchewan affords the opportunity for a detailed description of the anatomy of this species and its placement in the context of other known species of this genus. The specific diagnosis of T. robusta and the generic diagnosis of Terminonaris are established. Terminonaris robusta differs from the type species T. browni mainly in size-related features. Teleorhinus mesabiensis Erickson, 1969 is placed into the synonymy of Terminonaris robusta. The genus can be diagnosed by features of the anterior end of the snout, sutural relationships of the bones surrounding the orbit, and the structure of the occiput. A phylogenetic analysis based upon data drawn from the new material suggests that Terminonaris is not a pholidosaurid but is, instead, closely related to Dyrosaurus. This analysis continues to support the hypothesis that long-snouted crocodyliforms of the traditional "mesosuchian grade" form a clade.
4522922|A partial dentition of Polyrhizodus is described from the Namurian A Bear Gulch Limestone Member, Heath Formation, Big Snowy Group of central Montana. The dentition is interpreted as containing five tooth families in each jaw ramus, with at least three teeth in each family. The dentition is homodont, with teeth decreasing in length as well as numbers of roots in proximal-distal progression. The teeth conform to those of Polyrhizodus digitatus Leidy, 1857, as well as several other nominal species. The teeth consist of a thin, double-layered enameloid interdigitating with the underlying osteodentine. Peripheral vascular canals radiate towards the outer surfaces of tooth apexes. Orthodentine is absent. The teeth of Petalodus ohioensis are more derived in that the enameloid is greatly thickened apically and principal vascular canals are limited to vertical rows normal to the cutting edge of the apex.
4523345|The Lufeng hominoid locality, China, yields two murid taxa, Progonomys yunnanensis, sp. nov., and Yunomys wui, gen. et sp. nov. P. yunnanensis is more advanced than P. debruijni from the Dhok Pathan Formation of Pakistan and slightly more advanced than P. cathalai from the Vallesian of Europe. It suggests a middle Baodean age (=middle Turolian, MN 12 equivalent) and a somewhat younger age than 8 Ma for the Lufeng fauna. Yunomys wui is closely related to the Karnimata-Parapelomys complex of Neogene south Asian murids. Both murids have affinities with subtropical elements ranging from the Mediterranean region through East Africa and across southern Asia.
40864397|Two late middle Miocene to early late Miocene (12-11 Ma) soricid populations from Spain and Germany are re-described and assigned to Crusafontina and Darocasorex, gen. et sp. nov., primitive genera within the Anourosoricini. The relatively advanced morphology of these oldest Anourosoricini genera known suggest a much earlier date for the origin of the tribe. Molecular phylogenetics support an early origin (~ 15 Ma), but ages up to ~18 Ma are possible after re-evaluating the calibration points that use early-middle Miocene occurrences of Soricinae and their potential ancestors. Both molecular phylogenetics and paleontology consistently point to Anourosoricini being the sister clade of the combined Nectogalini and Notiosoricini. Synapomorphies in morphology relate to the condylar structure, the morphology of the lower premolar (p4) and reduction of the upper antemolars. The phylogenetic roots of the Anourosoricini within the Soricinae will remain elusive until more early-middle Miocene rests are found. The paucity of fossils is probably related to the lack of terrestrial sedimentary rocks at northern latitudes, where primitive Anourosoricini and their soricine ancestors might have been residing during the early-middle Miocene thermal optimum.
4524155|A fragmentary maxillar of a small anthracotheriid has been discovered in the middle Eocene locality of Kyawdaw in the Pondaung Formation (Myanmar). This specimen represents a primitive new species (Siamotherium pondaungensis, sp. nov.), possibly ancestral to Siamotherium krabiense from the late Eocene of Krabi (Thailand). The occurrence of S. pondaungensis in Myanmar suggests that Krabi is younger than the localities of the Pondaung Formation, and it further supports the role that southern Asia played in the origin and evolution of several groups of mammals.
42568548|Latest Cretaceous (Lancian) mammalian faunas of the Western Interior of North America are mostly known from the northern Great Plains and coastal lowland paleoenvironments. Here, we describe a sample of 143 multituberculate mammal teeth from the Lance Formation of southwestern Wyoming. The specimens, which are from two independent collections made in the 1970s by the University of California Museum of Paleontology and the University of Wyoming Geological Museum, are part of the best-sampled local fauna from the central part of the Western Interior. Deposits of the Lance Formation in this region are on the eastern flank of the Rock Springs Uplift near Black Butte Station. The Black Butte Station local fauna was farther west and possibly paleoenvironmentally distinct from most other Lancian local faunas known. The fossil assemblage preserves eight genera and 11 species of multituberculates. There are many common Lancian taxa, a high relative abundance of Cimexomys, the second published occurrences of Parikimys and Paressonodon, and a new species of Cimolodon. Cluster and ordination analyses of multituberculate abundance data from well-sampled Western Interior local faunas show that the Black Butte Station local fauna is distinct from all other local faunas and that variation among mammalian local faunas in composition is correlated with latitude, though paleoenvironmental, temporal, and taphonomic differences may also be factors. Results highlight that explorations in undersampled regions and paleoenvironments are critical to a more complete understanding of the Cretaceous-Paleogene transition.
23361075|The Lark Quarry dinosaur tracksite has previously been recognized as recording the stampede of a mixed herd of dozens of small theropod and ornithopod dinosaurs. A reexamination of trackway material reveals that the small theropod-type tracks, previously assigned to the ichnotaxon Skartopus, can co-occur within individual trackways of the ornithopod-type tracks assigned to Wintonopus. Moreover, in singular deep tracks where the overall surface outline resembles Skartopus, the base of the track can also resemble Wintonopus. Whereas the Wintonopus holotype may reflect the pedal anatomy of a shorttoed or subunguligrade ornithopod trackmaker, the elongate 'toe' impressions typically associated with Skartopus (including the holotype) primarily provide information on digit movement through the sediment and, in many instances, may represent swim traces. The morphological differences between the two ichnotaxa are therefore not taxonomically significant and we formally propose that Skartopus australis should be considered a junior synonym of Wintonopus latomorum. Longitudinal depth profiles through tracks indicate that many are swim traces. The sedimentology and lithology of Lark Quarry further indicates the site represents a time-averaged assemblage formed in a fluvial-dominated floodplain under variable subaqueous conditions, with the parallel orientation of the numerous trackways formed by trackmakers under the influence of downstream current flow. This indicates that the fluvial environment may have been a preferred route for hydrophilic bipedal dinosaurs. We thus do not consider the Lark Quarry dinosaur tracksite to represent a 'stampede.' Instead, the tracksite may represent part of a riverine setting, where the water was shallow, in which small dinosaurs swam and/or waded.
4524668|In the early 1990s a theropod dinosaur found close to the Triassic- Jurassic boundary of France was assigned to a second species of the genus Liliensternus: L. airelensis (Moon Airel Formation). This contribution reveals that common features that purportedly unite "L." airelensis with L. lilienstemi are more widely distributed among coelophysoids and basal dinosaurs than it was thought. A cladistic analysis reveals that "L." airelensis is more closely related to the Coelophysidae than to L. lilienstemi. A feature that supports this systematic arrangement includes a supraacetabular crest forming a well-developed ridge continuous with the lateral margin of the brevis fossa, with nondistinct notch between both structures. The new genus Lophostropheus, gen. nov., is therefore erected to include the species L. airelensis. Thus, the new combination Lophostropheus airelensis is proposed.
4524073|A new small to medium-sized hippopotamus, Hexaprotodon lothagamensis is described from the late Miocene of northern Kenya. The material was recovered from Lothagam, a site southwest of Lake Turkana. This narrow-muzzled hippopotamus differs from other Hexaprotodon species in terms of its small size and shallow symphysis. The six incisors are arranged in a straight line across the front of the jaw and the lower canines are almost aligned with the cheek tooth row. H. lothagamensis compares more closely to an Arabian species, Hexaprotodon aff. H. sahabiensis from the late Miocene, than to any other African Hexaprotodon. The phylogeny of the Hippopotamidae is discussed and although the genera names are maintained, the genus Hexaprotodon is paraphyletic. Hexaprotodon lothagamensis appears to be less derived than the extant pygmy hippopotamus, H. (Choeropsis) liberiensis, which was previously considered to be a living fossil.
4522847|On the basis of characters of the tarsometatarsus, Ibis pagana Milne-Edwards from the early Miocene of France is assigned to the living genus Plegadis. Plegadis gracilis A. H. Miller and Bowman, 1956, from the late Pliocene of North America, is a junior homonym of Milnea (=Plegadis) gracilis Lydekker, 1891, and the new name Plegadis pharangites is proposed as a substitute. Plegadis paganus and P. pharangites constitute the only valid Tertiary paleospecies of Threskiornithidae. All other extinct taxa that have been referred to this family are here considered to be Aves incertae sedis except for Theristicus wetmorei Campbell and Eudocimus peruvianus Campbell, from the late Pleistocene of Peru, and the flightless Quaternary taxa Apteribis glenos Olson and Wetmore of Hawaii and Xenicibis xympithecus Olson and Steadman of Jamaica.
4523976|The relationships among basal perissodactyls and among those taxa historically included in "Hyracotherium" are complicated. These taxa are morphologically similar, possessing few of the character states that diagnose the crown groups. To understand better these relationships, cladistic techniques were used to generate a matrix of 41 taxa and 125 characters including five non-perissodactyl outgroup taxa, representative basal tapiroids, brontotheres, chalicotheres, palaeotheres, and equids. A maximum parsimony analysis of this matrix using PAUP 3.0s generated two most parsimonious trees (length 627, CI 0.32). This analysis supports a monophyletic perissodactyl clade composed of the Tapiromorpha and the Hippomorpha. The tapiromorph clade consists of a number of basal "tapiroids", a paraphyletic "isectolophid" group, the ceratomorphs (tapirs and rhinoceroses and extinct relatives), and the ancylopods (chalicotheres and relatives). The basal tapiromorphs are distributed holarctically, indicating divergence and dispersal by the latest Paleocene. The hippomorph clade is composed of two distinct clades, the European palaeothere clade and the equids. The brontotheres are tentatively derived from within the palaeothere clade. Hallensia is identified as the most basal palaeothere, sister taxon to Hyracotherium leporinum and all more derived palaeotheres. The equid clade is composed of a stratigraphically consistent sequence of paraphyletic equid taxa, and a clade composed of "Hyracotherium" craspedotum and Xenicohippus. The majority of the pectinately arranged equid taxa in the analysis lack autapomorphies, which suggests that these taxa may represent lineage segments from a single anagenetically evolving lineage. The results also suggest that "Hyracotherium" is not representative of the basal morphology of the perissodactyls, and no currently identified fossil provides a good candidate for that morphology.
41515275|We describe a new semionotiform genus, which was recognized while studying Macrosemimimus fegerti, gen. et sp. nov., from the Late Jurassic Solnhofen Archipelago, Germany. Macrosemimimus (Lepidotes) lennieri from the early Kimmeridgian of Cap de la Hve, France, including Lepidotes toombsi from the Lower Kimmeridge Clay in Cambridgeshire, England, as a junior synonym, also belong to the new genus. Though different species, the presence of the same fish genus in different biodiversity zones suggests that semionotiforms might have been less sensible to the ecological and physical factors that caused the endemisms recognized in the invertebrate faunas. Macrosemimimus is mainly distinguished by the peculiar shape of the antorbital portion of the frontal bones, a single pair of extrascapular bones that do not reach the dorsal midline, anteriorly open circumborbital ring, only two suborbital bones, edentulous maxilla, a large quadratojugal involved in the jaw articulation, four postcleithra, and the pectoral fins placed very low and joining ventrally. The two included species differ in the ornamentation of the skull bones, the morphology of the scales, the relative size and position of the extrascapular bones, the dorsal extension of the preoperculum, and the kind of dentition. Although the phylogenetic relationships of Macrosemimimus are not yet established, the particular shape of the antorbital portion of the frontals and the patterns of the extrascapular and suborbital bones indicate possible systematic affinity with the macrosemiids, "Lepidotes" gloriae from the Oxfordian of Cuba, and "Lepidotes" microrhis and "Lepidotes" tanyrhis from the Barremian of Las Hoyas, Spain.
40864353|Much of Mesozoic diversity within the lungfishes (Osteichthyes: Dipnoi) has traditionally been relegated to the genus Ceratodus, primarily on the basis of the highly stereotypical dental plates characteristic of post-Devonian lungfishes. The new genus Potamoceratodus contains the single species P. guentheri (Marsh, 1878), comb. nov. Newly discovered material allows clarification of the features of this species, including description of a complete skull roof and partial palate. The new genus can be differentiated from the European Ceratodus on the basis of characters of the skull roof, palate, and dentition, including lack of tubercular ornamentation of the skull roof, modest convexity of the dorsal skull roof, absence of sensory sulci anteriorly in the EF bone, and an enlarged and elongate anterior odontode series on the pterygoid dental plate. The North American Ceratodus record is reexamined in light of more complete material from the Temple Canyon localities of the Morrison Formation of Colorado, USA. Ceratodus is found to be an assemblage of forms with disparate cranial morphology. The succession of North American lungfish communities in the late Paleozoic and Mesozoic is most characteristic of serial replacement rather than in situ evolution, and it is possible that the isolation of North America subsequent to the breakup of Laurentia contributed to the regional extinction of lungfishes in North America.
4523652| A large assemblage of vertebrate fossils from the La Boca Formation in Huizachal Canyon, near Ciudad Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mexico, is preserved in a unique setting: debris-flow sediments deposited over a landscape with at least modest topographic relief. Angular feldspar lathes in the rock suggest that deposition was associated with penecontemporaneous volcanism. The ~8,000-specimen collection from Huizachal Canyon includes the tritylodontid Bocatherium mexicanum, the burrowing diapsid Tamaulipasaurus morenoi, three types of mammals, two crocodyliforms, two types of dinosaurs, a pterosaur, and three sphenodontians. The fossils generally occur as small (~5 mm), isolated bones or bone fragments, but 35 articulated or associated specimens have been found. No turtles or fishes have been identified, implying a terrestrial source for this assemblage. Biostratigraphic and preliminary radiometric evidence suggest an early Middle Jurassic age, making this assemblage the only substantial terrestrial Middle Jurassic vertebrate fauna known from North America. \\\ Una coleccin grande de vertebrados fsiles recuperados en la Formacin La Boca, expuesta en el Cafn del Huizachal, en las inmediaciones de Ciudad Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mxico, se encuentra conservada en un ambiente singular, constituido por sedimentos de flujo de escombro depositados sobre una paleotopografa de relieve modesto. Fragmentos angulares de feldespato en la roca, sugieren que el deposito estuvo asociado a vulcanismo penecontemporando. Los ~8,000 especimenes colectados en el Cafn del Huizachal incluyen el tritilodntido Bocatherium mexicanum, el dipsido cavador Tamaulipasaurus morenoi, tres tipos de mamferos, dos formas de cocodrilos, un pterosaurio y tres clases de esfenodontes. Los fsiles son generalemente huesos fragmentados o aislados de talla pequea (~ 5 mm), sin embargo, se ha encontrado 35 especmenes articulados o asociados. No han sido identificados tortugas o peces, lo que sugiere que la fuente de deposito es terrestre. Las evidencias bioestratigrficas y la radiometra preliminar sugieren una edad jursica media temprana, con lo que esta fauna de vertebrados continentales constituye la inica asociacin bien establecida para el Jurisico Medio de Amrica del Norte. 
4524218|A new skull of Lesothosaurus has been found in the Upper Elliot Formation (Hettangian) of Masitise (Lesotho). It is nearly complete and provides new information, especially of the occipital region (horizontal paroccipital processes). The skull is not from a fully-grown individual. A specific determination is impossible and it is suggested that it should be referred to as Lesothosaurus sp. indet.
4524249|I report here on the discovery of the most complete megalosaurid skull known to date, from the Calcaire de Caen Formation of northwesten France. The specimen, which represents a new species is questionably referred to Poekilopleuron. It includes a nearly complete, unornamented skull, characterized by its low lateral profile. In addition to its historical significance, it provides additional characters that are crucial for reconstructing the phylogeny and biogeography of basal theropods. Poekilopleuron} valesdunensis new species is closely related to Eustreptospondylus and Afrovenator, and is united with Torvosaurus in the family of Megalosauridae. The Megalosauridae appear less derived than the Allosauroidea but resemble the Spinosauridae, with which they form the sister-group to the Neotetanurae. The proposed phylogenetic analysis hypothesizes two previously unrecognized major radiations of carnivorous dinosaurs.
4524034|Newly discovered fossils described herein from Utah, USA, help fill a sizeable gap in the Cretaceous record of the Albanerpetontidae and provide information on the evolution of the family during the latest Early-middle Late Cretaceous. The geologically oldest record of sympatry among albanerpetontids is in the Mussentuchit Member (latest Albian-earliest Cenomanian in age), Cedar Mountain Formation, where two indeterminate species are recognized based on jaws. The first species primitively resembles geologically older albanerpetontids in the structure of the premaxilla and documents the last appearance of this more primitive premaxillary pattern. The second species closely resembles the North American Campanian-Maastrichtian species Albanerpeton nexuosus in derived premaxillary features, and is the earliest record both of a subgeneric clade that includes all congeners, except A. arthridion, and of a less inclusive clade of Euramerican Upper Cretaceous-Miocene species having premaxillary synapomorphies that reinforced the snout. Albanerpeton cifellii, sp. nov. is named on a premaxilla having an inferred unique pattern of contact with the nasal. This new species is known only from the Smoky Hollow Member (late Turonian in age), Straight Cliffs Formation, and is the oldest member of a subgeneric clade of North American Upper Cretaceous species having a triangular or slit-shaped suprapalatal pit in the premaxilla. Indeterminate albanerpetontid bones are also reported from the above two units and the basal (early or middle Coniacian in age) John Henry Member, Straight Cliffs Formation.
4524280|The skeletal material of Wonambi naracoortensis has been re-examined, and used to test its phylogenetic relationships. The skeletal description, and the resulting data matrix, concentrates on characters that can be assessed by observation (on the associated material of Wonambi kept at the South Australian Museum). Macrostomatan affinities of Wonambi prove to be well supported. The taxon nests within Macrostomata, above Xenopeltis and Loxocemus.
20491068|Recent field work in the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming has recovered significant new material of the plesiosaur Tatenectes laramiensis. The majority of cryptocleidoid plesiosaurs have been recovered from Middle and Upper Jurassic units (Oxford and Kimmeridge Clays, respectively) in the United Kingdom, but Tatenectes laramiensis is one of at least two cryptocleidoids known from the Upper Sundance Member of the Sundance Formation (Oxfordian) of North America. Although poorly known, they bear directly on both the phylogeny and biogeography of the cryptocleidoid plesiosaurs. Here we describe new fossil material of Tatenectes, and reevaluate the phylogenetic position of this genus based on all known material. New material includes a partial skeleton comprising cranial elements, axial column, and a partial pectoral girdle, as well as an isolated humerus and vertebrae. The pectoral girdle closely resembles that of Muraenosaurus beloclis from the Oxford Clay, but is even shorter anteriorly. The cervical vertebrae are more compressed anteroposteriorly than in other Jurassic cryptocleidoids. The humerus is less derived, resembling that of Tricleidus seeleyi. Two most parsimonious trees were obtained, and the consensus tree solidifies the phylogenetic position of Tatenectes as being most closely related to the Oxford Clay taxon Kimmerosaurus.
40666187|Polazzodus coronatus, gen. et sp. nov., is a pycnodontiform fish from two proximate Late Cretaceous fossil sites near Polazzo, in northeastern Italy, where it is relatively abundant. Its autapomorphic characters are the presence of a distinctively shaped second dorsal ridge scale with an anterior projection; the presence of an olfactory fenestra on the premaxilla; an axe blade-like morphology of the maxilla; and the presence of a conspicuous posterodorsal process on the cleithrum. Polazzodus coronatus, gen. et sp. nov., is closely related to the pycnodontids Oropycnodus, Pycnodus, and probably "Coelodus" gridelli and Tergestinia. Although their phylogenetic interrelationships will be tested when the last two forms are revised, Polazzodus coronatus is assigned to the subfamily Pycnodontinae within the Family Pycnodontidae, because it possesses the autapomorphies of both latter groups; for instance, the presence of an exposed part of the endocranium, without overlying dermal bones, which is an autapomorphy of the Pycnodontinae. The shape and large size of the supraoccipital bone in Polazzodus, together with the arrangement of the other occipital bones, indicates that this exposed portion of the endocranium is most likely formed by the endochondral supraoccipital bone.
25835855|Sexual dimorphism, the condition whereby males and females differ from one another physically, is one of the most fundamental aspects of the biology of any animal. However, sexually dimorphic characters can be subtle and are mainly related to soft tissue anatomy. They are, therefore, difficult to identify reliably in the fossil record particularly when dealing with small sample sizes and osteology alone. The first geometric morphometric analysis of dimorphism in a thyreophoran (armored) dinosaur shows that the femora of the stegosaurian dinosaur Kentrosaurus aethiopicus (Upper Jurassic, Tanzania) bear a statistically significant shape difference of the proximal end, which is independent of size and is therefore proposed to be a sexual difference. Although the disarticulated nature of the material means that intraspecific variation in other skeletal elements, such as the enigmatic dermal armor, cannot be identified as sexual dimorphism at this time, this study provides a methodology for further work on articulated stegosaurian specimens and has the potential to reveal additional information regarding the palaeobiology and population dynamics of this poorly understood clade.
4524047|The morphology of the cervical vertebrae and skull structures associated with the neck musculature was studied in the felid sabertooth Homotherium latidens from the Spanish early Pleistocene site of Incarcal. Cervical anatomy of Homotherium was compared to that of modern pantherine cats, Smilodon, and other sabertoothed carnivores, and the relationship between neck function and killing behavior was investigated. Homotherium latidens possesses the structures associated with the canine shear-bite, as described in Smilodon. Our study of muscle insertion areas in the cervical vertebrae of Homotherium does not support previous statements about unusually strong scalenes and their role in stabbing. Instead, we see evidence of increased muscular control of various movements of the neck, including lateral flexion, depression and extension. These features, and the greater relative length of the neck in Homotherium and other machairodonts, are interpreted as adaptations for delivering a canine shear-bite in precise areas of the body of relatively large prey.
40666185|We report two nearly complete, articulated skeletons of the crurotarsan archosaur Typothorax coccinarum from the Upper Triassic Bull Canyon Formation of east-central New Mexico. These are the most complete, articulated aetosaurs from North America and provide a wealth of new anatomical and paleobiological data, including articulated presacral armor that confirms the distinctiveness of T. coccinarum from the closely related t antiquum and from Redondasuchus. Cervical vertebrae are small, but the corresponding reduction in armor is accomplished by a reduced number of cervical osteoderms. The third row of osteoderms includes a thin, elongate, lateral spike. The ventral armor consists of 10 thoracic columns and four caudal columns of osteoderms. Spiked osteoderms near the cloacal vent are the first spikes reported in aetosaurian ventral osteoderms. The forelimb of T. coccinarum was very short, only ~ 0.65 the length of the hind limb, possesses some adaptations found in digging taxa, and was held in a sprawling or ' semi-erect' position. In contrast the hind limb is much more robust, ' pillar erect,' and functionally mesotarsal. The articulated pes, including unguals, has, minimally, the phalangeal formula 2-3-3?-4?-3? with relative digit lengths III > II > IV > I > V, digits I-IV equally as wide as long and other characteristics of the footprint ichnogenus Brachychirotherium, often attributed to an aetosaurian trackmaker. Both specimens are ~ 2.5 m long and the preserved armor and limb bones are as large or larger than known Typothorax fossils, suggesting that this approximates the upper size limit of T. coccinarum, and we calculate body mass estimates of ~ 100-104 kg for both specimens.
4524759| An exceptionally well-preserved skull and associated dentary from the Chiquimil locality in the Andalhuala Formation (Huayquerian Age, late Miocene), Santa Mara Basin, Catamarca Province, northwestern Argentina, represent a new giant porcupine, Neosteiromys pattoni, sp. nov. N. pattoni is derived relative to Neosteiromys bombifrons Rovereto, 1914, the type species of the genus, by having pentalophodont m2-m3, a markedly infected angular region, more prominent masseteric crest, deeper masseteric fossa, and larger auditory bullae. Both species of Neosteiromys appear to have been adapted to eat harder, more abrasive food items than those consumed by extant porcupines, as inferred from their stronger masticatory apparatus. They may have inhabited more open environments than those of living Neotropical porcupines. 
30126320|Gondwanatherians are a distinctive Cretaceous radiation of Gondwanan mammals. Fieldwork in the intertrappean beds of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, India has yielded a substantial collection of Maastrichtian mammals, including nine isolated teeth that represent at least two sudamericid gondwanatherians. We name a new taxon, Dakshina jederi, to which we refer six of the specimens and a previously unnamed form (VPL/JU/NKIM/25). The remaining specimens are identified as Gondwanatheria indeterminate. India's Late Cretaceous mammal fauna includes eutherians, a haramiyidan, and sudamericids. Whereas the eutherians likely represent a dispersal event from Laurasia and the haramiyidan represents a relictual distribution on Gondwana, the gondwanatherians are members of an endemic Gondwanan radiation. The sudamericid Dakshina possesses several derived features that suggest phylogenetic affinities with Lavanify from the Maastrichtian of Madagascar and to a lesser extent with Sudamerica from the Paleocene of Argentina. This pattern of phylogenetic relationships agrees with paleogeographic reconstructions for the breakup of Gondwana that hypothesize close biogeographic ties among India, Madagascar, and South America; however, gaps in our temporal and geographic sampling limit our understanding of biogeographic ties that India shares with Africa, Antarctica, and Australia.
4524224|The Mesozoic lizard fauna of Gondwana is virtually unknown. We report here on a lizard assemblage from the Upper Member of the Kota Formation of peninsular India, usually considered to be of Early-Middle Jurassic age. The dominant form, Bharatagama rebbanensis, gen. et sp. nov., has a predominantly acrodont dentition. Comparison with living and extinct taxa suggests that this new genus is a primitive acrodont iguanian distinct from the Cretaceous priscagamids. It predates known records of iguanian lizards by some 80 Ma, and provides evidence that iguanians had begun to diversify before the break-up of Pangea. A second fully pleurodont taxon is known from the same deposit. It is tentatively attributed to the Squamata but is too fragmentary for further determination.
4523985|Middle Devonian dipnoan tooth-plates have been known for an hundred and sixty years. However, although gross morphology has been described, there are still several difficulties with these descriptions. The best known Middle Devonian species is Dipterus valenciennesi from Scotland. Most of the specimens of this species are preserved in a dark sediment and all the bone and dentine are stained, making it difficult to outline the microstructure clearly. In this paper we illustrate external surfaces and histology from Middle Devonian tooth plates from the basal Givetian of Estonia. These specimens are preserved as tissue which is not stained by sediment, and has yielded microstructures clearly visible by scanning electron microscopy. The specimens are not associated with hard parts of the external skeleton, and so generic identification cannot be certain. Their value is that they illustrate for the first time details that have been unavailable on previously known Middle Devonian specimens. The role of these plates for the interpretation of Devonian dipnoan tooth-plates is outlined.
4522895|The systematics of the Neogene Siwalik hipparion horses is based on a review of the classic material from numerous institutions as well as a new biostratigraphically controlled collection recently made by the Yale-Geological Survey of Pakistan expeditions in the Potwar Plateau region of northern Pakistan. A two-fold taxonomic scheme is presented here. The first, whh is based on cranial morphology and associated dentions, indicates that five hipparion species are represented in the Middle Siwalik Group, i.e. Hipparion antelopinum, "Hipparion" feddeni, Cormohipparion theobaldi Cormohipparion cf. nagriensis and "Hipparion" sp. The second scheme, which is based principally on dental measurements, is similar to Hussain's (1971) conclusion that three discrete dental morphologies are represented in the Siwaliks. We prefer to treat these here as Dental Morphs 1, 2, and 3 rather than as named species. Characters such as those displayed by dentitions and postcranial remains are here concluded to be less useful in discriminating valid species because of morphological similarities resulting from parallel evolution. However, both cranial morphology and isolated dentitions are biostratigraphically useful. Most of the Siwalik deposits that yield hipparions are of Turolian and later age; none appear to be Vallesian. As is also seen elsewhere in Holarctica, there is an increase in Siwalik hipparion diversity during the late Miocene and Pliocene. The co-occurence of hipparions and Equus in the Upper Siwaliks elsewhere in the Potwar Plateau is similar to the situation seen in other Old World Pleistocene faunas. In general, Siwalik hipparions are taxonomically derived although there are some phylogenetic similarities to common Turolian species from Europe as well as China.
25835836|Extant large members of the order Carnivora show high variability in feeding adaptation. Morphology of their teeth and skull is a primer to predict diet in both extant and extinct species. Here I present a complete geometric morphometric survey of mandible of large (>7 kg) Carnivora in order to make paleoecological predictions for selected Plio-Pleistocene taxa. Mandibular size and shape data support a strong differentiation between families but also convergence due to functional adaptations to hunting prey. Linear discriminant function analyses are performed in order to obtain dietary predictions on fossil taxa with statistical accuracy. There is a high level of discrimination among dietary categories, especially when subsets of predator and non-predator carnivores are analyzed separately. New insights emerge for Plio-Pleistocene fossil taxa whose paleoecology was previously inferred. Mandibular size and shape data are accurate dietary predictors in large carnivores, with size being more relevant to clarify adaptations in killing prey of different size classes.
24523203|A new, toothed ornithorhynchid monotreme from Two Trees Site in the Riversleigh World Heritage Area, northwestern Queensland, Australia, is described. This species is the largest known ornithorhynchid, fossil or extant, the fourth extinct platypus described, and the second species discovered at Riversleigh. It exhibits a unique molar morphology that significantly broadens understanding about disparity within this group of monotremes and challenges a previous presumption that fossil species of Obdurodon form an anagenetic lineage leading directly to the living dentally degenerate Platypus Ornithorhynchus anatinus. Apical cusp wear on its teeth suggests that it was crushing rather than cutting hard prey items. Its relatively derived features also adds to mounting evidence that the Two Trees deposit that contains several unique taxa may be younger than the surrounding middle Miocene fossil deposits, possibly late Miocene or even Pliocene in age, intervals of time previously unrepresented by ornithorhynchids.
30126330|Cretoxyrhina mantelli is a Late Cretaceous lamniform shark that possibly resembled the modern white shark (Carcharodon carcharias) in size, body form, and feeding strategies. Here, a previously identified set of growth increment (= periodic marker) bands in a vertebra from an individual of Cretoxyrhina mantelli (5 m in total length [TL]) is used as a model to quantitatively infer the ontogenetic development and life history strategies of the fossil shark. The results indicate that its length at birth was large, and that the early part of its life history was marked by a comparably rapid growth, which could have helped the neonatal C. mantelli to efficiently exploit prey items while deterring potential predators. The von Bertalanffy growth function (VBGF) experimentally fitted to the data gives the following estimated growth parameters: the length at birth (L) of 1.28 m TL, the asymptotic length (
4524566|The claim that the Carboniferous chondrichthyan genus Cladodus Agassiz, 1843, is a nomen vanum is critically examined. The teeth of C. mirabilis, the type species of the genus, are re-examined from Agassiz's syntypes and other material. It is concluded that C. mirabilis offers a suite of characters adequate for definition of the genus Cladodus. Comparison of the teeth of Cladodus with those of other Carboniferous shark genera confirms its status as a valid taxon. From this revision it is concluded that C. marginatus, C. vanhornei, C. bellifer, and C. elegans should all be included within Cladodus, while C striatus Agassiz is placed in the new genus Saivodus. Both Cladodus and Saivodus are considered to belong in the Ctenacanthiformes.
30117456|For more than 100 years, most pterosaur workers have accepted the traditional reconstruction of the pteroid, articulated in the fovea of the preaxial carpal and directed medially along the anterior margin of a small propatagium in order to control it. A few workers have rejected the traditional reconstruction and advocated an alternative reconstruction with the pteroid directed anteriorly and controlling a large propatagium extending laterally past the wrist. Articulated specimens of a wide range of pterosaurs preserve a sesamoid associated with the tendon of M. flexor carpi ulnaris in the fovea of the preaxial carpal. No specimen preserves the pteroid articulated in the fovea, and because the sesamoid articulated there, the pteroid could not. Therefore, both the traditional and alternative reconstructions, which are based on the assumption that the pteroid articulated in the fovea, are falsified. The preaxial carpal acted as a strut to increase the leverage of M. flexor carpi ulnaris for wrist extension. The pteroid articulated with the side of the carpal, was directed medially toward the shoulder, and could be extended and depressed to control the propatagium.
4523934| Two new species and genera of extinct muroid rodents are described from fossil material dating to the early Pleistocene of Argentina (Sanandresian Substage/Subage). They are both tetralophodont forms belonging to the tribe Phyllotini (Sigmodontinae) and are assigned to Ichthyurodon ameghinoi, gen. et sp. nov., and Olympicomys vossi, gen. et sp. nov. Phylogenetic analyses involving extant phyllotines, the two new species, and two other newly discovered extinct phyllotines result in a refined and expanded concept of the clade consisting of Loxodontomys and the Reithrodon generic group. The generic diversity of this clade is thus doubled from four to eight. Several of the fossil genera appear to represent transitional forms, although Ichthyurodon, gen. nov., possesses dental traits unique among the members of the subfamily Sigmodontinae. The significance of the new species and their faunal context for our understanding of the paleoecology of the southern cone of South America is discussed. /// Se describen dos nuevos gneros y especies de roedores muroideos extinguidos sobre la base de material fsil del Pleistoceno temprano (Subpiso/Subedad Sanandresense) de Argentina. Ambos son formas tetralofodontes pertenecientes a la tribu Phyllotini (Sigmodontinae), siendo asignados a Ichthyurodon ameghinoi, gen. et sp. nov. y Olympicomys vossi, gen. et sp. nov. Los anlisis filogenticos que incluyen filotinos vivientes, las dos nuevas especies aqu descriptas y otros dos filotinos extintos nuevatente descubiertos, dan por resultado una redefinicin y expansin del clado conformado por Loxodontomys y del grupo Reithrodon. De esta manera, la diversidad de este clado se ampla de cuatro a ocho gneros. Algunos de los gneros extintos parecen representar formas transicionales, aunque Ichthyurodon, gen. nov. posee rasgos dentarios inicos entre los Sigmodontinae. Adems, se discute la significacin de las dos nuevas especies y la fauna asociada en nuestra comprensin de la paleoecologa del cono sur sudamericano. 
4524199|Extant camelids (llamas and camels) are unique among wild mammals in their regular employment of a pacing gait. They also have a unique foot morphology, assumed to be an adaptation for this mode of locomotion: their feet are secondarily digitigrade, with the loss of hooves and the addition of a broad foot pad. We examined 22 measurements of the metapodials and phalanges of camelids and ruminants with bivariate and multivariate analyses, including 18 genera of extinct camelids from the Tertiary of North America. Extant camelids and ruminants were clearly distinguishable from each other. Most extinct camelids showed some morphological features typical of extant forms, five out of eighteen clustered with the extant camelids. Pacing may have evolved independently within the subfamilies Camelinae and Protolabinae. Additionally, evolutionary change towards a condition resembling that of extant camelids also occurred within the subfamilies Stenomylinae and Miolabinae. These parallel changes in camelid locomotor anatomy occurred in the late Oligocene or early Miocene, preceding the formation of widespread open grassland habitats in the late Miocene.
4524360|Migmacastor procumbodens, gen. et sp. nov. is described from the late Arikareean of Nebraska based on a nearly complete skull. The new taxon exhibits various incisal specializations (e.g., incisors elongated along longitudinal axis, procumbent upper incisors) that are associated with tooth-digging behavior in modern rodents. Migmacastor does not belong in the Palaeocastorinae, the previously recognized fossorial clade of beavers, nor in any other castorid subfamily. Phylogenetic analysis indicates it is more derived than Agnotocastorinae and is a sister taxon to a monophyletic clade of beavers composed of both fossorial and semiaquatic taxa (Castorinae + Palaeocastorinae + Castoroidinae). Migmacastor is united to the latter unnamed clade by five unambiguous characters: lack of P3; upper tooth rows that diverge posteriorly; P4 larger than molars; smooth enamel on cheek teeth; and longitudinally grooved palate. Preliminary phylogenetic and morphological evidence suggest that tooth-digging behavior arose at least twice in North American beavers.
20061985|A new genus and species of basal gliriform mammal, Sinomylus zhaii, is described from the late Paleocene Tujinshan Formation of southern China. The new species is based on a fragmentary rostrum bearing a possible alveolus for a right P1 (DP1) or C (DC), well-preserved left P3-M2, and broken incisors and other cheek teeth. There is one pair of upper incisors. The incisor enamel has one layer of radial enamel microstructures and lacks Hunter-Schreger bands. P2 is small and conical. Both P3 and P4 consist of two main cusps. The molars are unilaterally hypsodont and have the typical eurymylid tooth pattern. Collectively, these features place the new genus as the sister-taxon to the clade comprising eurymylids and rodents.
42568536|Relative to large-bodied dinosaurs, the diversity of small-bodied dinosaurs from the Campanian of North America is poorly understood due to a lack of well-preserved skeletons. We document the first articulated remains, as well as the first cranial bones, of non-iguanodontian ornithopods from the Belly River Group of Alberta. The geologically oldest specimen consists of the posterior half of an articulated skeleton from the middle unit of the Oldman Formation and shares many anatomical features with the contemporaneous Orodromeus makelai and the older Oryctodromeus cubicularis. A second, younger specimen from the upper Oldman Formation is distinct from other ornithopods in having a reduced distal portion of the fibula that is fused to the anterior surface of the tibia; it is designated as the type of a new taxon, Albertadromeus syntarsus, gen. et sp. nov. Numerous isolated elements from small ornithopods from the Dinosaur Park Formation are also identified, but cannot be assigned to the generic level with confidence. Although small-bodied ornithopod material is rare, their known postcranial material outnumbers those of taphonomically equivalent and contemporaneous pachycephalosaurs, which are known to be abundant and diverse due to their robust and frequently recovered cranial domes. These findings suggest considerable undiscovered diversity of small-bodied ornithopods, and highlight biases against the preservation of small taxa in this system.
4523876|New skull material of the Jurassic lizard Paramacellodus from the Morrison Formation of Dinosaur National Monument, Utah, permits a more comprehensive description of the anatomy of this lizard, previously known mainly from jaw and postcranial remains. The Morrison form cannot be satisfactorily distinguished from its British counterpart and the specimens are referred to Paramacellodus sp., cf. P. oweni. Cladistic analysis places Paramacellodus, and thus related genera attributed to the family Paramacellodidae Estes, 1983, as a sister taxon of Scincoidea (Cordyliformes + Scincidae), rather than of Cordyliformes alone.
4523419| The new genus and species Iowadipterus halli is described from the Middle Devonian of Iowa, U.S.A. Iowadipterus is a long-headed but not long-snouted dipnoan with many distinct features: cheek bones 8 and 9 enlarged, bone 8 bordering bones Y and Y so that only bones Y and Z lie dorsal to the operculum; cheek pit line passing from bone 8 directly to bone 9; elongation of B- and C-bones without differentiation of D- or E-bones; narrow submandibular combined with broad gulars; and scales with tubercles with a shallow depression on the overlapped part of scale. Iowadipterus and possibly Holodipterus are long-headed dipnoans with a short lower jaw, in contrast to long-headed forms with a long snout (Griphognathus, Soederberghia, Rhynchodipterus, and Fleurantia with elongated rami, and Rhinodipterus with an elongated symphysis). The broad cheek offers a wide space for the adductor muscles and indicates a powerful bite. 
30126361|Sex in non-avian archosaurs has been inferred using a variety of osteological attributes. However, little quantitative data have been presented showing that these phenotypes truly exist. In this study, testing for the presence of pelvic osteological correlates of sex in extant archosaurs was conducted, using skeletons of wild-caught A. mississippiensis as a neontological model. For outgroup comparison, the squamate Iguana iguana is included. A sample of 16 females and 19 males of A. mississippiensis, and 18 females and 10 males of I. iguana were examined. Measurements included pelvic canal area, dorsoventral depth, and mediolateral width of the pelvic canal, mediolateral width between the dorsal edge of each ilium, and ischium orientation. These data were analyzed using analyses of covariance, a t-test, and a recently developed geodesic distance shape analysis. Results indicate that there is sexual dimorphism in the proportions of the pelvic canal in A. mississippiensis, with females typically having deeper pelvic canals than males. This dimorphism might be synapomorphic for Archosauria. No dimorphism was found in I. iguana. The detection of dimorphism in A. mississipiensis required large sample sizes owing to substantial overlap between sexes. Thus, sexing isolated specimens using this metric is tenuous at best. Assuming similar variance in the relative pelvic depth versus width in other non-avian archosaurs, this criterion would also produce imprecise determinations of sex for these taxa.
4524064| A new species of the genus Araripesuchus from the Albian-Cenomanian locality of the El Chocn (Neuqun Province, Argentina) is described. The diagnosis of the genus is reviewed and its phylogenetic placement within Crocodylomorpha discussed. Araripesuchus is proposed here as being the sister taxon of Neosuchia, corroborating previous phylogenetic analysis. The new species, Araripesuchus patagonicus, differs from the type species, A. gomesii in the relationships of the prefronto-nasal and lachrymo-nasal sutures, the dermal placement of the postorbital bar on the medial side of the jugal, and the greater extension of the squamosals in the skull dorsum. The African species, "Araripesuchus" wegeneri, does not share the diagnostic traits of the genus, and its reassignment to a new genus needs to be considered. The phylogenetic context of Araripesuchus and "A." wegeneri permits a reanalysis of the role played by their amphiatlantic distribution in the Aptian-Albian. "Araripesuchus" wegeneri and the South American forms might share a pre-Aptian common ancestor, and have been already differentiated and isolated in the African and South American continents by the time of the Aptian-Albian. 
4523654|The Laramie Formation (Upper Cretaceous: Maastrichtian) contains multiple track-bearing horizons exhibiting a diverse assemblage of ceratopsid, ornithopod and theropod tracks and trackways. The ceratopsid tracks are the first attributable to this family and we describe them as a new ichnotaxon, Ceratopsipes goldenensis, ichnogen. et ichnosp. nov. These tracks indicate that models of forelimb posture of ceratopsids that postulated a sprawling stance are incorrect. The ceratopsid-dominated ichnofauna reflects the body fossil record of the Laramie Formation. Theropod tracks indicate a diverse fauna including an ichnite that possibly represents Tyrannosaurus. A partial trackway represents the first reported champsosaur ichnites herein named Champsosaurichnus parfeti ichnogen. et ichnosp. nov. The ichnofauna also includes hadrosaur tracks and is useful in reconstructing the animal communities that inhabited the area.
4524276|A new specimen of the ichthyosaur Qianichthyosaurus zhoui Li, 1999, from the Late Triassic of south-eastern China shares many characters with the poorly known genus Toretocnemus californicus Merriam, 1903, from the Carnian of California. Both species have a femur with a greatly expanded distal end, three primary and one accessory digits in front and hind limbs, and notching on both leading and trailing edges of the flippers. Qianichthyosaurus is referred to the Family Toretocnemidae Maisch and Matzke, 2000. The close relationship between these two taxa suggests a trans-Pacific distribution of ichthyosaur faunas in the Triassic.
4524227|Nanolestes drescherae, new genus and species, a stem-lineage representative of Zatheria, is represented by 48 isolated teeth, a dentary with p2 only, and an anterior dentary fragment with p3-p5 from the Kimmeridgian of the Guimarota coal mine, Portugal. Lower molars of N. drescherae have an enlarged, unicuspid talonid and a small additional cuspule on the cristid obliqua not referable to any of the standard talonid cusps. No trace of an incipient talonid basin is present. Tooth formula is I?/4, C?/l, P?/5, M?/5; all lower teeth except for incisors and m5 are double- rooted. The dentary has a well developed angular process, an internal groove extending beyond m3, and a mandibular foramen in an anterior position. Upper molars have a comparatively large stylocone; cusp "C" is present, stylar cusps are well developed, and additional cusps on the paracrista are present. The former attribution of these specimens to the peramurids cannot be corroborated. The "Porto Pinheiro Molar" from the latest Jurassic/earliest Cretaceous of Porto Pinheiro (or Dinheiro) is referred to Nanolestes as N. krusati, new species. There are no autapomorphies for Arguimuridae Dashzeveg, 1994. The teeth preserved in the holotype of Arguitherium cromptoni Daszheveg, 1994 are p3-p5 and not p4-ml as assumed in the original description. The teeth described as upper molars of the symmetrodont Thereuodon Sigogneau-Russell, 1989 are posterior upper deciduous premolars (DP73-5) of holotherians (probably zatherians).
4523631|The dinosaurian fauna of the Niobrara Chalk Formation constitutes the best known assemblage from the middle Santonian-early Campanian interval of the Late Cretaceous of North America. The fauna consists of both hadrosaurid ornithopods and nodosaurid ankylosaurs. The nodosaurid specimens from the Smoky Hill Chalk Member of the Niobrara Chalk Formation include the holotype of Hierosaurus sternbergii (here regarded as nomen dubium), material of "Hierosaurus" coleii (herein designated the type species of the new genus Niobrarasaurus) and two specimens that may belong to N. coleii, but are better interpreted as Nodosauridae incertae sedis. Claosaurus agilis, the sole hadrosaurid from the Niobrara Chalk Formation, constitutes a poorly known, but distinct species having a basal relationship among remaining hadrosaurids.
4523238|Pachycephalosaur endocranial casts display a distinctive suite of traits that include large divergent olfactory bulbs, large olfactory nerves, short thick olfactory tracts, a moderately expanded cerebrum not separated from optic lobes and cerebellum dorsally, steep cranial flexure, and reduced pontine flexure. The cerebrum, olfactory tract, and olfactory lobes are located in the broad interorbital space between widely set eyes. Endocast length displays negative allometry relative to frontoparietal length, both in ontogeny and between genera of different size within the group. Reduction of the pontine flexure is the result of ventral rotation of the occiput and is most likely associated with reorganization of the skull for head butting. The partial endocast of Yaverlandia does not display typical pachycephalosaur endocranial anatomy, making its membership in the group questionable.
25790794|A new, well-preserved specimen of Palaeobates polaris from the Smithian 'fish horizon' of Spitsbergen (Svalbard archipelago, Arctic Norway) is presented. The find is more complete than the type material of P. polaris and contains amongst others the left mandibular branch with associated dentition and labial cartilage as well as elements of the hyoid arch and a portion of the anterior dorsal fin. P. polaris shares with the other species of the genus Palaeobates the same tooth histology (orthodont teeth with pulp cavity), but the ornamentation of the teeth is different. Several studies have shown that it is problematic to deduce phylogenetic relationships among hybodontiform sharks by means of tooth histology. Moreover, orthodont teeth with a pulp cavity are probably plesiomorphic for hybodontiforms. Based on the new find of P. polaris, three other characters are proposed to be apomorphic for Palaeobates in general: (1) the lower margin of the dental groove of Meckel's cartilage runs nearer to the ventral than to the dorsal border of the mandible in P. polaris but medially to these margins of the lower jaw in the crown group hybodontoid Acrodus; (2) the number of tooth files and arrangement of the teeth of P. polaris are well-distinguishable from those of Acrodus and Asteracanthus; and (3) the dorsal fin spines of P. polaris, and also of P. angustissimus, tend to be more slender compared to those of Hybodus and Acrodus. Nonetheless, more material is needed to ascertain if these traits are useful to separate Palaeobates from other hybodontiforms.
4524733|A new species of Notochoerus, N clarki, sp. nov., has been identified from three Pliocene Formations in Ethiopia, the Omo Shungura, Konso, and Bouri (Middle Awash). This taxon, formerly known from isolated dentognathic elements and attributed to a long-lasting Notochoerus euilus, represents the fourth species of Notochoerus to be recognized. Its temporal distribution shows that Notochoerus euilus was not the long- lasting species formerly imagined. The new species' anatomical specializations, unusual spatial distribution, and apparent sympatry with its close relative Notochoerus scotti all imply narrow niche partitioning in eastern African suids during the Pliocene.
4524066|Sauroposeidon proteles, a new brachiosaurid sauropod, is represented by an articulated series of four mid-cervical vertebrae recovered from the Antlers Formation (Aptian-Albian) of southeastern Oklahoma. Most Early Cretaceous North American sauropod material has been referred to Pleurocoelus, a genus which is largely represented by juvenile material and is not well understood. Regardless of the status and affinities of Pleurocoelus, the new taxon is morphologically and proportionally distinct. Among well-known sauropod taxa, Sauroposeidon is most similar to Brachiosaurus; particularly noteworthy are the neural spines, which are set forward on the centra and are not bifurcate, and the extremely elongate cervical ribs. Sauroposeidon and Brachiosaurus also share a derived pattern of pneumatic vertebral ultrastructure and a mid-cervical transition point, at which neural spine morphology changes from very low (anteriorly) to very high (posteriorly). Autapomorphies of Sauroposeidon include posterior placement of the diapophyses, hypertrophied pneumatic fossae in the lateral faces of the neural spines and centra, and an extraordinary degree of vertebral elongation (e.g., C8 = 1.25 m; 25% longer than Brachiosaurus). Additional sauropod material from the Early Cretaceous Cloverly Formation may be referrable to the new Oklahoma sauropod, which appears to be the last of the giant North American sauropods and represents the culmination of brachiosaurid trends towards lengthening and lightening of the neck.
4524471|Ecocarpia ningmingensis, gen. et sp. nov., a fossil cyprinid fish from the mid-Tertiary of the Ningming Basin, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China, is similar to cultrins in having a slender body, terminal or slightly superterminal mouth, comparatively long anal fin base, and reduced bifurcation of the pelvic bone. The morphology of the pharyngeal teeth in the new taxon, however, is different from that of cultrins but very similar to that of the xenocyprinins: the first row of pharyngeal teeth is six or even seven in number, and all are laterally compressed, with a flat, smooth, lateral face and a long, narrow grinding surface that tapers slightly towards the apex. The only dental difference between Ecocarpia ningmingensis and xenocyprinins is the presence of a tiny and slightly recurved tip on some of the teeth in Ecocarpia, a condition that is similar to cultrins. Our phylogenetic study shows that Ecocarpia ningmingensis, cultrins and xenocyprinins form a monophyletic group, characterized by a single synapomorphy: reduction of the bifurcation of the pelvic bone. This grouping further supports the close relationship between cultrins and xenocyprinins.
4523688|Thirteen new specimens in the collection of the American Museum of Natural History allow redescription of the lower Cretaceous side-necked turtle, Araripemys barretoi Price 1973. Araripemys is one of the three oldest pleurodires known for which the skeletal morphology can be completely described. The genus is incorporated into a phylogenetic analysis of pelomedusid (sensu lato) turtles. Examination of 35 skeletal characters in six living and nine extinct taxa suggest that there are four distinct clades in the Pelomedusidae (sensu lato). These are the Araripemydidae (including Araripemys and an undescribed genus from the same locality), the Pelomedusidae (restricted to the living genera Pelusios and Pelomedusa), the Bothremydidae (including at least five extinct genera) and the Podocnemidae (including the living genera Podocnemis, Peltocephalus and Erymnochelys, and a series of extinct genera). The hyperfamily name Pelomedusoides is available and accommodates these four families.
4523224|A new psittacosaur species, Psittacosaurus meileyingensis, is based on a well preserved skull with referred cranial and postcranial remains. The skull is tall relative to its length and has a subcircular profile. Distinctive characteristics of the new species include a low horn on the quadratojugal and a prominent ventral flange on the dentary. The discovery of both Psittacosaurus meileyingensis and Psittacosaurus mongoliensis in the same formation strongly suggests their coexistence.
42568655|Noasauridae is a clade of ceratosaurian theropods that evolved small body size independently of other non-avian theropods. The best-preserved and most complete noasaurid is Masiakasaurus knopfleri from the Maastrichtian-aged Maevarano Formation in Madagascar. An abundance of skeletal material from several individuals spanning a wide range of ontogeny makes Masiakasaurus an ideal candidate for the analysis of growth. We histologically sampled a growth series of elements consisting of four femora and three tibiae. Bright-field and circularly polarized light microscopy were used to distinguish between slowly and rapidly growing forms of bone. To simultaneously estimate age at death and reconstruct growth trajectories, we measured the perimeters of growth lines in each specimen and fitted models to these data using a novel application of mixed-effects regression. Our histological results show an external fundamental system in the largest tibial specimen and confirm that Masiakasaurus grew determinately, matured at small body size, and is not the juvenile form of a larger-bodied theropod. Parallel-fibered bone is unusually prominent and suggests relatively slow growth. Moreover, our quantitative analysis shows that the average individual took about 8-10 years to get to the size of a large dog. Although Masiakasaurus grew 40% faster than crocodylians, it grew about 40% slower than comparably sized non-avian theropods. Slowed growth may have evolved as a means to minimize structural and maintenance costs while living in a semiarid and seasonally stressful environment. Dimorphism does not appear related to asymptotic size or growth rate but seems to reflect the degree of skeletal maturity.
4523058|The remains of an embolomerous amphibian, Carbonoherpeton carrolli, gen. et sp. n., were found in an upright Sigillaria stump from the Westphalian D of Florence, Nova Scotia. Carbonoherpeton is similar in most features of the skeleton to Palaeoherpeton, Proterogyrinus, Eogyrinus and Archeria. The configuration of the orbit and the more gracile femur indicate, however, that this material represents a distinct genus. Carbonoherpeton exhibits a mosaic of features previously thought to be distinctive of either eogyrinids or archeriids. Family assignment of this new genus awaits more detailed study of Archeria.
4523565|Late Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) eutherian mammals are documented from the intertrappean beds of Naskal, Rangareddi District, Andhra Pradesh, India, on the basis of isolated canines, premolars, molars, and mandibular fragments. Besides the previously recorded Deccanolestes hislopi, two additional forms, one with affinities to D. hislopi and a new species, D. robustus, are also described. These mammals are primitive in comparison to North American palaeoryctids in their lack of strong, winged conules and absence of lingual cingula on the upper molars; presence of cristid obliqua at the base of metaconid; and hypoconulid closer to hypoconid than to entoconid. Based on transversely wide upper molars with wide stylar shelf, large parastylar area, paracone and metacone which are high and connate at the base, anteriorly recumbent protocone, tall trigonids and small paraconid on the lower molars, these species are referred to Palaeoryctidae. Most of the similarities between the North American palaeoryctid Cimolestes and Deccanolestes are in symplesiomorphic characters. In a few derived characters, however, Deccanolestes compares well with C. magnus and Procerberus. Deccanolestes and Otlestes share some derived characters indicating a possible phylogenetic relationship. These finds extend the distribution of Laurasian palaeoryctid mammals into India and support faunal exchange between India and Laurasian landmasses in Late Cretaceous times, as was suggested previously by the occurrence of discoglossid and pelobatid frogs, crocodilians, ostracods, and charophytes in the intertrappean biota.
4524722|The discovery of a new genus and species of gavialoid at the Danian- Thanetian boundary, in the Oulad Abdoun Basin of Morocco, is consistent with an African origin of Gavialoidea. Argochampsa krebsi, n.g. n.sp., exhibits a particular shape of the anterior end of its premaxillae, transversely broad and strongly bent downwards, a shape found in distantly related taxa, such as pholidosaurids and Terminonaris. A phylogenetic analysis, suggests that A. krebsi is a primitive gavialoid, placed with Eogavialis africanum between 'thoracosaurs' (primitive Gavialoidea) and more derived taxa. This analysis supports the previous morphological analysis, which suggests a close relationship of Tomistominae with Crocodylinae, in contrast with the molecular analysis which give a closer relationships between Tomistoma and Gavialis. The marine nature of the layer where Argochampsa comes from is consistent with a marine origin for Argochampsa. This demonstrates the existence of marine adaptation in fossil species of primitive gavialoids, which may explain the dispersal of the fossil gavialoids to South America and Asia during and after the Oligocene.
4524309|A succession of five fossiliferous levels near Buia in the northern Danakil (Afar) Depression of Eritrea has produced an abundant early Pleistocene fauna including a ca. 1.0 Ma cranium of Homo. Elephas is well represented at many sites; with one exception the entire Buia Elephas sample represents a relatively derived member of the Elephas recki lineage. Univariate and multivariate analysis of dental characters demonstrates that the Buia sample is intermediate between E. recki ileretensis (Koobi Fora, Ileret) and E. r. recki (Beds 3 and 4 at Olduvai). The biologic reality of the separation of E. recki into five chronologically successive subspecies is questionable. Our analysis supports the hypothesis that E. r. ileretensis and E. r. recki form a single phyletic lineage.
4524707|A relatively complete skull of Hypsosteiromys with a well-preserved natural cranial endocast was recovered from the Colhuehuapi Member, Sarmiento Formation (lower Miocene) at Gran Barranca, Chubut Province, Argentina. The only known skull of this genus, it differs from those of other erethizontids because it is continuously very low, the ascending ramus of the premaxillae extends behind the posterior margins of the nasals, and the external auditory meatus has a ventral furrow. Comparison of the endocast with the brains of extant Erethizontidae demonstrates remarkable neuromorphological homogeneity, despite differences in size. Erethizontid brains have rounded, telence- phalic hemispheres with prominent frontal lobes and small olfactory bulbs, and lack temporal lobes and neocortical sulci. Thus, the Gran Barranca skull shows that the external neuromorphology of erethizontids has not changed substantially since at least the early Miocene.
20062013|An associated specimen of the large fossil lamnid shark Carcharodon angustidens from the Late Oligocene of New Zealand's South Island preserves approximately 165 teeth, and 32 vertebral centra, making it one of the most complete Tertiary lamnids recovered to date, and the most complete fossil shark known from New Zealand. The well-preserved dentition allows for a more thorough description and revised interpretation of the dental morphology of this relatively poorly known species, and the partial vertebral column permits the unequivocal relating of teeth and centra for this taxon. Based on dental and vertebral morphology, C. angustidens is here considered to be properly assigned to the genus Carcharodon, which also includes several other "great-toothed" Tertiary shark species and C. carcharias, the extant Great White Shark. According to this interpretation, Carcharodon has a record extending back to the early Tertiary; this is in sharp contrast to an opposing view, which holds that the genus evolved much more recently, at the Miocene-Pliocene boundary, and that C. angustidens and the other great-toothed forms should be placed in a separate genus ("Carcharocles").
41515056|A new locality sampling Oligocene marine deposits of the Tethys is located in Eastern Anatolia, Turkey. Among the vertebrate remains recovered from the site are two specimens representing previously undescribed fishes. Each specimen represents a different taxon, but only one is preserved well enough to describe. We here describe that fish as a new genus and species of elopiform, Echinelops ozcani. The Elopiformes are basal teleost fishes that first appear in the fossil record in the Jurassic. The living diversity of the order is much reduced, with few genera reported from the Cenozoic. Whereas many of the elopiforms are large fishes, the Anatolian specimen is fairly small. Although there is a report of an elopid in the Paratethys region during the Oligocene, the new genus and species of elopiform reported here is the first record of this order in the Tethys Sea during this time.
40666206|The uses of toxic substances in the animal kingdom are usually explained as adaptations to reach bigger preyvenom, or to defend from the attack of predators poison. This is a quite simplistic explanation of the reality, which offers other, less evident, uses for the possession of these compounds. In the present work, we analyze the characters of Beremendia Kormos, 1934, an extinct Eurasian genus of shrews, which was recently said to have been venomous. The envenomation apparatus of these shrews was correlated with its uncommonly large size, justifying a possible adaptation to hunt big prey. Examining its dental characters, we do reassess the venomous nature of the species included in this genus, but we deduce that the diet of Beremendia was highly specialized in coleopterans and gastropods instead of large animals. The use of venom in shrews feeding on non-struggling prey can be reliably explained as a mechanism to subdue the prey without killing them before the real time of consumption. The induction of victims into a comatose-state permits their hoarding for a longer time in a better state of preservation than if they were dead, thus diminishing the risk of starvation. Such strategy provides important benefits to their users under irregular conditions, because the effects of environmental unpredictability are consequently reduced. This interpretation of Beremendia is supported by the ethology of some extant shrews, and correlated at local scale with the geological context of Dmanisi, and at global scale with the Plio-Pleistocene climatic trends.
23361054|We describe a three-dimensionally prepared specimen of Baryphracta deponiae from the middle Eocene of Messel (Darmstadt, Germany). Based on a phylogenetic analysis that included the addition of 20 novel scorings for characters previously unavailable for this taxon and the recoding of four additional characters, we found B. deponiae to be nested within Diplocynodon. We propose the new combination Diplocynodon deponiae. The name Baryphracta is thus a junior synonym of Diplocynodon. The small species D. deponiae (1 m in total length) shares several features with other species of Diplocynodon, including the presence of two subequal alveoli in the maxilla and dentary, exclusion of the splenial from the symphysis, and the shape of the iliac blade. However, it also differs in a few characters, including the presence of molariform teeth and the extension of osteoderms along the limbs and tail. Such osteodermal cover, which developed very early in ontogeny, easily distinguishes even small-sized specimens of D. deponiae from the co-occurring Diplocynodon darwini. The crocodylian fauna of Messel shows an astonishing diversity including at least seven taxa, with two belonging to the same genus. The two congeners exhibit differences in dentition and size that likely allowed for niche partitioning that minimized competition, thereby allowing them to be syntopic.
4523718|A new species of Probelesodon, P. sanjuanensis, from the Late Triassic (middle Carnian) Ischigualasto Formation of Argentina is described Diagnostic characters include: six postcanine teeth, highly arched zygomatic arch, well developed squamosal-surangular articulation, very deep dentary with a strong posteroventral angle, and widely separated postorbitals. Probelesodon is also united as a monophyletic taxon. The presence of Probelesodon in the Ischigualasto Formation significantly extends the range of this genus from the Ladinian (Chafiares Formation) into the middle Carnian.
20627125|A Triceratops, NSM PV 20379, excavated from the Upper Cretaceous Hell Creek Formation, Bowman County, North Dakota, USA, confirms the articulation of the right forearm. Detailed study of the forelimb anatomy presented here indicates the manus is in a semi-supinated orientation. This reconstruction is based upon the following morphology: the row of the metacarpals was arranged in an 'L'-shape in proximal view, as is the distal articular surface of the forearm is in articulation; the second digit is directed parallel to the rotational plane of the elbow joint, reinforced by neighboring digits I and III, and these three inner digits are articulated with the broad articular surface of the radius. Arrangement and directions of robust inner digits seem to be suitably arranged for a powerful stroke exerted by the elbow joint extension. Cerapods, including ceratopsians and ornithopods, share following morphology of the manus: long and robust metacarpals II and III, ungual phalanges on digits I to III, reduced digits IV and V, and a divergent metacarpal V. A laterally oriented manus with reduced outer digits is present in the basal bipedal group of the Cerapoda. Although reversal to a quadrupedal stance and a evolution to a large, heavy body occurred independently in many lineages of Cerapoda, the basic features of the manus were retained throughout Neoceratopsia.
4524574|The Italian fossil baleen whale Aulocetus sammarinensis Capellini, 1901, represents a new genus, Titanocetus. The holotype skull of Titanocetus sammarinensis has a long ascending process of the maxilla, a wide and flat rostrum, a triangular interorbital region of the frontal, an anteriorly extended apex of the zygomatic process of the squamosal, and an anteriorly rounded, concave supraoccipital. Features primitive for mysticetes include strong bulging of the squamosal and parietal into the temporal fossa, a lambdoidal crest posterior to the occipital condyles, and a marked intertemporal constriction involving the parietals. Archaeocete-like features are the round anterior process of the supraoccipital and nasals that are transversely constricted anteriorly. These and other features suggest that Titanocetus sammarinensis represents an early-diverging baleen- bearing mysticete probably related to Cetotherium-like taxa.
4524786|We describe fragmentary new postcranial remains of a sauropod from "Continental Intercalaire" rocks of the Tilemsi Valley in northeastern Mali. Addition of this taxon to recently published cladistic analyses indicates that it is nested within Titanosauria and it is among the oldest members of this clade. "Continental Intercalaire" rocks have been poorly understood and, until now, few vertebrate fossils from these rocks have been tied to stratigraphic sections. We present a preliminary description of the dinosaurian locality and tie it to a synthetic stratigraphic section of the Tilemsi Valley. Preliminary analysis of the geology and sedimentology of the locality suggests that the bones fossilized in fluvial deposits of Early Cretaceous (pre-Cenomanian) age.
23361048|A relatively diverse record of European Early Cretaceous pan-cryptodiran turtles has been revealed from the analysis of new specimens and from a review of previously defined taxa. However, knowledge about many of these taxa remains relatively limited. We erect the new taxon, Larachelus morla, gen. et sp. nov., on the basis of a shell from the late Hauterivianearly Barremian of the Iberian Range (Spain). The comparative study of this taxon with the continental European Cretaceous pan-cryptodiran representatives and cladistic analyses reveal L. morla to be a member of the little-known European Early Cretaceous stem Cryptodira. Stem cryptodirans have been recognized from the Early Cretaceous of several continents. The study of L. morla not only confirms the presence of this group in the Early Cretaceous of Europe, it also provides new insights into the European evolution of Pan-Cryptodira. This finding reveals greater diversity in European Early Cretaceous continental pan-cryptodires, highlighting its HauterivianAptian record. This diversity is particularly relevant in the Iberian Range, where several clades of turtles whose coexistence has not been recognized in the Lower Cretaceous of any other region are identified: paracryptodiran members, stem cryptodiran turtles, and representatives of several lineages of the crown group Cryptodira. This very high diversity of continental taxa shows a wide range of morphological diversity that could be related to adaptation to different ecological niches.
4523837|The skeleton of the enigmatic theropod Dryptosaurus aquilunguis is redescribed in light of the many new theropods named since Cope's original description in 1866. Unfortunately, the fragmentary nature of the single known skeleton makes comparison with other theropods difficult. Historically, Dryptosaurus has been placed, at one time or another, in the theropod families Coeluridae, Deinodontidae, Megalosauridae, Tyrannosauridae, and its own family, Dryptosauridae. Most of these assignments have been based upon superficial resemblances to various members of those families. Reexamination of the specimen indicates the presence of unique serrations on the maxillary teeth, a large ungual/humeral ratio, the probable presence of a high, centrally located ascending process on the astragalus, and a non-arctometatarsal. These features indicate that Dryptosaurus is a unique theropod and should be placed in its own family, Dryptosauridae.
4522848|Palaeostruthus hatcheri (Shufeldt), from the late Miocene (late Clarendonian- early Hemphillian) Long Island local fauna, Kansas, is the oldest recorded species of Emberizidae. The holotype and only specimen of P. hatcheri is a complete rostrum which, upon re-examination, is seen to be extremely similar to that of Ammodramus savannarum, the living grasshopper sparrow. Therefore, the genus Palaeostruthus Wetmore is synonymized with Ammodramus Swainson. Aside from A. hatcheri, the only other supposed species of Palaeostruthus is P. eurius Brodkorb, which is known only from a distal end of tarsometatarsus and should be known as "Passeriformes, family and genus indet." until re-examined.
4523795|Watson and Romer's (1956) proposal that dinocephalians, dicynodonts, and venjukoviomorphs comprise a monophyletic Anomodontia has been supported by King (1988) on the basis of four hypothesized synapomorphies: 1) loss of the coronoid bone, 2) non-terminal nostrils with a long posterior spur of the premaxilla, 3) a grooved palatal surface of the vomer, and 4) reduction or loss of the internal trochanter of the femur. These characters, however, appear to be plesiomorphic for therapsids (long internarial process of the premaxilla, and a grooved palatal surface of the vomer), related to incisor size and/or the degree to which the premaxillary alveolar margin is elevated, and show no consistent phylogenetic pattern (position of the external nares), homoplasies (convergent reduction or loss of the internal trochanter of the femur), or not even characteristic of dinocephalians (loss of the coronoid bone). There is no evidence to support inclusion of dinocephalians in the Anomodontia.
4523591|Body-mass estimates have been made for 220 of the over 300 generally accepted dinosaur genera. The 1-10 ton body-mass category is the modal one for all dinosaur genera, dinosaurs on nearly every continent, dinosaurs during most stages of the Mesozoic, and dinosaurs in two of the three peak historical periods of dinosaur discoveries. Carnivorous dinosaurs were much smaller than herbivores during the Late Jurassic and again in the Late Cretaceous: at other times the two were roughly equivalent in mass. In terms of discovery of dinosaur genera over time, there has been a simultaneous increase in proportion of very small (under 10 kg) dinosaurs and a relative decline in giant dinosaurs (10-100 tons). This suggests that early researchers tended to collect giant dinosaurs.
4524774|The middle part of the Fairpoint Member of the Fox Hills Formation in Meade County, South Dakota consists of marine shoreface deposits and contains a chondrichthyan assemblage that includes both pelagic and bottomfeeding forms. The assemblage consists of genera (e.g., Rhombodus, Carcharias, Serratolamna, Ischyrhiza) widely known from Upper Cretaceous rocks of the Western Interior, and from other parts of North America, Europe, Africa, and Asia. This middle Fairpoint assemblage contains many of the same chondrichthyan genera reported by Cicimurri (1998) from the lignitic Stoneville lithofacies of the upper part of the Fairpoint Member. Fairpoint chondrichthyans are probably roughly equivalent in age to the chondrichthyans from the Timber Lake Member of the Fox Hills Formation in North Dakota, and are probably older than the chondrichthyan assemblage from the Breien Member of the Hell Creek Formation. The Breien, Timber Lake, and Fairpoint chondrichthyans are the youngest transitional marine chondrichthyan assemblages yet recovered from Cretaceous rocks of the Western Interior. The Fairpoint Member assemblage consists of chondrichthyan species different from those of the Paleocene Cannonball Formation of North Dakota. This disparity supports Cvancara and Hoganson's (1993) and Hoganson and Murphy's (2002) views that there was a significant turnover among Western Interior chondrichthyans during the interval between the deposition of these units. The cause of this turnover is not yet clear.
4524093|Based primarily on two previously undescribed skulls, this paper presents a detailed description of the skull and mandible of the latest Triassic procolophonid reptile Hypsognathus fenneri Gilmore, 1928. One of the new skulls, belonging to a presumed juvenile, clearly establishes for the first time the sutural pattern, which differs significantly from that in Procolophon and more basal procolophonid taxa. A number of shared derived features in the structure of the skull and mandible indicate that Hypsognathus is closely related to Leptopleuron from the Upper Triassic Lossiemouth Sandstone Formation of Scotland. Hypsognathus had a wide geographic and stratigraphic distribution in eastern North America during the latest Triassic (Norian-Rhaetian).
40864365|This contribution presents a morphofunctional analysis of the previously unknown appendicular skeleton of the paucituberculatans Palaeothentes minutus and Palaeothentes lemoinei from the Santa Cruz Formation (late early Miocene, Santa Cruz province, Argentina), performed in order to infer their locomotor behavior. In addition, a cladistic analysis was conducted to explore the phylogenetic information of postcranial features of Palaeothentes in the context of Marsupialia. The results indicate that Palaeothentes would have been an agile cursorial dweller, with leaping ability, similar to the extant paucituberculatan Caenolestes fuliginosus and the didelphid Metachirus nudicaudatus. This mode of locomotion is evidenced mainly by the following features: proximal location of the deltopectoral crest and bicipital tuberosity, reflecting rapid flexion at the gleno-humeral and elbow joints, respectively; shape of the humero-ulnar and humero-radial joints (deep and high humeral trochlea, deep olecranon fossa, deep trochlear notch, mediolaterally broad proximal trochlear crest), denoting a marked stability for flexion and extension; restrictive acetabulum, showing emphasized congruence at the hip joint; lengthened ischium and prominent femoral tubercle and ischial tuberosity, indicating an increased mechanical advantage of the rectus femoris and hamstring muscles; proximally projected greater trochanter, demonstrating a relatively great mechanical advantage of the gluteal muscles; and configuration of the upper ankle, lower ankle, and transverse tarsal joints, indicative of restrictive rotational movements (right angle between the medial and lateral astragalotibial facets, distal and proximal calcaneo-cuboid facet halves forming a right angle). A cladistic analysis positions Palaeothentes as the sister taxon to the extant Caenolestes, demonstrating that postcranial features support the monophyly of Paucituberculata.
4524275|In Brazil, albuloid fishes have only been found in the Cretaceous of Chapada do Araripe, Northeastern Brazil, particularly in the Romualdo Member, Santana Formation. In this paper we describe Farinichthys gigas, gen. et sp. nov., a large albuloid fish from the Paleocene of the Maria Farinha Formation, Pernambuco-Paraiba Basin, based on a large skull, disarticulated suspensorium and isolated vertebrae. The fish is the most complete fossil vertebrate hitherto obtained from that formation and the oldest record of Albulidae in South America. It is preserved in a clay marl in association with bivalve and gastropod shells, brachyuran and echinoid carapaces, and insects, in addition to fish and reptile remains. Regarding other known albulids (e.g., Albula, ^Deltaichthys and ^Lebonichthys), the new genus differs mainly by the absence of contact between the epioccipital and the parietal bones, a very elongate ventral process of the quadrate, an oblique groove on the external surface of the hyomandibula, and a parietal branch of the supraorbital sensory canal directed towards the parietal without reaching it. The presence of an ossified interorbital septum, an elongate horizontal preopercular arm, and the ascending process of the subopercle reaching the articular facet for the hyomandibula define a clade formed by \Farinichthys gigas plus Albula. It suggests an extension of the minimal age of this clade to the Paleocene (Danian).
20627120|A new basal sauropodomorph dinosaur, Massospondylus kaalae sp. nov., is named on the basis of a partial skull from the upper Elliot Formation (Lower Jurassic) of the Herschel District, South Africa. It can be distinguished from Massospondylus carinatus by a combination of character states relating to the proportions of the premaxilla, the presence of a strong ridge on the dorsolateral surface of the lacrimal, and the morphology of the braincase. The description of Massospondylus kaalae further increases sauropodomorph diversity in the previously depauperate upper Elliot fauna.
4524778|The new giant turtle species Gopherus donlaloi is described from a partial skeleton with skull collected in the Rancholabrean deposits in northeastern Mexico. The skull resembles the skull of extant turtles G. polyphemus and G. flavomarginatus but the new species shows unique skull and shell features. Shell meristic variation of the new species, G. berlandieri, and G. laticuneus is discussed denoting problems in the assessment of species based on extremely variable shell characters. Lack of diagnostic features in shells of G. edae and G. hexagonatus suggests their status as nomina vana. A cladistic strict consensus tree suggests that Gopherus is a monophyletic group where G. mohavetus falls within the outgroup, questioning its status as a member of Gopherus. Oligocene G. laticuneus is sister to all Gopherus, after which Recent G. berlandieri and G. agassizii branched out paraphyletically. Gopherus sensu stricto is monophyletic but the relationships among its taxa are unknown; these include the Miocene G. brevisternus, G. pansus, and G. vagus, the Plio-Pleistocene G. canyonensis and G. donlaloi, and the Recent G. polyphemus and G. flavomarginatus. A second analysis excluding most incomplete taxa retains the polytomy of G. berlandieri, G. agassizii, and Gopherus sensu stricto, but resolves the relationships within Gopherus sensu stricto. G. brevisternus is sister to the rest of the clade, followed by G. flavomarginatus, after which there is a polytomy formed by G. canyonensis, G. donlaloi and G. polyphemus. Bootstrap and branch-support analyses indicate that the clades within Gopherus sensu stricto are well supported. Reanalysis of biogeographic relationships based on the phylogeny suggests that the origin of Gopherus sensu stricto can be traced to the Miocene on the Central Plains, later extending southward from eastern Arizona to Florida and from northern Texas to Aguascalientes during the Plio-Pleistocene. The extinction of giant gopher turtles in Texas and eastern Mexico associated with the invasion of their distribution area by G. berlandieri is the best hypothesis to explain the recent disjunct distribution of G. polyphemus and G. flavomarginatus.
41407667|A dentary from the Laventan SALMA (middle Miocene) of Quebrada Honda, Bolivia, recognized as a new, small member of Megatherioidea (Hiskatherium saintandrei, gen. et sp. nov.), is reported. This taxon is clearly distinct from Nothrotheriidae and Megalonychidae and has affinities with Hapalops and Xyophorus. It is characterized by ml-m4 without diastema; strong hypsodonty (HI = 0.93); ml-m3 constituted by two transverse lophids separated by a deep, transverse, and labially open valley; m4 round with distal lophid mesiolingually-distolabially extended and without vertical groove; m2-m3 with lingual and labial vertical grooves; and the posteroventral margin of symphysis located anteriorly to ml. Although Hiskatherium and Diabolotherium have a similar dental formula, the ' megatheriine-shaped' teeth of Diabolotherium do not support a close phylogenetic relationship between Hiskatherium and Diabolotherium. Their dental formulae suggest that both genera were selective feeders, capable of consuming tough items. Hiskatherium, like most other sloths, has lower molariform teeth that have a mesial and a distal lophid; the former has a mesial cuspid 'A,' located at the center of the mesial lophid, and the latter has distolingual ('B,' or lingual) and distolabial ('C') cuspids at each end. This terminology permits a straightforward nomenclature based on cusp/cuspid position and facilitates comparisons among Tardigrada.
4524728|A single layer of radial enamel in the incisors represents the plesiomorphic condition for stem-lineage representatives of Glires (Lagomorpha and Rodentia). A single layer of radial enamel is detected in the incisors of the zalambdalestid Barunlestes butleri and the pseudictopid Pseudictops lophiodon as well as the eurymylid Eurymylus laticeps. The eurymylid Matutinia nitidulus exhibits a more derived, double-layered schmelzmuster with Hunter-Schreger bands (HSB) in the portio interna (PI) and radial enamel in the portio externa (PE). Mimotonids are characterized by a schmelzmuster with HSB: Anatolimys rozhdestvenskii has double-layered enamel (PI with HSB, PE with radial enamel) and two undetermined mimotonids from Mongolia exhibit a single- layered enamel. An incisor of an undetermined leporid (Strenulagus or Aktashmys) from the early Eocene of Kyrgyzstan, one of the geologically oldest studied, has double-layered schmelzmuster with HSB in the PI and radial enamel in the PE, whereas all other leporids have single-layered enamel with HSB. This is evidence that the single-layered leporid incisor schmelzmuster is derived from a double-layered condition. The presence of multilayered schmelzmuster in upper and lower incisors of Ochotonidae with modified radial enamel, HSB, and tangential enamel is corroborated. All three species of the supposed ochotonid Desmatolagus (D. gobiensis, D. robustus, and D. vetustus) exhibit a single-layered schmelzmuster with HSB and therefore are transferred to the Leporidae. Ochotonid schmelzmuster was derived by a different pathway than leporid schmelzmuster and possibly originated from that of yet poorly known early Paleogene Gliriformes such as Decipomys mongoliensis. This indicates that the ochotonid-leporid divergence is much older than previously believed.
4524166|A new species of rhynchodipterid lungfish, Soederberghia simpsoni, sp. nov., is described on the basis of a complete skull roof, and an incomplete but articulated head plus body, from the Upper Devonian Mandagery Sandstone near Canowindra, New South Wales (NSW, Fig. 1A), Australia. It is compared with Soederberghia material from the upper part of the Catskill Formation, Pennsylvania (Fig. 1B), and the Cloghnan Shale at Jemalong near Forbes, NSW, Australia. The Catskill and Cloghnan Shale material, consisting of two incomplete skull roofs, appears to be conspecific with the type species, Soederberghia groenlandica from the Famennian Remigolepis Series of Greenland. This is congruent with a recent suggestion that the Mandagery Sandstone is late Frasnian in age, whereas the upper Catskill Formation and Cloghnan Shale are Famennian. At the Famennian localities, Soederberghia is associated with tetrapods. Articulated postcranial material of Soederberghia, including the pectoral girdle, cranial and pleural ribs, unpaired fins and fin supports, is described for the first time. The presence of cranial ribs and a parasphenoid with a posterior stalk suggest that Soederberghia gulped air and probably inhabited a non-marine or shallow near-shore marine environment. The occurrence of Soederberghia groenlandica in the Famennian Old Red Sandstone of North America, Greenland and Australia thus furnishes evidence for contact or close proximity between Gondwana and Laurussia at this time, in conflict with some recent paleomagnetic data. The sister group of Soederberghia is Rhynchodipterus elginensis from the Famennian of Rosebrae near Elgin, Scotland; together they form the Family Rhynchodipteridae. Griphognathus, previously included in the Rhynchodipteridae, lacks a stalked parasphenoid and cranial ribs, and has a quite different dermal bone pattern from Soederberghia and Rhynchodipterus. We remove it from the group on these grounds, and interpret it as less crownward than the Rhynchodipteridae.
4523870|A new order of "fork-tailed" agnathans (jawless vertebrates), the Furcacaudiformes, is described from Wenlockian (Silurian) and Lochkovian (Devonian) fossils from the Northwest Territories of Canada. Six new species are classified in five new genera and two new families. One Silurian species is in the genus Pezopallichthys, family Pezopallichthyidae. One Devonian species is described in each of the genera Cometicercus, Drepanolepis, and Sphenonectris. The Devonian genus Furcacauda includes two species, one new and another that was previously described as Sigurdia heintzae Dineley and Loeffler. Preliminary phylogenetic analysis suggests the following relationships within Furcacaudiformes: (Pezopallichthys (Cometicercus (Drepanolepis (Sphenonectris (Furcacauda)))). Furcacaudiforms resemble some previously described thelodonts in structure of their scales, which are of loganellid and nikoliviid types, but differ in having generally smaller scales, as well as in having laterally compressed, hump-backed bodies, large eyes, branchial openings in an oblique, condensed row, a prominent anal notch, and large, nearly symmetrical, forked and lobed tails. The distinctive tail may indicate a close relationship with Heterostraci. A large, barrel-shaped stomach-like chamber dominates the gut and is connected to the anal opening by a short, tapered intestine. Several Devonian species possess paired, ventral 'fin-flaps' and/or a dorsal fin; these structures are not universally present and may have been secondarily lost in some lineages.
4523947| Recent expeditions to Upper Cretaceous strata in the Mahajanga Basin of northwestern Madagascar have established the first pre-Holocene record of frogs from that landmass. At least two differently-sized frogs are represented by a sacrum, an atlas, and an angulosplenial. The sacrum possesses a combination of characters present in sacra of neobatrachian frogs from southern continents, and the atlas resembles those found among the Pelobatidae. The angulosplenial is clearly anuran but it cannot be identified more precisely. Two other elementsa premaxilla and a cranial element (probably squamosal)are tentatively assigned to the Anura. These fossils document the existence of multiple anuran taxa on Madagascar during the Late Cretaceous. The tentative referral of the atlas to the Pelobatidae implies that this taxon, best known from northern continents, previously had a more cosmopolitan distribution. 
4524606|The cranial osteology of the large ichthyosaur Guizhouichthyosaurus tangae from the Wayao Member of the Falang Formation (Lower Carnian, Upper Triassic) of Guizhou, southwest China, is described, based on a well preserved skull and mandible and additional specimens. It can be diagnosed by a suite of cranial characters that include premaxilla without well- developed processus subnarialis, maxilla reaches far anteriorly and has a very long processus postnarialis, orbit of characteristic shape with concave dorsal and straight posterior and ventral margins, small prefrontal that forms only the anterior third of the dorsal orbital margin, postfrontal meets the supratemporal externally, postorbital forms a large part of the lateral margin of the temporal fenestra internally, deep triangular incisura postjugalis, jugal fails to meet quadratojugal externally, short postorbital skull segment; frontals and parietals form sharp ridges lateral to the area of the foramen parietale; parietals form a low and narrow sagittal crest; teeth thecodontously implanted, blunt, conical and without carinae. New data on the postcranial skeleton are also provided. The available evidence indicates that Guizhouichthyosaurus is an advanced member of the Merriamosauria, but more plesiomorphic than the parvipelvians. The taxonomy of the large ichthyosaurs from the Falang Formation remains largely problematic. It appears probable that only two taxa are valid, Guizhouichthyosaurus tangae and Guanlingsaurus liangae. They differ in the length of the snout, the number of the presacral vertebrae, vertebral proportions, the shape of the humerus and fibula, among other features.
4524487|The diverse fauna from Salla, western Bolivia, represents a rare glimpse into the evolutionary history of Tertiary South American mammals outside of Patagonia (Argentina). The Hegetotheriidae (Notoungulata) from the Deseadan of Salla are composed of two taxa, a new genus and species and a species of Prohegetotherium. Sallatherium altiplanense gen. et sp. nov., differs from Prohegetotherium by its very long, thin nasals; more medially placed labial groove on upper cheek teeth; more reduced I2-I3-C and i3-c separated by diastemata; and much narrower symphysis. The smaller, more common hegetothere from Salla is identified as Prohegetotherium schiaffinoi; the abundant new material from Bolivia permits a better characterization of this otherwise poorly known species from Uruguay and Argentina (Corrientes and Entre Rios provinces). The Divisaderan Ethegotherium carettei from Argentina is regarded as a junior synonym of P. schiaffinoi, extending the chronologic range of the genus into the early Oligocene. A revised diagnosis of the type species of Prohegetotherium, P. sculptum, is provided based on new material. This species is known exclusively from Argentina.
4523786|The Albian sphenodontian Pamizinsaurus tlayuaensis, gen. et sp. nov., from the Tlayua Quarry, Central Mexico, is described. The holotype is a posthatchling characterized by the presence of rows of small rounded osteoderms transversally oriented, relatively few hatchling teeth each with well-developed ridges, and a posteriorly displaced ventral process of the mandibular symphysis at an early ontogenetic stage. A small retroarticular process, long central region of the pterygoid, and the narrowness of the posterior end of the interpterygoid vacuity suggest sister-group relationships with sphenodontines + eilenodontines. The conspicuous dermal skeleton is similar to that of helodermatids, suggesting that it could have served to protect against predation in open environments. This unique structure argues against the idea of low morphological diversity within sphenodontians. Pamizinsaurus is the latest occurring fossil sphenodontian.
25835823|A partial reptile skull collected from the Lower Triassic (Induan) Barendskraal locality of South Africa is referable to the procolophonid parareptile Sauropareion anoplus. The specimen comprises the left side of the skull roof, palate, and mandible, and preserves areas not preserved or accessible in the skulls of previously published specimens, including fragmentary remains of the premaxilla, the anterior end of the maxilla, and the anterior end and lingual aspect of the mandible. The maxilla exhibits a maxillary depression that is similar in both shape and relative size to that seen in Procolophon trigoniceps, an anterolateral maxillary foramen that is indistinguishable from those seen in other procolophonoids, and 11 conical teeth. The suborbital foramen is formed ventrally by the palatine and the ectopterygoid. The dentary and the coronoid are fused together indistinguishably in lateral aspect. The marginal teeth appear to be anchored to the jaws by bone of attachment. The dentary teeth are exposed in lingual aspect and appear to be ankylosed to the summit of the bone, suggesting acrodont tooth implantation. Tooth replacement is seen in these teeth, where the lingual surface of a single tooth crown base in the middle of the dentary series is excavated for the apex of a replacement tooth crown, but the excavation does not extend ventrally onto the lingual surface of the bone. Considering that no extant reptiles with acrodont tooth implantation exhibit tooth replacement or bone of attachment, we tentatively regard protothecodonty to be present in S. anoplus.
4523838|An incomplete skull, four vertebrae, two teeth, and other, smaller fragments confirm the early occurrence of dorudontine whales (Cetacea: Archaeoceti: Basilosauridae) in the Southwest Pacific. This material, which is tentatively identified as Zygorhiza sp., (Dorudontinae), derives from the early Bartonian part of the Waihao Greensand, a marine, glauconitic, muddy sandstone. These New Zealand fossils provide one of the oldest records for the Dorudontinae and the oldest reported cetacean for the Southern Hemisphere. Other supposed cetacean records for the Southern Hemisphere are of Priabonian age from Seymour Island, Antarctica. The New Zealand material provides a significant range extension for the Dorudontinae, which previously have been reported from early Lutetian, middle to late Bartonian, and mainly Priabonian strata of the Northern Hemisphere.
4522838|Aerosaurus wellesi n. sp. is based upon two nearly complete articulated skeletons from the Lower Permian deposits near Arroyo del Agua, New Mexico. Study of these superbly preserved specimens indicates that the genus Aerosaurus is distinguishable from most other pelycosaurs, including Varanops and Varanodon, in having fewer maxillary and dentary teeth, all of which are more laterally compressed and more strongly recurved. The parasphenoid is uniquely expanded laterally and posteriorly, and bears rows of teeth on ridges. Aerosaurus also differs from all other pelycosaurs in which the braincase is adequately known in the formation of the dorsum sellae mainly from the basisphenoid. Aerosaurus was probably an aggressive predator of lizard-like habitus, with an unusually long tail for a pelycosaur . Aerosaurus, Varanops, and Varanodon are the only pelycosaurs that can be included in the family Varanopseidae with certainty; however, Basicranodon may also be a varanopseid. The possibility that the alleged antorbital fenestra in Varanodon may be artificial casts further doubt on the suggestion that Varanodon, and by extension the Varanopseidae, was involved in the ancestry of archosaurs.
25835876|A new hadrosaurid dinosaur, Acristavus gagslarsoni, is here named on the basis of several autapomorphic characteristics of the frontal, postorbital, and dentary. Acristavus is a member of the newly erected clade Brachylophosaurini, which along with its other members, Brachylophosaurus and Maiasaura, constitutes the earliest hadrosaurine hadrosaurid clade. The new taxon occurred approximately 79 million years ago and has been recovered from the Two Medicine Formation of western Montana and nearly simultaneously in the Wahweap Formation of southern Utah. Corresponding with its age and relationship to the other members of the Brachylophosaurini, it is not surprising that Acristavus possesses traits seen in both Brachylophosaurus and Maiasaura, but not necessarily shared between them. One of the most interesting morphological features of Acristavus is the lack of cranial osteological ornamentation, which is in stark contrast to every other hadrosaurid dinosaur except Edmontosaurus. Combining stratigraphic and phylogenetic data from Acristavus yields support for the hypothesis that the hadrosaurid ancestor did not possess cranial ornamentation, and that the subfamilies Hadrosaurinae and Lambeosaurinae each independently developed display structures.
24523212|Arenysaurus ardevoli is a lambeosaurine hadrosaurid from the late Maastrichtian of Arn (Huesca, northern Spain) that has recently been described. The holotype is the first and the most complete lambeosaurine with a braincase from Europe. In this paper, we present a complete description of the postcranial skeleton, which was poorly described when the taxon was named because it was partially unprepared, and new information on several cranial bones (jugal, maxilla, and dentition). A new phylogenetic analysis of Arenysaurus and the closely related Blasisaurus canudoi, also from the late Maastrichtian of Arn, places them inside the Parasaurolophini in a dichotomy with Parasaurolophus spp. Paleobiogeographically, the presence of Arenysaurus and its relationships with other lambeosaurines suggest at least one geodispersal event from Asia to Europe no later than the middlelate Campanian.
4523873|The discovery of the first articulated, well-preserved specimen of Dendrerpeton acadianum makes it possible to describe this taxon completely for the first time, and reassess its phylogenetic relationships. Large, laterally facing orbits, large, rounded squamosal embayments, absence of lateral line sulci, a short presacral column of only 24 vertebrae that is less than twice the length of the skull, and large stout limbs all suggest a terrestrial lifestyle distinct from the aquatic and semiaquatic adaptations of most contemporary Carboniferous amphibians. Although Dendrerpeton bears a general resemblance to the highly terrestrial dissorophoid temnospondyls and even shares with them a large squamosal embayment supported ventrally by the quadratojugal and a quadrate process, phylogenetic analysis does not support a sister-group relationship. Rather, Dendrerpeton is best considered the primitive sistergroup of a clade of temnospondyls including trimerorhachoids, "eryopoids" (Ervops, Parioxys, and Sclerocephalus), zatracheids, and dissorophoids.
23361045|An increasing number of paleobiological studies use preexisting cladistic data sets to estimate shifting levels of morphological disparity over time, and investigate the relative positions of taxa within a multivariate morphospace. Although these patterns are derived from characters selected to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships, it is sometimes suggested that they also reflect functional or ecological variation. We test this assertion using a purpose-built matrix of functional mandibular traits and 24 published cladistic matrices targeting early jawed vertebrates. We find that distance matrices calculated from functional and cladistic data are significantly correlated, but that substantial variation in functional dissimilarity goes unexplained by variation in cladistic dissimilarity. Agreement sequentially improves, but not drastically, when cladistic characters are limited to those pertaining to the skull and then mandible. When dissimilarity matrices are subjected to principal coordinate analysis to yield multivariate morphospaces, we find no clear relationship between phylogenetically independent contrasts for scores on lower functional and cladistic coordinate axes. However, we do find that a majority of variation on the first axis of ordinations based on cladistic characters can be explained by phylogency, even though the distance matrices underlying these ordinations are phenetic. A resampling procedure reveals a positive, but weak, correlation between cladistic and functional disparity measures for equivalent sets of taxa. Although our results show nonrandom relationships between disparity patterns extracted from functional and cladistic character sets, we conclude that these relationships are not sufficiently strong to allow clear inferences about functional variation to be drawn from data assembled for phylogenetic reconstruction.
4524177|"Carpodaptes" jepseni is a morphologic intermediate between Carpodaptes and Carpolestes, with the number and position of cusps on p4 more consistent with placement in Carpodaptes but relative size of p4 more like Carpolestes. The type and only previously known specimen of "C." jepseni, a partial dentary with p4-m2, is from Divide Quarry (Tiffanian Land-Mammal Age) in the Fort Union Formation of the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming. New specimens of "C." jepseni from Divide Quarry include a nearly complete dentary with p4-m3 and alveoli for all anterior teeth, and the first known upper dentitions with P1-M2 and an alveolus for C1. Specimens of Carpodaptes cygneus are also described from Divide Quarry, demonstrating the occurrence of two distinct carpolestid species at the same locality. Stratocladistic analysis of the thirteen known carpolestid species, using thirty-two morphologic characters and stratigraphic order, produced eight most-parsimonious phylogenetic trees associated with a single cladogram. The topology of the cladogram generated using stratocladistics is identical to that of the single most-parsimonious cladogram from cladistic analysis of the same morphologic data, but stratocladistics allows greater resolution than cladistics at the level of phylogenetic trees. New specimens demonstrate extreme shortening of the anterior jaw of C. jepseni, a derived state not present in other carpolestids. This suggests that C. jepseni occupies a side-branch close to, but not at, the ancestry of the Carpolestes clade (an ancestor-descendant lineage composed of the sequence C. dubius, C. nigridens, and C. simpsoni, in that order). "C." jepseni is here placed in a new genus, Carpomegodon.
23361055|Jeholosaurus shangyuanensis is a small ornithischian dinosaur from the Lower Cretaceous Yixian Formation of the Lujiatun locality, Liaoning Province, China. Here, we provide the first detailed description of its postcranial skeleton based on the holotype and four other well-preserved skeletons, and compare it with material of other primitive cerapodans. Jeholosaurus can be diagnosed on the basis of one postcranial autapomorphy, relating to the absence of parapophyses from the anterior dorsal vertebrae, and a unique combination of postcranial characters, but its anatomy is otherwise similar to that of many other basal ornithischians. A phylogenetic analysis incorporating these new postcranial data confirms previous suggestions that Jeholosaurus is a basal ornithopod and that it forms a clade with Changchunsaurus and Haya; Koreanosaurus and Yueosaurus might also belong to this clade, though additional material of both will be required to test this hypothesis. The name Jeholosauridae is proposed for this apparently endemic group of Cretaceous East Asian taxa.
25835881|The Meade Basin record of pocket gophers extends from the latest Miocene (Buis Ranch local fauna) to modern time. A primitive species with hypsodont but rooted cheek teeth, Pliogeomys buisi, characterizes the late Hemphillian. Another species of Pliogeomys, P. louderbachi, is described here as a new species from the early Blancan. It is intermediate in dental and mandibular morphology between Pliogeomys and Geomys. The Geomys minor (= G. smithi) lineage displays a stepped dwarfing trend prior to its extinction, whereas the G. jacobi lineage demonstrates an overall pattern of stasis in size. G. jacobi is replaced by G. quinni at the end of the Pliocene, within which there is a significant directional size increase. A late Pliocene immigrant, the new species G. floralindae, appears in the Sanders assemblage. It is briefly replaced by an indeterminate small species in the Nash 72 local fauna. G. tobinensis is found in the Cudahy local fauna. Morphologically modern G. bursarius appears in the Meade Basin during the early Rancholabrean. A small, primitive species, Geomys adamsi, appears only during the early Pliocene at Fox Canyon, and transient Thomomys appear at various times during the Pleistocene, both apparently during cold intervals. A phylogenetic analysis suggests two clades, one uniting Pliogeomys russelli and Geomys adamsi and another including the remaining Meade Basin geomyines. Enhanced species turnover and the last push for modern mandibular morphology is most pronounced in sediments younger than about 2.6 million years ago, corresponding to the first global cooling heralding the Pleistocene.
41407660|Currently known from the early Campanian to late Maastrichtian, Prognathodon constitutes a group of mosasaurine mosasaurs that typically possessed massive jaws. Only four articulated skulls are known to date and the information concerning their postcrania remains minimal. Moreover, the early to middle Campanian specimens of the taxon are extremely rare and fragmentary. Two new specimens of Prognathodon overtoni from the early late Campanian (ca. 74.5 Ma) Bearpaw Formation exposed near Welling, southern Alberta, Canada, provide the first fully articulated skeletons of the genus. Detailed morphological assessment of these and pre-existing specimens indicates that many cranial characters are shared between P. overtoni and the generic type P. solvayi from the early Maastrichtian, including (1) short premaxillarymaxillary suture; (2) short triangular frontal with marked anterior constriction; and (3) distinct, blind-ended median opening on medullary floor of basioccipital. These are interpreted as generically diagnostic characters, and the first character in particular distinguishes Prognathodon from Liodon and other long-snouted mosasaurines. The postcranium of P. overtoni is lightly built, and differs very little from that of Clidastes, a basal mosasaurine. Marginal teeth are carinate with fine crenulations, indicating their proposed opportunistic predatory behavior. Additionally, most of the fully erupted teeth exhibit a similar degree of apical wear, which is interpreted as indicating that the taxon regularly handled prey items that involved crunching. To augment these dietary inferences, gut contents from one of the new specimens include fragments of a large and a small fish, a sea turtle, and possibly a cephalopod.
23361079|We describe three new bandicoot species of the genus Galadi from the Miocene of Riversleigh World Heritage Area in northern Australia. The first species, which is represented by a complete dentary and several isolated upper molars, is restricted to Riversleigh's Faunal Zone B. It is the largest bandicoot as yet known from Riversleigh. The second species is represented by 19 specimens, including a partial skull and several maxillae and dentaries, from Riversleigh's Faunal Zone C. Several features distinguishing this species from the similarly sized type species G. speciosus are of interest, notably the presence of larger maxillopalatine fenestrae and additional maxillary fenestrae, incomplete centrocrista on all upper molars, a more complete posterior cingulum on upper molars, and higher degree of dental wear, which together suggest a more omnivorous diet. The third species is represented by a single maxillary, which exhibits a quite different combination of dental features compared with other Galadi species. All Galadi species appear to be restricted to Riversleigh's Faunal Zones B and C, which are interpreted to be early and middle Miocene in age, respectively, with rainforest habitats persisting throughout.
4524510|Here we redescribe the holotype and only specimen of Segisaurus halli, a small Early Jurassic dinosaur and the only theropod known from the Navajo Sandstone. Our study highlights several important and newly recognized features that clarify the relationships of this taxon. Segisaurus is clearly a primitive theropod, although it does possess a tetanuran-like elongate scapular blade. Nonetheless, it appears to be a coelophysoid, based on the presence of a pubic fenestra, a long and ventrally curved pubis, and some pelvic (and possibly tarsal) fusion. Segisaurus does possess a furcula, as has now been observed in other coelophysoids, thus strengthening the early appearance of this 'avian' feature. The absence of an external fundamental system in bone histology sections and the presence of sutural contact lines in the caudal vertebrae, scapulocoracoid, and (possibly) between the pubis and ischium support the inference that this specimen is a subadult, neither a true juvenile nor at full skeletal maturity. A cladistic analysis confirms Segisaurus as a coelophysoid theropod. Poor resolution within Coelophysoidea makes speculation about evolution in this clade difficult, but Segisaurus apparently represents a lineage that had been distinct from Coelophysis and Syntarsus since at least the Carnian.
30126360|Cretalamna ( = Cretolamna) appendiculata is an extinct lamniform shark primarily known by isolated teeth and traditionally classified into Cretoxyrhinidae. Here, a partial skeleton of C. appendiculata from the Upper Cretaceous Niobrara Chalk of Kansas is described. The reconstructed dentition partially corroborated with some articulated teeth on an upper jaw indicates that the shark had a lamnoid tooth pattern. Adjacent teeth apparently abutted each other without overlap and the dentition likely had a cutting function. The reconstruction presented here differs from previously published reconstructed dentitions of C. appendiculata based on isolated teeth or purely disarticulated tooth sets. The overall dental pattern of C. appendiculata is found to be more similar to the pattern of extant Lamna spp. than to that of a cretoxyrhinid, Cretoxyrhina mantelli, possibly indicating that Cretalamna appendiculata may not belong to Cretoxyrhinidae. The estimated jaw lengths indicate an upper jaw overbite, which concomitantly implies a subterminal mouth in the shark. The jaw morphology indicates the presence of large dorsal and ventral quadratomandibularis muscles. The vertebrae of C. appendiculata are confirmed to be of lamnoid type, reaffirming C. appendiculata to be a lamniform. Cretalamna appendiculata probably had a fusiform body with a caudal fin not as elongate as in modern alopiids. The C. appendiculata individual likely measured at least 2.3 m and possibly as large as 3 m in total length. The extant phylogenetic bracket approach indicates that C. appendiculata possessed a dental bulla in each jaw. Cretalamna appendiculata was probably an ecological generalist.
4524354|Two new species of anhingas are described from upper Miocene-Pliocene (Huayquerian) sediments of southwestern Amazonia, increasing the known diversity of these birds to two genera and at least three, perhaps four, species in these deposits. The new species described here are respectively the largest and the smallest species of Anhingidae known to date. The associated fossil fauna, including gigantic crocodiles and turtles, suggests a flooded paleoenvironment, with large bodies of fresh water surrounded by open vegetation, interspersed by forests.
4524101|The perissodactyl family Brontotheriidae is represented by large numbers of specimens from latest early and middle Eocene sediments of the Western Interior of North America. Species level taxonomy of brontotheres has been confusing, and the relationships of the earliest occurring species to those that occur later have not been well documented or understood. Evidence based on new specimens from the earliest Bridgerian from the Green River Basin, in particular from South Pass and Opal, coupled with a reanalysis of previously existing specimens has led to the following conclusions concerning the alpha taxonomy of Bridgerian North American brontotheres. Four genera (Eotitanops, Palaeosyops, Mesatirhinus, and Telmatherium) are recognized. Eotitanops is represented by two species, E. borealis and E. minimus, and Palaeosyops by five species, P. paludosus, P. fontinalis, P. laevidens, P. robustus, and P. laticeps. /// A re-examination of the temporal distribution of brontotheres requires that the biochronologic framework of the latest early to earliest middle Eocene be modified. The earliest Bridgerian can be defined by the first appearance of Eotitanops borealis in the Wind River Basin and Wapiti Valley, both in Wyoming and at Huerfano Park, Colorado. This interval has been termed the Eotitanops borealis Assemblage Zone and is equivalent to the early Gardnerbuttean, Bridgerian Biochronologic Zone Br0. The first appearances of Palaeosyops fontinalis and Eotitanops minimus mark the onset of the second biochronologic interval of the Bridgerian, Br1, here referred to informally as the "Palaeosyops fontinalis Assemblage Zone." This interval includes the late Gardnerbuttean (Br1a) and Bridger A (Br1b). Biochronologic Zones Br0 and Br1 are now included in the latest early Eocene while Br2 coincides with the beginning of the middle Eocene.
4523489|A diverse therian fauna is present in the Dakota Formation of Cenomanian age. Two pediomyid-like taxa are described on the basis of upper molars, but may be deciduous molars of non-pediomyid taxa. A new genus and species of marsupial-like tribothere is described and named (Dakotadens morrowi). A new family of marsupials (Alphadontidae) is established for Alphadon-like genera. The range of Alphadon is extended back into the Cenomanian, two new species are named (A. clemensi, A. lillegraveni), and a possible third new species is described. The range of Protalphadon is also extended back into the Cenomanian. Possible upper molars of Pariadens kirklandi are described and the diagnosis of the genus is revised based on unsheared lower molars; placement of this taxon in the Stagodontidae remains problematic. Upper molars of all therians recovered from the Dakota Formation have relatively broad stylar shelves; collectively, they include a wide range of stylar cusp configurations, although a cusp or cusps in the position of stylar cusp C is present on most upper molars. As such, the absence of cusps in the C position may not be primitive for marsupials. The marsupial-like tribothere described here, together with several other tribotheres, share derived characters with marsupials and may be part of an early diversification of the Metatheria. The divergence of metatherian and eutherian lineages may have occurred in the earliest Cretaceous (Neocomian).
4524449|A new species of a ziphodont crocodyliform is described on the basis of newly-discovered material from the Late Cretaceous (Campanian) Sierra Perenchiza Formation of Valencia, Spain. It is referred to the genus Doratodon as D. ibericus sp. nov. To date, Doratodon (type-species D. carcharidens) was only known by fragmentary cranial remains from the Campanian of Muthmannsdorf (Austria). This genus was previously regarded either as a goniopholid or as a hsisosuchid within the Mesoeucrocodylia, but a phylogenetic analysis suggests that Doratodon is a member of Ziphosuchia, placing it as the sister taxon of Sebecosuchia. Doratodon shares with Sebecosuchia (including Bergisuchus) features concerning the shape and implantation of teeth (margins of tooth crowns with denticulate carinae; tip of tooth crowns caudally curved; tooth implantation in isolated alveoli). Its inclusion in Ziphosuchia is based also on mandibular traits (splenials broad and robust behind symphysis, sculpturing of lateral surface of dentary based on development of longitudinal depression). The absence of the external mandibular fenestra is an autopomorphy of Doratodon in the context of Ziphosuchia. Doratodon is characterized by: short and narrow rostrum with reduced dentition (11 to 13 dentary teeth); dorsal profile of lower jaw showing two vertical waves. The most distinctive characteristic of the new species relative to D. carcharidens is the heterodonty in size of teeth, especially in the caudal part of the dental series. From a palaeobiogeographical point of view, Doratodon represents the first occurrence of a sebecosuchian-like crocodyliform in the Late Cretaceous of Europe.
4523211|A diverse assemblage of palaeopheid fossils from four Eocene sites of the Gulf Coastal region has yielded Pterosphenus schucherti Lucas and three species of Palaeophis: P. casei Holman, P. littoralis Cope, and P. virginianus Lynn. A redescription and figures of P. littoralis are presented, and a caudal vertebra of Palaeophis cf. P. casei is identified and figured for the first time. These are new geographic records for P. littoralis and P. virginianus.
4523670|Five variables, approximating the size of the masseter muscles on the maxilla, were used for determining dietary adaptations of extinct bovids from the Miocene of Pikermi and Samos (Greece). Grazing extant ruminants were found to have larger masseter muscles; those of browsers are smaller, and mixed feeders show a size in between. The height of the bony protrusion serving as of the origin of masseter superficialis on the maxilla gave the best discrimination among browsers, mixed feeders, and grazers; the origin of the masseter profundus was less discriminatory. It was found that, while some microwear results were congruent with the masseter data, others were not. We evaluate several hypotheses to explain the dissociation of dietary interpretation based on these variables and conclude that most of the extinct species were mixed feeders. The extinct species Tragoportax amalthea, Tragoportax rugosifrons (Boselaphini), and Gazella capricornis (Antilopini) were probably either mixed feeders or browsers. Pachytragus crassicornis and Pachytragus laticeps (Pseudotragini) were probably mixed feeders.
4524203|Among living carnivorans, the degree of sexual dimorphism in canine tooth size is correlated with breeding system. Monogamous pair-bonding species and those that form multi-male, multi-female groups tend to be less dimorphic than uni-male, group living species. This correspondence between social behavior and dental dimensions suggests that the inference of sexual dimorphism in extinct carnivorans could shed light on their breeding structure. In this paper, we estimate level of sexual dimorphism in skull length, canine tooth size, and lower molar length for two extinct species, the dire wolf, Canis dims, and the sabertooth cat, Smilodon fatalis. Three methods are employed to estimate sexual dimorphism: extrapolation from coefficients of variation, division of the sample about the mean, and finite mixture analysis. Results indicate that dire wolves were similar to most canids in their low level of sexual dimorphism, suggesting a pair-bonded breeding structure. Smilodon fatalis appears to have been significantly less dimorphic than living or fossil lions and more comparable to solitary living felids in canine and skull size dimorphism. Thus it seems unlikely that S. fatalis had a polygynous breeding structure like lions in which males compete intensely for access to females. Instead, if S. fatalis lived in groups, these would have been composed of a monogamous pair and their offspring from current and perhaps previous years.
4523406|This study focuses on the variability of dental morphology and the relationships of the earliest arctocyonid species. Analysis of arctocyonid premolars and molars from the Bug Creek Anthills local fauna (Hell Creek Fm., Puercan, Montana) shows far wider ranges of variation of many dental characters than were previously recognized. Based on morphological and morphometrical differences, two additional species, Oxyprimus erikseni and Mimatuta morgoth, are distinguished from Protungulatum donnae within the arctocyonid sample from the Bug Creek Anthills local fauna. Cladistic analysis of 18 dental characters of O. erikseni, P. donnae, M. morgoth and the Late Cretaceous eutherian outgroup taxa suggests that P. donnae and M. morgoth form a monophyletic group to the exclusion of O. erikseni. New data suggest that it is necessary to modify the stratigraphic ranges of these arctocyonid species. In order to ensure the reliability of the biochronological sequence of the Bug Creek channel deposits based on the number of arctocyonid species, it is also necessary to further assess the ranges of dental variations of arctocyonids with larger samples of specimens from other Bug Creek channel deposits in addition to Bug Creek Anthills.
25790796|Dermal ossifications are widespread in Permian and Triassic tetrapods, but only members of the Chroniosuchia possess a series of dorsal osteoderms with a complex plate-to-plate articulation mechanism in addition to a contact between each osteoderm and its associated vertebral spine. The stratigraphically youngest chroniosuchid, Madygenerpeton pustulatus, from the Triassic of Kyrgyzstan provides new insight on the function of the chroniosuchian osteoderm system. Osteoderms of M. pustulatus are broad, peaked-roof-shaped to arched, with enlarged posterodorsal and anteroventral articulation facets bearing unique sets of concentric rail-like ridges and furrows. Supplementing the multiple-overlap chroniosuchian-type articulation, the interlocking ridges and furrows confined the relative motion of two neighboring osteoderms to a rotation in slightly oblique and curved contact planes. Given the significant lateral narrowing of the dorsal ornamented non-overlap area, the horizontal component of the plate-to-plate rotation angles could reach up to 7.5, enabling more extensive lateral flexion of the trunk than in other chroniosuchids. Considering functional analogs, the chroniosuchian osteoderm system probably stabilized the vertebral column against shearing, torsion, tension, and compression loads and thus facilitated terrestrial locomotion at the expense of trunk flexibility. With its particular morphology, the carapace of M. pustulatus, however, was more suitable for locomotion styles featuring lateral body undulation than the carapaces of Permian chroniosuchids. We interpret this speciality as a secondary adaptation to an aquatic habitat.
4524349|The "capitosaurs" from the Lower Triassic of Madagascar are revised. Benthosuchus madagascariensis Lehman, 1961, and Wetlugasurus milloti Lehman, 1961, are combined in the new combination Watsonisuchus madagascariensis on the basis of the most complete growth series among capitosaurians. A phylogenetic analysis showed that the genus Watsonisuchus is justified, although its species W. madagascariensis is not the most derived within the genus. The skull growth of W. madagascariensis clearly shows an allometric trend, but the fact that adults have more dermo-sensory grooves than juveniles suggests surprisingly that they may have become progressively more aquatic during growth. The ontogeny of W. madagascariensis is compared with that of other temnospondyls. Different longirostrine conditions are observed in Permian and Triassic stereospondylomorphs (archegosaurians and capitosaurians, respectively). They are interpreted as convergences rather than are a synapomorphy of the clade.
4523029|A study of the major collections of Siwalik hipparionines has resulted in the recognition of two supra-specific groups that we refer to "Cormohipparion" (Sivalhippus) and ?Hipparion s.s. The "Cormohipparion" (Sivalhippus) group is the more abundant one in the Siwaliks, and includes at least three species: "Cormohipparion" (Sivalhippus) theobaldi, "Cormohipparion" (Sivalhippus) sp. and "Cormohipparion" (Sivalhippus) perimense. The ?Hipparion group is monospecific and includes the species ?Hipparion antelopinum. In attempting to ascertain the phylogenetic relationships of these horses we have found no sound basis for falsifying the hypothesis that Old World hipparionine Groups 1-4 are monophyletic. We derive both Groups 2 and 3 from Group 1. Group "4" is polyphyletic, with part of the original hypodigm most probably referable to Group 2. The "Cormohipparion" (Sivalhippus) group is distantly related to early Vallesian Group 1 hipparionines of probable south Asian origin, and may in turn include the ancestor of the late Miocene East African species "Hipparion" turkanense. ?Hipparion antelopinum probably originated from a west Asian species of Hipparion s.s. The relatively late first occurrence of hipparionines in the Siwalik Province is discussed, and further testing of the "Hipparion" "Datum" concept is recommended.
4524009|A new squamate taxon is described from the Lower Cretaceous Doushan Formation, Qingshan Group, Laiyang, Shandong Province, China. Two incomplete mandibles represent a morphologically peculiar lizard taxon, which has heavily built jaws and highly specialized crushing teeth in a greatly shortened tooth row. Results of phylogenetic analysis show that the new taxon is a member of the Scincomorpha, and can be grouped with the Lacertiformes on the basis of character states related to jaw structures.
20062011|The earliest-known chondrichthyan braincase, from the Early Devonian (Emsian) Gydo Formation of South Africa, is described along with parts of the visceral skeleton. Only the ventral surface of the braincase is exposed, but CT-scanning permits the investigation of its unprepared regions and internal features. There is a persistent cranial fissure (as in osteichthyans) separating the trabecular and parachordal regions. The parachordal cartilage is identical to isolated endoskeletal elements referred to Pucapampella from the Middle Devonian of Bolivia. The semicircular canals are arranged as in osteichthyans and chimaeroids, with a crus commune connecting the anterior and posterior canals dorsally. The elongate palatoquadrate has an ethmoidal and palatobasal articulation (it is unknown if a postorbital articulation was present). The mandibular joint is positioned lateral to the widest part of the parachordal region, and the hyoid arch probably helped support the jaw. The South African specimen demonstrates unequivocally that some features previously known only in osteichthyans (e.g., ventral otic fissure, posterior dorsal fontanelle, palatobasal articulation) were also present in primitive chondrichthyans and are actually plesiomorphic hold-overs whose distribution was primitively more universal among gnathostomes. Fossils rarely overturn the phylogenetic status of morphological characters at such deep phylogenetic levels, perhaps because their wider original distribution pattern was short-lived and is rarely recovered from the fossil record.
20491033|A new species of Amiidae, Cratoamia gondwanica gen. et sp. nov., is here described from the Early Cretaceous Crato Formation of the Araripe Basin, northeast Brazil. The new species, based on complete and nearly complete articulated specimens, includes synapomorphies of the subfamily Vidalamiinae and the tribe Vidalamiini. The presence of Cratoamia in Brazil increases the geographical distribution of the tribe Vidalamiini into the Southern Hemisphere.
23251278|Three species of the genus Pseudopus are recognized in the Cenozoic of Eurasia: P. laurillardi (earlymiddle Miocene of Europe), P. pannonicus (late Miocenemiddle Pleistocene of Central and Eastern Europe), and P. apodus (late PleistoceneRecent, from Eastern Europe to Central Asia). Here, a new and oldest species of the genus Pseudopus, P. ahnikoviensis, sp. nov., is described from the early Miocene (MN 3) locality Merkur in Northwest Bohemia in the Czech Republic. The new species is distinguished from the other three species of the genus Pseudopus by five possible autapomorphies: length of sulcus between frontal and frontoparietal shields equals length of sulcus between frontal and interfrontal shields; ornamented surface of parietal consisting of densely arranged and very fine ridges, grooves, and pits; ventrolateral ridge of supratemporal process of parietal coincides with lateral margin of supratemporal process, hence no free ventrolateral surface of supratemporal process present; presence of surangular spine of dentary; and apices of crowns of robust bulbous teeth smooth. Pseudopus ahnikoviensis is most similar to P. laurillardi and represents the smallest species in the genus Pseudopus.
4523426|A comparative tooth microwear data base was established and analyzed for seventeen extant ungulates (six browsing species, four mixed feeder species, and seven grazing species). The three dietary categories are clearly reflected by the microwear results. Browsers have more pits, fewer total scratches, and more cross scratches, while grazers have fewer pits, more total scratches, and fewer cross scratches. The data of the mixed feeders form bimodal distributions, consisting of a browsing group and a grazing group, indicating that they either graze or browse. The microwear values of E. sansaniensis clearly fall within the browsing domain and more specifically, closest to the browser Tragelaphus strepsiceros.
20491073|Stegosaurus has unique plate- and spike-shaped osteoderms. Previous studies have focused on the function of the osteoderms; however, ontogenetic development and maturity of these osteoderms with respect to Stegosaurus body growth are little known. In this study, the bone growth of both the skeleton and osteoderms was assessed using thin sections from small to large-sized individuals. In the small individual, the bone histology shows a fibro-lamellar tissue with a radial and/or reticular vascular network in both a body element and an osteoderm. In the medium-sized individual, the cortex shows a longitudinal vascular network and a few lines of arrested growth (LAG) in the skeleton, whereas the osteoderms still retain fibro-lamellar bone and show a reticular vascular network without LAGs. In large individuals, both body elements and osteoderms have fibro-lamellar tissue and multiple LAGs. However, bone tissues from body elements possess external fundamental systems (EFS) at their periphery, whereas osteoderms from the large individual lack EFS. Four histological stages are observed in both the skeleton and the osteoderms in the growth series of Stegosaurus sections: (1) a fibro-lamellar tissue with a radial and/or reticular vascular network, (2) fibro-lamellar tissue with a longitudinal vascular network, (3) with LAGs, and (4) with EFS. The timing of histological changes of osteoderms was delayed from those of the skeleton. This delay indicates that osteoderms might have maintained faster growth rates than the body elements after the maturity of the skeleton.
4523829|A small but diverse selachian fauna, represented by isolated teeth, is described from the lower part of the Gearle Siltstone in the Giralia Anticline, Southern Carnarvon Basin, Western Australia. It consists of: Notorynchus aptiensis, Paraorthacodus sp., Orectolobiformes gen. et sp. nov., Archaeolamna sp., Leptostyrax sp., Cretoxyrhinidae gen. et sp. incertae sedis, Cretolamna sp., Paraisurus aff. compressus, Carcharias striatula, and Squalicoraxprimaevus. Comparisons with known ranges of these taxa in the Northern Hemisphere place the fauna in the middle to late Albian. Contrary to previous claims, the cowshark Notorynchus aptiensis does not appear to have been primarily a Tethyan faunal element, as its teeth are more common in the cool water facies of the Gearle Siltstone than anywhere else in the world. The few previous records of Cretaceous sharks from Western Australia are revised, resulting in several systematic alterations.
20627099|Although many desmostylian genera, including Behemotops katsuiei, Desmostylus hesperus, Paleoparadoxia tabatai, P. weltoni, P. repennngi, and Ashoroa laticosta are known from skulls and postcrania, Cornwallius sookensis has previously been known only from isolated teeth. New material from the Emlong Collection of the Smithsonian Institution is described here. These include two skulls, four partial mandibles, four isolated teeth, an innominate and a tibia from the Yaquina Formation of coastal Oregon (Zemorrian, Oligocene). The diagnosis of this taxon is emended to include the development of a postorbital process of the jugal, a dorsal midsagittal keel of the rostrum, paraglossal crests of the maxillary diastema, and a sagittal crest. Dental characteristics, including identification of canines and cusp homologies, are defined. Though the skulls and mandibles described are nearly complete, some premolars are missing and alveoli are damaged, making interpretation difficult. The adult dental formula is tentatively interpreted as 2.1.2?.3/1.1.1?.3, although the deciduous dentition includes two pairs of lower incisors. Mandibular characteristics include a posteriorly sloped anterior edge of the coronoid process. Phylogenetic analysis incorporating this new information resulted in one most parsimonious tree for the Order Desmostylia. The families Paleoparadoxiidae (comprising three Paleoparadoxia species) and Desmostylidae (comprised of Ashoroa, Cornwallius, Desmostylus, and Vanderhoofius) are found to be distinct clades. The clade including both species of Behemotops (Behemotopsidae) is found to be the sister group to the clade comprising Paleoparadoxiidae and Desmostylidae.
4523123|Thirty years ago Macau-Vilar (1958) reported chelonian eggs from Gran Canaria. Analysis of the microstructure of these eggs corroborates this identification. Field studies show that these eggs, which were originally thought to be Miocene in age, are from Pliocene pyroclastic sediments about 3.5-4.5 my old.
4524679|The Barstovian of the northern Rocky Mountains, U.S.A., is known mainly from deposits east of the continental divide; this article provides new information from west of the divide. The biostratigraphic, geologic, magnetostratigraphic, and lithostratigraphic setting is reported for an unusually complete Arikareean, Hemingfordian, and Barstovian stratigraphic section known as the Railroad Canyon Sequence in Montana and Idaho. At least 35 taxa of fossil vertebrates collected from 50 different localities are placed in stratigraphic context. Lithostratigraphic attributes indicate the presence of a freshwater lake during the Arikareean, intermittent saline lakes through much of the Hemingfordian, a late Hemingfordian unconformity (the Mid-Tertiary Unconformity), and absence of persistent lakes through the Barstovian. The sequence records the development of increasingly arid conditions in the depositional basin. A change in bedding attitude and generally coarser sediments above the Mid-Tertiary Unconformity indicate uplift of the region during the Barstovian, possibly accompanied by slight structural tilting. The analysis helps date Barstovian faunas, and provides a useful tie point for correlating the Barstovian Land-Mammal Age to the magnetostratigraphic and radioisotopic scale in the western Rockies, and ultimately to the Global Polarity Time Scale (GPTS). It also suggests that the Mid-Tertiary unconformity is approximately coeval on the eastern and western flanks of the mountains, supporting tectonic models that require regional uplift between ca. 16.8 and 17.5 Ma.
42568629|A new protorosaur is described on the basis of a single specimen from the Ladinian of southern China. Although it has been greatly crushed, it still preserves clear details of the skull and axial skeleton. It possesses a neck that is longer than the trunk and is similar to tanystropheids in having 12 or 13 cervicals. Unusual among protorosaurs, the new form has an elongate snout. It also lacks a clear thyroid fenestra, although there is a slight separation of the pubis and ischium close to the pubic symphysis. The new form adds to the growing diversity and disparity of protorosaur taxa from the Middle Triassic of southern China.
42568671|We present new and well-preserved giant salamander material from the Miocene of the Grytsiv locality, Ukraine. Disarticulated skull and postcranial bones from two individuals are described as a new taxon, Ukrainurus hypsognathus, gen. et sp. nov. U. hypsognathus is characterized by poorly ossified bone tissues, relatively inflexible mandibles, a high dentary, a crista on the lingual surface of the dentary, a pars dentalis of the dentary that is composed of a dental lamina and a subdental surface, presence of an eminentia dorsalis on the squamosal, a broad pericondylar facet on the occipital, extremely elongated prezygapophyses, and hemal processes with an elongate, oval base. Moreover, U. hypsognathus shows evidence of strong mandibular levator muscles that indicate great biting force. A phylogenetic analysis of all well-understood Tertiary and Recent giant salamanders recovers a monophyletic group of Asian and North American cryptobranchids, but places U. hypsognathus outside crown group Cryptobranchidae. This result suggests that Cryptobranchidae originated in Asia and dispersed to North America. The oldest representative of crown Cryptobranchidae is Aviturus exsecratus from the terminal Paleocene of the Nemegt Basin, Mongolia.
20627101|The sites of Kossom Bougoudi (KB) and Koll (KL) are intermediate in age between the Sahelanthropus sites of Toros Menalla and the Australopithecus sites of Koro Toro, and their bovid faunas are also intermediate in composition and stage of evolution. Four new taxa are erected. The hippotragine Tchadotragus fanonei nov. sp. is more derived than the type-species of the genus, from Toros Menalla. Kobus ammolophi nov. sp. is also clearly related to the most common reducine of the latter sites, rather than with other African forms. However, Jamous kolleensis nov. gen. nov. sp., a new bovine with extremely divergent, horizontal horn-cores, is unrelated to other Chadian Bovini. The KB and KL assemblages document the gradual replacement of hippotragines by alcelaphines in Northern Chad, but it is not necessarily linked with environmental change, as all Chadian assemblages virtually lack indicators of bush or woodland like Tragelaphini and Aepyceros. In spite of a significant endemic component, the KB and KL Bovidae compare best with some of those from Sahabi in Libya, confirming North-South connections.
42568681|Fishers are elusive carnivorans, with few occurrences in the fossil record. The origin and early evolution of fishers is unclear, but they likely originated in Asia. A new record of Pekania from the Rattlesnake Formation of Oregon represents the earliest known occurrence of a fisher, more than 5 million years earlier than other records in North America. This specimen has an unambiguous derived trait shared with other members of the genus, an external median rootlet on the upper carnassial. The age of this new find is inferred to be between 7.05 and 7.3 Ma, through radiometric and magnetostratigraphic dating. This age is supported by the presence of specimens of a shrew, Sorex edwardsi, and a rhinoceros, cf. Teleoceras, found at the same locality, as well as a rabbit, Hypolagus cf. vetus, and a tapir nearby, all of which are well known from early Hemphillian deposits. This find indicates that fishers were in both North America and Asia in the late Miocene, around the time of their divergence from other members of the clade as estimated from genetic data. Although it is over 7 million years old, this species shows remarkable similarity to extant P. pennanti, highlighting the highly conservative nature of gulonine mustelids. The Rattlesnake specimen is more robust than other fisher species, possibly representing something close to the ancestry of all fishers.
30126317|A complete skull of a fossil tapir (Perissodactyla: Tapiridae) was recovered from outcrops of the Arroyo Feliciano Formation (Late Pleistocene; Lujanian Age) in the Argentine Mesopotamia and is here recognized as a new species. The phylogenetic relationships of this new taxon, Tapirus mesopotamicus sp. nov., are revealed by cladistic character analysis using several extinct and extant taxa. The taxa included in the analysis are the extinct genera Miotapirus, Paratapirus, and Plesiotapirus, five North American paleospecies Tapirus veroensis, T. haysii, T. johnsoni, T. webbi, and T. polkensis, and all the living species of the genus Tapirus (T. terrestris, T. pinchaque, T. bairdii, and T. indicus). Tapirus mesopotamicus sp. nov is diagnosed by having a robust and long skull with short rostrum relative to total length of cranium, a single and not arched sagittal crest, broad table of frontals on the anterior skull roof, temporal crests converging very near the frontal-parietal suture, palate very arched, premaxilla deeply notched above canine, maxilla and base of zygomatic process strikingly robust, P1 short and quadrangular, and mandibular condyle slender with posterior wall flat or somewhat concave. The resulting cladogram depicts a well-supported clade comprising the South American tapirs. The new taxon T. mesopotamicus sp. nov. groups with its sister taxon T. pinchaque, and together with T. terrestris, form a sister clade to T. bairdii and three North American fossil tapirs.
4524419| A crushed rauisuchian skull and several vertebrae belonging to a single individual have been found in the Upper Triassic strata at Krasiejow, Poland, probably corresponding in age to the Lehrberg Beds (late Carnian) of Baden-Wrttemberg, Germany. A maxilla of Teratosaurus suevicus from the early Norian (Stubensandstein at Heslach) is similar to that of the Krasiejow specimen. The dorsal process of the maxilla is more oblique than in T. suevicus, the medial anterior foramen is set on the medial side, contrary to being exposed anteriorly in T. suevicus, and foramina for replacement teeth are not connected by a dental groove and are set in straight line. A new species of Teratosaurus is proposed to accommodate the Polish material, and a more complete diagnosis of the genus is presented. 
25835811|Cimolestids are a minor component of early Paleocene (Puercan) faunas of western North America. Here we report on cimolestids from the early Paleocene (middle and late Puercan; Pu23) of the Nacimiento Formation, San Juan Basin, New Mexico. New specimens of Puercolestes simpsoni include portions of the deciduous and lower dentition not previously known. We conclude that "Genus B" of Van Valen is probably conspecific with this taxon. Two new genera and species, Chacopterygus minutus and Betonnia tsosia, are from the Pu2 and Pu2Pu3, respectively. One additional unnamed taxon is based on isolated teeth from Pu23 localities. A phylogenetic analysis indicates that Puercolestes simpsoni is sister to Cimolestes. Chacopterygus minutus, Betonnia tsosia, and the unnamed cimolestid form a polytomy that is sister to Procerberus. This resulting clade is sister to Batodon + Maelestes. The results of this analysis suggest that P. simpsoni is descended from Cretaceous taxa of western North America. The origins of other early Paleocene cimolestids from either Asia or North America is equivocal. The species diversity of Cimolestidae in the Puercan of New Mexico and other Puercan localities of western North America is similar to that of latest Cretaceous (Lancian) faunas of the northern Rocky Mountain Region.
20061950|Problems arise when relationships of the early members of new classes of organisms are being discussed. Our concern about this problem arises from the recent work on Diabolepis, which some workers have regarded as the sister group of the Dipnoi. The main morphological work on this genus by Chang (1995), has set out the main features of the skull of the genus. She has analyzed the relationships without cladistic analysis, but other workers have cladistically analyzed the data. In this paper we criticise many of the observations on morphology discussed by Chang, and contest many of the synapomorphies used by workers who do the cladistic analysis. Broad conclusions concerning the development of sarcopterygian fishes and more detailed results such as the evolution of the dental plates of dipnoans, have been falsely drawn because of this.
4523241| Zapodid rodents are described from the early Pleistocene Java Local Fauna, Walworth County, South Dakota. The fauna includes a new species of Zapus related to the extinct Z. sandersi. The fossil record of Zapus is briefly reviewed, and the Ms of Z. rinkeri and an undescribed species from the Wendell Fox Pasture Local Fauna are illustrated for the first time. Zapus trinotatus and Z. princeps probably represent a clade distinct from other Zapus species, but relationships among the remaining species are difficult to determine. Two additional zapodids represent new genera and species. One appears to be remotely related to the Pliocene Pliozapus or Protozapus and the other is a tiny, presumably carnivorous sicistine linked to Old World striped mice of the genus Sicista. This is the first record of a Pleistocene sicistine from North America. 
4523738|The skull and skeleton of the Mongolian Late Cretaceous (Barungoyotian) marsupial Asiatherium are described, illustrated, and compared to various therian taxa. The study supports the distinctness of Asiatherium from deltatheroidans and eutherians, and the metatherian status (sensu stricto) of asiatheriids, based primarily on the dental formula, but also on cranial, dental, and postcranial characters. Its postcanine dental formula (three premolars and four molars), found only in dentally primitive living marsupials, is shown to be a derived condition within the Theria (tribosphenic mammals, sensu stricto). In addition, the closely twinned hypoconulid and entoconid, correlated with a (relative) hypertrophy of the metacone, an alisphenoid component to the bulla (possibly an independently derived trait), oval (not elliptical) fenestra vestibuli, and an elliptical fenestra cochleae, along with other unmistakenly marsupial-like (and therian as well as pre-therian) postcranial taxonomic properties, all attest to the noneutherian status of Asiatherium. The hypothesis of independent origin of the Metatheria and Eutheria from taxa with molars of an aegialodontan stage of development is not supported from functional-adaptive considerations. The derived therian nature of the primitive metatherian dental formula is supported, and it is argued that deltatheroidans are modified for a hypercarnivorous diet, as attested by their molar dentition and skull form. Their narrowed but fully therian molar talonid, like that of various marsupial and placental carnivores, appears to be derived from a relatively wider one, as the well-developed protocone suggests. Deltatheroidan dental similarities to sparassodontan borhyaenids are considered to be convergent, as suggested by the differences in the crania of these two groups. Deltatheroidans and asiatheriids are separate and primarily Asiatic clades of Metatheria that suggest a complex and hitherto poorly understood paleobiogeography for therians in the Cretaceous. The biogeographic significance of Asian marsupials, compared to the American, European, and African forms, is that their uniqueness does not preclude a hitherto unrecognized ancient Cretaceous presence of Metatheria in the tropics of southern Asia.
4524717|Diplospondichthys moreaui, gen. et. sp. nov. a freshwater fish from the Cenomanian of Morocco, is described. The fish is complete and articulated but only a few elements of the head are perfectly preserved. Therefore, the new taxon's relationships are essentially based on its very peculiar axial skeleton. Although we believe that the fish is probably a teleost, it displays such a strange combination of characters that we propose herein to classify it as an actinopterygian incertae sedis. The presence of pharyngeal teeth, diplospondylous and well-ossified vertebrae throughout the column, spine-bearing scutes on both sides of the body, and unpaired elements articulating with neural and haemal spines, are some of its unusual features. We believe that this fish could be of primary importance to understand the evolution of the axial skeleton in osteichthyans.
20627059|Thoracic epaxial muscles of diplodocid and dicraeosaurid sauropods are reconstructed for the first time using an Extant Phylogenetic Bracket approach. In the dorsal vertebral column, three different epaxial muscle groups were present. The medialmost m. transversospinalis and the laterally adjacent m. longissimus dorsi were connected to the neural arches. The lateralmost m. iliocostalis was connected to the dorsal ribs. The medial part of m. transversospinalis of diplodocids and dicraeosaurids comprised at least two tendon systems that had a trellis-like arrangement. Osteological characters of the dorsal vertebrae in related taxa suggest a similar configuration of the thoracic epaxial muscles in all eusauropods, although there was variation in tendon arrangements and in the cross-section of each muscle. The thoracic epaxial musculature in eusauropods played an important role for trunk support; its variation in different eusauropods is directly connected with bony support structures and influenced the mobility of the trunk and locomotion. Modifications in the thoracic epaxial musculature are especially apparent in Saltasauridae, which suggests differences in their locomotor capabilities, such as increased trunk mobility or larger stride lengths.
20490993|The taxonomic identity of two well-preserved polycotylid plesiosaur skeletons from the Pierre Shale of far northern Wyoming and southern South Dakota has been controversial since their discovery. Originally referred to Dolichorhynchops osborni, the material was almost immediately christened Trinacromerum bonneri Adams 1997; more recently the material has been referred to Polycotylus. Recent preparation of the well-preserved skull of one specimen permits detailed examination of the cranial morphology of this animal for the first time, and allows for its inclusion in a cladistic analysis of the Polycotylidae. This analysis reveals a stable sister-taxon relationship with Dolichorhynchops osborni. However, the taxon possesses a bewildering mosaic of character states, superficially resembling Polycotylus in overall size and tooth morphology and Trinacromerum in details of the palate and lower jaw, while sharing several critical synapomorphies with Dolichorhynchops osborni. This wide-ranging homoplasy among characters previously diagnostic among polycotylid genera challenges the alpha taxonomy of forms from the western interior seaway. The conservative taxonomic course of referring the species T. bonneri to Dolichorhynchops is followed here, but a species-level review is necessary. Lastly, material described here reveals important new information concerning the polycotylid orbital region and lower jaw, allowing confident reconstructions of these controversial regions for the first time.
40864388|New material of borioteiioidean lizards (Squamata: Scincomorpha) from west-central Alberta, Canada, represent the first and northernmost record of multiple articulated skull elements from the Cretaceous of North America. Specimens were recovered from the fluvial beds of the Wapiti Formation (Campanian) within a bentonitic paleosol exposed at the Kleskun Hill Park, east of the city of Grande Prairie. Such beds accumulated during the maximum transgression of the Bearpaw Seaway (73-74 Ma), thus providing crucial information on lizard faunas during a time interval represented in most of coeval North American deposits by marine strata. Cranial material ascribed to Socognathus unicuspis give the occasion for a revision of the taxon with respect to osteologically better-known Polyglyphanodon sternbergi from the Late Cretaceous of Utah as well as a comparison with several lizards reported from coeval strata of Mongolia. Furthermore, a new scincomorphan lizard, Kleskunsaurus grandeprairiensis, gen. et sp. nov., is described. Socognathus unicuspis is assigned to Chamopsiidae, taxon nov., which also includes Chamops, Leptochamops, and several other morphologically similar taxa from the Cretaceous of North America.
4524357|The Kuldana Formation of Pakistan is best known for its fossil mammals, including primitive cetaceans such as Pakicetus and its close relatives. Kuldana mammals have been regarded in different studies as early Lutetian in age (early middle Eocene), late Ypresian (late early Eocene), or, recently, to span much of Ypresian through early Lutetian time (early part of the early Eocene through the early middle Eocene). The Kuldana Formation is a relatively thin, 20-120 m thick low-sea-stand tongue of continental red beds lying within a much thicker sequence of foraminiferarich marine formations. Planktonic and shallow benthic forams constrain the age of the Kuldana Formation to the late early Eocene or the early middle Eocene, and current interpretation of global sea level stratigraphy favors the latter. The short duration of the low-sea-stand interval when Kuldana mammals are found means that differences between samples recovered to date probably represent differences in local living environments, sites of deposition, and sampling, rather than any substantial difference in age. This reinforces an interpretation first proposed from the perspective of coeval Kalakot mammals recovered from the Subathu Formation in India.
4523602| Chemical preparation of previously illustrated selachian teeth together with recently collected material from the upper part (early-middle NP3) of the Danian sequence in the Limhamn quarry, Skne, southern Sweden, have revealed a rich and diverse selachian fauna. The three families dealt with here, i.e., Hexanchidae, Odontaspididae, and Mitsukurinidae, are represented by at least eight species, including two new ones, assigned to seven genera; Hexanchus spp., Heptranchias sp., Notorynchus sp., Notidanodon brotzeni sp. nov., Carcharias gracilis, C. aff. C. tenuis, Odontaspis speyeri, and Striatolamia cederstroemi sp. nov. At the genus level, the hexanchid fauna is the most diverse fossil assemblage yet reported. Striatolamia cederstroemi sp. nov. is the oldest known species of the genus and its tooth morphology indicates that Striatolamia may be more closely related to Anomotodon than to the odontaspidids. 
4523348|The association of eggshell with embryonic remains and nestbound hatchlings in the Upper Cretaceous (Campanian) Two Medicine Formation of Western Montana allows us to positively correlate eggshell morphology with specific dinosaur taxa in North America. Eggshell material from the nesting sites at Willow Creek Anticline, Egg Mountain, and Egg Island are described; they show the presence of four morphotypes. Two of these morphotypes can be assigned to Orodromeus makelai, a hypsilophodontid, and Maiasaura peeblesorum, a hadrosaurid based on embryonic remains and nestbound hatchlings. The third morphotype probably belongs to a ?Troodon, based on contained embryonic remains. A very small isolated egg of ornithoid morphotype was found without associated fossil material; it is probably avian. In contrast with the complete material from the Willow Creek Anticline, Egg Mountain, and Egg Island sites, the nearby Red Rock Locality, also in the Two Medicine Formation, has yielded only concentrations of eggshell fragments. Correlation of this eggshell with those from the nesting sites shows that, although the Red Rock Locality is of Santonian age rather than Campanian, the structural morphotypes described for Orodromeus, Maiasaura, and ?Troodon also dominate here. In addition, an isolated, gecko-like eggshell was found.
20627096|The first Pliocene marsupial fossil trackways from Australia are described. The trackways, attributed to Euowenia grata (De Vis) (Diprotodontoidea, Marsupialia), occur in the middle Pliocene Tirari Formation, Warburton River, northern South Australia. The trackways were formed as the animals made their way across a soft claypan. Pad impressions, subsequently infilled by a gypsum-cemented clay, indicate how weight was distributed within the pes.
4523974|The phylogenetic relationships of the Late Cretaceous Mongolian sauropods Nemegtosaurus and Quaesitosaurus are controversial. Previous studies have interpreted nemegtosaurids as members of the Diplodocoidea or Titanosauroidea. The conflicting character sets, which support these alternative hypotheses, are examined and critically evaluated. Only two derived states are unique to nemegtosaurids and one or more titanosauroid taxa. At least five synapomorphies (e.g., transverse narrowing of the rostral end of the premaxilla, elongation of the subnarial foramen, and extreme retraction of the external nares) support the inclusion of the nemegtosaurids within the Diplodocoidea, but the presence of the plesiomorphic state cannot always be confirmed in higher titanosauroids. Cladistic analysis supports the hypothesis that nemegtosaurids are the sister-group to a clade containing Rebbachisaurus, dicraeosaurids and diplodocids. Antarctosaurus wichmannianus, a problematic taxon from the Late Cretaceous of Argentina, is placed within the Diplodocoidea (as the sister-taxon to the Nemegtosauridae) by the analysis. Several lines of evidence suggest, however, that the holotype of A. wichmannianus is composed of an amalgam of different sauropod taxa and does not represent a reliable operational taxonomic unit. The distribution of derived states indicates a considerable amount of convergence between the skulls of diplodocoids and higher titanosauroids. Contrary to previous suggestions, many of the apomorphic features of the diplodocoid skull were acquired gradually and do not represent a single complex character.
4522841|A new genus Texomys is recorded from late Hemingfordian and Barstovian deposits of the Texas Coastal Plain and from early Hemingfordian deposits of Panama. The Panamanian T. stewardi is the smallest species of the genus; the Texas Barstovian T. ritchiei (type species) is the largest; and the Texas late Hemingfordian specimens of Texomys sp. are intermediate in size. The genus apparently is not present in early Hemingfordian deposits of the Texas Coastal Plain. This suggests that it originated in Latin North America and appeared on the Texas Coastal Plain during the late Hemingfordian, while continuing a size increase trend. Thus far, Texomys has not been recovered from Clarendonian deposits of Texas.
4524012|A study of ontogenetic variation is used to clarify aspects of tyrannosaurid taxonomy and investigate the supposed phenomenon of dwarfism in the clade. A hypothetical ontogenetic trajectory is described for the relatively well-represented taxon Albertosaurus libratus. The type specimen of the purported "pygmy" tyrannosaurid Nanotyrannus lancensis was compared with specimens of A. libratus and found to share many morphological characters that exemplify immature specimens of the latter taxon. Most of the cortical surface of the Cleveland skull of N. lancensis has immature bone grain. Also, the skull shares unique derived characters with mature specimens of Tyrannosaurus rex, suggesting that the specimen is a young T. rex and not a dwarf tyrannosaurid. An increase in tooth width, accompanied by loss of tooth positions, and a global shift from an immature gracile to a mature robust morphotype in the craniofacial skeleton typifies the ontogenetic changes in T. rex. Similarly, on the basis of immature characters, Maleevosaurus novojilovi is considered to be an immature Tarbosaurus bataar.
4524125|The rollers (Aves: Coraciiformes sensu stricto) from the Middle Eocene of Messel (Hessen, Germany) and the Upper Eocene of the Quercy (France) are described. The "Messel-roller" Eocoracias brachyptera, gen. et sp. nov. is the earliest certain record of rollers known so far and is classified within the new family Eocoraciidae. New excavations in the Quercy and a revision of the earlier collections have produced additional skeletal material which can be assigned to Geranopterus alatus Milne-Edwards, 1892. This species so far has been known from an isolated humerus only. A new species, Geranopterus milneedwardsi, is described from the Upper Eocene of the Quercy and mainly differs from G. alatus in its smaller size. The genus Geranopterus is classified within the new family Geranopteridae which is shown to be the sister taxon of the two recent families Brachypteraciidae and Coraciidae. The Eocoraciidae are the sister taxon of the Coracioidea (Geranopteridae and recent rollers). Outgroup comparison with the basal rollers described in this study suggests that the fairly long wing of the Coraciidae and the elongated tarsometatarsus of the Brachypteraciidae are derived features of these families.
4523385|Late-early Paleocene (Torrejonian) salamanders and lizards from the Gidley and Silberling quarries comprise a rather small but relatively diverse assemblage. Salamanders include the batrachosauroidids Opisthotriton kayi, 0. gidleyi, sp. nov., the scapherpetontid Scapherpeton tectum, and the sirenid Habrosaurus dilatus. Lizards include the xantusiid Palaeoxantusia fera, the enigmatic anguids Machaerosaurus torrejonensis and Proxestops silberlingii, and an indeterminate varanid or necrosaurid. Machaerosaurus torrejonensis is better placed as Anguidae incertae sedis because it lacks any diagnostic (synapomorphic) characters that permit assignment to the "Anguinae." Proxestops jepseni is a junior synonym of Proxestops silberlingii, comb. nov. This assemblage is similar to other Torrejonian assemblages of small amphibians and reptiles from the Western Interior of North America.
30117465|A complete skull of Ursus deningeri recovered from the Middle Pleistocene site of the Sima de los Huesos in the Sierra de Atapuerca (Spain) was studied with computed tomography. This technique makes it possible to study new and relevant information in the endocranial structures and avoids any damage to the specimen. The previously undescribed endocranial cavity of U. deningeri is compared with related species such as Ursus spelaeus Rosenmller 1794 and Ursus arctos Linn 1758. The characters analyzed include the braincase morphology and also quantitative and volumetric measurements, which are only attainable with this technique. In particular, the volume, surface area, and form of the frontal sinuses and brain cavity, the shape of the ethmoid bone, and the basioccipital pneumatization were studied. The resulting analysis supports an ancestor-descendant relationship for the two ursids included in the cave bear phylogenetic lineage (U. deningeri and U. spelaeus). In contrast, U. arctos exhibits a different endocranial morphology, one that seems to be mainly plesiomorphous. Finally, this study has identified several new endocranial characters which are useful in reconstructing ursid phylogeny.
4523817| Fossil mammals are known from 41 localities of Pleistocene age in Costa Rica. Most of these mammals are proboscideans referable to the gomphothere Cuvieronius hyodon. One occurrence of Haplomastodon waringi is known, and Mammuthus columbi from Costa Rica is the southernmost record of Mammuthus in Central America. Less well documented are occurrences of megatheriid and mylodontid ground sloths and glyptodonts. Equus is poorly known from several localities, and the toxodont Mixotoxodon larensis is well known from a single locality. Canis latrans and Tapirus sp., cf. T. terrestris are new records for the Pleistocene of Costa Rica. None of the Costa Rican Pleistocene mammals is directly associated with human artifacts or remains. No endemic taxa of mammals are known from Costa Rica; most are of North American origin. The Costa Rican Pleistocene record is from numerous localities, but consists of one or a few taxa of large mammals and no small mammals at each site, indicating a probable bias towards preservation in high energy fluvial deposits, alluvia, ignimbrites, and lahars, and a collecting and/or preservational bias toward fossils of large size. /// Se conocen 41 localidades de mamferos fsiles del Pleistoceno en Costa Rica. Muchos de estos hallazgos corresponden con proboscdeos referibles en sus caractersticas a los gonfoterios Cuvieronius hyodon. Tan slo una ocurrencia de Haplomastodon waringi y de Mammuthus columbi se ha reportado. Menos documentados son los hallazgos de megaterios, milodontes y gliptodontes. El Equus es pobremente conocido pese a que se han reportado en varios lugares y el Mixotoxodon larensis est bien documentado en una inica localidad. El Canis latrans y el Tapirus sp., cf. T. terrestris son nuevos hallazgos para el Pleistoceno de Costa Rica. Ninguno de estos hallazgos ha estado asociado con artefactos o restos humanos. Ningn taxa endmico se ha registrado, teniendo en su mayora una afinidad norteamericana. El registro de mamferos fsiles de Costa Rica procede de numerosas localidades, sin embargo, en Costa Rica estos sitios presentan una o unas pocas variedades de megamamferos sin micromamferos, indicando una tendencia a preservarse en ambientes volcnicos y sedimentarios de alta energa por causa de la depositacin de lahares, aluviones e ignimbritas, y por la tendencia a ser recolectados fsiles de gran tamao. 
4524456|In the continental deposits of the area of Tollo de Chiclana (Guadix Basin, south-eastern Spain), several new fossiliferous Pliocene localities yield a rich rodent and insectivore fauna. Of the various rodent families that occur in these sites, Muridae are the most abundant and diversified. Eleven species belonging to seven different genera (Occitanomys, Stephanomys, Castillomys, Paraethomys, Apodemus, Rhagapodemus, and Micromys) have been recognized. In this paper we describe the Muridae from these localities, which have great biostratigraphical and paleoecological interest. The presence of certain taxa and the changes in the abundance of the various taxonomic groups indicate a decrease in temperature and a change in the biotopes from Late Ruscinian through Middle Villafranchian in the area of Tollo de Chiclana.
4523781|Microvertebrate remains are described from five formations (Pacoota Sandstone, Horn Valley Siltstone, Stairway Sandstone, Stokes Formation, Carmichael Sandstone) in the Ordovician sequence of the Amadeus Basin, central Australia. Two new genera and species are erected for scales and other elements with distinctive morphology and histology. Other material is referred to indeterminate species of the agnathan genera Arandaspis and Porophoraspis previously described from central Australia, and Sacabambaspis previously described from the Ordovician of Bolivia. The most common vertebrate from the Stokes Formation is referred to Areyonga oervigi, gen. et sp. nov., a form taxon provisionally assigned to the Chondrichthyes. Scales of this species apparently lack a base, and are made of an atubular laminar surface tissue of uncertain histology. Mode of scale growth was similar to that of the Early Devonian form Polymerolepis. If correctly interpreted, this taxon is the oldest chondrichthyan and/or gnathostome known from the fossil record. The form taxon Apedolepis tomlinsonae, gen. et sp. nov. contains scales with possible osteocyte spaces in the basal tissue, and a crown composed of dentine covered with an enamel-like surface layer which also lines chambers of a pore canal system. Affinity to arandaspidid pteraspidomorphs may be indicated by a similar system of pores opening to the surface. A pore-canal system, and bone rather than aspidin, may have been primitively present in agnathans. Indeterminate remains from the early Arenig and Caradoc (Horn Valley Siltstone, Stokes Formation) may include endoskeletal ossification. These new microvertebrate faunas are assigned to four assemblages ranging in age from early Arenigian to Caradocian (Bendigonian-Eastonian). They have biostratigraphic potential for age control in Ordovician marginal marine sediments, and are important in demonstrating new combinations of hard tissue types at the beginning of the vertebrate fossil record.
20627126|The systematics of Galliformes for the period from Pliocene to early Pleistocene is complex, and little progress has been made toward understanding the relationships among the different groups within it. One step has to be to purge taxonomic mistakes progressively accumulated in a systematics clearly inflated with synonymous nominations. But successes of prior attempts have been uneven. This article is intended to be a piece in this discussion and thorough review that must continue. All the fossil bones of galliform birds from Pliocene and early Pleistocene of the Iberian peninsula are reported in this paper. Eight taxathree of them are new speciesappear in two Pliocene and five early Pleistocene fossil localities. Most of these species did not cross the early / middle Pleistocene boundary. Eurasia, and particularly Europe, shelter for the moment the oldest records of some nowadays largely distributed genera of galliforms. Some of these records take place in the span of time considered in this article. The current partition of the Iberian peninsula between Alectoris and Perdix is already patent in the early Pleistocene. Forest-type taxa not present or rare from the middle Pleistocene onwards occurs in the early Pleistocene. The oldest record of the genus Bonasa is likewise reported.
4523332|Specimens of Nothrotheriops shastensis (25 juvenile mandibles or fragments, and 22 maxillae and fragments) from San Josecito Cave, Mexico, Shelter Cave, Conkling Cavern, Rampart Cave, and the tar seeps at Rancho La Brea were examined to determine (1) the patterns of tooth growth, eruption, and wear, and (2) the pattern of anterior facial growth. Although they lack enamel, sloth teeth have a hard outer layer of dentine structurally distinct from the softer central dentine. These two dentine types were present in all specimens, including the smallest juvenile (length of mandibular tooth row = 20.3 mm). Some tooth wear was present in all specimens. The alveoli for the ever-growing teeth extend to the ventral border of the mandibular ramus in adult sloths but not in juveniles. Both maxillary and mandibular tooth roots in juvenile sloths are tilted and curved, but in adults are more vertical and straight. Changes in tooth size and orientation during growth result in size and shape changes in the occlusal surfaces. "Cusp-like" structures form exclusively through dental wear. Based upon comparison of feeding habits and social behavior in Recent tree sloths, it is suggested that N. shastensis was primarily solitary, except when females had dependent young. Young sloths may have had somewhat higher metabolic rates than adults; nevertheless, they probably needed additional protection from cold temperatures. Caves may have been refugia for many generations of females with small to medium sized offspring. Shelter-seeking behavior explains the large concentrations of undisturbed juvenile remains exclusively at these locations.
20490949|Two new tetrapod trace fossil records from the Triassic of Antarctica are described. The first is a giant terminal chamber collected from the lower Fremouw Formation (Lower Triassic) at Wahl Glacier (Beardmore Glacier region, central Transantarctic Mountains). Comparison to South African burrows known to contain the cynodont Thrinaxodon liorhinus, suggests that the Antarctic fossil was created by a tetrapod of similar size. The second set of tetrapod burrow casts was collected from Member 'A' of the Lashly Formation (lower Middle Triassic) and, if correctly interpreted, represent the first evidence of tetrapods from the Middle Triassic of Victoria Land. Our findings demonstrate that tetrapods were present in Victoria Land during the Middle Triassic, despite not being recovered as body fossils until the Upper Triassic in that region. Comparison to morphologically similar South African trace fossils suggests that procolophonids might have produced the Antarctic burrows, but this attribution is necessarily speculative because burrow inhabitants have not been found in situ and no morphological feature uniquely ties procolophonids to this type of trace fossil. We propose that underground burrows and dens were important shelters for Antarctic terrestrial vertebrates during the Triassic, despite a relatively moderate climate.
4522953|Newly discovered tiny fabrosaurid ornithopods from the Late Jurassic Morrison Formation of western Colorado, a related tiny ornithopod Hypsilophodon foxii, two tiny coelurosaurian theropods, Compsognathus longipes and C. corralestris, and Archaeopteryx lithographica are analyzed to determine their probable ontogenetic stage. Based on models of growth of selected living precocial, cursorial birds and on the proportional expression of bone sizes and degree of their ossification, it is suggested that these tiny dinosaurs were subadult to adult and probably grew no larger than domestic chickens (except Hypsilophodon which probably grew to the size of a domestic turkey).
4524751|The bone histology of gorgonopsian, therocephalian and cynodont genera, ranging from the Late Permian to Early Jurassic, was examined. The analysis reveals a predominance of cortical fibrolamellar bone tissue in most skeletal elements. The high prevalence of fibrolamellar bone tissue suggests an overall rapid osteogenesis, but interruptions in the form of annuli and/or LAGs do occur. Inter-elemental histovariation within individuals, such as primary tissue type, cortical porosity, LAGs and annuli, extent of secondary reconstruction and endosteal bone deposition, is observed. In general, propodials were found to have grown faster than epipodials. Distinct growth patterns were identified for each of the genera studied. These growth patterns vary from a cyclical growth pattern in the Late Permian gorgonopsian, Scylacops to fast, sustained growth in the Early Jurassic cynodont, Tritylodon. Growth patterns of contemporaneous genera are also noted and discussed. A possible trend towards fast growth, and an independent decrease or eventual loss of developmental plasticity within the therapsids, is proposed.
41407691|Several studies have quantified selective capability in artiodactyls using skeletal correlates such as the premaxillary shape index (PSI), incisor arcade breadth (IAB), incisor arcade curvature (DOC), and incisor width ratio (IWR). These metrics are limited in their applicability because they do not account for the potential importance of muzzle length. Herein we apply a new method for the quantification of muzzle shape (the dentary shape index [DSI]) that combines dentary length and width. We find that browsers possess the longest, narrowest muzzles, whereas the muzzles of grazers are comparatively short and wide. Discriminant function analysis demonstrates that DSI yields the highest rate of correct dietary classification of all muzzle shape proxies proposed to date. Generalized estimating equations and phylogenetically independent contrasts show that the shape of the anterior dentary (DSI) is significantly correlated with both diet and premaxillary shape (PSI) across the cetartiodactyl tree. We suggest that the match between premaxillary and anterior dentary shape is important in cropping but it is the shape of the lower incisor arcade that is under direct dietary selection. We conclude that the length and width of the anterior dentary are functional determinants of selectivity in ruminant artiodactyls and that these traits have potentially evolved in response to selection for efficient feeding as it is related to the different dietary requirements of browsers and grazers.
4523897|A new sarcopterygian fish, Psarolepis, gen. nov. (Sarcopterygii, Osteichthyes) is described from the Lower Devonian of Eastern Yunnan, China. The new genus manifests many porolepiform-like features that are commonly used to distinguish porolepiforms from osteolepiforms, such as internasal cavity well developed, parasphenoid not protruding forward to ethmoidal region, vomeral area rectangular in shape and not meeting at median line, dorsal part of interorbital wall broad and tectum orbitale well developed, external surface of lower jaw with three large fossae, and well developed parasymphysial plates at anterior tip of lower jaws. This new form also shares some features with Powichthys, Youngolepis and Diabolepis that are not found in typical porolepiforms, such as intracranial joint situated at the level of the trigeminal exit, posterior face of ethmosphenoid facing posteroventrally, X-type skull table, and sutures always visible between premaxilla and the rest of the fronto-ethmoidal shield. Unique features of the new form include: complete lack of ventral or ventrolateral endoskeletal opening of the nasal cavity; extremely short sphenoidal region; presence of postorbital pillar flanking lateral cranial wall; supraorbital sensory canal not reaching anterior part of snout; median rostral toothed and taking part in upper jaw margin; and lower jaw with five coronoids. This new form probably represents a basal member of the clade that includes Powichthys, Youngolepis, Diabolepis and Dipnoi (=Dipnoiformes of Cloutier, 1990). The unusual character combination raises interesting questions about the interrelationship of the Dipnomorpha (sensu Ahlberg, 1991) and helps to illustrate the possible character transformation sequence of the stem lineage of dipnoans.
4524448|Ichthyosaurus and Stenopterygius are the two best-known ichthyosaurs, represented by numerous specimens and having a long history of paleontological study. Despite such advantages, it is shown here that a major error in skull roof reconstruction, which dates back to the time of Richard Owen, still dominates the literature. Contrary to the conventional wisdom, the two genera share a unique feature, namely the separation of the frontal and postfrontal by the prefrontal. This hitherto ignored feature is phylogenetically important for clarifying the validity, synapomorphy, and membership of the Thunnosauria, a clade defined by the two genera. The feature is also useful in basic taxonomy. Many isolated skull specimens from the lower Lias of England are identified as Ichthyosaurus. Some of the skulls lack the prefrontal feature and differ from Ichthyosaurus in several other respects, suggesting that they represent at least one undescribed genus in the Lower Lias of England. This coincides with the previously reported presence of forefin specimens that clearly do not belong to known genera. Lower Liassic ichthyosaurs were more diverse than previously thought.
4522927| The ornithopod dinosaur Hypsilophodon (presumably H. foxii) has been recorded from outside of the classic English Wealden outcrops. The material studied (a metatarsal and phalangeal mash) comes from the Capas Rojas Formation at Morella (Province of Castelln, Spain) and is early Aptian in age. Both the metatarsal and fibular shafts are highly pneumatized. A simple method of measuring the extent of pneumatization is proposed. This additional species from the Spanish locality increases the similarity between faunas of the Wealden and Capas Rojas. 
23251294|The Osteostraci are a morphologically diverse group of jawless fishes considered as sister taxon to jawed vertebrates. Fossil Osteostraci therefore have wide-reaching ramifications for our understanding of the origin and evolution of gnathostomes. Their utility in this context is currently impeded by rudimentary taxonomy of faunas from the United Kingdom. Principal among these is a well-preserved, previously undescribed fauna from the Early Devonian (Lochkovian) of Wayne Herbert Quarry, Herefordshire. Here we provide a description of new osteostracan material from this fauna. Anatomical observations of the character-rich, taxonomically informative headshield, combined with quantitative measurements, have permitted identification of 15 variable characters. From these, seven discrete morphogroups are recognized and used to establish the taxonomy of the material. This includes two new species of Zenaspididae (Zenaspis waynensis and Diademaspis janvieri), two new species of Cornuata incertae sedis (Janaspis newtonensis and J. punctata), two indeterminate species, and Pattenaspis whitei, which is redescribed on the basis of new material. Our analyses indicate that cornuate osteostracan species are likely over-split due to erection of new taxa based on poorly preserved type specimens, inadequate consideration of taphonomic character loss, and over-reliance on continuous rather than discrete characters. Furthermore, patterns of dermoskeleton ornamentation and tessellation of Diademaspis janvieri and Cornuata, gen. indet., sp. B are used to infer mechanisms of dermoskeletal growth. These new data allow incorporation of this fauna into scenarios of osteostracan evolution, considerations of gnathostome origin, and studies of global Lochkovian diversity.
23361072|A new species of salamandrid is named and described from the Miocene of Randeck Maar, a long-term volcanic lake deposit in southern Germany. Based on a fully articulated specimen, Ichthyosaura randeckensis is named and described as a 34 cm long newt with a robust posterolateral process of the frontal, a heavily ornamented skull roof, and a premaxilla with spike-like, parallel alary processes framing a slender fontanelle posteriorly. In a phylogenetic analysis of 14 salamandrid taxa and 38 morphological characters, I. randeckensis is found to nest with I. alpestris, with which it shares apomorphic character states in the morphology of premaxilla and nasal. The present analysis employed more morphological characters than hitherto considered, highlighting the need to conduct more osteological studies of extant salamanders. Its results are largely consistent with recent molecular phylogenetic studies: Tylototriton and Pleurodeles form a clade, with Notophthalmus and Euproctus falling within unresolved trichotomies, followed by Cynops and Ommatotriton as successive crownward clades, then Triturus sensu stricto (T. marmoratus and T. cristatus), and finally Lissotriton and Ichthyosaura as terminal sister taxa.
4524451|A new ankylosaur Hungarosaurus tormai gen. et sp. nov. from the Upper Cretaceous (Santonian) Csehbanya Formation of the Bakony Mountains, western Hungary is described here. Among the four discovered specimens of this new armored dinosaur the best preserved is the most complete ankylosaur presently known from the Upper Cretaceous of Europe. Although many cranial characters of Hungarosaurus are not determinable, a preliminary phylogenetic analysis places Hungarosaurus in the Nodosauridae as a basal nodosaurid. Hungarosaurus is clearly distinguishable from Struthiosaurus on the basis of the dorsoventrally wide quadratojugal, the presence of bony protuberances on the quadratojugal and postorbital, the robust mandibular quadrate condyle, and the interpterygoid vacuity. The analysis suggests that Hungarosaurus appears to be more derived than Struthiosaurus, but more primitive than the North American Silvisaurus, Sauropelta, and Pawpawsaurus.
4524756|Lycopsis longirostris, a middle Miocene Colombian borhyaenoid, is compared functionally with early Miocene borhyaenoids from Patagonia and the Tasmanian thylacine Thylacinus cynocephalus, the largest Recent marsupial carnivore. The postcranium of Lycopsis shows a mosaic of features. Although several features characterizing the long bones are consistent with a primarily terrestrial mode of life (e.g., a straight ulna and tibia, a semi-digitigrade forefoot), other features like the development of mm. spinati, pectoralis and biceps and the pseudo-opposable pollex indicate that the forelimb had manipulative and grasping abilities. On the hindlimb, the poorly stabilized lower ankle joint, the short metatarsals, and the well-developed hallux also preclude fast running. When compared to three early Miocene borhyaenoids, Prothylacinus patagonicus, Cladosictis patagonica, and Borhyaena tuberata, which form a morphological gradient from the most arboreally-adapted taxon to an incipient cursorial one, Lycopsis is placed between Cladosictis and Borhyaena. Lycopsis was more likely an ambush hunter than a pounce-pursuit predator, stalking small-to medium-sized prey.
40864392|In the last 30 years, the Two Medicine Formation of western Montana has provided a wealth of information about dinosaur reproductive biology. Here, we describe a fossil egg-bearing stratum that occurs approximately 105 m above the base of the formation. This site in the Sevenmile Hill outcrops south of Choteau, Montana, lies immediately above a volcanic tuff and bentonite, dated as 80.0 Ma. Spherulitic eggshells from a quarry at this locality are similar to Spheruprismatoolithus candensus Bray, 1999, which were assigned to the oofamily Prismatoolithidae. However, we refer this eggshell to the Spheroolithidae Zhao, 1979, as Spheroolithus choteauensis, oosp. nov. The quarry also produced Triprismatoolithus stephensi, oogen. et oosp. nov. These symmetrical 30 mm  75 mm prismatic eggs exhibit three structural layers of calcite and round tubercles on the shell surface. Four additional ootaxa occurred at the First Find Microsite (OTM 99-19): Prismatoolithus hirschi, oosp. nov.; Tubercuoolithus tetonensis, oogen. et oosp. nov.; Continuoolithus canadensis Zelenitsky et al., 1996; and Krokolithes Hirsch, 1985. Spheroolithus choteauensis, T. stephensi, P. hirschi, T. tetonensis, and Krokolithes are unique to the lowermost Two Medicine Formation, whereas C. canadensis may occur elsewhere in the middle and upper strata of the Two Medicine and Oldman formations of Montana and Alberta, respectively. Although poorly represented by dinosaur osteological remains, the lower Two Medicine Formation locality yields egg types that suggest a significant difference in faunal composition compared to the middle and upper portions of the formation.
4524417|A new Middle Jurassic xinjiangchelyid turtle from China, Xinjiangchelys chowi sp. nov., is described from the Toutunhe Formation of the southern Junggar Basin, southwest of Urumchi (NW China). The material consists of a nearly complete carapace and the right hypoplastron. It shows important autapomorphies of the family Xinjiangchelyidae and the genus Xinjiangchelys: first neural larger than second, anterior peripherals guttered, posterior peripherals expanded, a reduced first thoracic rib, and lateral pegs of the bridge of the plastron. It is distinguished from all other species of Xinjiangchelys by the following autapomorphies: a first costal rib with free rib end, at least two anterolateral peripheral fontanelles of the carapace, a thin plastron with large lateral fontanelles, and a median hypoplastral suture with strong pegs. These features indicate that X chowi is the most derived xinjiangchelyid turtle hitherto known. Together with X. tianshanensis, this is the oldest xinjiangchelyid turtle known so far. Therefore, a long ghost lineage must be claimed for the Xinjiangchelyidae.
4523687|A genus and species of dipnoan, originally described as Proceratodus carlinvillensis by Romer and Smith (1934), from Pennsylvanian deposits in Illinois, is assigned to the genus Sagenodus. It is identical in characters reliable at the generic level to the type species of Sagenodus, and differs significantly from species of the related genera Ctenodus and Tranodis. Romer and Smith's specimen is quite unlike any species of the genus Ceratodus or Neoceratodus and cannot be regarded as a primitive ceratodont. The specimen is also affected by a developmental abnormality called short ridge anomaly. Incidences of this aberration are widespread among dipnoan species, but have no diagnostic importance at the specific and generic level.
41515060|Here we present the bone histology of Gasparinisaura cincosaltensis, a basal ornithopod from the Late Cretaceous of Patagonia, and discuss its biological implications. The sample includes axial and appendicular elements from several specimens of different ontogenetic stages. The cortex of most bones consists of fibro-lamellar tissue, with mainly longitudinally oriented vascular spaces, which suggests rapid osteogenesis and fast growth. However, the fibro-lamellar bone is commonly interrupted by lines of arrested growth and/or annuli composed of parallel-fibered bone that indicates that the rapid growth was periodic. Although a true outer circumferential layer was not recorded in any of the sampled elements, in several of the larger samples the woven-fibered matrix of the inner and middle cortex grades into a parallel-fibered tissue, which suggests that the attainment of sexual maturity occurred before skeletal maturity. The growth dynamics of Gasparinisaura are similar to those reported in other basal ornithopods. Inter-elemental, as well as intraspecific, variations in histology were observed in Gasparinisaura. Such variation could be the result of sexual dimorphism, or the effect of localized conditions of growth, or perhaps plasticity in growth in response to local environmental conditions.
41407715|The Jebel Qatrani Formation in the Fayum Depression, Egypt, has yielded a diverse hyracoid fauna that includes both small-and large-bodied forms. Thyrohyrax domorictus is one of the most common hyracoids found in the upper sequence of the Formation, from sites dating to between 29 and 31 Ma. The dental morphology of  domorictus is more similar to that of living hyraxes than other Paleogene species, but additional morphological evidence is needed to test the hypothesis of procaviid affinities. Two fairly complete crania of T. domorictus are now known and provide a number of additional craniofacial characters for phylogenetic analysis. The specimens are comparable in size to other small-bodied Fayum hyracoids and extant procaviids. T. domorictus has a relatively long rostrum that is perforated by a nasomaxillary fossa, which is also present in Miocene Afrohyrax and Prohyrax and older Thyrohyrax pygmaeus. The anterior border of the orbit is positioned above the molars, and the orbital aperture is closed posteriorly by a complete postorbital bar. Compared to other Fayum hyracoids, T.domorictus exhibits relatively derived, and more procaviid-like, cranial morphology. The cranium of T. domorictus is most similar to that of the extant genus Dendrohyrax, and they share similar morphology of the orbit and cranial roof. Phylogenetic analysis including morphological and molecular data from a large sample of living and extinct afrotherians places Thyrohyrax domorictus as the closest known Paleogene relative of Procaviidae and Pliohyracidae, supporting the hypothesis of procaviid affinities that was originally proposed solely on the basis of dental morphology.
4523977|Paraentelodon Gabuniya, 1964 (=Neoentelodon Aubekerova, 1969) is a giant entelodont known from the Georgian Republic, Kazakstan, and Gansu, People's Republic of China. The genus is distinguished by the following autapomorphies: I1/i1 much smaller than I2/i2, which are slightly smaller than I3/i3; single, large, flange-like dentary tubercle under p2; p2 very large and larger than p4; and upper molars (especially M2) with well-developed paraconules and metaconules. The few known specimens of Paraentelodon represent a single species, P. intermedium Gabuniya, 1964 (=N. dzhungaricus Aubekerova, 1969; =P. macrognathus Qiu, Xie and Yan, 1990). All Paraentelodon localities appear to be of late Oligocene age, not early Miocene as some previous workers have claimed.
4523574|A new sphenodontian lepidosaur referable to Clevosaurus Swinton, 1939, C. bairdi, is described from the McCoy Brook Formation (Lower Jurassic: Hettangian) of Nova Scotia, Canada. It is most closely related to C. mcgilli Wu, 1994 from the Dark Red Beds of the Lower Lufeng Formation (Lower Jurassic) of Yunnan, China, and differs from the latter mainly in the absence of the hourglass-shaped constriction of the parietals, the shape of the suborbital fenestra, and in features of the marginal dentition. The new taxon is of considerable interest because it represents the first record of Clevosaurus from North America. Like many other early Mesozoic continental tetrapods, Clevosaurus had an apparently Pangaean geographic distribution.
4522981| The marine vertebrate fauna collected from the Gatln Formation, middle Miocene of Panama, includes the following genera in the non-otolith assemblage: Carcharodon, Procarcharodon, Ginglymostoma, Hemipristis, Galeocerdo, cf. Carcharhinus, Sphyrna, cf. Isistius, Dasyatis, Myliobatis, Rhinoptera, Aetobatus, Acipenser, Sphyraena, Trichiurus, Lepisosteus, and unidentified crocodilian, chelonian, and mammalian taxa. The otolith assemblage consists of 20 taxa of bony fishes. The fauna contains a mixture of marine forms representing coastal to open-water habitats. The Gatn ichthyofauna compares favorably to the Miocene selachian fauna from Ecuador, the Miocene ichthyofaunas from the Caribbean, and the large ichthyofauna from the Pungo River Formation in North Carolina, U.S.A. These tropical occurrences collectively represent the vertebrate fauna of the Tertiary Caribbean Faunal Province that reached its greatest interoceanic connection between the Pacific and the Caribbean in the Miocene. The provincial limit of the Miocene vertebrates extended beyond the central Gulf of Mexico to include the southeast coast of the United States. /// La fauna vertebrada marina que se ha recogido de la formacin Gatn, la cual se data del Perodo Mioceno medio de Panam, incluye los siguientes generos dentro de la coleccin nootolitica: Carcharodon, Procarcharodon, Ginglymostoma, Hemipristis, Galeocerdo, cf. Carcharhinus, Sphyrna, cf. Isistius, Dasyatis, Myliobatis, Rhinoptera, Aetobatus, Acipenser, Sphyraena, Trichiurus, Lepisosteus; adems, se han encontrado en esta coleccin los fragmentos de crocodilia, chelonia, y ?mamfera an no identificados. La coleccin otoltica consiste de 20 categorias compuestas de osteicthyes distintas. La fauna est compuesta de diversas formas marinas, incluyendo aquellas que habitan las zonas costeras hasta las zonas de altamar. La ictiofauna Gatn se puede comparar con la fauna selaciana del Mioceno de Ecuador, la ictiofauna miocena del Caribe y la gran ictiofauna de la formacin Pungo River del estado de North Carolina, EE.UU.A. Estas faunas tropicales representan en conjunto la fauna vertebrada de la Provincia Faunal del Caribe del Terciario la qual alcanz durante el Mioceno su mayor conexin inter-ocenica entre el Pacfico y el Caribe. El lmite provincial de los vertebrados del Mioceno se extendi no solamente hasta el golfo central de Mxico sino hasta la costa sureste de los Estados Unidos. 
4523649|A cervical vertebra, collected from Upper Cretaceous (?Santonian) sediments in eastcentral Peru, is described and assigned to the genus Halisaurus. The Peruvian specimen shows the centrum and condyle-cotyle morphology considered to characterize halisaurines. The centrum is elongate and extremely compressed dorsoventrally, as are the cotyle and condyle. The condylar facet also has a dorsally expanded articular surface. The hypapophysis is very large and flared distally. A morphometric comparison of centrum shape characters in mosasaur cervical vertebrae shows characteristic generic and family-level variations in the cervical column. In halisaurines, cervical series variation is unique between cervicals three to five. We find that qualitative identification of isolated halisaurine cervicals is supported by quantitative analyses which evaluate the degree of dorsal-ventral compression. The known diversity of halisaurines is limited and many age and locality records are based on cervical vertebrae. This record significantly expands the geographic and temporal range of halisaurine mosasaurs and is a first report for South America. The stratigraphically earliest halisaurine is North American (Coniacian-Santonian), followed by lower Campanian to upper Maastrichtian specimens from North America, and specimens from the upper Maastrichtian of central Africa and western Europe.
40864394|We report the discovery of a specimen of Tenontosaurus tilletti from the Cloverly Formation that bears lesions we interpret as bite marks of Deinonychus antirrhopus. Some of the bite marks are in the form of exceptionally deep punctures through the long bone cortices. These provide a rare opportunity to estimate the bite-force capacities of this taxon through tooth indentation simulations. These experiments showed that approximately 4100 N of bite force were required to generate one of the bite marks, and 8200 N would have been generated simultaneously at a distal-most tooth position. These values are higher than those reported for large carnivoran mammals but similar to values recorded for comparably sized crocodilians. Although current evidence does not indicate how D. antirrhopus actually used its claws and teeth to acquire prey resources, it is clear that large individuals were capable of generating forces great enough to bite through bone.
20627117|Pseudodalatiids, a chondrichthyan family of uncertain phylogenetic affinities, have been hitherto exclusively known from the tooth-based species Pseudodalatias barnstonensis (Sykes, 1971), which has a stratigraphic range restricted to the Upper Triassic of Europe. Pseudodalatias presents a characteristic dentition which allows it to hold and cut its prey, showing a neoselachian design, but lacking the triple-layered enameloid microstructure of neoselachian teeth. The discovery of Pseudodalatias henarejensis nov. sp. in the Ladinian of Spain extends the stratigraphical range and the palaeogeographical distribution of this family. This new species also demonstrates that a cutting-clutching dentition evolved progressively in the family Pseudodalatidiidae. Pseudodalatiids are likely to represent stem-batoids or stem-neoselachians rather than aberrant hybodonts.
20491083|In the late Oligocene and early Miocene of North America, beavers (Castoridae) diversified into two lineages of burrowing specialists, the Palaeocastorinae and Migmacastorinae. Although common in the fossil record, artefactual evidence of burrowing beaver habits is rare and thus the ecology of most species is unknown. Living fossorial rodents display three distinct digging modes: scratch, chisel-tooth, and head-lift digging. We used a geometric morphometric approach to examine how digging behaviors are reflected in the craniodental shape of a broad sample of extant rodents, and then used the results to infer the digging modes of 18 extinct beaver species. Ecomorphological analyses revealed differences in skull shape related to digging habits, which can be used to discriminate the digging modes of extant rodents. Extant rodents with similar digging habits show convergent morphology, suggesting this method could be applied to extinct rodents, regardless of ancestry, to accurately infer their locomotor ecologies. The Oligocene to Miocene radiation of burrowing beavers included specialized chisel-tooth and head-lift digging species, which likely filled similar roles to living fossorial and subterranean species. Climate changes toward cooler, drier, and more open habitats correspond with the diversification of burrowing beavers. The subsequent radiation of other fossorially adapted rodent species likely led to competition with, and the extinction of, burrowing beavers.
4524247|We describe the osteology of the new small theropod dinosaur Masiakasaurus knopfleri, from the Late Cretaceous Maevarano Formation of northwestern Madagascar. Approximately 40% of the skeleton is known, including parts of the jaws, axial column, forelimb, pelvic girdle, and hind limb. The jaws of Masiakasaurus are remarkably derived, bearing a heterodont, procumbent dentition that is unknown elsewhere among dinosaurs. The vertebrae are similar to those of abelisauroids in the reduction of the neural spine, lack of pleurocoelous fossae on the centrum, and extensively pneumatized neural arch. The limb skeleton is relatively gracile and bears numerous abelisauroid synapomorphies, including a rounded humeral head, peg- and-socket iliac-pubic articulation, prominent femoral medial epicondyle, expanded tibial cnemial crest, and double-grooved pedal unguals. The femora and tibiae show evidence of dimorphism. More specific features shared between Masiakasaurus, the Argentine Noasaurus, and the Indian Laevisuchus suggest that these taxa form a clade (Noasauridae) within Abelisauroidea. This is supported by a cladistic phylogenetic analysis of 158 characters and 23 theropod taxa. Additionally, Ceratosauria is rendered paraphyletic in favor of a sister-taxon relationship between Neoceratosauria and Tetanurae that is exclusive of Coelophysoidea. The unique dental and jaw specializations of Masiakasaurus suggest deviation from the typical theropod diet. Finally, the distribution of noasaurids further supports a shared biogeographic history between South America, Madagascar, and India into the Late Cretaceous.
4523027|The first specimen of the giant marine snake Pterosphenus Lucas is recorded from a carbonate platform environment in the Late Eocene (Jackson Age) of the Crystal River Formation of Alachua County, Florida. The great enlargement of the marrow cavities and concomitant thinning of the vertebral walls are interpreted as specializations to a completely aquatic and fully marine habitus. The Florida specimen indicates that Pterosphenus was not limited to estuarine and low salinity environments as previously proposed.
4522935|A review of the evidence suggests that ancestral placoderms were not armored, but that dermal bones were acquired, independently of Osteichthyes, probably in the Late Silurian. It is believed that these ancestors were covered with denticles or tesserae, some of which were retained in a few Devonian orders. Primitive forms lacked the placoderm dermal cranial bone pattern that is recognizable in most orders; they also lacked a trunk shield which was derived in more advanced orders from the ancestral shoulder girdle. The evolutionary significance of some dermal bones is discussed: in the skull, the centrals, postpineal, nuchal, "premedian," postnasals, and paranuchals; in the trunk shield, the anterior ventro-laterals, intero-laterals, antero-ventrals, anterior medio-ventrals, spinals, and posterior ventro-laterals.
4523926|Hanosaurus hupehensis was believed to represent a Middle Triassic thalattosaur from the People's Republic of China. Redescription of the holotype and only known specimen, and cladistic analysis of its interrelationships, shows Hanosaurus to represent a distinct pachypleurosaur. The two Chinese pachypleurosaurs, Keichousaurus and Hanosaurus, form two consecutive sister-groups to European pachypleurosaurs, strengthening the Asiatic affinities of the clade. Addition of Hanosaurus furthermore results in a modification of pachypleurosaur interrelationships as previously reconstructed: the pachypleurosaurs from the Germanic Triassic (Anarosaurus, Dactylosaurus) form a monophyletic clade, which is sister-group to the monophyletic clade of Alpine pachypleurosaurs (Serpianosaurus, Neusticosaurus). Thalattosauria are the sister-group of Sauropterygia, the two clades possibly representing a single invasion of the Mesozoic sea. However, more detailed knowledge of thalattosaur anatomy is required to further test the phylogenetic relationships of thalattosaurs.
30126344|A new assemblage of Cingulata (Xenarthra) from the late Pleistocene of northwestern Venezuela is reported. The fauna includes Dasypus sabanicola, Propraopus sulcatus, and Pampatherium humboldtii, all three of which are reported for the first time from the Venezuelan Pleistocene. Glyptodon clavipes is also reported. A systematic problem with the species of Propraopus is reported, with a suggestion for the probable inclusion of Dasypus bellus, Dasypus (Hyperoambon) kappleri, and Propraopus with its two valid species, P. punctatus and P. sulcatus, in the same genus. Hyperoambon Peters, 1865 would have seniority over Propraopus Ameghino, 1881 and would include four species, the extant D. kappleri, and the extinct D. bellus, P. punctatus, and P. sulcatus. The paleoecological aspects of the Mene de Inciarte Cingulata reflect a complex and heterogenic faunal community dominated mainly by savanna elements with some forest elements that could represent seasonally dry forest.
30117452|Siamamia naga, gen. et sp. nov, is described on the basis of three partly articulated skulls and a collection of isolated ossifications from a continental Early Cretaceous Formation of northeastern Thailand. The new taxon is a sinamiid halecomorph as demonstrated by the median parietal and other cranial characters, Sinamiidae is hitherto known by two genera occurring in Early Cretaceous freshwater deposits in China. Although a complete revision of all species within the family is necessary, the Thai material shows characters justifying a new genus. It is the first sinamiid found outside eastern Asia (South and North Chinese blocks, plus small Central Asian terranes), thus validating the close paleogeographical affinities between mainland Asia and SE Asia in the Early Cretaceous. A preliminary phylogenetic assessment of the new taxon with the data matrix of Grande and Bemis (1998) with the addition of data for Siamamia and Tomognathus provides a strict consensus tree similar to the phylogenetic hypothesis of Halecomorphi proposed by these authors, except the basal-most amiids which show a lower resolution in our hypothesis. The Sinamiidae appear as a monophyletic clade, but the four taxa included in the analysis form a polytomy.
41407662|Complete sauropod pedes are rare in the fossil record, which has limited their use in systematics. We describe a nearly complete, large sauropod pes from the Maastrichtian-age Naashoibito Member of the Kirtland Formation of New Mexico, U. S. A., that bears synapomorphies of some eusauropod clades, such as the presence of metatarsal I with a wide shaft and laterally deflected pedal unguals. Novel pedal characters presented herein, such as the presence of an embayment on the proximomedial corner of metatarsal IV, suggest that the Naashoibito specimen likely belongs to a titanosauriform. Based on its provenance, the Naashoibito specimen likely belongs to the derived titanosaur Alamosaurus sanjuanensis, which is the only recognized Late Cretaceous titanosaur in North America. However, formal referral to Alamosaurus awaits discovery of overlapping materials with the holotype or definitively referred remains. The holotypic scapula of Alamosaurus sanjuanensis is diagnostic, providing a basis for referral of some other Maastrichtian North American titanosaur specimens to the genus. Confirmation of these referrals and the description of the pes presented herein augment the data relevant to the systematic problems that have historically surrounded Alamosaurus.
4523761|An undescribed genus and species of pachyosteomorph arthrodire, Squamatognathus steeprockensis gen. et sp. nov., from the Middle Devonian (Eifelian) Elm Point Formation in Manitoba is described. It was found in the LaFarge Quarry at Steep Rock, Manitoba, and is represented by the anterior portion of a large, right inferognathal with a large terminal cusp, similar to inferognathals of the family Dinichthyidae. It has unique sculpture on the lingual surface not reported from any other dinichthyid arthrodire.
4524505|A new species of menid fish, Mene purdyi is described from northwestern Peru. A Paleocene age (late Thanetian) is estimated for the specimen based on biostratigraphic analysis of planktonic foraminifers recovered from the surrounding matrix. Possible explanations for discrepancies between this result and previous interpretations of an Oligocene age are explored. Stable isotopic analysis of foraminifers associated with the fossil allows for general characterization of the thermal profile of the depositional environment. The small temperature gap between distinct depth- ecological foraminifer assemblages inferred from 
40864366|We describe Galadi speciosus, gen. et sp nov., the second peramelemorphian (Yarala burchfieldi being the first) to be described from Oligo-Miocene deposits of Riversleigh World Heritage Property, northwestern Queensland. G. speciosus is represented by relatively complete craniodental material, including an exceptionally well-preserved skull. This taxon exhibits several apomorphies that clearly place it in the order Peramelemorphia, but it appears to be more plesiomorphic than any modern bandicoot. We present the first morphological phylogenetic analyses of Peramelemorphia, using 51 craniodental characters. Our analyses recover Yarala and Galadi speciosus outside crown group Peramelemorphia, with G. speciosus weakly supported as the sister taxon of the crown group. The craniodental morphology of G speciosus, particularly its robust skull and proportionately short and broad snout, suggests that it filled a different ecological niche to extant bandicoots. We hypothesize that G. speciosus occupied a predominantly faunivorous, dasyurid-like niche in the Oligo-Miocene rainforests of Riversleigh, at a time when dasyurids appear to have been relatively rare.
20627085|A broad survey of crocodyliform archosaurs and their outgroups was conducted to explore the evolutionary and morphological patterns of the orbitotemporal region, which is a highly apomorphic but poorly understood portion of the head. Data were gathered on the topological similarity and phylogenetic congruence of the epipterygoid, laterosphenoid, and temporal region as a whole, including relevant osteological correlates and such inferred soft tissues as the trigeminal nerves and jaw musculature. Despite the complete suturing of the palatocranial junction, the epipterygoid remained a consistent cranial element throughout crocodyliform evolution, only to be replaced by the topologically analogous, but developmentally neomorphic lateral bridge of the laterosphenoid during the early evolution of eusuchians. These changes led to a unique morphology of the region surrounding the exit of the trigeminal nerve. Mesoeucrocodylian taxa exhibit a diversity of epipterygoid morphologies including waisted (e.g., Araripesuchus), overlapping (e.g., Sarcosuchus), and isolated (e.g., Goniopholis, Leidyosuchus) forms. The isolated form, in which the epipterygoid is uncoupled from the pterygoid and does not to cover the cavum epiptericum laterally, represents a key transition to the extant condition of loss of the epipterygoid. Changes in the epipterygoid coincide with the migration of M. pseudotemporalis superficialis onto the laterosphenoid outside of the dorsotemporal fossa and the topological change in the intermuscular path of the maxillary nerve, both of which are apomorphies found in extant crocodylians. These data reflect a diverse and potentially homoplastic distribution of orbitotemporal morphologies among mesoeucrocodylians and indicate that the epipterygoid was only recently eliminated in crocodyliform evolution.
20062014|Previously, known specimens of the Lochkovian (Lower Devonian) diplacanthid acanthodian genus Tetanopsyrus (all from the MOTH locality in the Northwest Territories, Canada) were thought to belong to a single species, T. lindoei. New specimens from the same locality have shown that two species are present. Tetanopsyrus lindoei is revised and T. breviacanthias, sp. nov. is described, leading to a revised diagnosis of the genus. Both species lack rostral tesserae; instead they have irregularly-shaped, monodontode, rostral scales without basal tissue and with an open pulp cavity. Both species also have enlarged, tuberculated, anterior circumorbital plates. Dorsal spines are shallowly inserted and each is supported by a basal plate that ossified early in ontogeny. The two species are distinguished from each other by the structure of the dorsal spines, the length of the pectoral spines, and the shape of the procoracoids. The revision of Tetanopsyrus has implications also for relationships among acanthodian families. Both Tetanopsyrus (Tetanopsyridae) and Gladiobranchus (Gladiobranchidae) are seen as displacanthiforms rather than as ischnacanthiforms. Similarities are found in the jaws, circumorbital plates, anterior dorsal spine, dorsal spine basal plates, prepelvic spines, and scapulocoracoids. Other potential relatives of diplacanthids include Uraniacanthus, which has similarities in prepelvic and dorsal spines, and Culmacanthus, whose relationships cannot be settled without further study.
23251284|How is the bone tissue in skeletal supports of a neonatal elephant organized, and how does this histological structure differ among the neonates of modern species, mammoths, and insular dwarfs? We used synchrotron X-ray microtomography (SR-CT) to obtain high-resolution image-'slices' noninvasively, from the femoral and tibial diaphyses of neonatal African elephants, a young juvenile Asian elephant, Columbian mammoths, and California Channel Island pygmy mammoths. The results compared favorably in level of detail with histological sectioning, but without the shrinkage, distortion, or loss of tissue inevitable with histology. From the tomography images we were able to rank by ontogenetic stage specimens of taxa that are otherwise difficult to categorize because they vary greatly in size; from these images we observed that laminar fibrolamellar bone predominated and were able to quantify vascular patterns. Bones of the Columbian mammoth typically had the thickest and largest number of laminae, whereas the insular dwarfs were notable in their variability. A distinct change in tissue microstructure marks the boundary between prenatal and postnatal periosteal bone deposition. Qualitatively, patterns of early bone growth of elephantids resemble those in many young tetrapods that grow into large adults, including sauropod dinosaurs.
42568537|Although selachian fossil remains have been studied for nearly three centuries, little is known about their evolutionary history. Recent studies have suggested different timings of early diversification events in the Late Triassic, Jurassic, and Early Cretaceous. However, Late Cretaceous selachian diversity has remained little explored despite numerous and diversified selachian assemblages known from this time interval. Sampling standardization, origination/extinction rates, and raw ordinal diversity were examined based on taxonomic occurrences in three data sets representing distinct geographical areas (Anglo-Paris Basin, northwestern Europe, and Western Interior Seaway) spanning the Cenomanian-Campanian interval. This examination allowed the identification of regional diversity events, previously reported for some invertebrate groups, but presented for the first time for a marine vertebrate group. The local mid-Cenomanian diversity drop (Anglo-Paris Basin) is interpreted as a possible consequence of changes in bottom seawater conditions related to the rapid mid-Cenomanian transgression. The Cenomanian/Turonian faunal turnover is likely to be due to various sampling biases (Anglo-Paris Basin and northwestern Europe), but a genuine extinction in the Western Interior Seaway cannot be excluded. The Santonian diversity peak synchronous with a marked global increase in seawater temperatures contrasts with the rapid temperature decrease linked with low diversity in the early Campanian.
4524720|The temnospondyl amphibian Slaugenhopia texensis from the late Leonardian (Early Permian) San Angelo Formation of Knox County, north- central Texas, was described as a trimerorhachid by Olson. Restudy of the material shows it to be a member of the Tupilakosauridae and thus a more derived member of the clade Dvinosauria than the trimerorhachids. It possesses derived character-states of the Tupilakosauridae, including the reduced postfrontal, the postorbital-parietal suture, and the posterior pterygoid notch, but lacks the embolomerous centra of the Triassic tupilakosaurids. It is the earliest and most primitive tupilakosaurid and extends the history of the group back to the end of the Early Permian.
40864362|Many current debates about biodiversity and large-scale evolution have identified the need for comprehensive species inventories. Such species lists may be incomplete because more collecting is needed, or because of errors by systematists. Empirical studies show that error rates are high, as much as 3050% for many living and fossil groups. A clear requirement is skilled systematists, and more of them; but who does the best work? An empirical investigation of the 321 authors who named all 1400 species of dinosaurs since 1824 shows that prolific authors do worse than authors who name only a few dinosaurs, and the key difference is between the 147 authors who named only one species, and the 174 who named two or more. The most prolific author was Othniel Marsh, who named 98 species of dinosaurs (including 80 non-avian dinosaurs and 18 Mesozoic birds), but only 35 (36%) of his names are currently regarded as valid. The poor showing by prolific authors is not a result of their working at different times over the last two centuries, nor on dinosaurs of a particular age, body size, or quality class, nor that their work has been over-revised, but most likely because many prolific authors of dinosaur species names have been too interested in splitting species. Current tougher refereeing standards and international communication should continue to improve standards in naming new taxa.
20627151|Morphological studies of fossil and extant shark teeth have typically been qualitative in nature, with resulting taxonomic problems due to the complicated forms of heterodonty exhibited by many sharks. This is apparent in the designation of fossil species assigned to Isurus (Lamniformes), where the status of the putative Neogene fossil species Isurus xiphodon and I. hastalis is solely based upon supposed differences in tooth morphology. Here we apply the geometric morphometric techniques of Procrustes superimposition, resampling-based Goodall's F-test, and canonical variates analysis to extant Isurus teeth, with the goal of assessing whether these quantitative analytical techniques provide a more objective basis for taxonomic decisions than do traditional qualitative morphological descriptions. These quantitative techniques are then applied to I. hastalis and I. xiphodon to examine whether I. xiphodon should be considered a junior synonym of I. hastalis or a separate species. Results show that geometric morphometric techniques can differentiate between the two extant species as well as the two extinct species, supporting I. xiphodon as a valid taxon. We suggest that this type of analysis is applicable for examining tooth-based species delimitations of sharks with both extant and extinct members, and has the potential to be applied to other fossil shark species as well.
40666204|New associated cranial and postcranial remains of a new genus and species of Mylodontinae: Lestobradys sprechmanni, gen. et. sp. nov (Mammalia: Xenarthra), were found on the coast of Kiyu beach (San Jos, southern Uruguay). The specimens described are from the late Miocene (Huayquerian SALMA) sediments of Camacho Formation. The mandibular configuration of this new taxon differs from all well-known members of the family in presenting a first alveolus strongly projected toward the labial region that is separated from the rest of the alveoli of the dental series by a marked diastema. It additionally differs in its combination of a subtriangular second alveolus, subquadrangular third alveolus, and a bilobed last alveolus. An incomplete skull, three thoracic vertebrae, and two caudal vertebrae were associated with the mandibular remains. We also refer a complete and well-preserved right astragalus to the new species. Aspects of the history, systematics, and taxonomy of the Mylodontidae and their proposed subfamilies are discussed.
4522852|Repomys is a new genus of hypsodont cricetine from the late Neogene of California and Nevada. Three new species define its known temporal and geographic distribution: Repomys gustelyi n. sp. (type species), late Hemphillian, Mojave Desert, California; Repomys maxumi n. sp., early Blancan, San Francisco Bay area, California; and Repomys panacaensis n. sp., middle Blancan, southeastern Nevada. Repomys resembles the "wood rats" in development of hypsodonty, but this resemblance is the result of parallel evolution. The dental morphology of Repomys is much more similar to Nelsonia neotomodon Merriam from the living fauna of Mexico, and this similarity suggests an ancestor-descendant relationship.
4523710|The history of discoveries of new species of euornithopod dinosaurs, merychippine horses, and hominid primates is analyzed using cladistic analyses. Using decade-by-decade additions of newly discovered species, these analyses were used to evaluate changes in tree topology and completeness of the fossil record of each clade. Most discoveries have been assimilated by and thus have strengthened prior phylogenetic patterns. Discoveries have also overthrown prior tree topologies. In addition, new species have either widened or closed previously-recognized stratigraphic gaps implied by phylogeny, or in some cases even revealed new gaps. In this way, discoveries can increase the patchiness of the fossil record. Such gaps may disclose aspects of yet undiscovered, but deducible diversity from the Earth's past biotas.
20061987|Four new ungulate species described here from the early middle Eocene Uzunarsidere Formation, near Ankara, Turkey present a phylogenetic and biogeographic puzzle. The four species, known from jaws, teeth, and skull and postcranial fragments, share a suite of diagnostic dental features (selenolophodont molars, all lower molars lacking hypoconulids, premolars with metacones small or absent, and narrow, short premolar talonids) and are included in a single new genus, Hilalia. Hilalia saribeya, H. selanneae, H. sezerorum, and H. robusta are distinguished from each other by size and details of premolar morphology. Cladistic analysis indicates that although Hilalia shares a common ancestor with perissodactyls, hyracoids and some "condylarths" to the exclusion of artiodactyls, its position relative to those taxa is unresolved--the calcaneum lacks derived features of artiodactyl, perissodactyl or hyracoid calcanea, some features of Hilalia's molar morphology are convergent with features in some hyracoids, perissodactyls, and selenolophodont "condylarths", and Hilalia has more primitive premolars than most members of those groups. The affinities of some other members of the Uzunarsidere mammal fauna, including an embrithopod, marsupials, and a possible proboscidean, have suggested that central Anatolia may have served as a biogeographic crossroads for mammalian dispersal among Asia, Africa, and Europe during the early Paleogene. However, the absence of convincing links between Hilalia and any of the increasingly well-known Paleogene ungulates of Asia, Indo-Pakistan, and Africa, or those of Europe and North America suggests that our understanding of early Paleogene ungulate evolution and biogeography is far from complete.
40666163|A fragmentary skull from the Hell Creek Formation (Maastrichtian) of southwestern North Dakota represents a new taxon of baenid turtle named herein Gamerabaena sonsalla. The length of the frontals, jugal contribution to the labial ridge, and convex contact between the vomer and the pterygoids indicate its affinities with the clade Palatobaena, but the new taxon clearly lacks the great posterior expansion of the triturating surface, complete absence of a lingual ridge, subrectangular skull, and wide angle between the maxillae that diagnose Palatobaena spp. A maximum parsimony analysis provides strong support for G. sonsalla as sister taxon to Palatobaena spp. Gamerabaena sonsalla has several morphological features that are intermediate between Plesiobaena antiqua and the morphologically disparate Palatobaena spp., including orbits that are oriented slightly dorsally and moderately expanded posterior triturating surfaces. Our phylogenetic analysis, combined with stratigraphie arguments, indicates that our skull-based taxon G. sonsalla could belong to the shell-based taxon "Baena" hayi. Similarly, the skull taxa Hayemys latifrons and Eubaena cephalica may be synonymous with the shell taxa Thescelus insiliens and "Baena" hatcheri, respectively.
4524095|The type specimen of the enigmatic marine reptile Omphalosaurus is reexamined to test its postulated affinity with the Ichthyopterygia. Some of the specimens that have been assigned to the genus cannot be linked to the type specimen, and the rest fails to establish any of the basal ichthyopterygian synapomorphies in the genus. The similarities between the genus and some ichthyopterygians are either symplesiomorphies or common convergences; none of them are unique to the two. The genus also possesses characters that do not exist in any ichthyopterygians, such as a splenial jaw symphysis. Although the affinity of Omphalosaurus is inconclusive at this point, there is insufficient reason to prefer ichthyopterygians as its sister group among others.
4522902|Pachyamia latimaxillaris n. gen. et sp. from the lowermost Cenomanian Bet-Meir Formation of Judea is characterized by an enlarged and divided maxilla, an ossified element in the pectoral girdle, a single postorbital plate, wide and truncated ribs, a smooth subopercular, and the absence of supramaxilla. Osteological features facilitate the following scheme of intrafamilial relationships: ossification of vertebrae, scale type, and presence or absence of supraorbitals and supramaxilla.
4524191|A new taxon of Cretaceous short-necked plesiosaur, Edgarosaurus muddi, gen. et sp. nov., is described. The specimen consists of a complete skull, 34 vertebrae including the entire series of 26 cervicals, and a nearly complete forelimb. The new taxon occurs in marine sediments of the Thermopolis Shale (late Albian), deposited during an early transgression of the Western Interior Seaway. The skull of Edgarosaurus is the oldest, and one of the best preserved plesiosaur specimens from the Cretaceous Western Interior of North America described to date. Edgarosarus differs from the morphologically and stratigraphically close short-necked taxon Plesiopleurodon wellesim a number of cranial characters. In the absence of an established phylogenetic framework, the new plesiosaur is placed in the Polycotylidae, as recently defined by Carpenter in 1996. It is plesiomorphic with respect to other polycotylids in that it possesses a relatively robust and moderately elongated rostrum, a pineal foramen, caniniform teeth, a shorter mandibular symphysis, and a relatively high number of cervical vertebrae.
4524302| A new species of the ankylosaur Struthiosaurus from the Upper Cretaceous (lower Campanian) of the Villeveyrac-Meze Basin, southern France, is described from a partial skeleton that includes distal dorsal vertebrae, synsacrum and pelvic girdle. Struthiosaurus languedocensis, sp. nov. is a small-sized nodosaurid (less than 3 m length) characterised by distal dorsal centra that are very compressed laterally and hourglass in shape in ventral view; ischium directed immediately caudal from the acetabulum, with a robust shaft that does not taper distally and that is weakly curved in a caudoventral orientation. The synsacrum of S. languedocensis consists of ten co-ossified vertebrae, including five dorsals, four sacrals and a caudal. Among ankylosaurs, only Polacanthus foxii has a similar synsacral count, but there are significant differences in the pelvic structure between Struthiosaurus and Polacanthus. The presence of an ischium lacking a distinct nodosaurid-like ventral flexion appears to be diagnostic for the genus Struthiosaurus, as suggested by additional remains recovered from the upper Campanian of Lao (Iberian Peninsula). Current data suggests that Struthiosaurus is represented by different species in southwestern and central Europe. 
40864361|A nearly complete skull of Eutretauranosuchus delfsi was uncovered at the upper Jurassic Dry Mesa Dinosaur Quarry in the Brushy Basin Member of the Morrison Formation in western Colorado. It permits an expanded description of the taxon. Like the holotype, from Canyon City, Colorado, the Dry Mesa specimen probably represents a subadult, based on faint parallel lineations in the frontal, incomplete ossification in the otic region, incomplete sculpturing of the dermal bone, and an incompletely fused occipital condyle. The Dry Mesa specimen is compared with the type specimen, crocodyliformes Amphicotylus, photographs of the type specimen, and other related crocodyliformes described in the literature. A phylogenetic analysis lends support to a close relationship between Eutretauranosuchus, Calsoyasuchus, and Sunosuchus.
41407704|A newly discovered osteichthyan ectopterygoid from the Upper Cretaceous (lower Cenomanian) Bahariya Formation of the Bahariya Oasis, Egypt, is nearly identical to the holotypic specimen of Polypterus? bartheli from the same area and geologic unit. The Bahariya ectopterygoids are referable to Polypteridae based on the presence of a robust, laterally directed process that articulates with the maxilla. Additionally, ganoid scales from the Bahariya Formation have an isopedine layer, a histological character of Polypteriformes; but differ from those of previously described members of this clade in having a discontinuous ganoin layer, rectilinear shape, and proportionally small articular processes. Both the ectopterygoids and the scales are unusually large, and are the only polypteriform remains so far identified from the Bahariya Formation. The ectopterygoids and (tentatively) the scales are herein assigned to a single species of gigantic polypterid, the morphology of which is sufficiently distinctive to warrant its placement in a new genus, Bawitius, gen. nov. Differences in scale anatomy and the enormous disparity in body size between Bawitius and Serenoichthys support the hypothesis (originally proposed on the basis of varied fin spine morphologies) that a diversity of polypterid fishes inhabited North Africa during the early Late Cretaceous.
4523097|It is now recognized that, in a majority of lower (non-mammalian) vertebrates, tooth replacement is continuous and the order of succession along the tooth row exhibits a temporal pattern. This temporal pattern is here described in terms of the Zahnreihen model of Edmund, which expresses the relationship between relative tooth ages and tooth positions along the jaw in terms of "Z-spacings". The Zahnreihen model neglects certain observed phenomena that can be presumed to have functional significance, such as the gradual replacement of small teeth with larger ones (growth). This is in the tradition of science; the mathematical representation of natural phenomena generally results in simplifications. However, failure to take growth into account in quantitative models of tooth replacement severely restricts our understanding of some functional implications of replacement. Preliminary graphical analysis of tooth "crowding" in hypothetical dentitions, together with observed species-specific variations in Z-spacing, suggests that some Z-spacings may permit higher rates of tooth growth than do others. This paper presents the first published quantitative model to investigate the interaction of temporal pattern and growth during tooth replacement. We discuss the assumptions of our model with reference to actual dentitions. We used computer simulation to investigate the model over a range of Z-spacings in hypothetical dentitions that differed in tooth number, intertooth spacing, and other parameters. The simulations indicate that all Z-spacings, except those representing simultaneous or near-simultaneous replacement, are sub-equal in ability to accommodate growth, but that crowding of teeth can be a problem even at quite low growth rates. Crowding could be avoided by making growth increments between successive teeth very small (which would require numerous replacements if tooth size were to increase significantly over time). Another possible solution is to reduce the number of teeth, or do away with them altogether. In summary, this study: 1, indicates that (except for simultaneous replacement) there is no relationship between the temporal pattern of tooth replacement, and ability to accommodate growth, and 2, suggests that much of the tooth replacement activity in lower vertebrates may be driven by the need to accommodate growth, and the limited possibilities for doing so. The constraints on tooth replacement in this respect appear to be surprisingly severe; our model generates quantitative predictions that can be tested against actual dentitions in both living and fossil vertebrates.
4523956| Two nearly complete skulls and incomplete postcranial remains of a giant rodent of the family Hydrochoeridae are described and identified as Chapalmatherium novum. They come from the Calera Avellaneda locality, near Olavarra, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, considered to be of Montehermosan age (early Pliocene). Diagnostic characters of the genera of Protohydrochoerinae are discussed, and synonymy between Chapalmatherium and Protohydrochoerus is proposed: the species P. perturbidus becomes Chapalmatherium perturbidum. The known data concerning Chapalmatherium species and this new material lead us to question the taxonomic validity of C. irenense and C. saavedrai; we consider them to be junior synonyms of C. novum. A cladistic analysis of the family Hydrochoeridae, with the caviid Dolichotis as the outgroup, yielded three most parsimonious cladograms. The results show that Cardiatheriinae is a paraphyletic group, Anatochoerinae is not a monophyletic subfamily, and Hydrochoeropsis must be included in Hydrochoerinae. The Protohydrochoerinae appear to be a monophyletic group, constituting the sister group of the Hydrochoerinae. 
4524784| We describe sauropod material from the Lower Cretaceous (Aptian-Albian) Puesto Quiroga Member of the Lohan Cura Formation, exposed at the Cerro Aguada del Len locality (La Picaza area, Neuqun Province, Argentina). The remains consist of disarticulated elements of at least three individuals, and are assigned to an indeterminate species of the rebbachisaurid diplodocoid Limaysaurus gen. nov. Elements from various parts of the skeleton are represented: a tooth, partial dorsal, sacral, and caudal vertebrae, a haemal arch, coracoid, humerus, ilium, pubes, ischium, femora, a tibia fragment, and an incomplete fibula. The Lohan Cura specimens are strongly reminiscent of corresponding elements in the holotype of Limaysaurus tessonei (="Rebbachisaurus" tessonei, "Rayososaurus" tessonei) from the overlying Upper Cretaceous (lower Cenomanian) Candeleros Formation. We evaluate the phylogenetic relationships of Limaysaurus gen. nov. and other diplodocoids, and provide hypotheses regarding sauropod evolution during the Cretaceous. 
25835835|The Taeniodonta is a group of eutherian mammals from the Paleogene of North America, which evolved rapidly in the Paleocene to achieve, in some forms, large body size, hypselodont (i.e., evergrowing) canine and postcanine teeth, and peculiar patterns of tooth wear. Eleven genera of taeniodonts occur in two subgroups, recognized at the level of families or subfamilies depending on author, the Conoryctidae and the Stylinodontidae. There has not been a comprehensive computer-assisted phylogenetic analysis of the taeniodonts, and questions have arisen over the monophyly of the taeniodonts and the conoryctids. Cladistic analyses based on thirty-seven dental characters using NONA and Winclada showed that two subclades of Taeniodonta are well supported, a clade consisting of the conoryctids exclusive of Onychodectes (i.e., Conoryctella, Conoryctes, and Huerfanodon) and a clade consisting of all the known stylinodontids (Wortmania, Schochia, Psittacotherium, Ectoganus, and Stylinodon). Stratocladistic analysis, which takes into account the temporal sequence of taxa in the fossil record, supports the results of the morphological analysis. The Late Cretaceous taeniodont Schowalteria occupies the most basal position in taeniodont phylogeny, pre-dating an inferred conoryctidstylinodontid split in the early Paleocene, and establishing the taeniodonts as monophyletic.
25835833|Many disarticulated bones from multiple individuals of a primitive therizinosaurian, referred to Falcarius utahensis, were found in the paucispecific Crystal Geyser bonebed in the Lower Cretaceous Cedar Mountain Formation of eastern Utah. To date, more than 2000 specimens from this species have been excavated. Included in this collection are two partial braincases, one of which is designated the holotype. Here we describe the braincase morphology of Falcarius utahensis. These specimens help establish the primitive cranial condition for the Therizinosauria and further substantiate intraspecific and contralateral braincase pneumatic variation in theropods. When combined with new observations on the cranial remains of the therizinosaurid Nothronychus mckinleyi derived from computed tomographic (CT) scans, the braincase morphology of Falcarius clarifies several evolutionary trends within the Therizinosauria and establishes a suite of synapomorphies for the Therizinosauridae. Trends within the clade include increased basicranial pneumatization (the development of a basisphenoid bulla and loss of external subcondylar recesses), anterior deflection of the supraoccipital, and the reduction of points of origin of the craniocervical musculature, associated with the loss of discrete basipterygoid processes, probably due to incorporation of these structures into the expanded hyperpneumatic bone. Finally, CT scans reveal a complete, nearly avian, inner ear with bird-like semicircular canals and a long cochlea indicating broad frequency discrimination.
4522890|A vertebra referred to the sailfish Istiophorus platypterus is described from the upper Pliocene (Blancan) San Diego Formation, San Diego County, California. The specimen represents the first reported billfish of this age from western North America and adds to the poor fossil record of the Istiophoridae.
4523013|Decay, disarticulation, damage, and transport of 28 carcasses of rock dove (Columba livia), ring-billed gull (Larus delawarensis), and herring gull (Larus argentatus) were studied on a stream floodplain in Maryland. Scavengers removed from the site nearly all specimens not placed in protective cages. Specimens which were not soon removed or which were placed in cages became firmly stuck to the ground within several days, and subsequent floods failed in most cases to change the positions of the carcasses or even of individual, disarticulated bones. One gull, washed into the stream and buried while still feathered and articulated, showed disarticulation and reorientation of bones. Tracks found in the mud over the buried carcass suggested trampling by racoons and dogs as a possible explanation for the changes. The length of time until complete disarticulation of a skeleton ranged from 13 days to six months. The sequence of disarticulation also showed great individual variation, although some patterns may be inferred. Bird bones damaged by scavenging carnivores showed fractures, gnawing, and tooth punctures similar to those reported for mammal bones. After one year of exposure, weathering of bones was minimal. The possibilities of these taphonomic observations for understanding the paleoecology of birds are discussed.
4524278|Pachycephalosaurian specimens from the Upper Cretaceous (upper Campanian) Kirtland Formation of northwestern New Mexico include a partial skull that preserves much of the basicranium. It represents a new genus and species, Sphaerotholus goodwini. A new species, S. buchholtzae, from the upper Maastrichtian Hell Creek Formation of Montana is referred to this genus. Additional New Mexico pachycephalosaurians include a partial dentary with associated skull material that is tentatively referred to S. goodwini and a partial frontoparietal that is referred to Pachycephalosauridae incertae sedis. On the basis of a hypothetical growth series of Stegoceras, we excluded characters based on dome development and suture closure from a cladistic analysis of pachycephalosaurian relationships. Ornatotholus browni, the only putative "flat-headed" pachycephalosaurian from North America, is considered a nomen dubium and may represent a juvenile Stegoceras. Gravitholus albertae is an adult Stegoceras sp.; Stegoceras edmontonense is a nomen dubium and is referred to cf. Sphaerotholus sp. Based on the results of a quantitative cladistic analysis, Stegoceras (including Stegoceras breve, S. lambei, S. sternbergi, and UCMP 130051) is the sister taxon to all other domed pachycephalosaurians. Derived pachycephalosaurids consist of two principal clades: a lineage that includes Stygimoloch, Pachycephalosaurus, and Sphaerotholus and a lineage represented by the Asian taxa, Tylocephale and Prenocephale. With biogeographic occurrences mapped onto the phylogeny, a single dispersal event from Asia into North America, followed by dispersal of Prenocephale and Tylocephale into Asia prior to the late Campanian is indicated (ACCTRAN) or two independent dispersals into North America prior to the late Campanian is indicated (DELTRAN). Pachycephalosaurian phylogeny does not support Asian- North American contiguity throughout the Campanian and Maastrichtian.
4524388|A reanalysis of the upper and lower molar morphology of the early Paleocene marsupial Roberthoffstetteria nationalgeographica led to an interpretation of the molar homologies of the Polydolopinae (Polydolopimorphia). Several derived features support the attribution of Roberthoffstetteria to the Polydolopimorphia: thick dentary, molars with thick enamel, upper molars with reduced preparacrista that points to stylar cusp A, open centrocrista (that is, postparacrista not connected to the premetacrista), and metaconule large to very large, forming a "hypocone." Other derived features support the monophyly of Roberthoffstetteria + polydolopines: alignment of paraconule, protocone, and metaconule in a lingual row; well-expanded anterior and posterior cingula, which are level with the trigon basin; variable occurrence of accessory cuspules at the labial face of the upper molars; and the labially placed paraconid with respect to the metaconid in the lower molars. Both Roberthoffstetteria and the polydolopines are plesiomorphic in having stylar cusp E, which is absent in most other South American marsupials. Several character complexes may be involved in the evolution of the polydolopine molar pattern.
4524663|Fossil specimens of Neotropical gymnotiform electric fishes from the Yecua Formation (Upper Miocene, Parana basin, Bolivia) are analyzed in the context of a comprehensive study of gymnotiform relationships. Each fossil is analyzed individually and placed in the phylogeny according to characters it actually possesses. Some of the fossils previously referred to Humboldtichthys kirschbaumi can be identified only as Gymnotiformes incertae sedis, others as incertae sedis within recognized suprageneric gymnotiform taxa. The holotype of H. kirschbaumi shares the presence of a striated opercle with some extant species of Sternopygus and Distocyclus and can be placed in the Recent gymnotiform family Sternopygidae; H. kirschbaumi is diagnosed by the presence of a deeply striated opercle in which the striations extend between the dorsal and ventral opercular ridge fields. The analysis indicates the presence of several taxa among the fossil material. The presence of a multispecies assemblage is not uncommon among Recent gymnotiforms inhabiting non-floodplain forest streams, the inferred preservational environment.
4523121|The discovery of a new dentary of "Stenonychosaurus inequalis" with six germ teeth prompted a critical examination of all jaws and teeth attributed to Troodon, Stenonychosaurus, and Pectinodon. It is concluded that Troodon is the senior synonym of these genera, and that the name Troodontidae has priority over Saurornithoididae. Troodontid dentaries are unique amongst the Theropoda in that they lack interdental plates. Previous reports that Dromaeosaurus, Deinonychus, and Saurornitholestes do not have interdental plates are erroneous. Premaxillary, maxillary, anterior dentary and dentary teeth can be distinguished from each other. Each troodontid tooth has a constriction between the crown and root that is more comparable with birds and crocodiles than with other theropods.
4522880|Two partial skeletons of juvenile individuals of Stegosaurus with estimated body lengths of about 1.5 m (5 ft) and 2.6 m (8.5 ft) are described from the Morrison Formation (Upper Jurassic) of Utah and Wyoming. These juveniles differ from adults in the absence of fusion in composite bones (sacrum, scapulocoracoid, tibia-fibula-astragalus-calcaneum), the smoothness of the surface of the bones, the smaller size of ridges for muscular attachment, a proportionally more slender and elongate scapula, the relatively small size of the olecranon process of the ulna and the head of the femur, and the possible absence of dermal plates (but tail spines were present). Apart from the ratios of the length of the femur to those of the humerus and ilium, and the form of the scapula, ilium and fibula, the bones of juvenile individuals of Stegosaurus are very similar to those of juvenile individuals of the stegosaur Kentrosaurus (Upper Jurassic, East Africa). A probable sexual dimorphism in the sacrum with either four (?female) or five (?male) sacral ribs occurs in Kentrosaurus. The additional sacral rib attaches anterior to the other four; a rib in the Utah juvenile has the same distinctive shape, and it thus may have been a male (sacra of Stegosaurus with four sacral ribs have been previously illustrated).
20627156|The osteohistology including bone cross-sectional geometry of skeletal elements such as the limb bones, ribs, and intercentra of three Triassic temnospondyl taxa from India were examined to reveal varied bone microstructure and differing growth patterns. The Early Triassic trematosaurid examined is characterized by a change in tissue type from a well-vascularized fibrolamellar bone early in ontogeny to peripheral lamellar bone and lines of arrested growth later in ontogeny, suggesting a fast initial growth followed by a slow and intermittent growth later in life. In contrast, the Middle Triassic paracyclotosaurid and the Late Triassic chigutisaurid examined had a cyclical, overall slow growth, as evidenced from predominance of lamellar bone in the cortex. It is hypothesized that the rapid growth of the trematosaurids was an attempt to stabilize the ecosystem after the Permo-Triassic extinction event. Fibrolamellar bone tissue is described for the first time in a Triassic temnospondyl. Bone cross-sectional geometry, low-to-average cortical porosity, and other parameters imply that the members of the Early and Middle Triassic taxa recovered from India retained a high level of terrestriality. The high cortical porosity and extensive medullary spongiosa suggest that the Late Triassic chigutisaurids had a semi-aquatic or aquatic life style. The varying cortical thickness of the limb bones in paracyclotosaurids may be attributed to different biomechanical constraints.
4524244|Revised diagnoses of the family Tarrasiidae and of Tarrasius (Visean of Scotland) and Paratarrasius (Namurian of North America) are presented. These are used in a phylogenetic analysis also comprising one theoretical outgroup, three sarcopterygians as part of the outgroup, and eleven Palaeozoic, Triassic, and Recent actinopterygians, and based on a matrix of 75 characters of head and body. The results are that: (1) Polypterus is the sister group of the other Actinopterygii (=Actinopteri); (2) the analysed Actinopteri are a monophyletic group (Palaeoniscimorpha); and (3) Tarrasiids are monophyletic and are the sister group of the other analysed Actinopteri. This scheme supports the most recent studies in indicating that Tarrasiidae are close to stem actinopterygians.
40864355|The postcranial skeleton of Mesosaurus tenuidens, a reptile from the Lower Permian of eastern South America and southern Africa, is redescribed and illustrated in detail. The number of presacral vertebrae varies in M. tenuidens from 29 to a maximum of 33, which falls just short of the maximum (34-35 presacrals) known in its close relative Stereosternum tumidum. A cleithrum is reported for the first time in a mesosaur. The head of the interclavicle is triangular, rather than diamond-shaped as in other basal reptiles, including S. tumidum. The carpus of M. tenuidens is apomorphic in that the intermedium and the lateral centrale are coossified. The lateral centrale peds is absent. Reappraisal of the aquatic adaptations of M. tenuidens suggests strongly that this reptile was fully dedicated to an aquatic lifestyle. Pervasive pachyostosis of the postcrania probably allowed animals to maintain neutral buoyancy in the uppermost 34 m of the water column. Additionally, such pachyostosis may have helped to control rolling at the surface, or perhaps served to maintain forward momentum during periods of gliding while moving underwater. Limited movement at the elbow and the ankle suggests that M. tenuidens could not walk on land, but individuals may have been able to push themselves across terrestrial substrates, perhaps in a manner analogous to that seen in female extant marine turtles on nesting beaches.
41515055|New material of the dipnoan genus Sagenodus is described from the Carboniferous Lagersttte of Montceaules-Mines, Massif Central, France. This is the first occurrence of this lungfish in France, thus enlarging its worldwide distribution; and the first occurrence of a lungfish in Montceau-les-Mines, thus increasing the vertebrate taxa list of this Lagersttte. This material is Stephanian B in age, the previously established geological range of this Euramerican genus. Remains consist of skull, lower jaw, operculum, and shoulder girdle elements closely set together with several ribs. This material, here considered as belonging to a single disarticulated specimen, shows strong affinities with the material of Sagenodus sp. from Germany and appears significantly different from all other known species of Sagenodus by the shape and ridge pattern of the upper tooth plate. However, this new material can only be attributed to Sagenodus sp. due to its incompleteness. In the literature, Montceau-les-Mines is either interpreted as a freshwater environment or as a coastal marine to marine-influenced environment. As Sagenodus is a euryhaline genus; its presence in this locality does not bring arguments to one or the other assumption. The strong affinities, existing between the material from France and Germany, indicate that there were solid hydrographie links between both basins during the Stephanian B-Upper Rotliegend period.
4523208|The Family Hadrosauridae as commonly understood is here considered diphyletic on the basis of a cladistic analysis, and the two previously recognized subfamilies are raised to family status. The Hadrosauridae are more closely related to Iguanodon bernissartensis, whereas the Lambeosauridae are more closely related to Ouranosaurus nigeriensis. A new species of hadrosaurid, Brachylophosaurus goodwini, is named on the basis of a partial skull and skeleton collected from the Judith River Formation of north-central Montana. This species is characterized by frontal depressions and a depressed nasal arch. The posterolateral border of the nasal contributes to a portion of the anteromedial part of the orbit, a condition that may also exist in several other hadrosaur species. The specimen and the sediments from which it was collected support previous indications that the fauna and paleoen-vironment of the Judith River Formation of Montana were considerably different from those of the Judith River Formation of Alberta.
4523833|We describe a new pistosaurid sauropterygian, Augustasaurus hagdorni, gen. et sp. nov., from the Middle Triassic of Nevada. The specimen was collected in Muller Canyon, Augusta Mountains, from a late Anisian laminated mudstone unit in the Fossil Hill Member of the Favret Formation. Augustasaurus hagdorni is based on a partial articulated skeleton consisting of the posterior neck, trunk, shoulder girdle, and both forelimbs. In comparison to Pistosaurus from the Muschelkalk Beds of central Europe, the neural spines of the new pistosaurid are lower and longer with autapomorphic saw-cut rugosities and double facets of unfinished bone. Augustasaurus hagdorni has reduced front limbs with relatively short distal elements and a phalangeal formula of 1-1-3-3-1. This condition is very different from that in plesiosaurs, the presumed sister-group of pistosaurids.
4523016| A new genus Parameriones is described from the early Pleistocene deposits of the 'Ubeidiya Formation (central Jordan Valley). The species P. obeidiensis (Haas, 1966) was a common large gerbillid in the early and middle Pleistocene of the Middle East (Israel and Syria). The molar pattern of Parameriones contains a mixture of primitive and specialized characters, whereas the cranium exhibits some anatomical characters that are unique. Highly variable crown pattern, two- to four-rooted M, and two-looped and three- M may be considered primitive, whereas a high degree of hypsodonty and complete absence of cusps on molars of young individuals may be regarded as specialized. The special position of the palatine foramina and the zygomatic plate are unique to the genus, which probably represents a dead-end evolutionary line within the gerbillids. 
4524431|Except for the few specimens previously reported from the late middle Eocene of North Africa (Algeria) and more recently from South Asia (Myanmar), the fossil record of anomaluroid rodents is relatively scarce for the Paleogene Period. In this paper, we describe new material, notably a skull, of the anomaluroid taxon Pondaungimys anomaluropsis Dawson et al., 2003, recently described from the latest middle Eocene Pondaung Formation in Central Myanmar (South Asia). Pondaungimys shows a dental pattern very similar to that of Nementchamys, an anomaluroid rodent previously reported from roughly coeval deposits in Algeria. Although Nementchamys and Pondaungimys have a dental pattern relatively more primitive in some respects than that of Miocene and modern anomalurids, in other respects they show a derived dental complexity that leads us to consider both taxa as the closest outgroups of the Anomaluridae sensu stricto (the true scaly-tailed flying squirrels) within the Anomaluroidea. Pondaungimys clearly demonstrates that the evolutionary history of the anomaluroid rodents is not limited to Africa. The widespread South Asian-North African distribution of the late middle Eocene forms strongly suggests that faunal exchanges between Africa and Asia took place during the Paleogene, a statement supported by other mammalian groups.
4524754|Nambaroo bullockensis sp. nov, is a structurally primitive macropodoid from the Bullock Creek Local Fauna of the Camfield Beds of the Northern Territory, Australia. This species extends the range of Nambaroo from the late Oligocene or early Miocene up to the middle Miocene. Despite its young age, N. bullockensis retains many features thought to be plesiomorphic for macropodoids. Cladistic analysis based on characters of ml for this new species and all other balbarines shows Nambaroo to be paraphyletic, but supports the monophyly of Ganawamaya and Balbaroo.
20627056|Crocodilian cranial material from the Eocene Rundle Formation of eastern-central Queensland is herein attributed to Kambara taraina sp. nov. This is the fourth species of Kambara, the earliest genus of the diverse Australasian subfamily, Mekosuchinae. Although members of this subfamily diversified and radiated throughout the middle and late Tertiary, the clade as a whole is still poorly understood and their early evolutionary history is somewhat enigmatic. The Rundle Formation has yielded an unprecedented amount of crocodilian material for this epoch, with exquisite preservation. The new species is unique in possessing an increased attachment area for the mandibular adductors on the retroarticular process, rostrally extended palatal fenestrae, a rostrocaudally aligned ridge within the pterygoid fossa, and a reduction in maxillary alveoli (14). This combination of characters may reflect a functional divergence of K. taraina from other species, indicating disparate feeding strategies. The inclusion of this fourth species makes Kambara an increasingly diverse genus and as such the generic and specific diagnoses are herein modified accordingly.
40666189|A new holodontid lungfish, Xeradipterus hatched, gen. et sp. nov., is described from the Late Devonian (Frasnian) Gogo Formation, Western Australia. The material comprises a single specimen preserved in a large concretion, represented by elements of the skull roof, cheek, lower jaw, palate, shoulder girdle, and parts of the postcranial skeleton. Xeradipterus, gen. nov., differs from other holodontids by its broad crushing dentition, prearticular tooth plates with pronounced heel, lack of prominent teeth, and ordered tooth rows, and by its parasphenoid morphology. Results of PAUP analyses of 82 characters for 33 dipnoan taxa revealed that the new genus is a member of the Holodontidae, suggesting a possible endemic radiation of holodontids within the Gogo fauna. In addition, new "Holodipterus" elderae material examined shows the shape and extent of the nasal capsules, and the presence of an anterior median callus for the first time.
4522971| A mandibular ramus referred to a new amphicyonid species Pliocyon robustus is described from the Bone Valley Formation of Florida. This is the first reported occurrence of Pliocyon from eastern North America. Pliocyon robustus differs from the genotype, Pliocyon medius, in a number of characters that include: larger size, deeper and more robust jaw, extremely reduced P, and P larger than P. The Florida occurrence of Pliocyon indicates the presence of older medial Miocene (either Barstovian or Clarendonian) deposits within the Bone Valley Formation. 
40666177|A new, well-preserved mysticete fossil is described and diagnosed here as Joumocetus shimizui, gen. et sp. nov. The holotype specimen was recovered from the earliest Late Miocene, Haraichi Formation, Annaka Group, Gunma Prefecture, Japan. Although many cetotheres have been found from the Pacific realm, the Cetotheriidae sensu stricto is relatively rare in terms of taxonomic diversity and also abundance of specimens. Joumocetus will be the fourth genus of the Cetotheriidae sensu stricto from the Pacific and the geologically earliest and most archaic Cetotheriidae sensu stricto yet reported. Joumocetus retains a number of primitive characteristics, and our phylogenetic analysis indicates that Joumocetus is placed basally among the Cetotheriidae sensu stricto. Our analysis clearly indicates a monophyly of the Cetotheriidae sensu stricto and of a clade that consists of Balaenopteridae, Eschrichtiidae, and cetotheres. The results also indicate the monophyly of the following two groups: cetotheres not belong to Cetotheriidae sensu stricto (= Isanacetus-group) and Cetotheriidae sensu lato (= Isanacetus-group + Cetotheriidae sensu stricto); however, the monophylies of these groups are not well supported by bootstrap analysis. Consequently, the relationships and definition of these mysticete taxa remain unclear. Based on the present study and a review of previous studies, we suggest that the Isanacetus-group is a paraphyletic taxon that includes the ancestors of two clades, Balaenopteridae + Eschrichtiidae and the Cetotheriidae sensu stricto.
4524706|The fossil record of megatheriine ground sloths extends back to the middle Miocene, but only Pleistocene megatheriines are reasonably well understood. The taxonomy of pre-Pleistocene genera and species is not wellestablished. A partial megatheriine skeleton lacking the skull from the Pliocene Toro Negro Formation (La Rioja Province, Argentina) was originally assigned to Plesiomegatherium sp. This specimen forms the basis of Pyramiodontherium scillatoyanei, sp. nov. Py. scillatoyanei is notable for a relatively prominent humeral deltopectoral crest, a relatively short, robust calcaneum, and the largest crural index among sloths. The stronger humeral crests possibly imparted a relatively stronger ability in grappling. The higher crural indices of megatheriines and particularly of Pyramiodontherium, compared to those of mylodontids, suggest greater agility. The type species of Plesiome gather ium is Plesiomegatherium hansmeyeri, but unfortunately the genus was originally diagnosed almost entirely using the type species of Pyramiodontherium, Py. bergi. Few, if any, features can be used to define Plesiomegatherium. A second species assigned Plesiomegatherium, PI. halmyronomum, is probably not congeneric with PL hansmeyeri, but sufficient evidence to unequivocally remove it from this genus is lacking. A third species, Plesiomegatherium triangulatum, is a nomen vanum.
42568637|A skull and a partial skeleton of a large late Pleistocene megalonychid sloth recovered from a cave on Cerro Pintado, Sierra de Perij Mountain Range, a branch of the northern Andes, in Zulia State, Venezuela, is described as a new genus and species, Megistonyx oreobios. A cladistic analysis of the new taxon based on cranial characters indicates that it is closely related to Ahytherium, another late Pleistocene megalonychid from South America known from cranial remains, and suggests that there may have been at least two distinct clades within the family since the late Miocene. Megistonyx oreobios is one of a number of extinct sloth taxa found at high elevations in South America and suggests that many extinct sloth taxa were not as thermally sensitive as their modern relatives and were capable of living under colder climatic conditions.
20491049|Merycopotamus thachangensis, sp. nov. (Cetartiodactyla, Anthracotheriidae, Bothriodontinae) was discovered from a mined sand pit in Tha Chang village in Nakhon Ratchasima Province, northeastern Thailand. The specimen is a nearly complete cranium with left P3-M3 and right M1-M3. It is the first known Merycopotamus in Thailand. The new species has a nearly divided mesostyle with a remnant at the base. No small crest is developed from the buccal style on upper molars. The postparacrista and premetacrista are parallel, pointing buccally to distobuccally. The major palatine foramen is positioned at P2-P3. The naso-frontal suture is lobe-like. There is a single supraorbital foramen with a distinct groove. There is no contact between the nasal and lacrimal bones. M. thachangensis shows a mixture of derived and primitive features that distinguish it from the previously known species of Merycopotamus. The new Thai species might have evolved from M. medioximus in the early late Miocene of Siwaliks, though the retention of and/or secondary reversal to primitive character states in M. thachangensis makes it difficult to determine the phylogenetic relationships of the new species to the other Merycopotamus species. Although the provenance of other mammalian fossils from the Tha Chang area is problematic, our analyses have indicated that they can be sorted into three fossil assemblages of middle Miocene, late Miocene and early Pleistocene age. M. thachangensis is most likely late Miocene in age, possibly late late Miocene.
4523239|The Hemphillian Land Mammal Age was defined by Wood et al. (1941) on local faunas from the Coffee Ranch of Hemphill County and from near Higgins, in Lipscomb County, Texas. Both large and small mammals of the Coffee Ranch are known but only a tentative list of the megafauna of Higgins has been published (Schultz, 1977), and no small mammals have been reported. Small mammal fossils collected at the Higgins B Quarry in 1984 include eight taxa, two of which are new (the chiropteran Pizonyx wheeleri, sp. nov., and the geomyid rodent Pliosaccomys higginsensis, sp. nov.). Comparisons of both large and small mammals of Coffee Ranch and Higgins local faunas show few genera and few species in common. The Higgins local fauna is early Hemphillian, with numerous Clarendonian elements. The Coffee Ranch local fauna is early late Hemphillian. It is urged that the type locality and type local fauna of the Hemphillian Land Mammal Age be restricted to the Coffee Ranch alone. New material from the Coffee Ranch includes specimens of Cupidinimus sp. and permits better characterization of the eomyid, Comancheomys rogersi.
4524420| A well-preserved dentary from the Late Cretaceous of Neuqun Province, Argentina, represents a new taxon of sebecosuchian crocodyliform, Pehuenchesuchus enderi. The specimen retains a number of diagnostic characters and is referable to Sebecosuchia on the basis of two derived features (a longitudinal groove on the lateral surface of the dentary and a sigmoidal tooth row in dorsal view). The new taxon differs from all other sebecosuchians by possessing laterally compressed teeth that lack serrated carinae. A phylogenetic analysis of 30 crocodyliform taxa and two charactertaxon matrices, which include many putative sebecosuchians, supports a monophyletic Sebecosuchia. In both analyses, Pehuenchesuchus enderi was resolved as the sister taxon to all other sebecosuchians. A clear division of Sebecosuchia into Sebecidae and Baurusuchidae was not supported. 
4524488|All known Pleistocene fossils of manatees from North America are conspecific with the living West Indian manatee, Trichechus manatus. However, those of late Pleistocene (late Rancholabrean) age differ from all modern manatees, and are here assigned to a new subspecies, T. m. bakerorum. In contrast, early Pleistocene manatees from the late early Irvingtonian Leisey Shell Pit Local Fauna, Florida, do not clearly differ from modern West Indian manatees and are here referred to T. manatus, subspecies indeterminate. I hypothesize that warm intervals during the Quaternary allowed manatees from the Caribbean (represented today by the Antillean subspecies, T. m. manatus) to disperse northward into the United States. Ecological barriers (cool winters on the northern Gulf of Mexico coast, deep water and strong currents in the Straits of Florida) then impeded genetic contact with Caribbean populations and permitted evolution of endemic North American forms (T. m. bakerorum and the living Florida manatee, T. m. latirostris). Conditions much warmer than today might have eliminated the northern Gulf Coast barrier and allowed gene flow from the Caribbean to swamp such endemic gene pools. Return of glacial conditions reversed these northward range extensions and brought about periodic extinction of manatees in North America. This mechanism might explain the morphological uniqueness of the late Rancholabrean manatees, as well as the fact that early Pleistocene manatees from Florida are more similar to modern T. m. manatus than the late Pleistocene ones are. This model also helps explain phylogeographic patterns detected in mitochondrial DNA data from living manatees.
4524678|A mandible and partial skeleton of Rhynchotherium falconeri is described from late Pliocene deposits of the 111 Ranch Locality in southeastern Arizona. The morphology of the mandible and m3 of the 111 Ranch individual is consistent with other specimens of Rhynchotherium and compares closely with previously reported R. falconeri from Arizona, as well as R. simpsoni from Florida. The 111 Ranch specimen is the basis for only the second description of postcranial material for the genus Rhynchotherium, and adds important morphological and ontogenetic attributes to this taxon. A morphometric analysis of specimens including the genotype indicates several junior synonyms are represented and the type specimen for the genus is no longer valid. A suggestion is made to raise FAM 18225 to type status.
4524379|Muscle morphology in the Placodermi can be inferred by comparison to extant gnathostomes (Chondrichthyes (Actinopterygii + Sarcopterygii)). Examination of the chondrichthyan hypobranchial musculature suggested a comparable musculature for placoderms, including the coracomandibularis and coracohyoideus, acting separately to depress the mandible and hyoid arch. In sharks, this was associated with the absence of a mandibulohyoid ligament functioning in mandible depression, a characteristic feature of actinopterygians and sarcopterygians. Additionally, the coracobranchiales muscles depress the chondrichthyan ventral gill arches, the clavobranchiales being the corresponding muscles in actinopterygians and sarcopterygians. These muscles and ligaments are not preserved in placoderms, but their attachments can be compared to those of extant gnathostomes. On the placoderm lower jaw, attachment surfaces for the mandibulohyoid ligament are only present in derived taxa and position relative to the jaw joint suggests the ligament functioned poorly (or not at all). This compares to the chondrichthyan condition, but attachment surfaces on the placoderm trunkshield indicate that while some primitive placoderms possessed a coracobranchialis musculature, other derived taxa possessed a clavobranchialis. The Osteostraci are the most closely related agnathans to the jawed vertebrates, and lack muscles involved in active inspiration, the evolution of which was linked to increased activity near the origin of jawed vertebrates. Since overall morphology suggests osteostracans were active animals, absence of these muscles may instead relate to the absence of segmented gill arches and the anterior position of the osteostracan pectoral fin. The latter may affect development of the hypobranchial musculature, questioning homology of these muscles in lampreys and jawed vertebrates.
4524423|The discovery of a new genus and species of tyrannosauroid from the Demopolis Formation (middle Campanian) of Alabama increases the known diversity of the clade, although it does not elucidate the place of initial dispersal. This subadult tyrannosauroid is the most complete non-avian theropod collected and described from the Cretaceous of eastern North America. In contrast to tyrannosaurids, the new taxon possesses several plesiomorphic characters, including lacrimals that lack a distinct peaked cornual process, and a dorsoventrally shallow horizontal ramus of the maxilla. Autapomorphies include a wide jugal process of the ectopterygoid, a caudal pneumatic foramen of the palatine that pierces the rostral half of the vomeropterygoid process of the bone, an articular surface for the lacrimal on the palatine that is distally positioned on the dorsolateral process, and pedal unguals that have a distinct proximodorsal lip over the articular surface. Cladistic analysis indicates the new taxon is a basal tyrannosauroid and its presence in eastern North America suggests that the recent common ancestor of Tyrannosauridae probably evolved following the transgression of the Western Interior Seaway. Cladistic analysis indicates that Dryptosaurus aquilunguis is also a basal tyrannosauroid but is less derived than the new genus.
20627158|A Late Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) assemblage of snakes from the Maevarano Formation of the Mahajanga Basin, northwestern Madagascar, constitutes the only fossil record of snakes from the island. The assemblage, which lived in a highly seasonal, semi-arid climate, includes only archaic forms belonging to the Madtsoiidae and Nigerophiidae, and therefore no representatives of extant Malagasy clades. A large sample of exquisitely preserved vertebrae and several ribs are assigned to Madtsoia madagascariensis, a long (almost 8 m), heavy-bodied ambush predator inferred to have subdued its prey via constriction. A new madtsoiid genus and species, Menarana nosymena, is represented by several associated vertebrae and rib fragments, and part of the basicranium. It was approximately 2.4 m long and appears to have been a powerful, head-first burrower, or at least to have had a burrowing ancestry. Kelyophis hechti, by far the smallest snake in the assemblage (<1 m long), is a new genus and species of primitive nigerophiid based on six isolated vertebral specimens. It was not as specialized for the aquatic lifestyle inferred for other nigerophiids. Although recent molecular phylogeographic studies suggest an early colonization of Madagascar by snakes ancestral to modern Malagasy boids, with subsequent vicariant evolution, the Maevarano Formation assemblage offers no support for this hypothesis. The repeated pattern of extinct archaic lineages being replaced on Madagascar by basal stocks of extant clades (e.g., Anura, Crocodyliformes, Avialae, Mammalia) after the Late Cretaceous is also a plausible scenario for the origin of the extant Malagasy snake fauna.
23251299|The plesiosaur specimen NHMUK OR49202, from the Lias Group of Lyme Regis, consists of a complete skull, palate, and mandible, with eight associated cervical vertebrae, including the atlas-axis complex. This juvenile plesiosaur specimen was originally referred to 'Plesiosaurus' macrocephalus. However, reexamination indicates that it does not belong to Plesiosaurus and comparison with the type specimen of 'Plesiosaurus' macrocephalus (NHMUK OR1336) suggests that it is taxonomically distinct. Therefore, NHMUK OR49202 is made the holotype of a new genus and species: Anningasaura lymense. The specimen possesses plesiomorphic characters, including premaxillae that do not separate the frontals on the midline, narrow cranioquadrate passages, lack of a constricting groove around the occipital condyle, and several autapomorphies not observed in other plesiosaurian taxa: posteromedial processes of the premaxillae (or possible anterior portion of the frontal) forming a dorsoventrally thick, mediolaterally expanded platform; supplementary foramen penetrating the parietal sagittal crest; absence of a pterygoid-vomerine contact; absence of a contact between the pterygoids in palatal aspect; cultriform process of the parasphenoid wider mediolaterally than the combined posterior interpterygoid vacuities; and two closely spaced foramina in the lateral surface of the exoccipital. Anningasaura lymense is a plesiomorphic Early Jurassic taxon, and provides anatomical data that clarify the early evolutionary history of Plesiosauria.
20627050|The anatomy of individuals is described from a 'pelycosaur' aggregation preserving two age classes, from the Middle Permian of the South African Karoo Basin, that have been referred to Heleosaurus scholtzi. These skeletons allow the recognition of new features for H. scholtzi, including a strong anterior inclination of the occiput, exclusion of the quadratojugal from the temporal fenestra, a maxilla-prefrontal contact, and a maxilla-quadratojugal contact. In addition to some of these features, the absence of an anterodorsal contact between the squamosal and the jugal allows us to assign H. scholtzi to the varanopid clade Mycterosaurinae. Phylogenetic analysis of Varanopidae using an augmented data matrix from the literature positions Heleosaurus as the sister taxon of Elliotsmithia within the varanopid subfamily Mycterosaurinae. Both this sister-group relationship and the monophyly of Mycterosaurinae are weak and collapse with one extra step. Many of the clades discovered in the analysis exhibit the same support level, however, indicating that further studies on varanopids are needed.
4524307|Largely fragmentary fossils from sites in New South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland, Australia document terrestrial and marine vertebrate faunas of Aptian-Albian age. The natural cast of a large tooth from the Griman Creek Formation, Lightning Ridge, New South Wales, records the presence of a hitherto unknown member of the fauna. Although reference to one of the groups of crocodyliforms that evolved complex, mammal-like postcanine teeth cannot be excluded, the fossil more likely represents a species of synapsid. In some respects it is similar to lower postcanines of traversodontids. Greater morphological similarities to upper molars of dryolestids make reference of this tooth to this group more likely. Current Mesozoic Laurasian and Gondwanan fossil records include mammals with cheek teeth of similar large size.
4523281|Seven species of aplodontid rodents are recognized from the Orellan, four from the Whitneyan, and one from both horizons of Nebraska. Three new genera are recognized, Epeiromys from the Orellan, Oropyctis from the Whitneyan, and Campestrallomys from both horizons. Three new Orellan species (Prosciurus parvus, Campestrallomys annectens, and Epeiromys spanius), two new Whitneyan species (Oropyctis pediasius and Campestrallomys siouxensis), and one new species from the late Orellan and early Whitneyan (Prosciurus magnus) are described. An indeterminate species of aplodontid from the Whitneyan is also recognized. Only a few lineages of aplodontids can be traced from the Orellan into later times. Campestrallomys, Downsimus, and Haplomys can be derived from Prosciurus. Oropyctis may represent an early ancestor of the Mylagaulidae, but this relationship is quite tenuous. The biostratigraphic occurrence of several species of aplodontids in Nebraska suggests that all species are not continuous throughout the Orellan of Nebraska, and that these species may be useful as biostratigraphic markers.
4522924|The skull of the late Triassic turtle Proganochelys quenstedti from Trossingen, West Germany, shows a number of generalized amniote features not found in any other turtles. Proganochelys retains the supratemporal bone, lacrimal bone, lacrimal duct, movable basipterygoid articulation, and a middle ear that lacks the expansion and bony walls found in other turtles. With a chelonian shell Proganochelys is clearly identified as a turtle and is hypothesized as the sister taxon to all other turtles which are in turn hypothesized as a monophyletic group, the Casichelydia, characterized by advanced features of the skull.
4523026|The Paleozoic fin spine Physonemus falcatus St. John and Worthen 1883, from the Valmeyeran St. Louis Limestone of St. Louis, Missouri, has been found on sexually mature males of a small, highly sexually dimorphic chondrichthyan from the Chesterian Bear Gulch Limestone of Montana. An amphistylic suspensorium, cladodont teeth and pectoral fin further characterize this species and the group to which it belongs. The first dorsal spine and fin of males are derivable from a form like that of Stethacanthus altonensis. Males also have elongate rostra and dorsal cranial and fin denticles, while females and juveniles lack denticles, first dorsal fin, or spine. The new genus Falcatus (Order Cladodontida, Family Stethacanthidae) is erected for the species and for the related F. hamatus and F. proclivus. Aspects of the sexual dimorphism are discussed; Falcatus falcatus, with many more males than females, fits a behavioral model of male display-courtship and female choice. Possible evidence of lek aggregations is presented.
4524036|The bone microstructure of an ontogenetic series of Apatosaurus radii, ulnae, and scapulae suggests that Apatosaurus underwent three distinct osteogenic phases. Primary laminar to plexiform fibro-lamellar bone tissue, devoid of lines of arrested growth (LAG), occurs in individuals up to 91% adult size. LAGs and longitudinally vascularized lamellar tissue are deposited for the first time in the external cortices of sub-adult individuals. Slow growth and additional deposition of accretionary lamellar bone occurs in adulthood, and indicates attainment of maximum size in Apatosaurus. All scapulae examined show cyclicity in vascularity indicative of regular variation in speeds of osteogenesis. In contrast, Apatosaurus radii and ulnae show consistent bone depositional rates throughout ontogeny. Despite inter-element variability, all Apatosaurus bones sampled corroborate the hypothesis of sustained rapid growth rates for most of ontogeny, followed by gradual decline with attainment of maximum size. Estimation of ages of [Spacing Modifier Letters]10 years for large sub-adults refutes the hypothesis that slow, indeterminate growth was required for Apatosaurus and other sauropods to achieve extremely large body sizes.
4523038|All genera previously referred to the Manitshini are reviewed. Ischyrotomus Matthew is synonymized with Pseudotomus Cope, and the tribe Manitshini is restricted to this latter genus and the Chadronian Manitsha. Pseudotomus is represented by three Bridgerian species, four Uintan species, and one Duchesnean and Chadronian species. Quadratomus Korth is removed from the Manitshini and included in the Paramyini based on morphologic characters of the mandible and dentitions. The massive postcranial bones of Quadratomus are interpreted as convergent on those of the manitshines. In addition to the type species, two other species of Quadratomus are recognized, Q. sundelli (Eaton) from the later Bridgerian, and a new species, Q. grossus from the early Bridgerian. A massive postcranial skeleton evolved three times in Eocene ischyromyids, in the Manitshini (Pseudotomus), in the Paramyini (Quadratomus), and in the Pseudoparamyinae (Plesiarctomys).
4523576|Remains of a bat, Australonycteris clarkae, gen. et sp. nov., are reported from freshwater clays radiometrically dated at 54.6 million years old in southeastern Queensland, Australia. It is the oldest bat yet recorded for the Southern Hemisphere and one of the world's oldest. Previously, the earliest records for bats came from the Northern Hemisphere and were of Sparnacian age in Europe, Wasatchian in North America, and late early Eocene in North Africa. The North American Wyonycteris chalix, originally described as a latest Paleocene bat and as such the world's oldest, is re-examined. Its lack of key bat synapomorphies and overall morphology do not support the claim that it is a bat. Early bats probably entered Australia via Asia rather than South America, although their appearance in Australia predates the final breakup of Gondwana. The Australian fossils described here (a lower molar, upper premolar, edentulous dentary fragment, and part of a periotic) may corroborate the hypothesis that modern bat groups evolved from isolated immigrant archaic bats somewhere in the Southern Hemisphere in the early Eocene.
4522892|Fourteen vertebrae from an estuarine site in the Bashi Marl early Eocene of Meridian, Lauderdale County, Mississippi, represent Palaeophis casei n. sp. (Serpentes: Palaeophidae). The snake resembles Palaeophis virginianus and differs from other American species in having but a single vertebral hypapophysis; however, it differs from the giant P. virginianus in being quite small, as well as in several other morphological characters.
4523133|A previously undescribed, excellently preserved skull of the placodontoid Placodus gigas from the upper Muschelkalk of southern Germany shows a number of features that link the Placodontia to the Diapsida. A large quadratojugal forms much of the temporal bar. Posttemporal fenestrae are well-developed. No evidence exists to support a close relationship between Placodontia and Sauropterygia or between Placodontia and Ichthyopterygia.
4523717|The nearly complete skull of a recently discovered carnivorous eucynodont, Ecteninion lunensis, gen. et sp. nov., is described. This is the first new genus of carnivorous cynodont reported from the Late Triassic (middle Carnian) Ischigualasto Formation of northwestern Argentina, and is unique to the formation. Diagnostic features include partially differentiated cheek teeth that overlap in an imbricate pattern, elongate braincase and parietal crest, pronounced lateral expansion of the braincase, sagittal crest that overhangs the occipital plate in dorsal view, gracile postorbital bars, short osseous secondary palate, maxilla excluded from the border of the subtemporal fenestra, palatine and orbitosphenoid that contribute to the medial orbital wall, post-temporal foramen enclosed within the tabular, squamosals that nearly meet at the posterior end of the sagittal crest, narrow and deep groove for the external auditory meatus, jaw articulation located at the anterior base of the zygomatic arches, and cavum epiptericum extensively floored by the prootic. A phylogenetic analysis of the Eucynodontia, using craniodental characters, places Ecteninion lunensis in a trichotomy with Probainognathus and a monophyletic clade consisting of Tritylodontidae, Tritheledontidae, and Morganucodon.
30117461|The centrosaurine ceratopsid genus Styracosaurus is known from multiple specimens and a multigeneric bone bed in the upper 30 m of the Late Cretaceous Dinosaur Park Formation of southern Alberta, and a single specimen (S. ovatus) from approximately time equivalent sediments of the Two Medicine Styracosaurus appear to undergo similarFormation of Montana. Key cranial elements (nasals and postorbitals) of ontogenetic changes as documented in Centrosaurus. Although all adult-sized centrosaurines except Centrosaurus apertus are known to possess spike-like parietal ornamentation at the P3 position on the parietal, only Styracosaurus has the P4 ornamentation expressed as a well-developed spike. Styracosaurus shows intraspecific variation in the shape of the more anteriorly placed P5-P7 ornamentation that are either the typical unmodified crest-shaped epoccipitals of other centrosaurines or are developed as short spikes. S ovatus from Montana is retained as a valid species based on the autapomorphic convergence of the P3 spikes toward the midline.
30126337|The first protorosaur from the Middle Triassic of China, Dinocephalosaurus orientalis Li is known from two specimens: the holotype (an isolated skull in association with the first three cervical vertebrae), and a referred specimen (an almost complete, associated and partially articulated specimen lacking the tail). This material is here described in detail. A complete and amended diagnosis is given for the genus and its only known species. Among protorosaurs, Dinocephalosaurus is the taxon exhibiting the greatest degree of skeletal paedomorphosis, indicating fully aquatic habits.
4523575|The quadrate (incus) bone underwent important evolutionary transformations through the cynodont-mammal transition. The following character transformations played crucial roles in modifying the cynodont quadrate into the mammalian incus: 1) progressively greater rotation of the dorsal plate relative to the trochlea; 2) the contact facet of the dorsal plate becomes concave; 3) development of a constricted neck between the dorsal plate and the trochlea; 4) simplification of the quadrate-cranium joint, resulting in better mobility of the joint; and 5) introduction of a stapedial process (crus longum). The dorsal plate rotation, the concave contact facet, the constricted neck, the mobile joint of the quadrate and the cranium are also present in some advanced non-mammalian cynodonts. Broad phylogenetic distributions of these features suggest that the major features of the incus of early mammals, as represented by Morganucodon, originated much earlier in phylogenetic history among non-mammalian cynodonts. Apomorphies of the quadrate (incus) among the advanced non-mammalian cynodonts favor a sister-group relationship of tritheledontids and mammals. The hypothesis on the postdentary origin of the mammalian tympanic membrane is favored by transformation of the quadrate through the cynodont-mammal transition. Three most important modifications of the quadrate (incus) through the cynodont-mammal transition are: formation of the concave contact facet, progressively greater rotation of the dorsal plate, and decrease in the number of cranial bones articulating with the quadrate. These modifications would simplify the quadrate-cranial joint and increase the mobility of the quadrate (incus) relative to the cranium while a functioning tympanic membrane was maintained on the mandible, improving the sensitivity of the postdentary tympanum. Probainognathus is among the earliest known non-mammalian cynodonts with a concave contact facet and a rotated dorsal plate in the quadrate. Thus we hypothesize that it represents a critical step in the phylogenetic transformation that led to the origin of the modern mammalian middle ear and tympanic membrane.
41515065|Asymmetry of the knee (distal femur), where the medial trochlear ridge is larger than the lateral one, has been observed in certain ungulates, but until now there has not been a comprehensive study of this anatomy across a range of extant and extinct mammals. A degree of knee asymmetry is present in most ungulates: this asymmetry increases in extent with increasing body size, and is also more prominent in taxa with a preference for open habitats, independent of body size. However, camelids and proboscideans have symmetrical knees, regardless of size. We propose that the correlation of degree asymmetry with habitat type, as can be observed in extant ruminants, is related to the preferred type of locomotion, with the gallop gait being preferred in open habitats. Neither camelids nor proboscideans employ the gallop as a habitual gait. The allometric increase observed in knee asymmetry, in combination with the correlation with locomotor preference, likely reflects anatomy that resists muscular forces pulling the patella medially when the animal is supporting its weight on a single hind leg during fast locomotion. Inclusion of fossil taxa leads to interesting interpretations about the behavior of extinct ungulates: extinct brachydont equids of presumed closed habitat preference have less asymmetric knees than extant equids, or extinct hypsdont equids of presumed open habitat preference; the knee anatomy of giant deer, Megaloceros, indicates a preference for open habitats, whereas the knee anatomy of the brontothere Megacerops indicates a proboscidean (versus rhino-like) type of fast locomotion.
4522944|The first skull and an additional mandible of Prosthennops elmorei White are described and the species is transferred to Mylohyus Cope on the basis of several derived characters including molariform premolars, post-canine diastema length greater than length of cheek tooth series, and posterior position of the orbit. A distinctive feature of this species is its laterad projecting, inflated triangular zygomatic process. In other known Mylohyus skulls (all from the Pleistocene) the zygoma is not expanded into a laterad projecting process, but is inflated anterior to the glenoid fossa and its ventral surface provides a broad origin for M. masseter lateralis. The wing-like zygomata of M. elmorei are probably primitive for Mylohyus. M. elmorei occurs in the upper member of the Bone Valley Formation of Florida. On the basis of associated taxa it is very late Hemphillian (early Pliocene) in age. Thus it is the oldest known species of Mylohyus and more than doubles the antiquity of that genus.
4522925|Maiasaura peeblesorum has a number of primitive characteristics, including an elongated facial region, restricted nares, deflected premaxillae, and an apparent remnant of the supraorbital fenestra, all of which are more common to the iguanodonts than to other hadrosaurs. It also has an incipient crest similar to that of Prosaurolophus, and posterior skull elements similar to Brachylophosaurus. The anterior premaxillary foramina may have served the function of vocalization or possibly for passage of olfactory organs. Growth stages of the dentary teeth indicate that the "budding teeth" were small enough to have been introduced into the alveoli through "special foramina." Individual tooth growth, from implantation to occlusion, occurred with initial growth of the apex and continued backward. Disregarding the nasal/frontal crest as a feature warranting separate subfamilial status, and thus following Sternberg's classification of hadrosaurs, Maiasaura is placed into the subfamily Hadrosaurinae. Western North American hadrosaurine phylogeny has been affected by the transgressive/ regressive cycles of the western interior seaway. Opportunistic hadrosaur and other dinosaur lineages that radiated into lowland environments during periods of regression were highly specialized, but terminated during transgressive periods. Dinosaurs such as Maiasaura, endemic to "upland" environments and unaffected by the cyclic fluctuations, retained their primitive characters.
4523386|An associated skull, neck and carapace provides the first evidence concerning the structure of the skull in Boremys pulchra. The relationships of Boremys and its species-level diversity are re-evaluated based on this specimen, together with a series of shells and isolated skulls collected from the Judith River Formation. Boremys pulchra and Boremys grandis are recognized as valid species. Boremys is the sister taxon of Eubaena within the Eubaeninae based on six derived and shared cranial characters. We conclude that the derived characters of the carapace and plastron that had previously defined the subfamily but are not present in Boremys have arisen independently within the subfamily. These are the subdivision of the cervical scale into four small scales and the reduction in the number of suprapygal bones to one.
20491043|The distribution of neck muscles and the shape of the skull shows that Permian and Triassic dicynodonts may be classified into three categories which probably reflect feeding on low, medium and high vegetation. These are distinguished on the basis of the occipital index, the difference between the relative width and height of the occiput, which gives a measure of the relative importance of the lateral and the dorsoventral clusters of neck muscles. The basicranium is relatively shortened in Triassic forms, except in Vinceria, Shansiodon, Tetragonias, and Jachaleria, as has been noted before. Data on skull proportions indicates that the height of the parietal crest may be of little taxonomic use, and that the genus Tetragonias is not a clade. Dicynodonts with dietary preferences at the intermediate level correspond to major branching points in dicynodont phylogeny. High-level feeding adaptations among dicynodonts arose by the middle of the Tatarian (latest Permian) and lasted until the Late Triassic. Specialized low feeders existed only in the Middle Triassic.
4523768|The histological study of various bones in the families Teleosauridae and Metriorhynchidae reveals common, but also contrasting structural features of the skeleton. Both display a zonal pattern of bone tissue, suggesting a cyclic growth and an ecto-poikilothermic physiology, quite similar to those of recent crocodiles. However, the Teleosauridae exhibit no peculiar skeletal specializations related to marine life, which suggests that they had an amphibious, rather than a truly marine habitat. Conversely, the skeleton of the Metriorhynchidae displays a certain degree of structural lightening, especially obvious in their skull, but also present in their femora and ribs. This structural specialization of the skeleton, together with the supposed physiological regime of the Metriorhynchidae, had definite bearings on their body trim in water, locomotor capabilities, and activity cycles. These various topics are discussed with reference to the ecological and eco-physiological adaptations of the Thalattosuchia.
4522985| Historically, the knowledge of late Cenozoic mammals from central Mexico has been slow in developing. Most early studies did not include stratigraphic controls or meaningful correlations. At present the geology is incompletely known at most fossil-yielding localities. However, research in the past several years, especially in the State of Guanajuato, has provided much needed stratigraphic control relevant to collected fossils. Of the eleven faunas identified in this paper, only the Cedazo (Pleistocene), Las Tunas, Rancho El Ocote, Coecillo, and Rancho Viejo (Pliocene) have this control. These faunas, then, with several taxa reported here for the first time, are considered most important. They provide significant information about changing climates, a trend from humid, warm conditions in the Pliocene to drier and cooler conditions in the Pleistocene, and mammalian dispersals. Most fossils can be derived from North American ancestors; however, South American constituents can be identified beginning in Hemphillian time with the occurrence of sloths, Megalonyx and Glossotherium (Rancho El Ocote). By the late Pleistocene, ten South American genera occur in central Mexico. /// Historicamente, el conocimiento de los mamferos del Cenozoico tardo en el centro de Mxico, se ha desarrollado lentamente. La mayora de los primeros estudios no incluyen un control estratigrfico o correlaciones significativas. Hasta el momento, la geologa no se conoce totalmente, especialmente en los sitios donde se encuentran los fsiles. Sin embargo las investigaciones hechas en los ultimos aos, especialmente en el estado de Guanajuato, han sido provistas del control estratigrfico necesario en la colecta de los fsiles. De las 11 faunas mencionadas en este trabajo, solo El Cedazo (Pleistoceno), Las Tunas, Rancho El Ocote, Coecillo y Rancho Viejo (Plioceno) tienen este control, por lo tanto estas faunas y los taxa mencionados aqu por primera vez se consideran los ms importantes. Ellos proveen importante informacin acerca de los cambios de clima, de mayor hmedad y condiciones ms clidas en el Plioceno, a condiciones de mayor aridez y fro en el Pleistoceno, asi como la dispersin de los mamferos. La mayor parte de los fsiles son originarios de Norte America, sin embargo, algunos de origen sudamericano pueden ser identificados desde el Hemphillian, como son Megalonyx y Glossotherium (Rancho el Ocote). En el Pleistoceno tardo existen 10 gneros sudamericanos en el centro de Mxico. 
42568673|A new nearly complete skeleton from the Wayao Member of the Falang Formation (lower Carnian, Upper Triassic) of Guizhou, South China, is described and ascribed as a juvenile individual of Guanlingsaurus liangae. The new specimen supplies hitherto unknown information on this species: a complete pelvic girdle shows that the ilium was misidentified as the ischium by previous authors; complete hyoids show that their length was overestimated previously; unlike in other shastasaurids, the obturator foramen on the pubis is widely open as part of the obturator fossa; and the fibula has a posterior flange, similar to that of Shonisaurus. Guanlingsaurus liangae was reassigned to the genus Shastasaurus and was suggested to be a suction feeder due to its short snout, lack of teeth, and hyoid. However, the new specimen of Guanlingsaurus described here shows much smaller hyoids compared with Shonisaurus, which was thought to be a suction-feeding ichthyosaur. Suction feeding in ichthyopterygians as a whole requires scrutiny: the group lacks an ossified hyoid corpus that is typically expanded in suction-feeding cetaceans, which suggests that ichthyopterygian hyoids were insufficiently robust for suction feeding. A phylogenetic analysis of Ichthyopterygia based on a revised data matrix clarifies the shastasaurid affinity of G liangae as a sister taxon of Shonisaurus, with Shastasaurus as their sister group, and Shonisaurus is reestablished as a genus containing Shonisaurus sikanniensis as traditionally held. It suggests that the assignment of Guanlingsaurus and Shonisaurus sikanniensis to Shastasaurus unnecessarily confuses existing taxonomy.
23251275|The first detailed description of Furo muensteri is provided based on new well-preserved material from the Upper Jurassic of Ettling (Bavaria), the first record of Furo from this locality. Previously unknown features (circumorbital series, skull roof, maxilla, dorsal fin) are described. The corrected Latinized spelling replaces the original specific epithet "mnsteri," in accordance with Article 32.5 of the International Congress of Zoological Nomenclature code. Furo muensteri is diagnosed, among other features, by: pectoral fins as long as head; head length approximately 19% of standard length; 12 dorsal fin rays; 61 vertical scale rows from supracleithrum to hinge line; shape of ventral suborbital and position of its pit line; and morphology and arrangement of the maxilla and supramaxilla (gracile maxilla with deep posterodorsal angle and strongly tapered anteriorly; supramaxilla approximately 70% maxilla length, of uniform dorsoventral thickness, and with elongate anterior margin tapered to a point). Comparison with other Furo taxa reveals that F. muensteri is morphologically indistinguishable from F. praelongus (upper Kimmeridgian, Cerin, France). The two species are here synonymized, with F. praelongus becoming the junior synonym of F. muensteri (which has priority). Furo muensteri is also compared to the type species, F. orthostomus, and is currently retained in Furo pending a more detailed analysis of the genus. Presence of a sensory canal on the maxilla provides further evidence that Furo is sister to all other ophiopsids. Furo muensteri is currently known only from upper Kimmeridgian localities of Bavaria and France, except for Ettling whose exact geological age remains unknown.
4524346|A new species of tilapiine cichlid, Oreochromis lorenzoi, is described from the late Miocene (Messinian) of central Italy. This species is represented by four articulated specimens and a caudal region of a fifth individual. Oreochromis lorenzoi, sp. nov. is the earliest confirmed representative of the genus Oreochromis, and it is the first European fossil cichlid. Oreochromis lorenzoi and additional examples from other fossil fishes provide evidence of faunal exchanges between Africa and the northern coasts of the Mediterranean during the Miocene. Paleoenvironmental implications are also discussed.
30126368|According to our previous model for interpreting the fossil record of capybaras the cheek teeth grow in width and length throughout life; flexids (especially h.s.i. and h.t.i.) deepen allometrically resulting in diverse occlusal morphologies during ontogeny; in the more derived species the 'onset' of flexid development is pre-displaced, and the relative depth and development rate of the flexids increase. Consequently, we interpreted the different occlusal morphologies found in the fossil record as different ontogenetic stages, leading to a drastic diminution of latest MiocenePliocene taxonomic diversity. The analysis of the geologically oldest capybaras, which are from the Arroyo Chasic Formation (Chasicoan SALMA, late Miocene), is added. This study suggests a single species occurs in this formation that cannot be separated at the genus level from Huayquerian species. In the Arroyo Chasic species, which is older and theoretically more primitive than that of the Huayquerian, the flexids are shallower as predicted. The analysis supports our model of capybara dental ontogeny and evolution and encourages revision of the whole family according to this model.
4524519|The holotype of Sarmatodelphis moldavicus Kirpichnikov, 1954, is an incomplete skull and a cervical vertebra from the Bessarabian Stage (late middle to early late Miocene) of Kishinev, Republic of Moldavia. Sarmatodelphis moldavicus is confirmed as a small distinct species of kentriodontid (Cetacea: Odontoceti: Delphinoidea) in the subfamily Pithanodelphininae Barnes, 1985. The monotypic Sarmatodelphis has close affinities to the contemporaneous Atocetus Muizon, 1988a, but the Moldavian dolphin has less inflated nasals, and the maxillae reach the midline posterior to the nasals. Nasal bone morphology and posterior development of the maxilla separates S. moldavicus from all other named delphinoid genera.
4524570|A new paracryptodiran turtle, Arundelemys dardeni, gen. et sp. nov., is described on the basis of an isolated, nearly complete skull from the Early Cretaceous Arundel Clay facies of Maryland, USA. The basicranial region exhibits the paracryptodiran condition of a single foramen for the canalis caroticus internus located midway along the basisphenoid. As revealed by CT scans, the basicranial region of Arundelemys is unusual in that the right and left canales carotici interni merge just before reaching the sella turcica and the canalis caroticus lateralis is very small or absent. A phylogenetic analysis places Arundelemys dardeni as the basal-most member of the Paracryptodira. Within the Paracryptodira, Arundelemys dardeni is most similar to Compsemys victa in general proportions.
20490996|A small aetosaur skeleton collected in 1939 from the Tecovas Formation of Texas and assigned to Desmatosuchus is reassigned to a new taxon, Sierritasuchus macalpini. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that Sierritasuchus is a member of the Desmatosuchinae. It can be distinguished from other desmatosuchines by two autapomorphies: (1) recurved spines on the lateral plates that are triangular in cross-section with a sharply ridged anterior edge; and (2) the presence of a sharp, ventrally oriented ridge on the posterior faces of the dorsal eminences of the paramedian plates, as well as a unique combination of characters including the presence of an anterior bar on the paramedian and lateral plates, a random pattern of ornamentation on the paramedian plates, and a dorsal eminence that contacts the posterior plate margin of the paramedian plates. Histological study of the holotypic plates in combination with comparison to a growth series in Typothorax, and size-independent growth indicators such as neurocentral suture closure suggests that the specimen is neither a young juvenile nor a fully-grown adult. The recognition of morphologically distinct specimens such as the holotype and referred material of Sierritasuchus demonstrates that past practices of assigning aetosaur specimens to known taxa based on superficial resemblance has masked diversity in this clade. Voucher specimens for biochronologic and biogeographic analyses should be carefully investigated before being used for such studies.
4523953| A new locality named El Pelillal (Cerro del Pueblo Formation, Late Cretaceous, Campanian) in the southeastern area of the State of Coahuila, Mxico yields an assemblage of vertebrates that is important for correlation due to its frequent occurrence in other localities along the Cerro del Pueblo Formation outcrops. It is located in the Municipio de Ramos Arizpe, Coahuila. Among the vertebrates found are: fishes (Lepisosteidae; Amiidae [cf. Melvius sp.]); turtles (Trionychidae, Chelydridae [cf. Protochelydra sp.], Kinosternoidea [cf. Hoplochelys sp.], an undetermined kinosternoid genus, and ?Pleurosternidae [Compsemys victa]); Crocodilians Neosuchia (Goniopholididae); and Eusu and a pterosaur (Pterodactyloidea). Dinosaurs found include a hadrosaurine hadrosaur, a new Troodontidae, and other indeterminate theropods. The El Pelillal Locality is interpreted as a freshwater environment possibly influenced by tides. The fauna of the El Pelillal locality, Cerro del Pueblo Formation, resembles southern U.S. Campanian-Maastrichtian faunas but lacks the prevalence of baenid, adocid, Basilemys and Nanhsuingchelyd turtles. 
20491034|The fissure fills of Richards Spur, Oklahoma, together constitute the most productive Paleozoic continental fossil locality in the world, having produced a wealth of terrestrial vertebrates, including occasional articulated skeletons. A new dissorophoid amphibian is represented by two skulls: an exquisitely preserved, complete small skull and the posterior part of a second skull, almost twice the size of the holotype. The specimens provide detailed information about the skull roof, palate, braincase, and mandible, showing that this new taxon is characterized by a relatively elongate skull with large tabulars and postparietals, and monocuspid, recurved teeth that show no sign of pedicelly. The large, laterally expanded interpterygoid vacuities are covered by a mosaic of small dermal plates, each carrying more than a dozen strongly recurved teeth. A phylogenetic analysis of 17 ingroup taxa and 62 cranial and postcranial characters yielded a single most-parsimonious tree with the new taxon in a monophyletic Amphibamidae as the sister taxon to the Lower Triassic Micropholis from South Africa. In addition, the new analysis supports a basal split of Amphibamidae into two distinct clades, one containing the new taxon, Micropholis, along with Tersomius, and the other comprising Amphibamus, Gerobatrachus, Doleserpeton, Platyrhinops, Plemmyradytes, Eoscopus, and Georgenthalia. The data retrieved from this new taxon provides insights into the evolution and diversity of the Amphibamidae.
20627063|New data on the last representatives of the Spanish Miocene Moschidae (Mammalia, Ruminantia) are presented and discussed. A new species of Micromeryx, Micromeryx soriae, is described on the basis of fossil material from the locality of La Roma-2 (upper Vallesian; MN 10, Teruel province, Spain, previously assigned to Micromeryx sp.), Batallones-1, and Batallones-10 (upper Vallesian; local zone J, MN 10, Madrid province, Spain). The new species is characterized by possessing relatively hypsodont lower molars of advanced morphology and a unique type of Palaeomeryx-fold. M. soriae gives insight to the last representatives of the genus, which achieved an overall lower molar morphology that mimics to certain degree that of Hispanomeryx. several characters of the upper molars of the Miocene moschids Micromeryx and Hispanomeryx are described that are useful for characterizing both genera. These characters are used to solve the taxonomic problems of PM-659, an upper molar from Puente Minero (MN 11, Teruel province, Spain) that represents one of the last survivors of the Moschidae in the Iberian Peninsula. The systematic utility of the upper molars of Hispanomeryx and Micromeryx is demonstrated, and the use of size as the only way to distinguish between the two genera is refuted. Finally, the study of the morphological characters of PM-659 clearly supports its generic change from Micromeryx sp. to Hispanomeryx sp., thus recording the presence of Hispanomeryx in the Iberian Peninsula as late as the lower Turolian.
25835830|The periorbital morphology of goniopholidids is discussed, exploring the diversity of patterns and the relevance of the data for phylogenetic studies. Revision of material is focused on Goniopholis spp. and aff. Goniopholis spp., from England, Germany, and Belgium, providing a comparative description of their interorbital morphology. Traditional interpretation of the interorbital elements in species of Goniopholis (G. simus, G. baryglyphaeus), where the frontal is interpreted as excluded from the orbit by a prefrontal-postorbital contact in the skull roof, is contested and clarified through the analysis of new specimens, including a morphometric analysis. In Goniopholis, failure to identify the palpebral and its subtle contact with the prefrontal has lead to misinterpretation of elements and structures near the orbit, and the differential preservation/loss of palpebrals explains variability of the orbit in shape and orientation. In all European goniophilidids the frontal reaches the primary orbital border and there is no prefrontal-postorbital contact on the dorsal surface of the skull. Extensive contact of the palpebral with the primary orbital border creates a secondary (functional) orbital border, from which the frontal is excluded in most taxa. The condition is not exclusive of European goniopholidids and is paralleled by protosuchids, peirosaurids, and baurusuchids. At least four main morphological patterns are recognized, revealing a high diversity of European goniopholidids.
4524326|Sineoamphisbaena hexatabularis, a fossil squamate recovered from Upper Cretaceous deposits in Inner Mongolia, China, was reported to be the oldest known amphisbaenian and the sister group to all other amphisbaenians. However, the conclusion of amphisbaenian affinities was based on a partitioned analysis that excluded relevant data and included reconstructed characters. When characters for analysis are limited to those that are observable on the fossils and all evidence is included and analyzed simultaneously, results do not support S. hexatabularis as an amphisbaenian, but instead suggest that S. hexatabularis may be related to macrocephalosaurids. Several potential synapomorphies of S. hexatabularis and macrocephalosaurids are provided, including: presence of lateral process of palatal ramus of pterygoid; postorbital large, extending posteriorly beyond supratemporal fenestra, and approaching posterior edge of cranial roof; and tall, narrow, dorsal process of maxilla. S. hexatabularis is tentatively reassigned to the Macrocephalosauridae. The origin of amphisbaenians remains obscure.
4523408|Paleoparadoxia weltoni, a new species in the order Desmostylia, is based on the anterior portion of a skeleton. The specimen is from the earliest Miocene (early Saucesian benthonic foraminiferal stage; Arikareean land mammal age correlative) Skooner Gulch Formation exposed near Point Arena, California, and is the geochronologically oldest definite record of this genus. The new species is very similar to Paleoparadoxia tabatai from slightly younger early Miocene deposits in Japan, but has smaller teeth and distally-expanded incisors. Paleoparadoxia weltoni is distinguished from all other desmostylians by its lack of an m3 hypoconulid and its well-developed p4 paraconid. A phylogenetic analysis of desmostylians tentatively corroborates the monophyly of Paleoparadoxia and strongly supports a clade comprising Paleoparadoxia, Cornwallius, and Desmostylus.
4524361|A very well preserved, incomplete, articulated skeleton with nearly complete skull and mandible of a terrestrial squirrel belonging to the genus Xerus was unearthed at the Pliocene site of Kossom Bougoudi in Chad. Xerus daamsi, sp. nov. is characterized by a narrow nasal associated with medium size. The phylogenetic position of the new species among African Sciuridae was determined using cladistic analysis of craniodental characters. It is most similar to extant Xerus rutilus and Xerus erythropus, currently found in Ethiopia and Chad, respectively. Cladistic analysis also supports the monophyly of the African members of the tribe Xerini, and a sister group relationship between X. daamsi and X. rutilus whose position within the Xerini is poorly supported. The North African genus Atlantoxerus is valid and distinct from Xerus, emphasizing the faunal differences between North African and sub-Saharan regions of the continent. The close affinities of Xerus daamsi with xerines which are currently living in northern savannas, more precisely in the Horn of Africa, suggests the presence of the Somali- Masai vegetation type in Chad by 5 Ma.
4523558| Hiodon is a Recent genus of fishes endemic to the fresh waters of North America; it is represented by two species: Hiodon tergisus Lesueur and H. alosoides (Rafinesque). Two specimens of osteoglossomorph collected from the Eocene-Oligocene Kishenehn Formation of northwestern Montana represent a new fossil species that is more closely related to the Recent Hiodon than it is to the Eocene Eohiodon. The close relationship of this new species to Hiodon is supported by derived characters of the nasal, the opercular series, the jaws, the basihyal tooth plate, the infraorbitals, and the caudal skeleton. Comparative study of the postcranial skeleton of Recent and fossil hiodontids illustrates several stages in the evolution of the Hiodontidae: 1) origin of seven-rayed pelvic fins by the late Early Cretaceous (evidenced by Yanbiania); 2) development of an anal fin larger than the dorsal fin and supported by 16 or more anal pterygiophores at least as early as the early Late Cretaceous (evidenced by Plesiolycoptera); 3) evolution of a falcate dorsal fin and a sexually dimorphic anal fin at least as early as the Eocene (evidenced by Eohiodon); and 4) increase in number of vertebrae accompanied by changes in the caudal skeleton as seen in the new fossil species and in Recent species of Hiodon. 
4524301|New material of Plesiobaena antiqua from the mid-Campanian Judith River Group of Alberta, Canada, fully documents the skeleton in this species and provides evidence regarding variation within the taxon. Size-independent variation is present in the size of the nasals. Variation in the degree of entry of the frontal into the orbital margin is size-related. The shell varies in the presence or absence of the seventh neural, presence of a ninth neural, and fusion of the eleventh and twelfth peripherals. Plesiobaena antiqua is restricted to the Campanian. The late Maastrichtian specimens previously included in the species differ in the absence of the following features: pointed crista supraoccipitalis, parietal-postorbital sutures strongly divergent from midline, maxilla meeting postorbital excluding jugal from orbit margin, short contact between pterygoids at midline, fused first and second peripheral, and first marginal located mostly, or entirely, on nuchal. The late Maastrichtian specimens are distinct from the Paleocene species P. putorius in the degree of development of the skull roof and presence of sulci on the skull roof, but the two taxa share two derived features suggesting that they form a monophyletic clade relative to P. antiqua. The distribution of P. antiqua within the Campanian of North America suggests that it was a member of a northern faunal assemblage.
4524192|Soft tissues associated with the cranial crest are described in a specimen of Germanodactylus rhamphastinus from the Solnhofen Limestone of southern Germany. The soft tissues covered, and extended upward from, the bony premaxillary crest, more than doubling the height of the crest, and were probably composed of cornified epidermis. Comparison of this specimen with other Solnhofen pterodactyloids with premaxillary crests suggests that all had soft tissues increasing the size of the crest in life.
4523541|Two new assemblages of fossil fishes are reported from the Cretaceous of Venezuela. One occurs in the Apon Formation (Aptian-Albian) and includes ichthyodectids, pycnodontids, asyet unidentified elopocephalans, plus the aspidorhynchid Vinctifer. The other assemblage is from the La Luna Formation (Cenomanian-Santonian) and includes Squalicorax, Enchodus, Belonostomus, plethodids, and pachyrhizodontids. The occurrence of Vinctifer is of considerable biostratigraphic and biogeographical interest in view of previous claims about its temporal range and distribution. Vinctifer ranged throughout the Aptian and Albian, especially in Brazil, where its occurrence may be of ecological significance in marking a transition from enclosed basinal environments to more open marine conditions.
4524296|Pseudophlegethontia turnbullorum, new genus and species, is the third distinct aistopod known from the Pennsylvanian of Mazon Creek, Illinois. It is morphologically intermediate between the derived phlegethontiids and the more basal, but equally unusual, "ophiderpetontids," making it crucial to understanding the anatomy of both groups and inferring possible developmental mechanisms leading to the phlegethontiid condition. Like "ophiderpetontids," Pseudophlegethontia possesses a relatively short body (140 vertebrae), "k-shaped" ribs extending far back on the vertebral column, distinct skull-roof bones, and a temporal opening without a lower temporal bar. However, it has a pointed snout, quadrate condyles well anterior to the occiput, an epipterygoid that rises high on the lateral surface of the braincase, thin gastralia, and no dorsal osteoderms, all of which are phlegethontiid characters. Uniquely, Pseudophlegethontia has an extremely anteroposteriorly elongate quadrate, and an extended postparietal region. Preliminary phylogenetic analysis places it as sister taxon to Phlegethontia, with Oestocephalus, Ophiderpeton, and Lethiscus placed successively basally.
41515063|A new species of Pseudoloris (Primates, Microchoerinae, Omomyidae) is described from the middle Eocene (Robiacian) locality of Mazatern (Almazn Basin, Spain). Pseudoloris cuestai is characterized by its medium size, high and thick paracristid and absence of a distinct paraconid in the lower molars, large hypoconulid in the m3, well-developed protocone in the P3 and P4, reduced hypocone and presence of a weak postprotocingulum in the M1-2, and especially by the lower incisor, with a buccolingually enlarged crown and a very wide, anteroposteriorly compressed root. The material from Mazatern constitutes the only record of the subfamily Microchoerinae in the Western Iberian Bioprovince, and is clearly different from the species of Pseudoloris that appear in the middle and late Eocene in the Pyrenean basins (P. isabenae from Capella, P. parvulus from Sosss, and the recently described P. pyrenaicus from Sant Jaume de Frontany). This discovery reinforces the endemic nature of the mammal faunas from this bioprovince, already observed in other groups such as Perissodactyla, Artiodactyla, Rodentia, and also evidenced in adapoid primates, with the recent description of the genus Mazateronodon.
4524576|The arvicoline rodent Microtus is represented in the Irvington fauna by 72 specimens. The majority of these are isolated molars. Lower first molars are diagnostic and clearly identifiable as Microtus specimens with five closed triangles. No other arvicolines are present in the fauna. Morphological variation in the sample is present, but not extensive. Morphological features permitting species-level identification are lacking, and no species assignation can be supported with the available data. Changing perspectives on Pleistocene biochronology and reinterpretation of several purported early records of Microtus indicate that the Irvington specimens of Microtus with five closed triangles are among the oldest recorded in North America. Chronological control is limited to paleomagnetic data that reveal that the Irvington fauna dates to somewhere between 0.78 Ma and somewhat older than 1.21 Ma. The uncertainty cannot be reduced based on current understanding of the taxonomic affinity and known temporal extent of other mammals from Irvington.
20061954|New crania, dentitions, and postcrania of the fossil pinniped, Proneotherium repenningi are described from the early to middle Miocene-age Astoria Formation of Lincoln County, Oregon. This sample includes specimens of four adult individuals; all probably males. The skull of Proneotherium repenningi shares many generalized features with basal pinnipeds (e.g., species of Enaliarctos) including its overall elongation, low profile, low sagittal crest, well developed lambdoidal crests, slender zygomatic arches, small orbits, slightly arched palate, dental formulae, and distinct embrasure pit. Proneotherium, however, differs from species of Enaliarctos in possession of a continuous and horizontal crest connecting the mastoid and paroccipital processes and in having a less secodont dentition. The molariform premolar dentition of Proneotherium is noteworthy and can be interpreted as representing the initial stage in a morphologic series that extends through Neotherium to Imagotaria. This morphologic series reflects a functional change from a shearing dentition to more of a piercing dentition and from a dentition capable of processing food (i.e., chewing) to a dentition that serves primarily to seize and hold prey. The hindlimb anatomy of Proneotherium provides important information concerning the evolution of aquatic adaptations and clearly shows that many pinniped innovations (short and broad femur, long and slender tibia, and elongated metatarsals I and V [relative to metatarsal III]) evolved very early. Evaluation of available specimens of Proneotherium supports recognition of a single species, Proneotherium repenningi. A cladistic analysis utilizing 24 cranial, dental and postcranial characters supports monophyly of the genus Proneotherium and suggests a close sister group relationship with another basal walrus, Prototaria. The parsimony analysis also confirms the monophyly of the Odobenidae, which is here defined as the clade containing the most recent common ancestor of Proneotherium and Odobenus and all of its descendants including Prototaria, Neotherium, Imagotaria, the dusignathines, and the odobenines.
40666175|Cranial and dentognathic remains of Trocharion albanense (Carnvora, Mustelidae, Leptarctinae) from the Valls-Peneds Basin (Barcelona, Spain), ranging from the middle to the late Miocene, are described. Most of the newly described material comes from several sites of the Abocador de Can Mata (ACM) section (in the municipal term of els Hostalets de Pierola), but remains from other Catalan localities (Sant Quirze, Castell de Barbera, and Can Llobateres) are also described. The material from ACM includes two partial crania and several mandibles. This enables description of several aspects of craniodental morphology previously unknown for this taxon, such as the presence of first upper premolars, as well as the presence of a conspicuous and rhomboid double temporal crest. Accordingly, an emended diagnosis of the genus Trocharion is provided, together with a differential diagnosis with respect to other leptarctine genera. A cladistic analysis based on craniodental features is consistent with Trocharion being the basalmost member of the Leptarctinae, and suggests that the carnassial notch (still present in this taxon) was independently lost in leptarctines and in other mustelids.
4523731|Restudy of Acleistorhinus pteroticus indicates that this Early Permian amniote from North America is the oldest known member of Parareptilia. Despite its stratigraphic position, Acleistorhinus is not a basal parareptile, and a phylogenetic analysis of parareptile interrelationships demonstrates that Acleistorhinus is a sister taxon to the Russian clade Lanthanosuchidae. This hypothesis of relationships is supported by eleven synapomorphies. The presence of an Early Permian parareptile in North American sediments provides strong support for the recent hypotheses of amniote phylogeny that propose an extensive evolutionary radiation for this group of reptiles.
4523647|Thaumastosaurus bottii De Stefano, 1903 is an anuran from the phosphorites of Quercy (upper Eocene, SW France). It was originally described as a saurian reptile, on the basis of the posterior part of the skull. The type material was lost and the original description was insufficient. In the present paper, description of new material from the locality La Bouffie is given, which made it possible to define the genus as well as to designate the neotype and paratypes. Revision of its taxonomic assignment confirmed Rage's conclusion that it has Gondwanan affinities. The possible paleogeographic connections between Gondwana and Laurasia in the Eocene and pre-Eocene times are briefly summarized; the Late Cretaceous terrestrial route between North and South America appears as the most probable.
4522945|A new genus and species, Nakalimys lavocati, is described from the Nakali locality, Kenya, of about 10 Ma. This muroid rodent is assigned to the Rhizomyidae and is most similar to Kanisamys indicus from the Miocene of Pakistan, with which it was originally considered congeneric. Nakalimynvs, with other rodents and vertebrates, points to interchange between eastern Africa and southern Asia earlier than 10 Ma, before a more recent period of strong faunal similarity at about the beginning of the Pliocene. Nakalimys possesses many primitive characters, but was not directly ancestral to fossil and extant Tachvorvctes of Africa.
4524226|A new species of Collocalia (Aves: Apodidae) is based on six fossils recovered from a Holocene rockshelter deposit on Mangaia, Cook Islands. The coracoid and carpometacarpus of the new species, C. manuoi, are larger and very different qualitatively from those of the extant C sawtelli on Atiu, Cook Islands, the geographically nearest population of Collocalia. This is the first species of Collocalia to be described from fossils. The Cook Islands become the first Polynesian island group known to have had multiple species of Collocalia.
4524425|A new taxon of the Prophaethontidae (Aves) is described from the phosphatic beds of the Ouled Abdoun Basin, Morocco. Lithoptila abdounensis gen. et sp. nov. is represented by a single, well-preserved neurocranium, dated as upper Paleocene (Thanetian) on the basis of the selachians identified in the matrix. This specimen is the oldest known African neornithine bird and the oldest record of the Prophaethontidae. It bears some striking resemblance to Prophaethon shrubsolei Andrews, 1899, from the lower Eocene (Ypresian) London Clay of the Isle of Sheppey, England. Aside from general proportions of the neurocranium, this new taxon differs from Prophaethon shrubsolei in many respects, such as the shape and position of the crista temporalis, impressio glandulae nasalis, surface of contact with the os lacrimale, and tuberculum basilare. This justifies its assignment to a new genus and species. A cladistic analysis of 47 osteological characters supports the monophyly of the Prophaethontidae and a sister-group relationship between the Prophaethontidae and Phaethontidae. The Pelecaniformes are polyphyletic, and the clade comprising the Phaethontidae and Prophaethontidae is the sister-group of the Procellariiformes.
4523459|In advanced members of the Equidae, the shoulder joint evolved a unique morphology about 5 Ma ago. Anatomically this diarthrosis is notable for its lack or weak development of ligaments. In fact, the normal role of ligamentous structures in bracing the joint has been taken over by muscles. One of these, the biceps brachii, exhibits morphological specializations consistent with preventing collapse of the shoulder joint during long periods of quiet standing characteristic of extant horses, thus reducing the muscular effort required to stand for prolonged periods. Osteologically, the specialization of the biceps brachii in horses is reflected by the presence of a well-developed intermediate tubercle (INT) on the proximal aspect of the humerus and by a prominent muscle origin on the supraglenoid tubercle of the scapula. Primitive horses and both fossil and extant outgroups of diverse sizes (e.g., tapirs and titanotheres) lack the intermediate tubercle and have an intertubercular sulcus that spirals medially (passing proximal to distal) with respect to the humeral head. In the derived equid state the intermediate tubercle is well-developed, bordered by distinct greater and lesser tubercles, and it is aligned parallel to the long axis of the humerus. The derived state of this character complex is incipient in Dinohippus (ca. 5 Ma) and is first well-developed in Pliocene (ca. 3.5 Ma) extinct species of Equus; it is thus a synapomorphy to unite this monophyletic clade. The function of this musculoskeletal complex is discussed in terms of body size trends and the distribution of various character states in other clades.
20491065|A bizarre "spine-brush complex" is found only in extinct symmoriiform chondrichthyans (Order Symmoriiformes). Its structural complexity makes the spine-brush complex a rich source of morphological characters for phylogenetic analysis, and it has been used as a basis for their family-level subdivision. Development of the complex is sex-linked in one of the three symmoriiform families customarily recognized (Falcatidae), but its distribution within members of the other two families (Symmoriidae, Stethacanthidae) is poorly documented. Consequently, earlier family-level diagnoses (which were largely based on the presence or absence of the spine-brush complex) are probably misleading. Some features of the spine-brush complex can be homologized with structures found in "normal" shark dorsal fins, suggesting that the spine-brush complex is a highly specialized first dorsal fin. The spine-brush complex may have arisen by co-option of the first dorsal fin module, possibly involving its suppression in females and postdisplacement (delayed development) in males, plus acquisition of several apomorphic traits, unlike in chimaeroids and actinistians where co-option of the first dorsal fin module is not sex-linked or developmentally postdisplaced. The evolutionary history of dorsal fin modularity is examined. In gnathostomes, co-option is typically confined to the first module, whereas the second is more highly conserved, retaining its functional role in aquatic locomotion.
4523815|A skeleton of a primitive rhinocerotoid from the Uintan (middle Eocene) of Utah provides the basis for a new genus and species, Uintaceras radinskyi; Hyrachyus grande Peterson, 1919 is a nomen dubium. The anterior dentition of this specimen is unlike that of any other known rhinocerotoid, although it most resembles the anterior teeth of some primitive rhinocerotids. The cheek teeth are primitive in morphology and similar to those of specimens referred to "Forstercooperia" grandis. North American specimens referred previously to Forstercooperia are here referred to this new genus. This taxonomic change implies that the evolution of indricotheriine hyracodontids was restricted to Eurasia. The postcranial skeleton of Uintaceras is robust and shows many primitive characters, including a tetradactyl manus. Uintaceras is the sister taxon of the Rhinocerotidae and demonstrates that rhinocerotids, at their origin, retained the primitive condition for many characters, including some that have been used to unite rhinocerotids with other rhinocerotoids, such as indricotheriine hyracodontids.
4524597|Whereas the anatomy of birds, domesticated mammals, and humans is described by standardized terminology, the anatomy of most fossil vertebrates is described by nonstandardized terminology. New fossil discoveries increasingly resolve the transitions between these living groups and their fossil outgroups, diminishing morphological differences between them, and vertebrate paleontologists can easily apply more than one system of anatomical terms to such groups. This plurality of systems has led to recent proposals to standardize anatomical terminology for tetrapods, either by applying avian and mammalian anatomical terminology to their respective stem groups (Sauropsida and Synapsida) or by creating an all-encompassing terminology for Tetrapoda from a combination of existing terminologies. The main rationale for implementing standardized anatomical terminology, which requires abandoning competing terminologies, is that it reflects homology and evolutionary descent, eliminates ambiguity, and enhances interdisciplinary communication. The proposed standardized anatomical terminology, however, entails many negative consequences, including reversing character trajectories, misrepresenting complex anatomical transformations and uncertain homologies, and requiring far-reaching terminological conversions. These negative consequences result from increasing the taxonomic scope of standardized anatomical terms that were developed for a specific group, but now: (1) apply to a broader hierarchy of character states; (2) involve additional phylogenetic interpretations or assumptions; and (3) are used for basal, often more generalized conditions. In contrast, traditional non-standardized anatomical terminology, although not strictly phylogenetic, is anatomical 'lingua franca' that has been in usage for nearly two centuries and is consistent, ubiquitous, and descriptive.
40666201|At least 10 (or more) mammal taxa have been identified from the Middle Jurassic (Callovian) Balabansai Formation in northern Fergana Depression, Kyrgyzstan, on the basis of mostly isolated and fragmentary teeth: docodontans cf. Simpsonodon spp., Paritatodon sp. [Paritatodon, gen. nov., is established for 'Shuotherium kermacki' Sigogneau-Russell, 1998, from the Bathonian of England], Tashkumyrodon desideratas, Tegotheriidae indet.; and Docodonta indet.; eutriconodontans Amphilestidae indet.; Ferganodon narynensis, cf. Ferganodon sp., and Triconodontidae indet.; 'symmetrodontan' Tinodontidae indet.; and cladotherians Paurodontidae indet. and Amphitheriidae indet. The occurrences of Triconodontidae, Tinodontidae, and Paurodontidae in the Balabansai Formation represent the oldest-known records of these groups. The Balabansai mammal assemblage is basically similar to the Bathonian mammals of the Forest Marble in England and the Itat mammal assemblage in Siberia respectively, revealing at present knowledge a marked uniformity of the Middle Jurassic mammal fauna across Laurasia.
4523037|A new family of theropod dinosaurs is described based on metatarsi from North America and Argentina. Because birds are theropod descendants, there are often problems in assigning isolated metatarsi to the proper group. Differences between the metatarsi of ground birds and theropods are detailed. In particular, it is shown that the length/width ratio of articulated metatarsi cannot be used to distinguish higher taxa. This new family represents the first occurrence of the same genus of theropod dinosaur from both Laurasia and Gondwanaland at the end of the Cretaceous, a time when the two supercontinents were supposedly still separate.
25835879|Touma (Sahelanthropus tchadensis) is, to date, the oldest known hominine. Approximately 7 million years ago, it lived close to the northern shoreline of the paleo Lake Chad, which extended at that time 500 km north of its present location. Here, we describe a new xerine squirrel, Sabara oralacus, gen. et sp. nov., discovered near the site where Touma was unearthed. Study of associated fauna is essential to evaluate correctly the precise paleoenvironmental affinities of the first African hominines. The new squirrel displays a mosaic of dental and skull characters characterizing either the tribe Xerini or Protoxerini, which makes its taxonomic assignment at the tribe level difficult. From craniodental characters, we hypothesize that S. oralacus was a ground-dweller, digging burrows, probably with an ecological preference for forest to savannah environments associated with hard fruit-bearing trees.
30126359|Compagopiscis croucheri and Gogopiscis gracilis (Gardiner and Miles, 1994) were collected in high numbers and in different size classes from the Upper Devonian Gogo Formation, Western Australia. This material has provided the basis for an investigation of ontogentic and phenotypic variation of characters and their phylogenetic implications. We used the Principal Component Analysis to examine if variation between specimens assigned to C. croucheri and G. gracilis could be attributed to random variation. In our analysis we found that only the first two principal components showed any significant ability to discriminate between the specimens assigned to C. croucheri and G. gracilis. The first principal component is a measure of overall size of the specimen, so that variation in this principal component can be explained in terms of maturity and growth within a single species. Not all the anatomical variation observed in this study can be attributed to ontogeny and it is considered that the two-class structure defined by the second principal component is consistent with individual variation. It is, therefore, concluded that Compagopiscis and Gogopiscis represented part of the continuous variation exhibited by the whole population rather than two distinct taxa and therefore Compagopiscis and Gogopiscis are synonomized to a single genus, Compagopiscis containing a single species, Compagopiscis croucheri.
20491003|Dicynodont therapsids were cosmopolitan members of Middle and Late Permian terrestrial ecosystems. Despite occurring in nearly all places where tetrapod fossils of these ages are found, it is unclear whether any individual dicynodont species ever achieved a Pangaean distribution, with populations located in both Gondwana and Laurasia. Diictodon feliceps (Owen, 1876) is perhaps the best candidate for a species with such a broad distribution, but this depends on whether D. tienshanensis (Sun, 1973) from the Junggur Basin of China is a valid species. We use qualitative morphological characters, as well as linear measurement- and landmark-based morphometric techniques, to demonstrate that IVPP V.3260 (the type and only known specimen of D. tienshanensis) falls well within the range of variation displayed by D. feliceps, implying that D. tienshanensis is not a valid species. The occurrence of D. feliceps in China poses a biogeographic puzzle, since this species is otherwise known only from southern Africa. We predict that D. feliceps will be discovered in areas between southern Africa and China. However, if its absence persists in the face of continued exploration and collecting efforts, it may imply that a dispersal route and/or intervening populations of D. feliceps existed in areas in which an Upper Permian terrestrial fossil record was not preserved. Finally, if dicynodonts were adapted to exploiting components of the Gondwanan flora, the presence of D. feliceps in Gondwana and Laurasia indicates that such trophic interactions were not an insurmountable barrier to their dispersal.
20490954|A rare partial postcranium and isolated humeri of Nothosaurus from the Lower Muschelkalk of Winterswijk, The Netherlands are described. The partial skeleton consists of a vertebral column with ribs, pectoral girdle elements, and incomplete forelimbs. Because current species-level taxonomy of Nothosaurus is based only on features of the skull, we examined the postcranial morphology in detail in order to assign the skeleton to a valid species. We focused on the humerus because this bone generally shows a complex morphology in Lower Muschelkalk Nothosaurus. Three different humerus morphotypes were recognized in the Winterswijk material, which were also seen among humeri from other Lower and lowermost Middle Muschelkalk localities such as Rdersdorf and Oberdorla (both in Germany), and Gogolin (Poland). Morphotype I is characterized by a slender appearance with a bulky proximal end. The preaxial and postaxial edges of the shaft are very distinct, and the distal end is fan-shaped. Morphotype II is rather small and gracile with the distal end being only slightly fan-shaped. Morphotype III is rather large with an especially massive proximal end, and the distal end is thick and shovel-like. Ontogenetic variation could also be recognized within the morphotypes. One small humerus from Oberdorla belongs to a juvenile and cannot be assigned to a specific morphotype. Type II humeri belong to the N. winterswijkensis-N. marchicus clade. Type III may represent a sexual morph of type II humeri and type I a new species of Nothosaurus, or both may pertain to the nothosaurian Germanosaurus and/or the eosauropterygian Cymatosaurus.
41407686|The early Eocene genus Tubulodon (Epoicotheriidae) from Wyoming is one of a few primitive genera of the Palaeanodonta that retained tooth enamel. Contemporary Palaeanodon lacked enamel, as presumably did all metacheiromyid palaeanodonts and some derived epoicotheriids. The enamel of Tubulodon is relatively thin and therefore often transparent.Thus, unusual tubes in the orthodentine are often visible. These tubes were initially interpreted as primary dental structures, being pre-stages to the hexagonal dentinal prisms in aardvarks, and inspired the name Tubulodon. Our detailed scanning electron microscopic study showed that individual tubes are surrounded by a hypermineralized rim and enclose a cluster of much smaller elongated structures, or filaments, each residing in a small tunnel. The tubes and filaments do not belong to the natural orthodentine structure and are here interpreted as early post-mortem bioerosional phenomena. Size and morphology of the filaments affiliates them with actinomycetal bacteria. Bioerosional destruction is not unique to Tubulodon. Additional evidence that this is a widespread taphonomical phenomenon comes from numerous specimens of other early Eocene teeth from the Willwood Formation of the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming, as well as diverse mammalian taxa from different stratigraphie levels and geographic locations where we observed varying degrees of tunneling, and even substantial tube development in the dentary itself. In contrast to the orthodentine, the enamel of Tubulodon is not altered. It can be characterized as a primitive stage of radial enamel with substantial interprismatic matrix.
4524472|The small temnospondyl Micropholis stowi from the Lower Triassic Lystrosaurus Assemblage Zone (Karoo Basin, South Africa) is redescribed on the basis of a larger sample of specimens, revealing a range of previously unknown anatomical features. Micropholis is recognized as a member of the Amphibamidae, representing both the last occurrence and the only Gondwanan member of this clade. (1) The largest specimens have an elongated narrow snout, larger otic notches, prominent quadrate processes, and wide cheeks giving the skull a marked lateral curvature. (2) Palpebral ossifications include a fabric of numerous polygonal ossicles contouring the size and position of the eyeballs. (3) The palate houses large fangs with inwardly curving crowns, an elaborate basicranial region resembling closely that of Amphibamus and Doleserpeton, and an extremely reduced rod-like palatine and ectopterygoid approaching the derived condition seen in other amphibamids. (4) In the postcranial skeleton, the greatly extended transverse processes, the morphology of the interclavicle and scapulocoracoid, and the structure of the pelvis and tail are characteristic features of Micropholis some of which are quite similar to the condition in Eoscopus and Platyrhinops. It is evident that two morphs of Micropholis, which differ in skull width and palatal dentition, are present in the Karoo Basin. Phylogenetic analysis suggests Micropholis to be nested within the amphibamid dissorophoids as the basal-most taxon. Within the Amphibamidae, Doleserpeton and Amphibamus are sister groups, nested with successive sister taxa Platyrhinops and Eoscopus. In particular, the miniaturized genera Doleserpeton and Amphibamus share a range of derived character-states with Micropholis, but the latter lacks the pedicellate dentition and has a more plesiomorphic posterior skull table and parasphenoid, suggesting that some of the shared derived states may have been acquired independently during the long isolated evolution of the Micropholis lineage in the Southern Hemisphere. In the present analysis, Micromelerpeton is the most basal offshoot of the dissorophoids, followed by a grade towards amphibamids formed by the following successive sister groups (from the base crownwards): (1) the trematopids, (2) Ecolsonia, and (3) the Dissorophidae, the latter being the sister taxon of all analyzed amphibamids.
20490959|A gavialoid crocodylian from the Maastrichtian of the Oulad Abdoun phosphatic Basin (Morocco) is described, representing the oldest known crocodylian from Africa. The specimen consists of a skull that exhibits several features not found in other gavialoids, and a new genus and species is erected, Ocepesuchus eoafricanus. A phylogenetic analysis has been conducted including 201 characters and 71 taxa, where Ocepesuchus eoafricanus appears as the most basal African gavialoid, and the South American gavialoids are paraphyletic. This paraphyly has strong biogeographic implications, and the previous hypothesis of South American and Asian assemblages derived from African gavialoids should be reviewed. The historical biogeography of Gavialoidea is probably more complex than previously supposed. The phosphatic deposits of Morocco provide a unique opportunity to study the vertebrate faunal turnover across the Cretaceous-Tertiary (KT) boundary. The crocodyliforms are very scarce in the Maastrichtian marine basins of Africa which are dominated by mosasaurid squamates. The latter became extinct by the KT boundary, while crocodyliforms survived and diversified in the Paleocene. Mosasaurids and crocodyliforms both lived in probably comparable marine environments during the Maastrichtian. The selectivity of the KT boundary extinctions remains to be explained; since freshwater environments are known for having been less affected by the KT crisis than marine ones, a freshwater lifestyle of the juveniles, like in extant marine crocodiles and unlike the fully marine mosasaurs, could explain this difference with regard to survivorship.
4523724|The hindlimb of modern Equus caballus is distinguished by the presence of a passive stay-apparatus, i.e., a system of bones, muscles, and ligaments that facilitate long periods of standing with reduced muscular activity. Gravitational forces normally collapse (flex) the knee (stifle) joint. Thus, either muscular activity in the knee extensors must counter this action, or there must be a passive "locking" of the knee in extension. The latter situation has evolved through a complex arrangement of patellar ligaments, medial enlargement of the patella, and significant enlargement of the medial trochlear ridge (MTR) of the femur. Together, these elements facilitate a passive "lock" of the knee joint in an extended position without continued high levels of muscular activity. Primitive horses, such as Mesohippus from about 25 to 35 Ma, have a distal femoral morphology similar to that seen in outgroups, including tapirs, primitive rhinoceroses, and most artiodactyls. Specimens of Protohippus from about 12 Ma represent the first equid clade in which there is an enlarged MTR. This derived condition of the MTR is observed thereafter in the family Equidae, despite evolutionary experiments that included dwarfing or the tendency towards monodactyly. The enlarged MTR may be used as an indicator of the existence of a passive knee locking mechanism in the evolution of horses. Thus, morphologic characters correlated with the knee locking mechanism were present early (about 11-12 Ma) relative to an analogous locking mechanism proposed in the shoulder region of the Equidae (about 3-5 Ma). We propose that biomechanical differences in the weight-bearing of forelimbs versus hindlimbs may account for the earlier appearance of a "locking mechanism" of the equid hindlimb.
4523533|We describe Oligokyphus lufengensis sp. nov. from the Dull Purplish Beds of the Lower Lufeng Formation, Yunnan, China. The holotype of O. lufengensis is similar to Oligokyphus from Germany, England, and North America in possessing two longitudinal rows of three principal cusps and a posterolingual accessory cusp on the lower postcanines. By contrast, all other known tritylodontids have two principal cusps on the lower postcanines. O. lufengensis is distinguished from other species of Oligokyphus by lacking the anterior cingulum on the lower postcanines. The discovery of Oligokyphus lufengensis suggests that the Dull Purplish Beds are coeval with the Kayenta Formation of North America and the fissure deposits yielding Oligokyphus in England, and that they are no older than Hettangian in age (Early Jurassic). The broad distribution of Oligokyphus indicates that there were interchanges among the terrestrial vertebrate faunas of North America, Europe, and China during the Early Jurassic.
4522963|Most species of the order Temnospondyli from the lowermost Triassic may be classified under ten well defined families, although a few species are of uncertain family allocation. The ten families occur variously in ten tetrapod assemblages scattered over Pangaea. These assemblages are very similar in taxonomic composition indicating: (1) general contemporaneity among them; (2) the presence of open routes for dispersion through and around the land area of the time; and (3) similarity in climatic and ecologic conditions from high southern latitudes to high northern latitudes. The lowermost Triassic is here defined as the Griesbachian, Dienerian, and Smithian Stages, and the tetrapod assemblages ranging through these levels are here, compositely, named the Triassic Al horizon. Some dispersion routes for temnospondyls seem to have been overland on Pangaea and some along its shoreline. A single terrestrial and fresh-water tetrapod ecosystem was generally ubiquitous over Pangaea, although there is some indication of taxonomic endemism and some indication of division into communities controlled by ecologic facies and habitat differences.
4524441|Until recently, Histiophorus rotundus Woodward 1901, was known from a single, poorly preserved rostrum from the Tertiary phosphate beds near Charleston, South Carolina, an area from which many fossils have been described. The specimen is relatively featureless externally; its internal anatomy is unknown and the documentation of its geological provenance was poor. In an earlier revision the species was transferred to the fossil billfish genus Xiphiorhynchus Van Beneden, 1871. Here we confirm this designation, supported by new morphological studies of the holotype, recently found specimens of Xiphiorhynchus rotundus (Woodward, 1901), and the stratigraphic record of Xiphiorhynchus. The systematic paleontology we present is a contribution to the taxonomic revision of billfishes world-wide. Because the holotype is heavily phosphatized and the type locality was vaguely described, we discuss the geology of the phosphate mining districts of the Charleston region. Based on our studies, we can narrow the possible age of the holotype to late Oligocene or early Miocene. We suggest X. rotundus was extinct by the Burdigalian.
20491076|Titanosaurs are the only sauropods that possessed osteoderms, although the phylogenetic distribution of this feature within Titanosauria is not yet resolved. Whereas the majority of titanosaur osteoderms are from South America, several have been found in Cretaceous rocks in Africa, Madagascar, and Europe. Here we describe a titanosaur osteoderm from the Maastrichtian of India that extends the geographic range of these armored sauropods. The known spatiotemporal distribution of titanosaurs is broader than the distribution of titanosaur osteoderms. This discrepancy can be explained by one or more of several factors: (1) few titanosaur genera had osteoderms; (2) titanosaurs were not heavily armored; (3) there are strong collection and/or (4) taphonomic biases against these elements. Almost 90 individual titanosaur osteoderms have been reported and can be assigned to ten of the 40+ currently recognized titanosaur genera. Although they are not divisible into discrete size classes, titanosaur osteoderms are here shown to fall into four morphotypes: "ellipsoid," "keeled," "cylindrical," and "mosaic." No morphotype is unique to any one taxonomic group, geographic area, or time period. Despite the relative scarcity of osteoderms, it appears that armored titanosaurs are relatively diminutive in body size, with average femoral and humeral lengths of about 60 and 70% those of unarmored taxa, respectively. An apparent exception to this relationship is the titanosaur osteoderm from India, which likely pertains to one of the two relatively large-bodied titanosaur species that are known from the Lameta Formation.
4524173|This paper describes the skull of Allodaposuchus precedens Nopcsa, 1928 and provides the first complete diagnosis of the species. The description of the holotype, which comes from the Upper Cretaceous deposits of Valioara in the Hateg Basin of Romania (Late Maastrichtian), is included with those of other undescribed specimens from the uppermost Cretaceous of Spain and southern France. All the specimens preserve the same anatomical region as the holotype and provide new relevant information on the genus Allodaposuchus and its phylogenetic position. The phylogenetic context of A. precedens is discussed in the context of a recent cladistic analysis of Eusuchia and its crowngroup Crocodylia. Allodaposuchus is unambiguously the sister taxon of the crown-group Crocodylia, sharing with this clade the absence of a lingual to maxillary occlusion of the dentary teeth, and the extension of the ectopterygoid that does not reach the posterior tip of the lateral pterygoid flange, among other characters. The phylogenetic analysis also raises the problem of the ambiguous definition of Eusuchia, since the characters traditionally used in its diagnosis are multiply derived. Allodaposuchus is an outstanding crocodyliform providing new anatomical evidence concerning the stem-group of Crocodylia, and filling the gap between the Early Cretaceous (Barremian) Hylaeochampsa and the earliest common ancestor of Crocodylia.
4524601|A new genus and species of fossil moonfish (Teleostei, Lampridiformes, Lamprididae) is reported on the basis of a large, partially articulated skeleton from North Otago, New Zealand. The source horizon is shelf sediments of basal Otekaike Limestone, upper Duntroonian stage, Upper Oligocene (-26 Ma). The deep-bodied proportions of the fossil, along with features of its caudal and pectoral skeleton, support assignment to a new genus and species, described here as Megalampris keyesi, in the family Lamprididae (moonfish and opah). The fossil is notable for its large size-at an estimated 4 m total length, it is about twice the length recorded for the extant moonfish Lampris guttatus. The new form has a greatly enlarged cleithrum, which is associated with the specialized pectoral swimming characteristic of lampridids, demonstrating that this distinctive locomotory mode, along with impressively large body size, evolved in lampridids at least as early as the Oligocene. This is the first Southern Hemisphere report for a fossil lampridiform.
42568544|The Eulert pliosaurid remains (FHSM VP-321) housed at the Sternberg Museum of Natural History (Kansas, U.S.A.) include one of the world's best examples of a Cretaceous pliosaurid plesiosaur skull. The specimen's original assignment to Brachauchenius lucasi was based solely upon the skull (dorsal surface) and left lower jaw (lateral view) because the specimen was embedded in a plaster mount. The history of B. lucasi is similarly problematic, because the type and a referred skull were formerly visible only in ventral and dorsal views, respectively. Further preparation and comparison of these specimens reveal new data about the arrangement of cranial elements. The Eulert pliosaurid bears several distinct autapomorphies as compared with B. lucasi, including cranial proportions (pretemporal length of palate longer, shorter temporal fenestrae), configuration of skull roof elements (frontals participate in premaxilla-parietal suture, suture occurs further forward), and configuration of the palate (posterior vomers not masked by medial alar extensions of the palatines, caudal vomerian fenestrae positioned further posterior, long slit-like anterior pteryoid vacuity present). Furthermore, FHSM VP-321 possesses double-headed cervical ribs, a feature previously unknown in Cretaceous pliosaurids. This combination of characters merits separation of the Eulert pliosaurid and a referred specimen to a new taxon, Megacephalosaurus eulerti. The type and paratype skulls of M. eulerti are 1.5 m and 1.75 m in length, respectively, and thus 50% and 75% larger than the known 1-m-long skulls of B. lucasi, suggesting that M. eulerti may attain larger size than B. lucasi.
4524100|Leptotragulus, from the upper middle Eocene of North America, is the most plesiomorphic member of the Protoceratidae, an enigmatic group of selenodont artiodactyls. Until now Leptotragulus was known primarily from teeth, limb bones and a few skull fragments. A previously undescribed series of crania shows that Leptotragulus exhibits the typical protoceratid skull morphology, with a broad, flattened forehead, pronounced lambdoid crests enclosing a deep complexus fossa, and broad occipital condyles with a pronounced anteroventral margin. It is suggested that these features, which are suited to forms of agonistic, intraspecific behaviour such as head-butting, may indicate that the evolution of such behaviour occurred comparatively early in the history of the protoceratids. Study of the anatomy of the otic region in Leptotragulus suggests that there are a number of similarities in periotic morphology between leptotragulines and plesiomorphic ruminants such as hypertragulids and leptomerycids, which may indicate a sister group relationship between the Protoceratidae and the Ruminantia.
42568623|A new species of hump-backed semionotiform fish, Lophionotus sanjuanensis, gen et sp. nov., is described based on specimens recently and previously collected from the Upper Triassic Church Rock Member of the Chinle Formation of southeastern Utah. It is characterized by a deep body with a large postcranial hump, and dense tuberculation on the posterodorsal margin of the skull that continues into the dorsal ridge and dorsolateral flank scales. The vertical preoperculum bears a short and broad paddle-like ventral process. The infraorbital series expands ventral to the suborbital and contacts the anterior ramus of the preoperculum, although this character has also been observed in other deep-bodied semionotiform taxa. This taxon represents the first newly described semionotiform fish species from the western United States in over 45 years, and adds to knowledge of Triassic fishes biodiversity.
23251280|We redescribe and present newly excavated sauropod material from the Lower Cretaceous Cloverly Formation of Wyoming that we refer to the titanosauriform Sauroposeidon proteles. In contrast to previous hypotheses that it was a brachiosaurid, we assert that Sauroposeidon is a member of the Somphospondyli on the basis of numerous features. Thus, the mid-Cretaceous disappearance of sauropods from the North American fossil record concerned both brachiosaurids and somphospondylans. We find claims for titanosaurs in the Early Cretaceous of North America to be unsubstantiated. The latest register of Sauroposeidon and other Early Cretaceous North American sauropods (before the 'sauropod hiatus') occurs in or below the coastal units marking transgression of the Western Interior Seaway, whereas many ecologically disparate dinosaur groups are present both below and above this boundary in the same geologic units that sauropods are found in. The presence of these through-ranging groups with sauropods before and after sauropod absence suggests that appropriate sauropod-bearing environments were present into the Late Cretaceous, implying that the disappearance of sauropods is not attributable to taphonomic or sampling bias. Furthermore, field observations of the Cloverly Formation indicate that Cretaceous pre-hiatus sauropods inhabited near-coastal environments, which were abundant in the western United States well after the start of the hiatus. The start of the sauropod hiatus is interpreted as the result of a genuine continent-wide extinction, coincident with the appearance of (and perhaps attributable to competition with) advanced ornithischian herbivores, decrease in habitat due to the incursion of the Western Interior Seaway, or both.
42568659|Isolated cheek teeth of Sciuridae (Rodentia, Mammalia) from nine late Miocene localities in central Anatolia (Turkey) are described. The teeth represent at least 12 different species, five of which belong to the ground squirrel genus Tamias, two to the ground squirrel genus Spermophilinus, one to the flying squirrel genus Hylopetes, and two to the flying squirrel genus Pliopetaurista. One species, Tamias anatoliensis (type locality Altinta, 1), is new. An unknown genus and species of giant tree or ground squirrel is represented by one tooth. Two teeth probably form the oldest record in western Eurasia of the tree squirrel genus Sciurus. Seven of the localities that yielded Sciuridae are lacustrine deposits, two are karst fissure fills. Their estimated ages range from MN 9 to MN 13. The majority of late Miocene Sciuridae from Anatolia show affinities with European sciurids of the same period.
4523087|Various lines of paleontological evidence support the theory, first emphasized by McKenna (1975), that eutherians primitively had at least five premolars. The most likely transformation to the four premolar number in many modern eutherians involved the loss of a premolar in the middle of the series, perhaps at the P3 locus. Transformational hypotheses invoking the retention of a last premolar and the loss of the last molar to arrive at the four premolar, three molar formula seem less plausible. More primitive dental formulae are apparent in the Cretaceous leptictid relative, Gypsonictops, Eocene sirenians, and a number of Mesozoic non-therians. The marsupial dental pattern, however, seems anomalous, and specialized in a way that contrasts strongly with the eutherian condition. Standard dental comparisons often conceal the problem of homology between corresponding teeth in different taxa. Such comparisons are strongly affected by the particular hypothesis of dental ontogeny and transformation assumed.
20062020|We use probability plots to compare metric data for a growth series of the Permian nectridean Diplocaulus magnicornis Cope to a normal (Gaussian) probability distribution function and demonstrate that the ontogeny of Diplocaulus is not a single continuous process. The plots are bimodal, revealing a population of small, ontogenetically young animals whose growth is governed by a distinct process. This population, which comprises 20% of the growth series, is not evident in allometric studies. These young animals have a mean mid-line skull length of 21 mm, and their orbits are relatively larger, and rounder, than the orbits of the older animals, whose mean skull length is 94 mm. Although there is no evidence of lissamphibian-type metamorphosis in the Nectridea, the probability plots clearly demonstrate a two-stage ontogeny, best described as an ontogenetic morphological saltation. This saltation may have been an alternative strategy to the metamorphic heterochrony found in lissamphibians and their relatives.
42568662|'Arctocyonids' are generally considered as including some of the most primitive 'ungulates' from the Paleocene. Although more than 15 genera are known from North America, European members of this order are less common and mainly belong to derived genera such as Arctocyon. However, one species of primitive arctocyonid, Prolatidens waudruae, was described from the early Paleocene of Hainin, Mons Basin, Belgium. Here we describe new dental positions of this small taxon, including for the first time upper molars and upper fourth premolar. Morphological comparisons confirm the position of P. waudruae among primitive 'ungulates,' with the closest North American arctocyonids being Prothryptacodon furens and Oxyprimus galadrielae. Oxyprimus galadrielae features slightly more primitive morphological traits than both other species. Apheliscids share several characters with Prolatidens, but the latter lacks the apomorphies defining the family. Among 'arctocyonids,' Prolatidens shares with only Protungulatum and Oxyprimus the incomplete lingual cingulum at the base of the protocone of M1. Prolatidens waudruae is unique among Procreodi in its combination of primitive and derived characters. The cladistic analysis places P. waudruae close to the base of the ingroup, indicating that this species is among the most primitive members of the Paleocene 'ungulates.' However, the lower nodes of the trees are not well supported and definitive conclusions should await more complete specimens and analysis. Apheliscids are situated relatively far from Prolatidens, suggesting that the resemblances between them are better considered as convergences. Based on the morphological comparisons, the arctocyonid from Hainin correlates best with North American Torrejonian taxa.
30126336|A new aigialosaur is described from the lower Turonian (Upper Cretaceous) of Nuevo Len State, Mexico, on the basis of the posterior half of an articulated skeleton. It is differentiated from other aigialosaurs by a unique combination of characters, including an absent ultimate rib preceded by six short ones, a single pygal vertebra, and an especially large tibia. The scales are uniform, smooth, rhomboidal, and arrayed in oblique rows, as in other aigialosaurs where they are known. Abdominal contents include 15 carbonate pebbles. Many of the features of the posterior presacral ribs and anterior caudal vertebrae are widespread in Anguimorpha, but the extreme elongation of the neural spines of the caudal vertebrae appears to unite described aigialosaurs, including the new species, with Mosasauridae. The new species provides further evidence that aigialosaurs may have had a more primitive pes than previously thought, whereas the pes in a number of dolichosaurs shows the loss of one phalanx in pedal digit V. The presence of this new species, the oldest aigialosaur described from North America, on a different continent from previously known aigialosaurs and in rocks representing the outer shelf suggests an underappreciated ability of primitive mosasauroids to move about in the open sea.
4523560| Two articulated skulls and associated material from the Early or Middle Jurassic La Boca Formation of Mexico represent a new genus and species of small diapsid, Tamaulipasaurus morenoi. The skull is superficially similar to that of burrowing squamates, especially amphisbaenians and dibamids, but the presence of plesiomorphic characters, such as a complete lower temporal bar, contradict a phylogenetic relationship within Squamata. Among its autapomorphies are extensive fusion of braincase bones and of postdentary bones, a broad thin squamosal, absence of three circumorbital bones, an extensive side wall to the braincase, an anteriorly directed fenestra ovalis, an unusual course for the stylar process of the stapes in a groove between the quadrate and braincase, and a large longitudinal foramen through the base of the transverse process of cervical vertebrae. The phylogenetic relationships of Tamaulipasaurus morenoi are difficult to assess because its burrowing adaptations obscure its structure. It shares several features with diapsids, such as an emarginated quadrate with a tympanic recess and a lower temporal bar, and several characters with squamates, such as absence of a descending process of the squamosal and procoelous vertebrae with fused neural arches, suggesting that it may be closely related to Lepidosauria. /// Dos crneos articulados y material asociado de la formacin Jursica inferior-media La Boca, Mxico, representan un nuevo gnero y especie de un pequeo dipsido, Tamaulipasaurus morenoi. El crneo es similar superficialmente al de los escamados excavadores, especialmente a los anfisbenos, pero la presencia de caracteres plesiomorfos, tales como una barra temporal inferior, contradicen una relacin filognetica dentro de los Squamata. Entre sus autapomorfas estn la fusin amplia de los huesos del crneo y de los huesos postdentarios, un ancho escamoso delgado, la ausencia de tres huesos circunorbitales, una amplia pared lateral de la caja craneana, una fenestra ovalis orientada anteriormente, una inusual orientacin del proceso estilar de los estribos en una cavidad entre el cuadrado y la caja craneana, y un foramen longitudinal grande atraviesa la base del proceso transversal de la vrtebra cervical. Las relaciones filogenticas de Tamaulipasaurus morenoi son difciles de evaluar debido a las adaptaciones cavadoras que oscurecen su morfologa. Comparte varias caractersticas con los dipsidos, tales como un cuadrado recortado con una cavidad timpnica y una barra temporal inferior, y varios caracteres con los escamados tales como la ausencia de un proceso descendente del escamoso y la vrtebra proclica con arcos neurales fusionados, las que sugieren que podra estar estrechamente relacionado con Lepidosauria. 
40864396|We present a detailed account on the skeletal structure of the traversodont cynodont Boreogomphodon jeffersoni on the basis of a considerable quantity of excellently preserved craniodental remains and several referred postcranial bones from the Tomahawk Creek Member of the Vinita Formation (Upper Triassic: Carnian) of the Richmond basin (Newark Supergroup) in eastern Virginia. The small size, proportionately short snout and mandible, low number of molariform postcanine teeth, and presence of up to three sectorial postcanines all indicate that most of the specimens recovered to date represent immature individuals. The superbly preserved dental material permits detailed inferences regarding tooth replacement and dental function during ontogeny. Boreogomphodon differs from other known traversodont cynodonts primarily in the possession of lower molariform postcanine teeth with three rather than two anterior cusps in all but the smallest specimens, zygomatic arches that are bowed laterally at about mid-length, and pronounced, irregular sculpturing on the dorsal surface of the snout. Plesiomorphic features of traversodont cynodonts retained by Boreogomphodon include the position of the paracanine fossa anterolingual to the upper canine as well as the presence of a distinct central cusp and a posterior cingulum on the upper molariform postcanines. Phylogenetic analysis suggests the existence of a clade comprising Boreogomphodon plus two other taxa (Arctotraversodon and Nanogomphodon) in the Northern Hemisphere that is the sister group to most other known Middle and Late Triassic traversodonts from Gondwana.
4524351|Indian and French dinosaur eggshell oospecies belonging to the oofamily Megaloolithidae are compared and, of the fourteen Megaloolithidae oospecies previously described from the Late Cretaceous of India, seven are considered junior synonyms. Comparisons between nine oospecies from India and France reveal four groupings which show similarities between megaloolithids of these countries: (1) Megaloolithus microtuberculata, M. cylindricus, and M. padiyalensis; (2) M. mamillare and M. jabalpurensis; (3) M. siruguei and M. khempurensis; and (4) M. pseudomamillare and M. baghensis. Five oospecies from India have no French equivalents, whereas the oogenus Cairanoolithus is endemic to France. Updated synonymy Megaloolithus oospecies shows a total of nine distinct oospecies from India: Megaloolithus cylindricus, M. mohabeyi, M. padiyalensis, M. jabalpurensis, M. dholiyaensis, M. dhoridungriensis, M. khempurensis, M. megadermus, and M. baghensis. One oospecies, M. jabalpurensis, is common to India and South America and is considered here to be possibly a senior synonym of M. patagonicus. The similarities in egg taxa suggest close phyletic relationships, as well as the probable existence of a terrestrial connection of dinosaur fauna between India and Europe during the Cretaceous, and between the two gondwanan areas Patagonia and India.
20627084|Metriorhynchids have been interpreted as the only archosaurs entirely adapted to pelagic marine life, given the deep morphological modifications of their skeletons. The most conspicuous feature in the skull involves the "fenestra and fossa antorbitalis complex." Exceptionally preserved natural cast of snout cavities of Geosaurus araucanensis, found in the Late Jurassic of the Neuqun Basin (northwestern Patagonia, Argentina), allow exploration of the rostral anatomy of this metriorhynchid. The presence of a paranasal sinus system, hypothetically reconstructed by other authors using EPB method approach, can now be confirmed based on direct morphological evidence. We propose that the openings classically identified in the literature as internal and external antorbital fenestrae of metriorhynchid have been misidentified; the preorbital opening of metriorhynchids is a neomorph associated with a novel salt gland that evolved independent of the antorbital fenestra, and that the true antorbital cavity of G. araucanensis, as well as this cavity in all other metriorhynchids, is internalized. Although this hypothesis could be considered as unorthodox, it is the one that requires the least ad-hoc assumptions to explain observations. Many phylogenetic studies depict the Thalattosuchia nested within Neosuchia. In these trees, the successive outgroups of Thalattosuchia are Dyrosaurids/Pholidosaurids, followed by derived Neosuchians (Goniopholids, Bernissartia, Eusuchians). All these taxa have a closed antorbital fenestra. Within this phylogenetic scenario, the internalization of the antorbital cavity did not occur in the ancestor of thalattosuchians, but in the ancestor of a much more inclusive clade of neosuchians.
4523548|The occurrence of two species of the suid Listriodon at the middle Miocene locality Pasalar, western Anatolia, offers a rare possibility to compare dental wear and microwear in sympatric, closely related species. We studied all the worn tooth surfaces available in a sample of the lophodont Listriodon cf. L. splendens and the sublophodont L. aff. L. latidens from Pasalar, using simple methods to describe and quantify various aspects of wear. Major differences between dental surfaces and various sets of occlusal facets can be shown within and between the species. The differences within species among "major," "minor," and "phase II" facets are pronounced, more so than the difference between buccal and lingual facet groupings. The difference between species is most marked for the phase II facets, which also have the largest wear features. The between-species difference (but not the betweenfacet group difference) is much stronger for moderately worn teeth than for little-worn or much-worn teeth. The more developed lophodonty, earlier major facet development, and smaller maximum pit sizes in L. cf. L. splendens, compared to L. aff. L. latidens, all are consistent with the interpretation that L. cf. L. splendens was a more specialized folivore than L. aff. L. latidens and other less lophodont listriodonts.
4524445|We describe hindlimb elements of the large captorhinid Moradisaurus grandis (Reptilia: Captorhinidae) recently collected from the Upper Permian Moradi Formation of north-central Niger. This description is based primarily on an associated partial skeleton comprising a hemimandible, vertebral column, and partial left and nearly complete right hindlimb. Additionally, we report on a well-preserved, articulated, and essentially complete juvenile pes that provides important information on the ontogeny of the captorhinid tarsus. The hindlimb of Moradisaurus is stout and more massively built than in any other known captorhinid. The femur displays several features interpreted as adaptations to the demands of large body size, and the tibia and fibula have short, wide shafts and hypertrophied condyles and epicondyles. The astragalus is very derived, possessing two accessory ossifications and a relatively horizontal tibial articulation, indicating that the tibia was held more vertically than in other captorhinids. The calcaneum is co-ossified with distal tarsal five. The juvenile pes indicates that the captorhinid centrale arose from the fusion of two ossification centers, and that the captorhinid astragalus arose from the fusion of at least three ossification centers.
4524099| We here describe a near-complete dentition, partial rostrum, and associated lumbar vertebrae of the multituberculate mammal Cimexomys judithae, discovered on a dinosaur nest horizon at Egg Mountain, in Montana's Campanian Two Medicine Formation. This specimen confirms associations of isolated teeth made by previous authors and provides a wealth of phylogenetically useful information. A phylogenetic analysis including this specimen indicates that Cimexomys is diagnosed on the basis of primitive and widely distributed character states, is probably not monophyletic, and that C. judithae is more derived than other species of Cimexomys. Species of Cimexomys are too primitive to be included in the suborders Taeniolabidoidea or Ptilodontoidea, and are thus useful as outgroups in future analyses, but they must be scored separately to insure monophyly. /// Describimos aqu una denticin casi completa, un rostro parcial y vrtebras lumbares asociadas del mamfero multituberculado Cimexomys judithae, descubierto en un horizonte de nidos de dinosaurios de Egg Mountain, de la formacin Two Medicine del campaniano de Montana. Este ejemplar confirma asociaciones de dientes aislados realizadas por autores previos y proporciona una rica informacin filogenticamente til. Un anlisis filogentico, incluyendo este ejemplar, indica que Cimexomys est caracterizado por estados primitivos de caracteres ampliamente distribuidos; probablemente no es monofiltico; y C. judithae es ms derivado que otras especies de Cimexomys. Especies de Cimexomys son demasiado primitivas para ser incluidas en los subrdenes Taeniolabidoidea o Ptilodontoidea, y por lo tanto son tiles como grupos externos en anlisis futuros, pero deben ser tomados en cuenta separadamente para asegurar la monofilia. 
20490963|New specimens of the traversodontid cynodont Menadon besairiei from the Middle/Late Triassic 'Isalo II' beds of southwestern Madagascar are described. The new specimens include a skull and the first postcranial material described for this taxon. Although the referred skull differs from the holotype of M. besairiei in some regards, these differences are interpreted as intraspecific variation and preservational artifacts. The new material allows clarification of some aspects of the cranial morphology of Menadon, showing that, contrary to previous reports, this taxon had a well-developed internarial bar and four upper incisors. The postcranium of Menadon displays a mixture of advanced features observed in the South American traversodontid Exaeretodon, such as tall caudal neural spines, and primitive features observed in earlier traversodontids like Luangwa, such as heterogeneous rib morphology. A phylogenetic analysis incorporating information from the new specimens supports the placement of Menadon as the sister taxon to the clade Exaeretodon + Scalenodontoides.
4524749|The cranial anatomy of ceratopsian ("horned") dinosaurs is well understood, but the postcranial skeleton has been largely ignored in previous studies of phylogeny, evolution, and function. In order to study morphological differences among ceratopsian postcranial elements and to compare evolutionary patterns, multivariate (Principal Components Analysis) and bivariate methods were used to analyze linear measurement data, and the shape methods Resistant-Fit Theta-Rho Analysis (RFTRA), Least-Squares Theta-Rho Analysis (LSTRA), and Euclidean Distance Matrix Analysis (EDMA) were applied to biological landmark data. Results of the analyses show that size is the primary change through ceratopsian skeleton evolution. Elements display positive allometry, and increasing structural support is evident, especially in the radius and fibula. Phylogenetic distribution of ceratopsian postcrania agrees with the skull material included in recent cladistic analyses. Psittacosaurus elements are in many ways derived relative to those of non-ceratopsid neoceratopsians, and evidence suggests that Psittacosaurus was bipedal, while non-ceratopsid neoceratopsians were not, except maybe for Udanoceratops. With increasing body size, neoceratopsian limbs bowed laterally. The variety of methods allows for unbiased interpretation of results, provides more information than any one method, and provides controls for each other. However, sample sizes are not ideal, and all results should be treated with caution at this time.
4524096|A new skull of Saurosuchus galilei is described from a specimen collected at the base of the Upper Triassic Ischigualasto Formation in San Juan Province, Argentina. The skull of this taxon is described in detail and compared to those of other suchians. The poor ossification of the articular end of the quadrate, disarticulation of the braincase from the dermatocranium, and poor development of the suture between exoccipital and basioccipital in the skull of Saurosuchus indicate that the specimen was a juvenile. Possible cranial autapomorphies of Saurosuchus include: a thick, sculptured skull roof; reduced postfrontal; slender ventral projection of the lacrimal; lateral process of the posterolateral frontal; development of a crista on the dorsal supraoccipital; development of large lateral processes of the laterosphenoid; basal tuber wider than occipital condyle; and elongate anterior process of the coronoid.
41515066|New rhinocerotid remains from the early middle Miocene site of Prncipe Po-2, Madrid Basin (Madrid, Spain), are described and identified as belonging to Hispanotherium matritense. They constitute the first complete cranial remains recorded for this species, permitting the description of its cranial morphology and updating the species diagnosis. New remains show H. matritense as a middle-sized hornless elasmotheriine rhinoceros, contrary to previous studies. Phylogenetic analysis places the Western European Hispanotherium matritense close to the coeval Spanish species Hispanotherium corcolense and more distantly related to the French species Hispanotherium beonense. The late middle Miocene "H." tungurense from Inner Mongolia is placed near later diverging elasmotheres, and its belonging to the genus Hispanotherium is questioned.
4523656|Large fossil samples collected from a continuous series of stratigraphic levels are ideal for studying the tempo and mode of phyletic evolution. Study of two such coeval mammalian lineages (caenolestoid marsupials and octodontoid rodents) from Miocene rocks of southern Argentina revealed marked, simultaneous changes in molar dimensions in both lineages. The changes occur across a 1.65-1.80 m thick tuff unit that covers a widespread bonebed. Geologic and taphonomic data indicate that the tuff unit marks the rapid (geologically instantaneous) burial of an ancient land surface by pyroclastic products of a single major volcanic eruption. This suggests that the morphological changes observed in the fossil mammal samples were associated with catastrophic reduction in population size or the local or regional extermination of small mammal populations. Samples of both lineages showed changes in dental dimensions that are not simply the continuation of long-term morphological trends established before the volcanic event. Rapid "jumps" in morphology are seen in the opposite direction to long-term trends. The observed changes are consistent with responses to new selection pressures imposed by a strongly altered environment, and with the genetic and phenotypic phenomena associated with rapid and severe population reductions ("bottlenecks"). This is one example of the effect that geologically instantaneous environmental events can have upon evolving lineages, both immediately following the event and for geologically significant periods of time thereafter. Such morphological "punctuations" may easily occur without lineage splitting (cladogenesis). This suggests that traditional punctuated equilibrium theory may place too much emphasis on processes associated with speciation in the generation of macroevolutionary patterns.
30126313|A relatively complete skull of Parelasmotherium, a giant elasmotherine rhinocerotid with a huge nasal horn, is described from an early late Miocene locality of the Linxia Basin in Gansu, China. Comparing the new cranial material of Parelasmotherium, we confirm that Ningxiatherium belongs to a valid and independent genus. New knowledge concerning the cranial and dental morphology of Parelasmotherium allows insight into the phylogenetic position of this genus among elasmotheres. A sister-group relationship between Parelasmotherium and Ningxiatherium is proposed on the basis of cranial and dental evidence. Shared derived characters that support this relationship include: anterior rims of orbit far behind the level of M3; raised lower rim of orbit; long, wide, fused nasal bones that angle ventrally; a retracted nasal notch at the level of the P4/M1 boundary; broadly separated parietal crests; tooth rows restricted to the anterior half of skull; extremely expanded hypocones of molars; very narrow metalophs; and a lingually elongated protoloph of M3. Parelasmotherium was obviously a grazer, as shown by the high crown, strong wear, massive cement, and wrinkled enamel on its teeth. The coexistence of Parelasmotherium and Ningxiatherium in the Linxia Basin indicates that the ecological differentiation occurred during the early late Miocene. The two genera occupied different ecological niches with distinct diets, grazing grasses for Parelasmotherium and browsing leaves for Ningxiatherium.
4524121| A revision of gomphodont cynodonts from the Chaares Formation of Argentina, is presented. Four species in two genera: Massetognathus pascuali, M. teruggii, M. major, and Megagomphodon oligodens were originally described by Romer in 1967 and 1972. Qualitative characters proposed originally as diagnostic of the species were revised, and a bivariate analysis of allometry of 17 linear skull measurements was performed upon 31 specimens. Allometry relationships account for most of the differences among specimens. There are neither size gaps nor systematic trends across the sample. The temporal region scales with a 'positive' allometry, whereas components of the neurocranium and muzzle show 'negative' or isometric scaling. This results in a change from short, stocky skulls with large muzzles in small specimens, to slender skulls with small muzzles and large temporal fossae characteristic of large individuals. The reduction and ontogenetic loss of the parietal foramen in a cynodont is reported for the first time. Consideration of qualitative characters together with the allometric results lead us to conclude that all forms belong to a single species in a growth series. Consequently, Massetognathus pascuali is recognized as the only valid entity, an idea previously suggested but without a justification based upon extensive analysis. 
4524718|Early Oligocene deposits of the Jebel Qatrani Formation, Fayum Depression, Egypt, have provided three skulls that belong to a species of Lates (Perciformes, Latidae). This material differs from the other species of Lates in several features, such as the frontal bones of the fossils being broader anteriorly, the basioccipital facets having a more irregular shape, and the frontoparietal crests extending farther, and diverging, anteriorly. The Oligocene material therefore cannot be assigned to any of the described species of Lates, and is here described as a new species, L. qatraniensis. It is most similar to Lates niloticus, L. calcarifer, and L. angustifrons in the possession of an internal jugular bridge in the pterosphenoid, the parasphenoid contacting the pterosphenoid, and the anterior wall of the neurocranium (i.e., the anterior parts of the pterosphenoid, prootic, and ascending arm of the parasphenoid) extending significantly forward of the lateral commissure. Numerous cranial and postcranial elements that probably belong to the same new species are also described. This new species is the oldest Lates known from Africa.
4523280| A new assemblage of micromomyinin plesiadapiforms is described from a large calcareous concretion in the Willwood Formation, Clark's Fork Basin, Wyoming. The vast majority of the micromomyinin dental remains from this faunule belongs to the species Tinimomys graybulliensis, but four specimens represent a closely allied form, described below as Chalicomomys antelucanus, gen. et sp. nov. The new sample documents several previously unknown aspects of micromomyinin anatomy, including the morphology of I, in T. graybulliensis, which shows no special similarity to those of microsyopids (sensu stricto). Dental synapomorphies between Micromomyini and other plesiadapiform clades are not apparent. Rather, the structure of the upper molars of C. antelucanus, like that of middle Tiffanian Micromomys fremdi, approaches the condition seen in Purgatorius unio and suggests that Micromomyini may comprise the sister taxon of all other plesiadapiforms with the likely exception of Purgatorius itself. 
4523653|Dromaeosaurus albertensis was one of the first small theropods described that was based on reasonably good cranial material. It was realized from the beginning that this animal was significantly different from other Cretaceous theropods, and the Dromaeosauridae was created for its inclusion. In the intervening years, a number of genera were assigned to this family, which came to assume an important position in discussions on theropod relationships and evolution, and the origin of birds. It is now known that many of the dromaeosaurids are different enough from Dromaeosaurus to be included in a distinct subfamily known as the Velociraptorinae. In spite of intensive collecting activity, the holotype of Dromaeosaurus albertensis is still the most complete specimen, and it is apparent that this genus is even rarer than other small theropods. Repreparation and restudy of the holotype has produced new anatomical information useful for evaluating the relationships of dromaeosaurids. Contrary to previous reports, the premaxillary teeth are not D-shaped in section, the cranium is not pneumatic, there are interdental plates, and the braincase bones are not pneumatized. Dromaeosaurids form a distinct clade of specialized, successful theropods that are not closely related to other "coelurosaurs" of the Late Cretaceous.
4523085|A specimen of a juvenile ankylosaur from the Upper Cretaceous Horseshoe Canyon Formation (Red Deer River, Alberta, Canada) includes a nearly complete pes, the first reported for the genus Euoplocephalus. Differences between juvenile and adult ankylosaurs are qualitatively similar to differences reported for juvenile and adult stegosaurs.
4523877|A basicranium from the Cleveland-Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry is the most advanced of any Jurassic theropod, combining features considered synapomorphies for two different Cretaceous theropod families, the Itemiridae and Tyrannosauridae. The basicranium has large pockets on the basipterygoid processes, flat basal tubera, and is extremely shortened, so that the basisphenoidal sinus is visible only in occipital view and the basiptyerygoid processes are positioned at the posterolateral corners of the braincase. CT scanning reveals the basicranium to be extensively pneumatized. A number of lines of evidence suggests that this specimen is referable to the rare Morrison theropod Stokesosaurus clevelandi. Stokesosaurus may be the earliest itemirid, the earliest tyrannosaurid, or a lineage that independently reached a comparable level of basicranial organization. Unfortunately the limited amount of known Stokesosaurus material does not allow for choosing among these alternatives. However, it is clear that Morrison theropods are morphologically much more diverse than suspected.
25835848|Plicidentine, infolded dentine around the pulp cavity at the base of a tooth, has been histologically characterized in sarcopterygians, basal tetrapods, and the actinopterygian Lepisosteus. Within amniotes, however, its phylogenetic distribution is much less well documented and its morphological variability has not been described, in spite of the fact that plicidentine is considered a synapomorphy of three major clades of amniotes (Neochoristodera, Ichthyosauria, and Varanoidea). In this study, we provide a summary of the taxonomic distribution of plicidentine in amniotes, and also describe the morphological variation encompassed by this term. We conclude that plicidentine, as defined here, has evolved independently several times in amniotes, and that each occurrence is histologically distinct.
4523485|The laterosphenoid is an ossification of the pila antotica neurocranial cartilage in the anterior sidewall of the braincase of crocodylians and birds. Contrary to published reports, the bone is present in the basal archosauriforms Proterosuchus fergusi, Euparkeria capensis, and Erythrosuchidae, taxa that diverged prior to the origin of the archosaurian crown group. Its presence is thus a synapomorphy of Archosauriformes rather than of Archosauria. The bone appears to have been induced by shifting jaw muscle origins from the skull roof to the anterolateral wall of the braincase. Additional innovations in the archosauriform feeding apparatus, such as a mandibular fenestra, appear to reflect changes in jaw muscles that may, in turn, facilitate predaceous habits. We review the historical development of the names of bones in the anterior sidewall of the amniote braincase and argue for the use of the term laterosphenoid, rather than either pleurosphenoid or orbitosphenoid, for this bone in all Archosauriformes.
23361067|We report on a new enantiornithine bird, Sulcavis geeorum, gen. et sp. nov., from the Jehol Group of northeastern China. The fossil preserves robust teeth with longitudinal grooves radiating from the occlusal tip preserved in the enamel on the lingual surface. This is the first known occurrence of specialized tooth enamel within Aves. Compared with other Mesozoic groups, stomach contents are hardly ever preserved within enantiornithine specimens; therefore, this new tooth morphology reveals new evidence regarding the diversity of trophic niches occupied by the clade.
4523005|New material for a study of the allometric growth of muzzle length versus braincase length in the skull of living and fossil Equidae is presented. The classical allometric growth formula
41407712|Here we describe the most plesiomorphic koala yet known. Priscakoala lucyturnbullae, gen. et sp. nov., is the fourth and largest koala species described from Miocene deposits in the Riversleigh World Heritage area, northern Australia.It is known from a maxilla with Ml-3 and isolated M2, M3 or M4 and ml. Relationships within the diprotodontian suborder Vombatiformes are clarified using cranial and dental characters based on a data set compiled from new and more complete cranial materials for each of the respective vombatiform families. Monophyly of Phascolarctidae is supported by the development of a protostylid and metastylid on ml. Priscakoala lucyturnbullae is the most plesiomorphic phascolarctid. Inclusion in the analysis of the enigmatic Pliocene genus Koobor, currently classified as Vombatiformes incertae sedis, indicates phascolarctomorphian affinities for the genus.
4523990| A new species of esocid, Esox (Kenoza) kronneri sp. nov., is described from the early Eocene Fossil Butte Member of the Green River Formation, southwestern Wyoming. This is the first member of the order Esociformes reported from the Green River Formation. It is also the first articulated fossil esocid from North America identified as a pickerel (=subgenus Kenoza). The new species is known by only a single specimen. Consequently, it was probably not a normal resident of Fossil Lake, considering the hundreds of thousands of fishes that have been excavated from this locality over the last 140 years. Although small (118 millimeters long), the specimen is one of the best-preserved fossil esociforms ever reported. The new species appears to be closely related to the extant species Esox americanus (which includes two extant subspecies, E. americanus americanus and E. americanus vermiculatus), but much work is yet needed to adequately resolve the interrelationships of living and well-preserved fossil Esocidae. Comparative osteology of even the extant species of Esocidae is still in need of rigorous comprehensive study. Esocidae have a rich fossil record, ranging from Late Cretaceous to Holocene and covering much of the northern hemisphere. Reported fossil esocids are listed here for future reference. Discovery of Esocidae in the Green River Formation adds yet another extant family to the already diverse faunal list. Besides representing the world's richest freshwater Lagersttte, the Green River Formation provides an unparalleled look at the early development of the modern North American freshwater fish fauna. It is clear that the fossil fish fauna of the Green River Formation should be included as a critical component of any comprehensive study of the origin and affinities of the modern North American freshwater fish fauna. 
41515285|Early hystricognathous rodents from Africa are primarily documented by two basal and extinct groups, the paraphyletic "Phiomyidae" and the Gaudeamuridae, which were particularly well diversified through the late Eocene and the early Oligocene. However, in the absence of a comprehensive late Oligocene fossil record, the evolutionary history of African hystricognathous rodents during the end of the Paleogene is unclear. Continuing field efforts in the Lokichar Basin of Kenya (western Turkana Basin) have led to the discovery of dental remains of a 'phiomyid' from the Lokone site LOK 13. The dental pattern of this rodent is unusual among 'phiomyids,' which led us to propose here a new taxon: Turkanamys hexalophus, gen. et sp. nov. Turkanamys shares a similar dental bauplan with early Afro-Asian hystricognaths (early 'phiomyids' and 'baluchimyines'), and as such appears evolutionarily conservative with respect to some Oligocne and all the Miocene hystricognaths. Conversely, Turkanamys is also highly autapomorphic in developing a hexalophodont pattern on upper molars. The discovery of this peculiar rodent highlights the persistence of this ancestral 'phiomorph' group at the end of the Paleogene. Given the great familial diversity of hystricognaths in the early Miocene of East Africa, the virtual absence of their stem representatives in the late Oligocene record of the same province suggests either important taphonomic/sampling biases or a real absence of these families in this province at that time. This would suggest that hystricognathous rodents diversified elsewhere and colonized East Africa by the late Oligocene-early Miocene transition.
41407664|A redescription of the bones of Tyto sanctialbani from its type locality of La Grive-Saint-Alban (Isre, France) is presented. Tyto sanctialbani is the oldest species of the genus Tyto known so far, and the possible ancestor of the succeeding European taxa. Tyto sanctialbani is reported from Miocene localities in France and elsewhere in Europe and is cited as a wellknown species, although it has never been described in detail. This work is based on morphological description of the type series in the Natural History Museum, London, with the selection of a lectotype and paralectotypes. In addition, we describe other fossil bones from La Grive-Saint-Alban housed in the Natural History Museum, London, in the Musum d'Histoire Naturelle, Lyon, and in the Facult des Sciences de Lyon (= Universit Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Villeurbanne), France.The detailed morphology of all the major long bones of Tyto sanctialbani, some of them previously unknown for this species, is presented. Tyto sanctialbani is compared with all the European fossil species of the genus, and in detail with the extant Tyto alba, the species that is closest in size. The validity of Tyto campiterrae is discussed and confirmed, whereas Miocene records of T. balearica should be considered as invalid.
4523666|The ceratopsid dinosaur genus Chasmosaurus from the Judith River Formation (Campanian; Judithian) of western Canada shows considerable variability in cranial morphology due in part to an unusually long ontogenetic trajectory. Nevertheless, two more or less distinct morphs can be identified. Allometry and sexual dimorphism cannot be invoked to account for this variablilty, leaving the presence of two species as the most likely explanation. In C. belli, the posterior margin of the parietal frill shows little or no emargination and bears one large triangular epoccipital on each posterolateral corner. Additional epoccipitals may be present, but are much less prominent. Chasmosaurus canadensis, Chasmosaurus kaiseni, and Chasmosaurus brevirostris also show this morphology, and are here considered junior synonyms of Chasmosaurus belli. Chasmosaurus russelli is characterized by a deeply emarginated posterior parietal margin. On each side, the posterior margin of the frill forms a broad arch, bearing three triangular epoccipitals of approximately equal size. The reduced lateral parietal bar is incomplete in all but one specimen, allowing the squamosal to form part of the margin of the parietal fenestra. Other variable cranial characters that had previously been used to diagnose Chasmosaurus species (orbital and nasal horncore length, orbit shape, number of squamosal epoccipitals), show a mosaic distribution within these two closely related species, and are attributed to postmortem distortion, intraspecific ontogenetic variation, or sexual dimorphism. Both species appear to be sexually dimorphic in the length of the orbital horncores.
20490964|This paper describes a new tree-kangaroo of the extinct genus Bohra (B. illuminata sp. nov.). Its remains were collected from a diverse middle Pleistocene fauna preserved in caves recently discovered beneath the Nullarbor Plain of south-central Australia. The adult holotype and juvenile paratype are represented by associated cranial and postcranial material. They confirm that two previously known species, B. paulae and B. wilkinsonorum, which were described on the basis of disparate parts of the skeleton, are congeneric. While Bohra is closest in morphology to the extant tree-kangaroo genus Dendrolagus, it shares several similarities with Petrogale (rock-wallabies). This is consistent with recent molecular studies that suggest that tree-kangaroos and rock-wallabies share a common ancestry.
25835873|A new locality near the Permo-Triassic boundary in Tasmania, Australia, has yielded a number of specimens of the brachyopid stereospondyl, Bothriceps australis, whose provenance was unknown previously. An articulated diplospondylous vertebral column of a morphology typical only of the Tupilakosauridae was found at the same locality. Although the Brachyopidae and Tupilakosauridae have skulls of similar shape, most authors have regarded them as not closely related. Phylogenetic analysis confirms that the Brachyopidae and Tupilakosauridae are both members of the Stereospondyli but are not closely related, despite the remarkable similarity of the Bothriceps and tupilakosaur vertebral columns.
20062019|New material from the Emsian (Lower Devonian) of Spitsbergen, consisting of lower jaws and the ethmosphenoid portion of skulls, allows the elucidation of the relations between the dermopalatine, the vomer and the ethmoid region in porolepiformes. It shows that the fenestra endochoanalis was certainly occluded by the ethmoidal process of the palatoquadrate and that a fenestra exochoanalis is not present between the vomer, dermopalatine, maxilla and premaxilla.
20061974|Exceptionally complete material of a new stethacanthid chondrichthyan, Akmonistion zangerli, gen. et sp. nov., formerly attributed to the ill-defined genera Cladodus and Stethacanthus, is described from the Manse Burn Formation (Serpukhovian, Lower Carboniferous) of Bearsden, Scotland. Distinctive features of A. zangerli include a neurocranium with broad supraorbital shelves; a short otico-occipital division with persistent fissure and Y-shaped basicranial canal; scalloped jaw margins for 6-7 tooth files along each ramus; a pectoral-level, osteodentinous dorsal spine with an outer layer of acellular bone extending onto a brush-complex of up to 160% of neurocranial length; a heterosquamous condition ranging from minute, button-shaped, flank scales to the extraordinarily long-crowned scales of the brush apex; and a sharply up-turned caudal axis associated with a broad hypochordal lobe. The functional implications of this anatomy are discussed briefly. The rudimentary mineralization of the axial skeleton and small size of the paired fins (relative to most neoselachian proportions) are contrasted with the massive, keel-like, spine and brush complex: Akmonistion zangerli was unsuited for sudden acceleration and sustained high-speed pursuit of prey. Cladistic analysis places Akmonistion and other stethacanthid genera in close relation to the symmoriids. These taxa are located within the basal radiation of the chondrichthyan crowngroup, but more detailed affinities are uncertain. They may represent a plesion series on the holocephalan stem lineage, or a discrete clade branching from the base of the elasmobranch lineage.
4523830|Three new fusiform Namurian paleoniscoids are described: Wendyichthys dicksoni, gen. et sp. nov., Wendyichthys lautreci, sp. nov. and Cyranorhis bergeraci, gen. et sp. nov. Their most unique features consist of their snout anatomy (with a rostropostrostral, reverse-L shaped antorbitals, a rostral notch, and the lack of premaxillaries) and the presence of extralateral gulars in addition to normal median and lateral gulars. These supplementary gulars and the rostral notch were probably mechanical adaptations for a greater widening of the mouth cavity during abduction of the mandible: as a result these fishes probably fed by suction, either at the bottom of the water column or by intake of floating nutritive particles. Prior to a phylogenetic analysis of the relationships of these and other Bear Gulch actinopterygians, these three new taxa are placed into the Rhadinichthyidae. A revised definition of this family, including new features recognized during this study, is given after a reappraisal of the characters selected by many of the authors who have dealt with this group. Only a few of those characters proved to be significant for the Rhadinichthyidae, the others are either plesiomorphic for actinopterygians, or paleoniscoid characters, or are useful only at generic or specific levels.
4524427| Lizard remains are described from the late Quaternary Camping Americano locality, situated about 5 km south-southwest of Monte Hermoso (3857'47" S, 6122'48" W) in Buenos Aires province, Argentina. Remains consist of 40 dentary fragments, 15 partial maxillae, and one vertebra. Two liolemids (Liolaemus multimaculatus and Liolaemus darwinii), one gekkonid (Homonota sp.), and one teiid (Cnemidophorus sp.) are recognized. Only the first two species live in the Camping Americano area at present. Divergence of the Liolaemus multimaculatus group might have taken place during development of the late Quaternary Pampean Aeolian System. Climate change in the southern Pampean Region during the last several thousand years might explain the disappearance of gekkonid and teiid taxa from the Camping Americano area. 
4523637|Analysis of a partial skeleton of the upper Ruscinian lagomorph Trischizolagus dumitrescuae, from South Moldova, reveals that this taxon was weakly adapted to fast running and was a capable digger. The taxon shares with Lepus proportions of the pectoral girdle and a stage of reduction of the m. subscapularis that is unique among leporids. The skeletal adaptation and dental morphology of Recent Lepus can be derived from that of T. dumitrescuae.
25790802|The neural spines of the sauropod presacral vertebrae contain a series of osseous laminae of unquestionable phylogenetic significance. However, the lack of articulated presacral series has impeded identification of these structures in many taxa. Titanosaur sauropods present a pattern of neural laminae that is somewhat different from other groups, especially to diplodocids. Understanding these differences is important in order to score adequately characters related to vertebral anatomy, in phylogenetic analyses of the Sauropoda. Particularly, many titanosaurs present two spinodiapophyseal laminae in the posterior dorsal vertebrae. Additionally, these taxa show the apparent disappearing of the postzygodiapophyseal lamina in those vertebrae. Other titanosaurs have a single posterior dorsal spinodiapophyseal lamina, but this probably corresponds to one (probably the anterior) of the two spinodiapophyseal laminae of the posterior dorsals of the other titanosaurs.
4524637|The Parareptilia, the sister group to the Eureptilia, is poorly known, with many taxa in need of adequate description. One such taxon, Macroleter poezicus is found in Middle Permian strata of the Mezen River Basin in the Arkhangel'sk Province of Russia. The cranial anatomy of Macroleter is described from four new well-preserved specimens, and 89 cranial characters are incorporated into a phylogenetic analysis of parareptiles. A single most parsimonious topology is found, consisting of 205 steps, with the novel result that Macroleter is the taxon most closely related to pareiasaurs. This result has important implications for the phylogeny of the Parareptilia as well as for the identity of a disputed element (the tabular) in the skull of pareiasaurs.
41407714|The Mylagaulidae are a family of extinct fossorial rodents that are common in the North American Miocene.Alphagaulus prstinas, from the Barstovian of Montana, was previously known only from partial dentaries and isolated teeth, with no well-described skull or postcranial material. Alphagaulus is important to understanding the evolution of burrowing in mylagaulids, because it is within this genus that the most dramatic evolution of fossorial morphology within mylagaulids occurs. The other three species of the genus are all known from partial skulls, rare isolated postcrania for Alphagaulus vetus, and, in the case of Alphagaulus tedfordi, a nearly complete skeleton. We describe new material housed at the University of Washington Burke Museum, including three well-preserved skulls and partial skeletons showing different ontogenetic stages from juveniles to an adult. The description of this new material gives insights into the ontogeny of these burrowing mammals.In particular, it is apparent that the developmental trajectory mimics evolution in the increase of fossorial modifications of the skeleton with time. The description of these specimens also allows reanalysis of the phylogenetic relationships within the Mylagaulidae, confirming that the genus Alphagaulus is paraphyletic. Though the phylogenetic positions of species within the genus are different, our results are more stable than those of previous analyses, allowing greater confidence in the reconstructed relationships among mylagaulid species and genera.
20490994|A new specimen of the parareptile Colobomycter pholeter, from the Lower Permian Dolese Brothers Quarry near Fort Sill, Oklahoma, preserves previously unknown portions of the skull, including the premaxilla, elements of the palate, and the sphenethmoid. The premaxilla houses two teeth, of which the first is caninform in size. The pattern and the morphology of the upper dentition indicates that C. pholeter was a small faunivore. Fortuitous damage to the dentition reveals that the large marginal teeth are polyplocodont, the simplest kind of folded teeth. The folding may have strengthened the crowns of teeth, which were otherwise relatively thin-walled in C. pholeter. Considering its small size, C. pholeter was either an insectivore that specialized on prey with hard exoskeletons, or an insectivore that was facultatively carnivorous, capable of taking other small vertebrates as opportunities arose. Folded teeth appear not to be a rare phenomenon among parareptiles, but given the lack of detailed descriptions of the dentition for many parareptiles, the evolutionary history of polyplocodont teeth in this group requires further investigation. Phylogenetic analysis of an augmented data matrix from the literature supports the hypothesis of a sister-group relationship between C. pholeter and the lanthanosuchoid Acleistorhinus pteroticus.
4524422|The type material of the small theropod dinosaurs Tugulusaurus faciles and Phaedrolosaurus ilikensis from the Lower Cretaceous (?Valanginian-Albian) Lianmugin Formation of Xinjiang, north-western China, is reviewed. Although based on an incomplete and rather poorly preserved specimen, Tugulusaurus can be shown to be valid on the basis of strongly broadened caudal vertebrae with an anteriorly placed neural arch and a short and highly asymmetrical metacarpal I. Phaedrolosaurus, based on an isolated tooth, must be considered a nomen dubium. A partial hind limb originally referred to this taxon can be demonstrated to be a distinct taxon of theropod on the basis of a posteriorly expanded fibular condyle on the proximal tibia and a longitudinal groove on the anterior side of the proximal end of the fibula. It is made the type of a new taxon, Xinjiangovenator parvus gen. et sp. nov. Whereas Tugulusaurus is the most basal coelurosaur known, Xinjiangovenator represents a maniraptoran.
4523973|A newly discovered cervical vertebra from the Upper Cretaceous Lecho Formation of northwestern Argentina (Estancia El Brete) bears pneumatic foramina and epipophyses, and is assigned to the Theropoda. Although isolated, this specimen is significant because it is different from all described theropod cervical material from South America, most likely representing a new taxon. The El Brete specimen most closely resembles the cervical vertebrae of Chirostenotes, oviraptorids, and therizinosaurids. A cladistic analysis of cervical morphology groups the new specimen with those of the Laurasian oviraptorosaurs, suggesting the presence of this group of nonavian theropods in the Cretaceous of Gondwana.
4524708|Almost two thousand mandibular teeth of the short-necked giraffid, Sivatherium hendeyi, from Langebaanweg, South Africa, were examined for dental pathologies. Enamel hypoplasia is present in 0 to 34 percent of deciduous teeth and 40 to 75 percent of permanent teeth. No linear enamel hypoplasias were found in the deciduous teeth, while 20 to 35 percent of the permanent teeth have this defect. The linear defects at the base of the first molar are thought to relate to stress associated with weaning. The defects in the later erupting permanent teeth are, however, widely distributed over tooth crowns. Several linear defects are present on some teeth suggesting that these stress episodes were periodic. We propose that poor environmental conditions, possibly seasonal nutritional stress, are responsible for the observed enamel hypoplasia in the permanent dentition of S. hendeyi. This study provides new insight into the current understanding of the paleoenvironment at Langebaanweg, South Africa.
25835845|A new species of the cythaspid Poraspis is described from the Emsian (Early Devonian) Lippincott Member of the Lost Burro Formation in Death Valley, California. Poraspis thomasi, sp. nov., extends the geographic range of the genus, which had previously been reported from western Europe, Spitsbergen, the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, and District of Mackenzie. In addition, the temporal range is extended as the previously described species ranged through the Late Silurian into the Pridoli. This species includes articulated specimens showing that the oral area consisted of a single rectangular oral plate, in contrast with the view that in cyathaspids the area consisted of an arrangement of numerous finger-like plates. Also, one ventral shield shows growth lines indicating that growth of the shield occurred in a posterior direction. An additional poraspid, Lechriaspis patula, gen. et sp. nov., is described from a single specimen from the Grassy Flat Member of the Water Canyon Formation, northern Utah, that shows evidence of puncture wounds indicating predation by a eurypterid. These new heterostracans represent the first true cyathaspids to be described from the Devonian of the western United States.
4523316|Ten isolated petrosals of Late Cretaceous marsupials belonging to three types-A, B, and C-are described from the Lance Formation of Wyoming and the Bug Creek Anthills of Montana. These are compared with ear regions of other Mesozoic and Recent mammals in a cladistic analysis of 24 petrosal characters among ten taxa. A clade comprising marsupials, eutherians, and Vincelestes from the Early Cretaceous of Argentina is supported by five synapomorphies of the ear region-coiled cochlea, perilymphatic duct enclosed in an osseous canal, post-promontorial tympanic sinus present, caudal tympanic process of the petrosal present behind stapedius fossa, and lateral wall of fossa incudis formed by squamosal. Marsupialia is diagnosed by four synapomorphies of the ear region-stapedial artery absent in adult, prootic canal reduced and with intramural opening, prootic sinus within deep sulcus between petrosal and squamosal, and sphenoparietal emissary vein present. Eutheria is also diagnosed by four synapomorphies of the ear region-fenestra vestibuli elliptical, prootic canal absent, prootic sinus absent in adult, and capsuloparietal emissary vein present. Following the pattern in Recent didelphids, vessels and nerves are reconstructed on the most complete Late Cretaceous marsupial petrosal, Type A, which probably belongs to the pediomyid Pediomys hatcheri or P. florencae. A prootic canal, which transmits the lateral head vein, is reported for all three Late Cretaceous petrosal types and for Recent adult didelphids, caenolestids, and some dasyurids. Comparison with other mammals reveals that a major dichotomy in the basicranial vasculature occurs between adult marsupials and eutherians. Both the lateral head vein and stapedial artery run through the middle ear in the common ancestor of marsupials and eutherians, but in the former the artery is lost and in the latter the vein disappears. A reevaluation of the ontogeny of the cranial venous system reveals that the vein passing through the postglenoid foramen is not homologous in marsupials and eutherians.
4523811|An exceptionally well preserved specimen of the tyrannosaurid dinosaur Tyrannosaurus rex Osborn shows little evidence of permineralization or other diagenetic effects. It appears that the cancellous bone tissues of the specimen may have been protected from water infiltration or mineral deposition by the very dense cortical bone which surrounds them. The cancellous tissues provided an opportunity to test the hypothesis that indigenous biomolecules might be preserved over the course of millions of years under the appropriate conditions. HPLC analysis of extracts from the bone tissues revealed the presence of molecules with light absorbance maxima consistent with nucleic acids and peptides/proteins. Analyses of bone extracts for amino acid content yielded ratios similar to those found for modern ostrich and horse bone. A high molar glycine ratio and the presence of hydroxylysine peaks in bony tissue samples from the T. rex suggests the presence of collagen type I remnants. Results indicate that the analyzed tissue contains numerous biomolecules. While some of the biomolecules are most likely contaminants, the probable presence of collagen type I suggests that some molecules of dinosaurian origin remain in these tissues.
4523435|An unusual new archosaurian reptile, Euscolosuchus olseni, gen. et sp. nov., is described from the Tomahawk Creek Member of the Turkey Branch Formation of the Richmond basin (Newark Supergroup; Upper Triassic: Carnian) in east-central Virginia. Its distinctive, narrow carapace comprises paired, sharply angulated paramedian osteoderms that bear much enlarged lateral spines and have crocodile-like external ornamentation. Euscolosuchus is referable to the Crurotarsi and closely resembles basal Crocodyliformes in the structure of its dorsal dermal armor.
23361052|A new Middle Triassic sauropterygian, Qianxisaurus chajiangensis, gen. et sp. nov., is described on the basis of a skeleton from the Zhuganpo Member (Ladinian) of the Falang Formation, Xingyi, southwestern Guizhou Province, China. It is primarily characterized by a premaxilla with eight teeth, marginal teeth with a slightly constricted peduncle and short conical crown, snout longer than the rest of skull, postorbital with a truncated dorsal process and forked posterior process, a very small supratemporal fenestra, a short retroarticular process posteriorly truncated and lacking a dorsal concavity, an elongate trunk with 28 vertebrae, a stout sacrum with four vertebrae, a longitudinal groove on proximodorsal surface of the dorsal ribs, and a coracoid with a narrow lateral portion and a foot-shaped medial portion. Q. chajiangensis appears similar to the European pachypleurosaurs, but a global phylogenetic analysis failed to support close relationships with these taxa. Instead, Q. chajiangensis is an eosauropterygian and most probably the sister group of a clade consisting of the European pachypleurosaurs and the Nothosauroidea. The discovery of Q. chajiangensis certainly enriches our knowledge of the early history of the Eosauropterygia and leads to a better understanding of the phylogenetic relationships among known eosauropterygians.
23361047|Specimens of a single but currently undetermined species of the anuran genus Liaobatrachus from the Lower Cretaceous of northeast China, including four articulated skeletons preserved on a single block of sediment plus two skulls and several additional adult skeletons on other slabs, illustrate post-metamorphic developmental stages from early juvenile to fully grown adult. The relative ages of the individuals were estimated based on body size combined with degree of ossification. Post-metamorphic developmental data not only provide a basis for comparisons with other fossil and recent anuran taxa, but also help to identify both age-independent (i.e., size-independent) characters that can be used for taxonomic comparisons among individuals of various sizes (i.e., ages) and age-dependent (i.e., size-dependent, ontogenetically variable) characters that can only be used for comparisons across corresponding developmental stages. Our study revealed that the following characters are independent of size in Liaobatrachus: frontoparietals with a fontanelle between their frontal portions; quadratojugal present; vertebral centra amphicoelous and pierced by a notochordal canal; and free (not ankylosed) ribs attached to diapophyses of second to fourth vertebrae. The tibiofibula/femur and presacral vertebral column/snout-vent length ratios were also found to be size independent. In contrast, ossification of the carpus, distal tarsals, and pubis appears to be ontogenetically variable (i.e., they vary with age), and this is presumably also true of fusion between the tibiale and fibulare. These characters should only be used for comparisons among individuals at a common developmental stage.
23361051|Isolated precloacal vertebrae from the early to middle Miocene Gaillard Cut of Panama represent the first Central American fossil record of the extant boine snake Boa and constrain dispersal of the genus into Central America from South America as no younger than approximately 19.3 Ma. Boa from the Las Cascadas fossil assemblage and the Centenario Fauna represent the oldest record of terrestrial southern vertebrate immigration into Central America, and demonstrate American interchange by the earliest Neogene. Interchange of snakes precedes contiguous terrestrial connection between Central and South America by approximately 17 Ma, necessitating dispersal across an approximately 100 km wide marine strait. The biogeographic history of snakes across the Neotropics is distinct from the mammalian record, and indicates a more complicated assembly of New World vertebrate faunas than previously recognized.
4523189|Toxochelys latiremis, a species of Cretaceous marine turtle, is redescribed on the basis of an almost complete specimen from the Niobrara Chalk of Kansas (Upper Santonian-Lower Campanian). Two species of Toxochelys, T. latiremis Cope and T. moorevillensis Zangerl are recognized; T. browni (Hay), T. weeksi Collins, and T. barberi (Schmidt) are considered junior synonyms of Toxochelys latiremis. This revision extends the stratigraphic range of T. latiremis to the Lower Maastrichtian. The geographic range of this species now extends from southern Manitoba to Arkansas.
4524091|Two nearly complete, articulated, mature specimens of the amphibian Seymouria are described from the Lower Permian Tambach Formation, lowermost unit of the Upper Rotliegend, of the Bromacker locality in the midregion of the Thuringian Forest near Gotha, central Germany. They are assigned to S. sanjuanensis, known elsewhere only from the Lower Permian deposits of Wolfcampian age in the southwestern United States. This confirms an earlier referral of two immature specimens from the same locality to this species. The new specimens are unusual in being highly ossified and allow for the first time a complete description of the carpus and tarsus of Seymouria. The Bromacker Seymouria specimens are part of an assemblage that is unique among Lower Permian localities in Europe in its taxonomic composition and its depositional environment. The Bromacker vertebrate assemblage includes many taxa found elsewhere only in the Lower Permian of the United States. All are adapted to a highly terrestrial existence, and the herbivore Diadectes and a closely related diadectid yet to be described are the most abundant forms, accounting for over half the articulated specimens encountered. Carnivorous, pelycosaurian-grade synapsid reptiles are exceedingly rare. Fossils at the Bromacker quarry were preserved near the center of a small, internally drained, Early Permian basin, the Tambach Basin. The vertebrates of this extraordinarily rich quarry are commonly excellently preserved, often complete and articulated, and occur almost exclusively in sheet-flood deposits that were almost certainly responsible for their death and burial with little or no transport; only minor attritional processes are evident. Relationships of the paleoenvironments and the biology of the vertebrates of the Bromacker locality based on the stratigraphy, paleontology, sedimentology, and basinal context of the Tambach Formation indicate that the Bromacker assemblage may represent the earliest known and best documented Early Permian example of a truly terrestrial "uplands" ecosystem. It apparently evolved and maintained itself independent of contemporary, water-based food chains that included aquatic and semiaquatic forms.
4523409|A change in repository is noted and a complete description is given for IMNH 714/ 40119, a partial Bison alaskensis cranium collected in 1894 along the Snake River in the vicinity of American Falls. This specimen, the first documented fossil from the American Falls local fauna, is morphologically distinct from the larger-horned B. latifrons and the shorter-horned B. priscus, both of which are also found in southeastern Idaho. It and other specimens of B. alaskensis from late Pleistocene sediments in the American Falls area demonstrate a morphologic canalization of the species and document that a substantial population of B. alaskensis inhabited southeastern Idaho. A stratigraphic review of Bison material from the American Falls area suggests that as many as four species of Bison inhabited Idaho during the late Rancholabrean and that both B. latifrons and B. alaskensis survived well into the late Pleistocene.
4524430|Species of the early Paleocene (Puercan North American Land Mammal Age) triisodontid Eoconodon were among the first eutherians in the northern Western Interior to evolve body masses significantly larger than those of the latest Cretaceous mammals of the area. Description of additional specimens of Eoconodon nidhoggi from the Tullock Formation, northeastern Montana, sets the stage for formal diagnosis of a new species of Eoconodon, E. ginibitohia sp. nov., in the Betonnie-Tsosie local fauna, Puercan 2, Hemithlaeus kowalevskianus - Taeniolabis taoensis Zone, San Juan Basin, New Mexico. The taxonomic diversity of the species of Eoconodon as well as their stratigraphic and biogeographic ranges support the hypothesis that the first representatives of the clade entered the Western Interior at the beginning of the Puercan as immigrants from currently poorly sampled areas probably in North America or Asia. During the Puercan the clade both diversified and expanded its biogeographic range in the Western Interior.
20491004|Isolated teeth representing several taxa of metatherian mammals were recovered from NMMNH locality L-4005 in the Naashoibito Member, Kirtland Formation, San Juan Basin, northwestern New Mexico. These include fragments of upper and lower molars and a fragmentary premolar that are referred to indeterminate "pediomyids," an isolated p2 or p3 that is referred to an indeterminate peradectid, and two lower molars, an m1 or m2 and an m4 that are referable to the hatcheriforme metatherian Glasbius cf. G. intricatus. Two upper molar fragments are also tentatively referred to Glasbius. These taxa are part of the Alamo Wash local fauna. Glasbius has been proposed as a potential first appearance datum for the Lancian North American Land Mammal 'age' (NALMA). The presence of both Glasbius and the multituberculate Essonodon within the Naashoibito Member support an age correlative with other formations producing Lancian faunas. A Lancian age for the Naashoibito Member suggests that there is a significant disconformity between the top of the late Campanian De-na-zin Member, which is constrained by radiometric dates to be about 73 Ma, and the base of the Naashoibito Member. Terrestrial faunas of Lancian age show differences that have been attributed to provinciality. The widespread distribution of mammalian index taxa indicates some degree of faunal homogeneity during this interval, but the refined stratigraphic correlation of the Alamo Wash local fauna allows us to recognize other taxa as geographically restricted, as opposed to asynchronous.
4524696|A new species of Xinpusaurus Yin in Yin et al., 2000 (Thalattosauria, Thalattosauridae), is described from the Wayao Member of the Falang Formation (Tuvalian, Carnian, Upper Triassic) of Guanling County in Guizhou, southwestern China. It is the third thalattosaur species known from the Guanling faunal assemblage of marine reptiles. The type and only specimen consists of an entire skeleton, including a complete skull. It differs from the type species, X. suni, by its smaller adult size, the larger nasal, the more slender angular and low retroarticular process, the shape of the cervical neural spines, the number of presacral vertebrae, the large size of the scapula, the shape of the radius, the presence of a well ossified carpus, the more slender femur, the smaller hindfin, the presence of a complete row of distal tarsal ossifications, and the proportions of the metatarsals. It is consequently referred to a new species, Xinpusaurus kohi. A new analysis of thalattosaur interrelationships based on 30 cranial and postcranial characters corroborates a sister-group relationship between Xinpusaurus and Nectosaurus from the Carnian of California.
4523658|A cladistic investigation of the phylogenetic relationships among 21 extinct and extant genera of sloths (Mammalia, Xenarthra, Tardigrada) was performed on the basis of characteristics of the bony anatomy of the auditory region. This study was undertaken in order to evaluate specific hypotheses of relationship within the group. Questions of particular interest include the relationship among the three traditional family groupings of extinct ground sloths and the monophyletic or diphyletic origin of the two genera of extant tree sloths. Eighty-five discrete morphological characters were analyzed using the computer program PAUP. Characters were polarized via comparisons to the following successive outgroups, all members of the supraordinal grouping Edentata: the Vermilingua, or anteaters; the Cingulata, or armadillos and glyptodonts; the Palaeanodonta; and the Pholidota, or pangolins. Three most parsimonious trees result (for 21 ingroup taxa and 5 outgroup taxa; Length = 304 steps, CI = 0.405, RI = 0.712). The results of this analysis provide characters which support the monophyly of the Xenarthra as a whole, as well as its dichotomous division into the clades Cingulata and Pilosa. In addition, it strongly corroborates the monophyly of the Vermilingua and the Tardigrada. Within tardigrades, the living three-toed sloth Bradypus is suggested to represent the sister-taxon to all other sloths. The results support the monophyly of the three traditional ground sloth families Megatheriidae, Megalonychidae, and Mylodontidae (the latter two quite strongly), and suggest that the subfamily Nothrotheriinae may represent a paraphyletic stem group for the remaining sloths. A novel relationship between the families Megalonychidae and Mylodontidae is proposed which contrasts with previous hypotheses of a close relationship between megalonychids and megatheriids. Lastly, this analysis strongly supports the derivation of the extant two-toed sloth Choloepus from within the West Indian megalonychid ground sloths, contradicting the traditional systematic grouping of the extant tree sloths into a monophyletic family Bradypodidae and suggesting that the living tree sloths represent one of the most remarkable examples of convergent evolution known among mammals.
20627165|Most recent phylogenetic analyses place the Cainotheriidae within the Tylopoda, but doubts about this placement within Tylopoda have been persistent. The Cainotheriidae are well known from numerous specimens and their cranial anatomy is well documented from complete, partial and disarticulated cranial material. However, high-resolution computed tomographic (CT) scans can still provide additional data to resolve problems in the interpretation of the auditory region, and allow comparison with other tylopod and ruminant taxa. Cainotheriids share several features with various groups within the Tylopoda, including an enlarged mastoid fossa, an inflated auditory bulla filled with cancellous bone, the presence of a sinus venosus temporalis, and what has been interpreted as a large flange of the periotic enclosing the petrobasilar canal. The reconstruction of the petrobasilar canal has been difficult to interpret, as the published figures are unclear. A micro-CT scan of Cainotherium (YPM 25037) shows the morphology is more complex. The periotic shows a smaller flange that does not enclose the petrobasilar canal. The skull base shows different arrangement of bones from other artiodactyls, presumably as a result of the enlargement of the auditory bulla, which has also affected the course of the petrobasilar canal. The otic region of Cainotherium shows no resemblances to ruminants, and features of this region are consistent with the Cainotheriidae being either a sister taxon to Tylopoda + Ruminantia, or with inclusion in a tylopod grouping.
4524154|The masticatory apparatus of Pampatherium typum, P. humboldtii, and Holmesina paulacoutoi are analysed based on skull, mandibular and dental morphology and the inferred masticatory musculature. Comparison of the apparatus with those of other pampatheres suggests a trend toward increasing ability to process resistant vegetation from Holmesina through Pampatherium. The mechanical design of the apparatus among these pampatheres is nearly identical and has apparently undergone only minor variation since pampatheres first appear in the fossil record, suggesting strong phylogenetic constraint in the form of skeletal and dental elements. Main differences among taxa occur in features associated with the musculature, and thus the primary means for differentiation in masticatory function, which is correlated with diet, were changes resulting in differential force imput. Although the taxonomic status of some specimens is equivocal, indications are that the Plio-Pleistocene paleobiogeographic distribution of pampatheres is correlated with masticatory function (and hence diet), with P. typum, the species best adapted for grinding coarse vegetation, occurring in the more arid Pampean regions of South America. H. occidentalis, although a capable grinder, was the least suited to coarse vegetation. It is known from deposits near the current Peru-Ecuador border, an area of humid lowlands during glacial maxima. H. paulacoutoi and P. humboldtii lie between these extremes, with the latter better adapted for abrasive vegetation. These pampatheres have been found at the same localities, mainly through Brazil, which was characterized by wetter conditions than the Pampas. Their presence together suggests either sympatry or occupation of the same region during different times, with their ranges moving either north (P. humboldtii) or south (H. paulacoutoi) in a transition zone that may have shifted in response to changes in glacial maxima and minima.
4523899| The morphology of Kuntulunia is reviewed based mainly on well preserved specimens from Madongshan Formation of Liupanshan Group, Ningxia province. Some anatomical features of Kuntulunia are revised, and the basisphenoid, basioccipital, exoccipital, autosphenotic, palatine, sclerotic bone, postcleithrum and separated third and fourth ural centra are described for the first time. A smooth bone lying anteriorly to the maxilla is named the antemaxilla. A cladistic investigation of the phylogenetic relationships was performed on nine Chinese fossil osteoglossomorph genera (Huashia, Kuyangichthys, Jinanichthys, Jiuquanichthys, Kuntulunia, Lycoptera, Paralycoptera, Sinoglossus, and Yanbiania), four living osteoglossomorphs (Heterotis, Hiodon, Notopterus, and Osteoglossus), three clupeomorphs (Diplomystus, Denticepus, and Coilia) and several euteleosts (Rubiesichthys, Chanos, Opsariichthys, Thymallus, Esox, and Coregonus). Characters were polarized by comparison to the following outgroups: Allothrissops, Anaethalion, Leptolepides, and Tharsis. On the basis of 67 morphological characters, fifteen shortest trees (183 steps, CI=0.454) were obtained by using the Heuristic search of PAUP program (version 3.1.1). The results of this analysis show that Kuntulunia is the sister group of Huashia among the osteoglossomorphs examined and that the Osteoglossomorpha is a monophyletic group. 
41407656|Recent work in the Late Devonian (Frasnian) Fram Formation of Ellesmere Island, Nunavut, Canada, has produced the first North American record of Laccognathus (Sarcopterygii, Porolepiformes), a taxon previously known only from Latvia and Russia. Represented by a large sample that includes cranial material from 22 individuals, Laccognathus embryi, sp. nov., is uniquely diagnosed by features including the absence of marginal teeth on coronoids 1 and 2, and the lack of a fifth posthyal branchial arch. The large sample allows detailed morphological description of many parts of the cranial skeleton, including the dermal skull, braincase, palatoquadrate, and branchial skeleton. Comparison of the faunas from the Fram Formation in Nunavut, the Escuminac Formation in Quebec, and the Lode and Gauja formations of Latvia confirms a Laurussian (Euramerican) biogeographic province in the late Middle/early Late Devonian and may indicate tolerance of some forms to varied salinities. A cranial reconstruction of the new taxon reveals a wide head with a width-to-length ratio of approximately 2: 1, a large spiracular opening, a small orbit, and a lower jaw in which much of the labial surface faced ventrally. The cranial morphology suggests a benthic animal reliant on sit-and-wait predation.
4523588|Evidence from studies of chondrogenic and osteogenic patterns in extant lepidosaurs is used to analyze skeletal pattern formation in ontogenetic series of three primitive Permian diapsids: Hovasaurus boulei: Thadeosaurus colcanapi; and Claudiosaurus germaini. The ossification of proximal and postaxial carpals proceeds according to the sequence: 1) ulnare; 2) distal carpal four; 3) intermedium; 4) lateral centrale; 5) distal carpal three or one. The sequence of ossification of the remaining carpals is highly variable. Tarsal ossification proceeds according to the sequences: 1) astragalus/calcaneum; 2) distal tarsal four; 3) distal tarsal three; 4) centrale; 5) distal tarsals two, one, or five. C. germaini shows great intraspecific variation in the sequence of distal tarsal ossification after ossification of the centrale. Limb ossification is highly constrained along the primary limb axis and at the beginning of the digital arch. Variation is observed preaxially along the digital arch and with respect to the development of the fifth digit. The conserved sequences are the same as those seen in living lepidosaurs; sequence variation in living lepidosaurs is noted in the preaxial region of the digital arch. The evolution of the terrestrial limb in lepidosauromorphs is interpreted as having been constrained by the processes of limb development. The fossil diapsids illustrate a primitive condition for lepidosauromorphs and provide a basis for comparison of change among other diapsids.
4524647|The early middle Miocene (MN 4a, ca 17 Ma) site of Montreal-du-Gers (France, Gers) has yielded a rich collection of land mammals. A reexamination of the listriodont material from this locality, previously attributed to Bunolistriodon lockharti, provides evidence that it consists of a new species close to the genus Eurolistriodon. Unique cranial and dental features support maintaining Eurolistriodon, which comprises two species, E. adelli and E. tenarezensis sp. nov.. A phylogenetic analysis of the European Listriodontinae, including the material from seven French localities traditionally attributed to B. lockharti, does not support the monophyly of B. lockharti. The material from the type locality of B. lockharti is closely related to Listriodon splendens, suggesting that the two genera could be synonymous.
4523113|The existence of a body of rock that is physically superposed above the type Hemingfordian Land Mammal Age but biostratigraphically below the type Barstovian Land Mammal Age justifies a redefinition of the Hemingfordian-Barstovian boundary. A new boundary stratotype is set at the base of the New Year Quarry in the Barstow Formation. New Year Quarry records the first appearance of gomphotheriid proboscideans in the Barstow Formation.
4523062|Faunas recovered from the middle Eocene Tepee Trail Formation in the North Fork of Owl Creek area include the following: The lower part of the Tepee Trail Formation ("Holy City beds") produced a fauna containing taxa that until now have only been reported from the Bridgerian (Sciuravus nitidus, Viverravus sp. cf. V. sicarius, Helalestes?), as well as taxa reported only from the Uintan (Epihippus and Forstercooperia) and is considered a possible equivalent of the earliest Uintan. The fauna from the middle and upper Tepee Trail is equivalent to Uinta "A" or "B" faunas based on the presence of Epihippus, Forstercooperia, Amynodon, Hylomeryx and Achaenodon. The first known fauna from the Uintan part of the Wiggins Formation is approximately equivalent to those of the Uinta "B" based on the presence of relatively primitive primates (Microsyops and cf. Hemiacodon), exclusively paramyid rodents, and the absence of eomyids, canids and camelids. The stratigraphically highest beds in the Wiggins Formation may contain faunas equivalent to the Uinta "C." The Tepee Trail and Wiggins formations were deposited in the Anomaly 21 Chron.
23251308|Two new extinct porpoisesArchaeophocaena teshioensis, gen. et sp. nov., and Miophocaena nishinoi, gen. et sp. nov.are described from the upper Miocene Koetoi Formation (5.56.4 Ma) of Hokkaido, Northern Japan. The holotype of the former is composed of a partial skull, whereas the holotype of the latter is composed of a partial skull, right periotic, right stylohyoid, and pelvis. Both species are assigned to Phocoenidae on the basis of a unique combination of phocoenid characters: presences of frontal bosses, nasal protuberances, premaxillary eminences, and fossae for the inferior vestibule. However, they do not have dorsally developed preorbital sinus fossae or high premaxillary eminences, unlike derived phocoenids. Furthermore, their premaxillae contact the nasals (or the right premaxilla alone contacts the right nasal), unlike all other known phocoenids except Pterophocaena. A comprehensive morphological cladistic analysis indicates that the two new extinct species are the second-most basal phocoenids next to Pterophocaena and that Phocoenidae is the sister group of Delphinidae. The cranial morphology of the two new extinct species is intermediate in form between that of phocoenids and delphinids, supporting the hypothesis of a sister relationship for the two groups. Thus, these new species fill not only the morphological gap between Phocoenidae and other families of Delphinoidea but also a temporal gap in the fossil record of phocoenids in the western North Pacific.
4523902|Rhadinosteus parvus is a small anuran whose diagnosis is based on several partial skeletons and some isolated bones representing metamorphic to newly transformed ontogenetic stages from the Late Jurassic Morrison Formation at the Rainbow Park Microsite, Utah. This frog is a member of the Pipoidea on the basis of an azygous frontoparietal and parasphenoid that lacks lateral alae and is an important addition to the poorly known Jurassic frog fauna. Although other members of the Pipoidea have skeletal specializations for burrowing or swimming, Rhadinosteus possesses an unspecialized skeleton. Presence of ectochordal vertebrae suggest that Rhadinosteus is a member of the Rhinophrynidae, and if so, it is the most primitive member known. Being from the Late Jurassic, Rhadinosteus predates both the previous pipoid, Early Cretaceous, and rhinophrynid, Late Paleocene, records.
20061956|This study examined the dietary adaptations of 38 species of small-bodied omomyoid primates known from North America and Europe. Two parameters were examined to investigate the dietary proclivities of these early primates: body mass and relative molar shearing crest development. Body mass was estimated from dental dimensions. Based upon size distributions of modern mammals of known diets, species with estimated masses of under 500 g were categorized as faunivores/frugivores. In order to partition this dietary grouping more precisely into faunivory and frugivory, measurements reflecting shearing crest development were compared to an extant prosimian base line. Based on these data it appears that the majority of the taxa sampled from this early primate radiation were primarily frugivorous.
4523513|The Crocodylotarsi are a group erected by Benton and Clark (1988) for archosaurs that share the "crocodile-normal" ankle structure. In this study, the phylogeny of the Crocodylotarsi was re-examined based on study of most relevant fossil material of the early non-crocodyliform members of the clade. Relationships among the major archosaurian taxa (Ornithodira, Ornithosuchidae, and Crocodylotarsi) and their proximal outgroups (Proterochampsidae, Euparkeria) were also considered. The monophyly of the Archosauria, Crurotarsi, and Crocodylotarsi is supported by the current analysis. The Parasuchia are the most plesiomorphic clade within the Crocodylotarsi. The Suchia comprise the crocodylotarsans excluding the phytosaurs. The taxon Prestosuchidae is placed near the base of this clade, as are Lewisuchus and Turfanosuchus dabanensis. The new taxon Rauisuchiformes includes the last common ancestor of Aetosauria and Crocodylia and its descendants. Rauisuchia (new combination) includes Rauisuchidae, Gracilisuchus, and Paracrocodylomorpha. The new taxon Paracrocodylomorpha is erected for the clade comprising Poposauridae and Crocodylomorpha.
4524188|The morphology and systematic position of the capitosauroid amphibian "Parotosuchus" africanus (latest Early(?)-earliest Middle Triassic, Middle Cynognathus Subzone, Karoo Basin, South Africa) are re-evaluated on the basis of a nearly complete, hitherto undescribed, skull from the Museum of Paleontology, University of California. The attribution of the UCMP specimen to "P." africanus is based on direct comparison with the holotype. This species is shown to be markedly advanced over the Parotosuchus level in the structure of the tabulars and the post-glenoid division of the lower jaw, in the shape of the posterior rim of the mandibular adductor fossa, and in the strong development of the medial plate of the surangular. This pattern of the cranial structure is combined with a set of primitive characters lost in true Parotosuchus, such as the broad nasals, weakly developed interorbital projections of the frontals, elliptic choanae, short palatal exposure of the parasphenoid cultriform process, and a curved interchoanal tooth row. On this evidence, "P." africanus is distinguished as a new genus, Xenotosuchus, gen. nov.
4524258| The recovery of an almost complete skull and partial associated mandible of Catonyx tarijensis from Puerto Arazati, Department of San Jose, is the first record of this species from Uruguay. Catonyx tarijensis is only known from the Ensenadan land mammal age. Mammals from multiple land mammal ages have been recovered from the San Jos formation and suggest that it is time transgressive and may range in age from the Montehermosan to the Ensenadan./// El descubrimiento de un crneo casi completo y fragmentos mandibulares de Catonyx tarijrnsis en Puerto Arazat, Departamento de San Jos$#00E9;, constituye el primer registro de esta especie para el Uruguay. Catonyx tarijensis en solo conocido para la Edad-mamifero Ensenadense. La Formacin San Josha aportado mamferos que representan una multiplicidad de edades, abarcando un amplio rango cronol#&00F3;gico que va desde el Montehermosense hasta el Ensenadense. 
4524123|The skull of the basal anomodont therapsid Anomocephalus africanus, from the Tapinocephalus Assemblage Zone of the Beaufort Group, Upper Permian of South Africa, is described in detail. Anomocephalus is characterized by the possession of two premaxillary teeth, blunted, peg-like anterior teeth, cheek teeth with saddle-shaped tips, and the presence of a tall coronoid process. Anomocephalus is the most basal member of Anomodontia because it lacks three unambiguous and six ambiguous synapomorphies present in all other anomodonts. This basal position provides compelling support for the hypothesis that anomodonts originated in Gondwana and later dispersed into Euramerica and elsewhere across Pangea. Minimum divergence times suggest strongly that anomodonts were diversifying in central Gondwana well before the onset of Beaufort sedimentation. Accordingly, the absence of terrestrial vertebrates in the Ecca Group is most likely an artifact of preservational bias.
4523172|Gobiconodon ostromi, sp. nov., described from two partial skeletons collected from the Cloverly Formation in southcentral Montana, is closely related to Gobiconodon borissiaki Trofimov (1978) from the Early Cretaceous of Mongolia. The unusual dental characters of this new form are enlarged caniniform incisors, reduced canines, and replacement of the molariform teeth that lie distal to the presumptive premolars. Despite the fact that the molariform occlusal pattern is the same as in Amphilestes of the Middle Jurassic and the overall structure of the molariform teeth is comparable to that in amphilestid triconodonts, the dentition is otherwise so anomalous that Gobiconodon is assigned to a new family. The scapula possesses a supraspinous fossa and an apparently large coracoid. The humerus exhibits large deltopectoral and medial crests, and protuberant epicondyles; the planes of the proximal and distal halves of this bone are substantially offset. The pelvis conforms to a generalized mammalian pattern. A deep fossa of unknown function occurs on the dorsal surface of the lesser trochanter; the greater trochanter extends distally well down onto the shaft. A spur-like bone appears to represent an extratarsal element. In overall body size, Gobiconodon ostromi, sp. nov., is comparable to Didelphis virginiana but in its limb and vertebral proportions is more robust.
20491039|Different forms of intracranial mobility, including streptostyly, pleurokinesis, and prokinesis, have been postulated for many dinosaurs. The basis for inferring kinesis typically has included the presence of presumably synovial intracranial joints (otic and basal joints) and various ad hoc 'sliding joints' (many without modern parallels), whereas the protractor musculature that would have powered movement at these joints has received little attention. No study has reviewed the evidence underlying these inferences, and the functional mechanisms and evolution of kinesis among dinosaurs have remained unclear. We analyzed the relevant musculoskeletal structures in extant diapsids and extinct dinosaurs to evaluate in general the morphological support for inferences of cranial kinesis in dinosaurs. Four criteria (synovial otic joints, synovial basal joints, protractor muscles, and permissive kinematic linkages) were considered necessary but individually insufficient for the inference of kinesis. Assessing these criteria across dinosaurs reveals that synovial otic and basal joints are almost universally present (even in widely acknowledged akinetic taxa), and most taxa retained protractor musculature. However, unlike fully kinetic extant birds and squamates, almost all dinosaurs lacked the kinematic linkages that would have permitted movement (reduced palatal and temporal articulations, additional flexion zones). Thus, synovial basal and otic joints and protractor musculature are diapsid plesiomorphies, and, in the absence of permissive kinematic linkages, most formulations of nonavian dinosaur kinesis are currently problematic. Alternatively, persistent synovial joints may simply be cartilaginous sites that facilitate cranial growth during ontogeny.
30126364|An incomplete braincase of a juvenile lambeosaurine hadrosaurid (Dinosauria: Ornithischia) is recognized as the second and smallest cranial specimen of Parasaurolophus from the Belly River Group (Campanian), Alberta, Canada. This specimen provides the first information on the ontogeny of the skull roof and autapomorphic tubular crest in this widely recognized yet poorly known taxon. In addition to the distinctive morphology of the cranial crest, Parasaurolophus is characterized by a suite of skull roof characters associated with crest development that manifest at small size, including verticalization of the nasal-frontal joint at the base of the crest. Although the crest is not preserved in the specimen described here, the distinctively thickened and steeply angled frontal platform indicates that the crest and facial profile were significantly different from the equivalent juvenile stages of corythosaurin lambeosaurines (Corythosaurus, Hypacrosaurus, Lambeosaurus), which resemble one another closely. Parasaurolophus therefore appears to deviate from the well-known corythosaurin mode of cranial crest growth early in ontogenetic development.
4522916|The late Quaternary stream sediments and clay of Saltville Valley, southwestern Virginia, have yielded vertebrate fossils since 1782. Excavations in 1980 and 1981 uncovered 49 associated bones of an extinct musk ox skeleton (MARSH 1). MARSH 1 provides new information on the nature of the postcranial skeleton of extinct musk oxen, and information on traumas, disease and somatic degeneration experienced by this individual in life. Taphonomic analysis suggests that MARSH 1 died between early spring and early fall (probably spring), that carnivore activity began at or soon after death, and that all or most of the remaining skeleton was entombed by clay sediments soon after death. Associated vertebrate remains belong to Mammut, Mammuthus, Cervalces(?), unidentified musk oxen, and the freshwater fish family Catostomidae. The last is a new addition to the fossil fauna of Saltville. Geomorphic evidence indicates that a medium-sized stream was present in Saltville Valley in the late Wisconsinan. This stream is here named the Saltville River.
4524041|Examples of mineralized organic layers of vertebrate (crocodiles, dinosaurs, and birds) eggshells are described, documented and compared to equivalents in modern avian eggs. Taphonomic studies show that burial of intact eggs prevents or delays microbial decay of the organic material and erodes the calcareous shell. However, in modern bird eggs exposed subaerially for six months, extensive decay (desulphurication, ammonification) of the yolk, with rapid creation of high alkaline conditions occurred. Between the organic fibrils of the Membrana testacea the development of a calcareous layer can be observed in these eggs. Occurrences of a mineralized Membrana testacea in fossil eggs is here regarded as evidence for preburial diagenesis under subaerial conditions.
4523782|The ceratodont lungfish Metaceratodus wollastoni is described from new material from central and southern Australia, and three additional species, Metaceratodus ellioti, Metaceratodus bonei, and Metaceratodus palmeri are included in the genus. M. ellioti and M. bonei are new species, and M. palmeri, originally described as Ceratodus palmeri, has been reassigned. The current determinations of species are based on morphological characters. M. wollastoni is found in Lower and Upper Cretaceous deposits in southeast and central Australia. M. ellioti is confined to the Upper Cretaceous of southeast and central Australia. M. bonei is found in the Namba and Etadunna formations in central Australia, late Oligocene to middle Miocene in age, as well as a single record from a possible Pleistocene deposit. M. palmeri comes from strata belonging to the Pliocene and Pleistocene of eastern Australia. At least one species of Metaceratodus also occurs in the Lower Cretaceous Coli-Toro Formation of South America.
4522904|The use of Paleozoic ichthyoliths in geology has been extremely limited due, in part, to the taxonomic problems involved in their identification and the lack of adequate documentation affording comparisons of elements from various studies. Part I of a catalog of 156 Late Pennsylvanian ichthyoliths consists of diagnoses and illustrations mainly of scales and mucous membrane denticles derived from palaeoniscoid, acanthodian and chondrichthyan fishes. Each ichthyolith has been identified by a coded, utilitarian classification system. The advantage of such a system is that ichthyoliths can be more easily used to solve stratigraphic and paleoecologic problems.
4523070|Sebecus huilensis, an advanced sebecosuchian crocodilian, was first described by Langston (1965) based on a fragmentary lower jaw from the Miocene La Venta Formation of Colombia. New skeletal fragments from the same unit are referable to S. cf. huilensis and add to our knowledge of sebecosuchian cranial and postcranial anatomy. These fragments indicate that the skull was more laterally compressed than that of the Eocene S. icaeorhinus (based on comparison with the type of the latter). S. cf. huilensis is the first sebecosuchian for which a complete retroarticular process is known. The posterior portion of the retroarticular process is unlike that of any known crocodilian, with a ventral deflection of the medial edge, indicating significant changes in muscle size. A single, unusual osteoscute also may be referred to this animal, suggesting that sebecosuchians had some dermal osteoscutes. Comparison with the type of S. huilensis also suggests that Buffetaut and Hoffstetter (1977) may have been in error in assigning a Miocene Peruvian sebecosuchian to this species.
41407679|Fishes of the genus Astroscopus are anatomically distinctive within the family Uranoscopidae, mostly because they are characterized by internal nares and are the only marine teleosts known to possess electric organs derived from extraocular muscles. The new world genus Astroscopus contains three extant species from tropical to temperate coastal waters of both sides of the American continent, plus fragmented isolated bones and otoliths of an indeterminate fossil species from the Pliocene and Pleistocene of the Coastal Plain of the eastern United States. Astroscopus countermani, sp. nov., a new stargazer from the Miocene (Tortonian) of Calvert Cliffs (Maryland), is described herein based on well-preserved three-dimensional cranial remains. These cranial remains represent the earliest known skeletal record for the family Uranoscopidae, as well as the earliest occurrence of the genus Astroscopus in the fossil record. Astroscopus countermani is typified by a unique neurocranial appearence, an obliterated orbital foramen, and a prominent ornamented tuberosity arising from the dorsolateral surface of the hyomandibula. Among the anatomical distinctive features of Astroscopus countermani is the relative enlargement of the interorbital portion of the neurocranium (with respect to its extant congeners), which appears to be related to a reduced development of the electrogenic organs. Paleoecological considerations suggest that Astroscopus countermani was a predatory fish that inhabited the subtropical and warm temperate Atlantic marine and paralic waters of North America during the Miocene.
30126348|Hipparionin material recovered from the middle Miocene El Camarn Formation (late early Barstovian, K-Ar dated 15. 0  0.8 to 16.7  0.71 Ma) of the state of Oaxaca, southeastern Mexico, is formally described. The sample consists of upper and lower cheek teeth, whose sizes and occlusal patterns are closest to those of the North American Cormohipparion quinni from the late Barstovian of the Great Plains. The material is referred to C. aff. C. quinni and constitutes one of the southernmost occurrences of the genus, extending its geographic distribution from the Northern Great Plains to southeastern Mexico during the middle Miocene. The dentally derived species reported here is contemporaneous with C. goorisi from the early Barstovian of Texas and Florida, the oldest and most plesiomorphic known species, thus lending support to the hypothesis that part of the hipparionin differentiation probably took place in southern (tropical) North America. This in turn leads to a reappraisal of where and when the radiation of some middle Miocene hypsodont horses actually occurred.
20627159|The fossil record of dyrosaurid crocodyliforms spans the Late Cretaceous to Middle Eocene of Africa, Asia, Europe, North America, and South America. Prior to this study, specimens from South America have been limited to a few fossils with only two taxa diagnosed. We describe a nearly complete skull and unassociated mandible of a new dyrosaurid, Cerrejonisuchus improcerus gen. et sp. nov., from the Paleocene Cerrejn Formation of northeastern Colombia. The skull of C. improcerus has relatively elongate supratemporal fenestrae and well-developed occipital tuberosities, both diagnostic characteristics of Dyrosauridae. The rostrum of adult C. improcerus comprises 54-59% of the length of the skull, making it the shortest snout of any known dyrosaurid. A cladistic analysis using 82 cranial and mandibular characters for all species of Dyrosauridae known from crania yielded two most-parsimonious cladograms with C. improcerus as the sister taxon to a clade including Arambourgisuchus, Dyrosaurus, Hyposaurus, Congosaurus, Rhabdognathus, Atlantosuchus, and Guarinisuchus. Only Chenanisuchus, Sokotosuchus, and Phosphatosaurus, all known only from Africa, are more primitive within Dyrosauridae. Chenanisuchus from the Paleocene of Morocco, the only other known short-snouted dyrosaurid, is not closely related to C. improcerus and a short-snouted condition appears to have evolved independently at least twice within Dyrosauridae. Our analysis supports an African origin of Dyrosauridae with dispersals to the New World by the Late Cretaceous or earliest Paleocene. The presence of C. improcerus, together with undescribed taxa from the Cerrejn Formation, suggests a radiation of dyrosaurid crocodyliforms, possibly following the K-P boundary, in tropical South America.
4524038|A new ceratopsian specimen, Chaoyangsaurus youngi gen. et sp. nov., was collected from the Tuchengzi Formation (Middle or Late Jurassic) of Liaoning, China. Distinctive characteristics of the new species include quadratojugal overlapping posterior side of quadrate shaft; lack of a broad lateral surface of the quadrate shaft; convex posterior margin of the ventral portion of the quadrate; a ridge between the planar lateral and ventral surface of the angular. The discovery of Chaoyangsaurus youngi extends the record of ceratopsian from back in time from the Early Cretaceous into the Middle or Late Jurassic. Some characters of C. youngi may suggest a close relationship between Ceratopsia and Heterodontosauridae.
4523544|The Late Triassic reptile Megalancosaurus preonensis Calzavara et al., 1980, was previously known from a single incomplete specimen collected from the Norian "Dolomia di Forni" at the locality of val Preone, near Ampezzo Carnico (Udine, Friuli, northern Italy). The recent discovery of a new specimen in the Zorzino Limestone, also of Norian age, at a locality near Zogno (Bergamo Prealps, Lombardy, northern Italy) allows a more complete description of the skeleton of Megalancosaurus preonensis and attribution of three other specimens, previously interpreted as juvenile individuals of Drepanosaurus unguicaudatus to the same taxon. Megalancosaurus was a small reptile with a high degree of adaptation toward arboreal life, and is probably an archosauromorph.
20627128|The postcranial skeleton of Kingoria is well-described, and previous authors noted the taxon's divergent pectoral, pelvic, and femoral morphologies. Yet, humeral morphology of Kingoria has remained enigmatic because of poor preservation and the absence of published descriptions. Here we describe new, nearly complete humeri of Kingoria collected from the Upper Permian Usili Formation, Ruhuhu Basin, Tanzania. These specimens demonstrate that the humeral morphology of K. nowacki is much more conservative than that of its pelvis or femur. There is evidence of increased importance for long-axis rotation of the humerus in K. nowacki, and the trochlea and the capitellum are partially separated, but these morphologies are not taken to the extremes observed in cistecephalid dicynodonts. Surprisingly, the new Tanzanian humeri differ from South African specimens: the best-preserved South African specimen is more gracile, with different humeral head and deltopectoral crest morphologies. We use these differences, along with new observations on skull morphology, tusk frequency, pelvic and fibular morphology, and body size to revise the taxonomy of Kingoria. Kingoria is shown to be a junior synonym of Dicynodontoides Broom, 1940, and two species are recognized: D. recurvidens from South Africa and D. nowacki from Tanzania. Finally, we review the stratigraphic and geographic ranges of Dicynodontoides, and document new occurrences in the Pristerognathus and Tropidostoma assemblage zones of the Karoo Basin, as well as its presence in the Chiweta Beds of Malawi.
4524217|Protopsephurus liui Lu, 1994, from the Lower Cretaceous Yixian Formation of China, is both the oldest and the most primitive paddlefish (polyodontid) known. It was originally described based on a partial skeleton, a partial skull, and two partial trunk regions, leaving much of the species' osteology unknown. Here, based on the type specimens and many newly discovered well-preserved skeletons, we describe this species in detail. Protopsephurus is clearly a polyodontid based on several characters including: (1) the presence of stellate bones; (2) the presence of a series of long median dorsorostral and ventrorostral bones; (3) extreme elongation of the snout; (4) the presence of anterior, middle and posterior divisions of the fenestra longitudinalis; and (5) the presence of "microctenoid" scales (defined here). Within Polyodontidae, Protopsephurus (which forms the monotypic series Protopsephuri) lacks several characters derived for all other Polyodontidae (=Polyodonti). In contrast to Protopsephuri, Polyodonti (including two fossil and two extant genera) have: (1) larger, more branched stellate bones; (2) a reduction of branchiostegals to a single element; (3) a sutural contact between posttemporal and dermosphenotic; (4) a longer anterior arm of the posttemporal; (5) a very large anterior division of the fenestra longitudinalis; (6) a loss of the pectoral fin spine; (7) the nasals reduced to little more than simple tubular ossifications; and (8) well-developed spine-like posterior projections of the subopercle. In addition, Protopsephurus and Paleopsephurus are apparently the only paddlefish species to have retained median elements at the rear of the skull roof (e.g., a median extrascapular bone). The presence of a sturgeon-like pectoral spine in Protopsephurus and some peipiaosteids suggest that paddlefishes primitively had this structure and that the mere presence of a pectoral fin spine is not synapomorphic for Acipenseridae (i.e., the pectoral fin spine could be a derived feature of Acipenseristomi sensu Grande and Bemis, 1996). Strong development of the pectoral fin spine can still be used as a derived character of Acipenseridae because it is unique to that family among Acipenseriformes. Our phylogenetic analysis here does not support the monophyly of Acipenseristomi Grande and Bemis, 1996 (a group indicating Acipenseroidei to be more closely related to fPeipiaosteidae than to Chondrosteidae). Further detailed studies of Chondrosteidae are needed to more definitively resolve the three taxon interrelationship problem of Acipenseroidei, Chondrosteidae, and Peipiaosteidae. Paddlefishes remain one of the strongest indicators of historical biogeographic connection between East Asia and North America. Fossil and living members of the family date from the Early Cretaceous and Recent in China, and from the Late Cretaceous, Early Paleocene, Early Eocene and Recent in North America.
25835827|The braincase of a polycotylid plesiosaur referable to Dolichorhynchops from the Niobrara Formation (Santonian to the earliest Campanian) in Manitoba, Canada, is described. The well-preserved material without matrix permits observation of various anatomical features of the polycotylid braincase with unprecedented clarity. A virtual reconstruction of the braincase was created by using a three-dimensional scanning technique that produces accurate reconstruction of missing or damaged elements and demonstrates the three-dimensional relationships among the elements. Comparison with other plesiosaurian braincases revealed previously unrecognized characters and character states. The I-beam-shaped parasphenoid, the relatively short pituitary fossa, and the anterior process of the prootic are possible synapomorphies of the Polycotylidae or of its subclades. It could be a challenge to confirm the presence of the supraoccipital process and its median ridge, as well as the presence of the fenestra ovalis, in polycotylid skulls because of the location and orientation of these structures. Variable morphology of basioccipital-basisphenoid contact and the paroccipital process in Dolichorhynchops and related taxa require further investigation. The I-beam of the parasphenoid and the wide contact surfaces of the basioccipital and neighboring elements provide more resistance to flexion of the braincase. Distribution of the extensive pterygoid-basicranium contact, the shape of foramen magnum, anterior process of the prootic, and the short pituitary fossa do not confirm the current phylogenetic hypotheses. The location and orientation of the fenestra ovalis suggest the lack of a tympanic ear in this plesiosaur.
23361081|Here we report a new early Oligocene cricetid, Paracricetops virgatoincisus, gen. et sp. nov., discovered from the Caijiachong locality in Yunnan Province, China. This new cricetid shows a peculiar combination of characters, such as massive and transversely positioned cusps, crenulated cheek tooth enamel, and a deep fossette enclosed between protocone and paracone. These characters are also present in Cricetops, a cricetid rodent of which the phylogenetic relationship with other cricetids remains debatable. Our phylogenetic analysis based on a data matrix including 37 taxa and 67 morphological characters reveals that Paracricetops and Cricetops are sister groups. Paracricetops, Cricetops, Deperetomys, Meteamys, Selenomys, Melissiodon, Mirrabella, Enginia, Muhsinia, and Aralocricetodon constitute a monophyletic group. This result suggests that these genera should all be grouped in the subfamily Cricetopinae. Our phylogenetic analysis also casts new lights on the origin and early radiation of the family Cricetidae. The subfamily Pappocricetodontinae is a polyphyletic group. Pappocricetodon and Raricricetodon, two basal cricetid genera, are also polyphyletic. A thorough systematic revision of these basal cricetids is needed. Chronological distribution of Eucricetodontinae, Paracricetodontinae, Pseudocricetodontinae, and Cricetopinae indicates that the establishment of these cricetid clades should be in the late Eocene at least. We therefore deduced that the first diversification and dispersal of the family Cricetidae across Eurasia must have occurred well before the Eocene-Oligocene transition.
40666156|Basal Ornithuromorpha, until recently, was one of the most poorly documented segments of early avian evolution. The known species diversity of the ornithuromorph clade has increased rapidly with the addition of new discoveries from the Early Cretaceous deposits of northeastern China. Reported in this paper is the discovery of a new bird from the Lower Cretaceous Yixian Formation, Liaoning Province, China. The specimen represents a new species, Longicrusavis houi, but bears similarities to Hongshanornis longicresta from the same formation of Inner Mongolia. The two birds are comparable in size and share an unusual sigmoid mandible and elongate hindlimbs relative to their forelimbs. Together these taxa represent a clade (Hongshanornithidae, new taxon) of specialized 'shorebirds' whose elongate hindlimbs indicate ecological adaptations different from those of other Jehol ornithuromorphs. Phylogenetic relationships of Mesozoic birds are discussed based on the results of a comprehensive cladistic analysis. New morphological information on Ornithuromorpha is provided through the detailed description of the new taxon together with new information on Hongshanornis.
20627086|The long bone histology of the "hypsilophodontid" dinosaurs Orodromeus makelai, Dryosaurus altus, and Tenontosaurus tilletti, was examined from perinate to largest available ontogenetic stages. These ontogenies were compared with each other, and to those of other dinosaurs, notably hadrosaurids such as Maiasaura and Hypacrosaurus. Orodromeus is a small dinosaur, and its more moderate growth trajectory is consistent with those generally observed for relatively small dinosaurs and other small ornithosuchians. Tenontosaurus achieves a relatively larger adult size, and its bone histology through ontogeny is similar to those of hadrosaurs, although reflective of slightly lower growth rates. Dryosaurus is thought to be a small dinosaur, but in its largest recognized ontogenetic stages it does not display the "adult" histological features of other ornithopod adults, although it does suggest growth rates comparable to those of larger ornithopods, including hadrosaurs. Determinate growth is observed in Orodromeus, Tenontosaurus, and hadrosaurs, so we infer that the adult stage of Dryosaurus has not yet been recognized. Dinosaurs continued to grow slowly after reaching adult size, so the largest known specimens of most taxa are not maxima.
4523957|Two genera of the subfamily Pachyrukhinae (Notoungulata, Hegetotheriidae), Paedotherium and Tremacyllus, are revised. The material comes from late Miocene (Chasicoan) to early Pleistocene (Marplatan) localities in Argentina and Bolivia. The genus Raulringueletia is here considered a synonym of Paedotherium. Three valid species of Paedotherium are recognized and re-characterized: P. bonaerense, P. typicum, and P. minor. Two species of Tremacyllus are recognized: T. impressus in the Pampean region, and T. incipiens in Catamarca Province. The presence of Tremacyllus sp. into the late Chasicoan extends its known temporal range. Pachyrukhos occurs slightly earlier within the Chasicoan, coexisting with Paedotherium. Paedotherium is dominant in frequency in the Pampean area (Buenos Aires and La Pampa) and extremely scarce in the Subandean region (Catamarca), while Tremacyllus has an opposite occurrence. Cladistic analysis of the subfamily shows Paedotherium as a monophyletic group, where P. bonaerense is the sister taxon of the clade P. minor plus P. typicum. Pachyrukhos is the sister group of Paedotherium, and Tremacyllus appears to be closer to Pachyrukhos or Propachyrucos than to Paedotherium.
25790801|Pterosaur fossils from Australia are rare. All the specimens that have been described previously are Cretaceous in age, with the majority deriving from the AptianAlbian shallow marine succession within the Eromanga Basin of western Queensland. The Queensland specimens have tentatively been referred to the pterodactyloid clades Pteranodontidae, Ornithocheiridae, and Archaeopterodactyloidea (cf. Ctenochasmatoidea), each in varying taxonomic guises. Due to their fragmentary nature, more specific referrals of these specimens have not been possible. As such, the overall composition and more precise relationships of Australia's Cretaceous pterosaur fauna have remained enigmatic. Since 1987, a number of new pterosaur specimens have been found in the shallow marine late Albian rocks of the Eromanga Basin of western Queensland. Four of these specimens are described herein: a partial mandible, a metacarpal IV, a wing phalanx, and a humerus. The mandible is assigned to Ornithocheiridae, gen. et sp. indet., whereas the metacarpal and wing phalanx are assigned Ornithocheiridae cf. Anhanguera. The morphology of the humerus suggests that it may belong to a ctenochasmatoid lophocratian. Based on these findings, we hypothesize that Australia's Early Cretaceous pterosaur fauna comprises a mix of taxa already known to occur in Europe and South America in addition to a slightly younger ctenochasmatoid. However, the older specimens may alternatively represent new taxa that combine cranial characteristics of an Ornithocheirus-like taxon or a closely related form, with an Anhanguera-like postcranium. A more precise characterization of Australia's Cretaceous pterosaur fauna cannot be resolved until more complete specimens are found.
4523763| A new genus and species of paracanthopterygian fish, Massamorichthys wilsoni gen. et sp. nov., from the Paleocene Paskapoo Formation of Alberta is described. The fossil locality is a mass-death layer, discovered in 1984 at the Joffre Bridge Roadcut locality near Red Deer, Alberta. More than 1,750 specimens of the new paracanthopterygian have been recovered from this site. 
4524572| The binocular fields of view of seven theropod dinosaurs are mapped using sculpted life reconstructions of their heads and techniques adopted from ophthalmic field perimetry. The tall, narrow snout and laterally facing eyes of the allosauroids Allosaurus and Carcharodontosaurus restricted binocular vision to a region only approximately 20 wide, compar- able to that of modern crocodiles. In contrast, the coelurosaurs Daspletosaurus, Tyrannosaurus, Nanotyrannus, Velociraptor, and Troodon had cranial designs that afforded binocular fields between 45-60 in width, similar to those of modern raptorial birds. Binocular field width and predatory style (ambush versus pursuit) is examined for extant taxa, along with a discussion of cranial adaptations that enhance binocular vision. The progressive increase in frontal vision in the tyrannosaurids culminates in broader binocular overlap than that of a modern hawk. The visual acuity and the limiting far point for stereopsis is estimated for Tyrannosaurus based on reptilian and avian models. 
24523218|New discoveries of numerous fossil femora from giant caviomorph rodents from the Miocene of Venezuela and a specimen of a Miocene giant rodent from Trinidad in the collections of the Naturhistorisches Museum in Basel made possible the first examination of taxonomic, ontogenetic, and functional variation in these animals. We provide comparisons of femoral shape, metrics, and growth (epiphyseal closure), finding that four morphotypes are distinguishable based largely on degrees of robustness or gracility. This indicates that the diversity of giant caviomorphs was larger than previously known; Phoberomys pattersoni was not the only giant caviomorph that inhabited the Miocene of the northern Neotropics. The study of cortical cross-sectional area of fossils serves to estimate the body mass for two giant caviomorphs at 420580 kg. The first description of patterns of bone microstructure in three fossil giant caviomorph femora reveals similarities to extant rodents: absence of Haversian tissue and presence of layers of lamellar followed by reticular-like bone.
4524127|A new fossil odontocete genus and species, Numataphocoena yamashitai is from the Early Pliocene Horokaoshirarika Formation, Numata, central Hokkaido, Japan. The porpoise was probably buried in relatively shallow marine sediments. This specimen consists of an incomplete skull, a right periotic and tympanic bulla, a posterior part of the right mandible, 23 isolated teeth, a nearly complete vertebral column, a chevron, incomplete right and wellpreserved left scapulae, a right forelimb including humerus, radius, ulna, and a few indetermined carpals, and several ribs, all the same individual. The ankylosis of the epiphyses to vertebral bodies and to long bones, such as humerus, radius and ulna, shows that this individual reached both sexual and physical maturity; the animal in life was probably about 220 cm long. The cranial vertex has an elevated frontal knob, and the tooth crown is spatulated; both are characteristic of phocoenids. Numataphocoena yamashitai shows many primitive features such as premaxillae with less atrophied posterior extremities extending far posteriorly almost to hinder margin of the narial fossa, robust zygomatic processes, a periotic with massive anterior process and rugose posterior process, humerus long relative to radius or ulna, and free cervical vertebrae. The axial skeleton is significantly different from that of extant relatives in its a small number of vertebrae with anteroposteriorly broad transverse processes, and a long humerus relative to the radius and ulna.
25835809|A partial postcranial skeleton of a small alvarezsaurid from the Late Cretaceous of the Mongolian eastern Gobi Desert locality of Khugenetslavkant represents the first reported articulated theropod material from that locality. The specimen is recognized as the holotype of a new taxon herein named Albinykus baatar, gen. et sp. nov. Phylogenetic analysis places Albinykus within Alvarezsauridae as the sister taxon of Shuvuuia, another Late Cretaceous Mongolian taxon from the slightly younger Djadokhta Formation. The complete coossification of the proximal tarsals with the tibia, and of the distal tarsals and proximal metatarsals, present in Albinykus are previously unknown in Alvarezsauridae. Extensive fusion is consistent with histological data from the tibia indicating that the individual was a subadult. These results are striking given that Albinykus is among the smallest known non-avian dinosaurs with a body mass no greater than 1 kg and ranks among the smallest known alvarezsaurids. Alvarezsauridae shows a decreasing size trend throughout its evolutionary history, a rarity among dinosaurian clades. Within maniraptoran dinosaurs, such a trend has thus far only been recognized within Avialae and at the origin of Paraves with respect to other coelurosaurs. The holotype was recovered articulated in a 'seated' position, with hind limbs aligned and the feet tucked under the body. This body posture, which is present in Aves, has been previously noted in other maniraptoran clades (i.e., Oviraptoridae Troodontidae) and is now recognized in Alvarezsauridae.
4523604|An attempt is made to examine the problem of the nomenclature of the roofing bones in the most primitive dipnoans, which is still a matter of contention. The letter and number system that has been in use for the last half century was based on Dipterus, a Middle Devonian genus that has a reduced number of bones and a greatly shortened cheek in comparison with the Early Devonian Dipnorhynchus. Several attempts have been made to expand the Dipterus nomenclature to accommodate the more primitive condition in Dipnorhynchus and Uranolophus, but none has yet been generally accepted. The most recent attempt by Westoll (1989), which involves errors of reconstruction and interpretation, is discussed in this paper. The matter is of importance because assessment of the relationships of primitive dipnoans to other groups depends to a substantial extent upon these homologies.
4524521|Two problems are examined in this paper: (1) the identification of flying squirrels in the fossil record by means of their teeth; and (2) the identification of features of the limbs that indicate that the animals were gliders. Dental features vary widely among flying squirrels and among other squirrels, and a thorough survey demonstrates that most features that have been used to distinguish fossil flying squirrels are also found in some tree squirrels. A review of the descriptions of fossil flying squirrels reveals few convincing arguments that these animals actually belong to the Pteromyini and none to support the hypothesis that they were gliding animals. Recent flying squirrels exhibit a number of distinguishing morphological features in their carpal and tarsal bones and at the proximal and distal ends of their long bones. Some of these morphological structures are obligatory features required for gliding locomotion in squirrels and hence are diagnostic of flying squirrels.
25835806|Titanosauriform sauropods were one of the most widely distributed groups of dinosaurs during the Cretaceous. In contrast to most derived forms from the Upper Cretaceous, the most basal taxa of the group are poorly known. Thus, studies on these forms are of special interest for understanding the origin and early evolution of Titanosauria. Chubutisaurus insignis del Corro, 1975, is known from postcranial remains found in the Bayo Overo Member of the Cerro Barcino Formation (Chubut Group), which is commonly regarded as AptianCenomanian in age. Phylogenetic analyses that include Chubutisaurus recovered this taxon as the sister group to Titanosauria. Nevertheless, most published studies have not included this taxon, probably due to its brief description and fragmentary remains. Fieldwork conducted in the quarry where the holotype was found yielded new materials that are regarded as part of the same specimen. These new materials, together with additional undescribed, and briefly described elements, originally collected by G. del Corro, are described here. The new information allows the recognition of a more extensive diagnosis of this taxon. The phylogenetic analysis presented here resolves Chubutisaurus as the most basal somphospondylian.
41407684|The earliest ornithischian dinosaurs were small bipeds that possessed the derived, retroverted pubis that is synapomorphic for the clade. Their forelimbs were modified for grasping. Subsequently, ornithischians radiated into numerous body shapes and sizes. Three lineages independently evolved large size and quadrupedality, requiring profound changes to the osteology and myology of the locomotor apparatus. Using comparisons with extinct archosaurian outgroups, as well as extant birds and crocodilians, we reconstruct basal ornithischian limb musculature in order to determine the sequence of musculoskeletal changes that occurred prior to and during the early evolution of Ornithischia. The musculoskeletal anatomy of basal ornithischian forelimbs was probably more similar to that of the crown group archosaur common ancestor and crocodilians than it was to birds. Reduction or loss of the clavicle resulted in migration of the clavicular deltoid onto the proximal scapula and development of a distinct acromial process. The coracobrachialis brevis and supracoracoideus probably protracted the humrus, whereas the scapulohumeralis caudalis and deltoideus scapularis probably retracted it. The deltoideus clavicularis was likely a humeral abductor. In the hind limb, the elongate preacetabular process indicates lateral migration of important femoral protractors to the ilium from an inferred ancestral location on the dorsal vertebrae. The puboischiofemoralis externus was greatly reduced or possibly lost due to pubic rtroversion. The reconstruction of basal ornithischian myology provides a baseline for determining the musculoskeletal changes associated with different locomotor modes in ornithischians, and a foundation for biomechanical studies of dinosaur locomotion.
4523698|An associated skeleton of a large delphinoid from the Calvert Formation (lower middle Miocene) of Maryland is referable to Hadrodelphis calvertense Kellogg 1966, and includes the skull and periotic, as well as postcranial material. For the first time, a thorough description of this poorly known species is possible. Hadrodelphis is classified as a lophocetine kentriodontid based on features of its cranial vertex. Members of this subfamily possess rostro-caudally elongate nasals, and have a vertex which is transversely compressed, resulting in the maxillae becoming pinched or concave lateral to the vertex. Hadrodelphis calvertense exhibits a vertex which is extremely compressed and elevated, but the nasals are not inflated. Dental characters of H. calvertense and morphology of the periotic are essentially primitive. Although the family kentriodontidae appears to have been cosmopolitan in geographic distribution, species of Hadrodelphis have not been reported from the Pacific basin.
20491001|The sternum of a very large bony-toothed bird (Pelagornithidae) from the Miocene of Portugal is described. The three-dimensionally preserved specimen is one of the largest sterna of a volant bird known to date, and more complete than the only other pelagornithid sternum reported so far. It is tentatively assigned to Pelagornis miocaenus Lartet, 1857, which is the only bony-toothed bird known from the Miocene of Europe. The specimen shows several unique features, including the presence of a marked cranial projection of the carina sterni, which probably abutted the extremitas sternalis of the furcula, and a large, steep-walled opening in the cranial portion of the facies visceralis. The corpus sterni further has a highly unusual shape in that it is very deep, with a strongly vaulted facies visceralis. It is likely that these characteristics are due to anatomical constraints imposed by the very large size of pelagornithids, which may have reached a wingspan of up to 6 m and probably were incapable of sustained flapping flight.
30126316|The Nelson Bay Local Fauna, recovered from a paleosol horizon exposed in the sea cliffs at Nelson Bay, Portland, Victoria, Australia, comprises over 30 different mammalian species making it one of the most diverse early Pleistocene faunas in Australia. Its age is well constrained to 1.77-0.78 Ma by radiometric, biostratigraphic and paleomagnetic dating methods. The composition of the fauna, which includes predominantly browsing-grade taxa and a number of arboreal species, suggests the paleoenvironment was a mosaic of open forest and woodland. This habitat acted as a refuge for forest-adapted taxa previously known only from the early Pliocene, such as the ektopodontid, Darcius duggani, the giant ring-tailed possum, Pseudokoala, a small palorchestid, Palorchestes pickeringi, and a new species of Protemnodon. The Nelson Bay Local Fauna was compared at the generic level with six other faunas ranging in age from early Pliocene to Recent using Simpson's coefficient of faunal resemblance. This analysis shows the Nelson Bay Local Fauna, with its combination of extant, typical Pleistocene megafauna, and 'relict' Pliocene species, to be unusual in the region. The combination of taxa in the Nelson Bay Local Fauna may be characteristic of early Pleistocene terrestrial mammal assemblages of southeastern Australia, and could be used cautiously to date other faunas, e.g., Childers Cove Local Fauna.
4523733|A newly prepared plesiosaur skull collected by Thomas Hawkins (1810-1889) from the Lias quarries of Street, Somerset, England, provides important indications of character polarity within the Plesiosauria. Many features of the 3-dimensional, matrix-free skull are seemingly plesiomorphic in accord with the early, probably latest Rhaetian, stratigraphic position of the specimen. The small supratemporal fenestrae, elongate jugals, deeply excavated cheek, spatulate mandibular symphysis, and other characters thus have important implications for phylogenetic studies of the Plesiosauria. A new genus is erected to include the skull and several other specimens of historical importance that comprise part of the oldest known fauna of fully articulated plesiosaurs.
4523163|The new genus and species Stenotholus kohleri from the Late Cretaceous Hell Creek Formation of McCone County, Montana is a pachycephalosaurid ornithischian. The species possesses a vertically high and transversely narrow dome, elimination of the parietosquamosal shelf, closure of the supratemporal fenestra in the subadult, a highly sculptured frontal, and a sagittally shortened occipital region. The possibility that this skull represents a previously described pachycephalosaurid is rejected on the basis of the unique suite of traits presented.
30126343|New remains of Megathericulus patagonicus Ameghino, 1904, the first additional material of this species found since erection of the species, are described. Two individuals from separate localities, the Cerro Guenguel and Arroyo Pedregoso localities in southern Argentina, are represented. The specimens were recovered from the Rio Mayo Fm. and are assigned to the middle Miocene Friasian South American Land Mammal Age. Radiometric dating from the Cerro Guenguel locality indicates an age somewhat younger than 11.8 Mya. Megathericulus patagonicus is the earliest certain megatheriine and the new remains provide information on primitive megatheriine features. Among these are that lower molariforms are mesiodistally compressed, as in the palate of the type specimen; ventral margin of dentary is prominently bulged; angular process approximately in same relative position as in most megatheriines, rather than elevated as in Megatherium species; posterolateral opening of the mandibular canal on anterior edge of base of ascending ramus, posterior to m4, and visible in lateral view; ascending ramus begins approximately at level of distal surface of m4, so that m4 was uncovered in lateral view; inclination of base of ramus suggests that anterior margin of coronoid process inclined less steeply than in other megatheriines; symphysis begins posteriorly well anterior to ml; humerus possesses very prominent deltopectoral crest; in the ulna, proximolateral articular facets face nearly laterally, and olecranon process compressed mediolaterally; in the femur, patellar trochlea contiguous distally with medial and lateral articular facets for the tibia; in the astragalus, navicular facet relatively dorsal, with plane of discoid facet intersecting its middle portion; and fibular facet elongated, reaching the ectal facet.
30126339|The "ethmoid complex" is an enigmatic element of the anterior portion of the braincase first described in Tyrannosaurus rex in 1912, which has since been recognized in many non-avian theropods. Because the "ethmoid complex" is a landmark for the reconstruction of the olfactory apparatus of non-avian theropods, we clarify the homology of this structure among archosaurs. The "ethmoid complex" consists of a trough-shaped element that is attached to an anteriorly-located median septum capped by a dorsal plate. Based on anatomical comparisons with the olfactory region of extant birds and crocodylians, the components of the "ethmoid complex" are shown to have cartilaginous or osteological homologues among extant archosaurs: the trough is homologous to the anterior portion of the planum supraseptale of crocodylians and embryonic birds, whereas the median septum and overlying dorsal plate are homologous to the avian mesethmoid and to the nasal septum and tectum nasi of crocodylians. Based on the location and ossification of olfactory region structures in non-avian theropods, the most appropriate terms for elements of the "ethmoid complex" are the sphenethmoid for the trough and the mesethmoid for the median septum and dorsal plate. The olfactory bulbs of nonavian theropods were housed within the sphenethmoid, which restricted the maximum size of the olfactory bulbs to a size smaller than the cerebral hemispheres.
42568543|A new genus and two new species of mosasaurs are described from five specimens collected during quarrying operations in the 'Lastame' lithotype located in the mountains of northern Italy just to the north of Verona (lower Turonian-lower Santonian). These mosasaurs share some anatomical characters with the North American taxon Russellosaurus coheni, but the presence of distinctive features suggests placement into two new species within a new genus (e.g., forked distal tip of suprastapedial process of quadrate; suture between maxilla and premaxilla extends to point above third tooth position [cf. second in Russellosaurus]). We conducted two phylogenetic analyses of the Mosasauroidea (37 ingroup taxa, 131 characters), the first one with equally weighted characters and the second after successive weighting in order to reduce homoplastic noise and amplify the signal in the data. The first analysis (equal weights) resulted in 96 most parsimonious trees, whereas the second produced a single shortest tree. Both analyses consistently placed the new genus as the sister taxon to Russellosaurus, and these two taxa were placed together with Yaguarasaurus, in a clade that is the sister group of the Tethysaurinae (Tethysaurus and Pannoniasaurus). A new clade of mosasaurs, the Yaguarasaurinae, is here defined as comprising the most recent common ancestor of Russellosaurus, Romeosaurus, and Yaguarasaurus, and all of its descendants.
41407688|This paper describes a new assemblage of fossil murids (Mammalia: Rodentia) from an Oldowan archeological site, Hadar, A.L.894. The dates for the site are well constrained to between 2.35 and 2.9 Ma and the site itself has an estimated age of 2.4 Ma. The A. L. 894 assemblage is the first described from the younger Busidima Formation at Hadar and extends the time range for micromammals at Hadar by 800 ka. The assemblage of 28 specimens has eight taxa represented, a surprising diversity given the sample size. The specimens include a fossil skull of Thallomys, a poorly documented African endemic rodent, as well as one of the earliest occurrences of a small gerbilid, such as Gerbillus in East Africa. Fossil rodents from this time period are important for the interpretation of hominid paleoecology as well as understanding the processes underlying the evolution of ecological communities through shallow, deep-time.
4522891|Chirodipterus onawayensis n. sp. is described from the Middle Devonian of northern Michigan. It differs from other species of Chirodipterus in details of the cheek bones, small size of the orbit, and elongation of the prepineal region of the skull. Chirodipterus is distinguished from Dipterus by the arrangement of bones on the side of the head rather than by propotions of the snout (cf. Miles, 1977).
4522834|Urenchelys abditus n. sp. represents the first authentic record of a Cretaceous eel from North America. "Anguillavus" hackberryensis Martin is not an eel, but probably a dercetid. Urenchelys resembles Recent eels in lacking pelvic fins, but resembles the Cretaceous genus Anguillavus in having a separate caudal fin. Urenchelys may or may not be a monophyletic group, the species are not known to share a derived character common only to themselves. Urenchelys abditus differs from other species of the genus from the English Chalk and Lebanon in having fewer vertebrae between the anterior insertion of the anal fin and (in the case of U. anglicus) thinner skull roofing bones. The only referred specimen was found in a pelecypod shell.
4522983| A comparison of parts of the fossil mammalian faunas of southern California and western Texas with those of the northern Rocky Mountain states, combined with K/Ar dates, permits a division of the Duchesnean land-mammal age into early and late subages. The early Duchesnean fauna is more closely related to the Uintan and the late Duchesnean fauna is more closely related to that of the Chadronian. Leptoreodon major, L. pusillus, L. edwardsi, and L. leptolophus are recognized in late Eocene faunas of western Texas. A lower jaw fragment of L. leptolophus from the Laredo Formation, Claiborne Group, of the Texas Coastal Plain is described. /// La comparacin de partes de la fauna fsil de mamferos del sur de California y el oeste de Texas con los de los estados de la zona norte de las Montaas Rocosas, en conjunto con fechas potasio-argon, permite una divisin de la edad mamfero-terrestre Duchesnean en subedades temprana y tarda. La fauna temprana Duchesnean est ms relacionada a la Uintan, y la fauna Duchesnean tarda est ms relacionada al Chadronian. Leptoreodon major, L. pusillus, L. edwardsi, y L. leptolophus se han reconocido en faunas del Eoceno tardo del oeste texano. Se describe aqu un fragmento de mandbula inferior de L. leptolophus de la formacin Laredo, Grupo Claiborne, del llano costero de Texas. 
4523445|The shape of the cranium of the fifteen million year old (Astaracian, MN zone 6) Eotragus sansaniensis from Sansan most closely resembles that of Tetracerus quadricornis (Boselaphini) but also resembles that of Cephalophus natalensis (Cephalophini), while E. sansaniensis horn cores are most similar to those of Boselaphus tragocamelus (Boselaphini). Morphologically, E. sansaniensis is one of the most primitive bovids known and is placed in the Boselaphini.
40864383|The early Eocene great lakes of the Green River system preserved a rich fauna, allowing detailed study of the paleoecology of the area. Two genera, Priscacara and Mioplosus, are interesting because they are among the earliest well-known representatives of Percoidei sensu lato, and so offer a chance to explore the evolution of the North American fish fauna. A phylogenetic analysis including Priscacara, Mioplosus, and representatives of some 'basal' percoid families suggests that Priscacara is a member of Moronidae, and that Mioplosus has affinities with Lateolabrax, Siniperca, and Lates. Priscacara is recovered as paraphyletic relative to the rest of Moronidae, primarily on the basis of meristic characters; in the absence of more robust evidence, both P. serrata and P. Hops are retained within Priscacara. The phylogenetic position of Priscacara suggests a trans-Atlantic connection, because Moronidae contain genera from eastern North America and Europe. Mioplosus is suggestive of an Asian link to the Eocene Green River system, due to its relationship with the Western Pacific Lateolabrax, the Asian Siniperca, and the African/Asian Lates.
4524255|A diverse fauna of lizards has been recovered from the Cedar Mountain Formation (Albian-Cenomanian boundary) of central Utah. These lizards are a component of the now recognized Mussentuchit local fauna and, like many of the other vertebrate groups within this fauna, show striking similarities to their North American Late Cretaceous (Campanian-Maastrichtian) counterparts. Unlike the Late Cretaceous lizard faunas, the lizards from the Mussentuchit local fauna also include at least one "paramacellodid," a group common to Late Jurassic and Early Cretaceous lizard faunas of North America. Comparison with other Cretaceous lizard faunas from both North America and Asia indicates that the changes in the North American lizard fauna represented by the lizards of the Mussentuchit local fauna are likely the result of the introduction of taxa from Asia during the Early Cretaceous. Supposedly herbivorous taxa are found among the Polyglyphanodontine lizards from the Late Cretaceous of North American and Asia, but the general changes in the Cretaceous lizard fauna of North America cannot be convincingly shown to be linked to the concurrent angiosperm radiation. Later influxes of Asian lizard taxa prior to the Campanian may explain the relatively sudden appearance of additional groups of lizards in the early Campanian of North America. Whereas there is good evidence to support the hypothesis of an Asian influence on the Cretaceous lizard fauna of North America, there is insufficient evidence to determine what, if any, influence may have come from Europe or South America.
4524788|A new biarmosuchian therapsid, Lobalopex mordax gen. and sp. nov., from the Permian Teekloof Formation (Tropidostoma Assemblage Zone) of the Victoria West District, South Africa, is described on the basis of a partial skull with lower jaws and the first four cervical vertebrae. The genus is diagnosed by the following autapomorphies: median nasal eminence low and ridge-like; supraorbital boss small and unpachyostosed; posteriorly projecting supratemporal 'horns' present but relatively small; ventral surface of transverse flange of pterygoid edentulous and sharply ridged; and laterally-directed knob present lateral to contact between pterygoid and palatine dentigerous bosses. As in some other biarmosuchians, the cervical vertebrae are elongated, being roughly twice as long as they are wide or deep. A cladistic analysis including ten biarmosuchian taxa indicates that Lobalopex is the sister taxon to Burnetiidae and that Lemurosaurus is the most primitive burnetiamorph. These results fail to provide evidence for geographic endemism in these groups of Middle to Late Permian therapsids.
4523483|Previously undescribed frog and salamander bones from the Morrison Formation, at Quarry Nine, Como Bluff, Wyoming, are reported. One anuran ilium is diagnostically discoglossid and forms the basis of Enneabatrachus hechti, gen. et sp. nov. A second ilium is diagnostically pelobatid and is the earliest record for the family Pelobatidae, although it is indeterminate below family level. Salamander vertebrae appear to represent two morphological types but neither can be diagnosed critically. The previously described anuran taxa Eobatrachus agilis Marsh and Comobatrachus aenigmatis Hecht and Estes and the salamander Comonecturoides marshi Hecht and Estes are all based on non-determinate elements and must be considered nomina dubia at our present state of knowledge.
4524580|Fossil crania from the late middle or early late Miocene (ca. 12-10 Ma) Ichibangawa Formation, Hokkaido, northern Japan, are described as a new genus and species of the archaic odobenid, Pseudotaria muramotoi, gen. et sp. nov. Pseudotaria muramotoi is characterized by having a dorsoventrally thick, posterolaterally expanded pterygoid strut, bony tentorium appressed to the petrosal (odobenid synapomorphies), double-rooted Ml, reduced pseudosylvian fossa, and transversely arched palate (basal odobenid synapomorphies), and by retention of double-rooted premolars, except the PI. A phylogenetic analysis reveals that P. muramotoi possesses basal odobenid synapomorphies but lacks synapomorphies of the later diverging odobenids, and therefore, the taxon is nested in the paraphyletic stem group within the Odobenidae. The analysis also indicates that P. muramotoi might be viewed as a metataxon that shows the least modified condition in the transformation series to the later diverging odobenids.
4523254|Ashfall from Mount St. Helens' May 18, 1980 eruption covered eggs and nests of two species of colonial, ground-nesting gulls. While some members of both species excavated their eggs from beneath the ash, most eggs and nests remained buried. One year after the ashfall, habitats known to contain pre-ashfall nests were transected and the ash layer was measured and removed. Eggs, nests, and associated materials were counted. Entire hollow eggshells and eggshell fragments were found, as well as rodent bones and teeth, bird bones, beetle carapaces, and vegetation. No fetal bones were found with eggs. Fossilization potential for nests and eggs was related to intra- and interspecific behavioral differences among parents, as well as to temporal and spatial environmental factors. Gulls and other ground-nesting birds are implicated as accumulators of biological material for potential fossilization.
4523010|Poorly preserved vertebrates with chevron-shaped, non-mineralized scales are described from the Lower Devonian (Gedinnian) Manlius Formation of New York State. They most closely resemble Jamoytius kerwoodi from the Silurian of Scotland, and, like that species, are found in association with phyllocarid crustaceans. This anaspid-like vertebrate and phyllocarids lived in a near-shore, carbonate shelf environment with about 0.8-1.2 m deep water of normal or somewhat above-normal salinity.
25790806|The first skull associated with postcranial elements of Macraucheniidae (Litopterna) from the Sarmiento Formation in Cabeza Blanca (Chubut, Argentina) are described herein. The material consists of a nearly complete skull, nearly complete right humerus, left metacarpal IV, and three phalanges (proximal, intermediate, and distal of the same digit) of the same individual. It is compared with the Santacrucian genus Theosodon Ameghino, the Colhuehuapian Cramauchenia Ameghino, and the Deseadan species Coniopternium andinum and C. primitivum Soria and Hoffstetter. The comparative study leads us to recognize this specimen as Cramauchenia normalis. The presence of this species in Cabeza Blanca increases its biochronological distribution to Deseadan South American Land Mammal Age (SALMA) (late Oligocene).
20627097|The megatherioid sloths from the Santa Cruz Formation (Santacrucian Age; early-middle Miocene, Patagonia, southernmost South America) occupy basal positions in the most recent phylogenetic schemes. The cranial morphology of Eucholaeops, particularly of the teeth, suggests interesting functional features that shed light on the type of food it was capable of processing, and thus on the diet. A detailed morphofunctional analysis of the jaw apparatus was performed, and the results briefly compared with other contemporary megatherioid sloths. Comprehensive descriptions of the teeth of Eucholaeops allow us to generate a nomenclature for describing the inferred occlusal pattern analogous to that applied to other mammals. Based on examination and mapping of occlusal wear facets, we reconstruct two distinct jaw movements during the power stroke. One corresponds to the basic therian pattern equivalent to Phase I: the working side mandibular corpus is moved dorsally, mainly orthally but also anteriorly and slightly medially; the result is puncturing, tearing and shearing of food. The second is a distinct and unrelated movement of the working side corpus dorsally, mainly orthally, but also posteriorly and slightly medially; the dominant result is to produce shearing of food. The analysis of the tooth wear facets, combined with the shape of the temporomandibular joint, the presence of a fused mandibular symphysis, and a well-developed temporalis muscle, indicates that the orthal component was predominant during mastication. Eucholaeops, and probably nearly all other Miocene megatherioids, were most likely leaf eaters and the primary method of food reduction must have been by shearing or cutting.
20627053|New material of Plioplatecarpus nichollsae Cuthbertson et al, 2007 (Squamata: Mosasauridae) clarifies many problematic features of the holotype. New observations demonstrate its unique cranial features among plioplatecarpines (=Ectenosaurus, Platecarpus and Plioplatecarpus), such as a parallel-sided frontal shield, a large, oval pineal foramen, and a highly inflated basal tubera of the basioccipital. Although the quadrate morphology is virtually identical to that of Platecarpus ictericus, Plio. nichollsae exhibits more synapomorphies with stratigraphically younger members of the genus than Platecarpus does, including newly recognized characters such as a pair of well-developed parolfactory-bulb recesses and anteriorly diverging ventro-lateral processes found on the frontal. Re-characterization of the species indicates its closest anatomical resemblance to descriptions given for the contemporary Platecarpus somenensis specimens (lower middle Campanian) from North America, which indicates that the current generic assignment for the latter taxon needs to be re-evaluated.
41407705|Billfishes (Perciformes, Xiphioidei) are large marine teleosts characterized by an elongate rostrum formed primarily by greatly lengthened premaxillae. The billfish fossil record extends back to the late Paleocene, but is almost completely dominated by Northern Hemisphere finds despite the wide occurrence of several extant billfish species in southern seas. We report on an associated partial skeleton of a large billfish from upper Oligocne marine deposits on the South Island of New Zealand, described here as Aglyptorhynchus hakataramea, sp. nov. The material is assigned to Aglyptorhynchus  a genus previously known from the mid-Cenozoic of Europe and both the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of the U. S. A. primarily on the basis of the ventrolaterally expanded flanges on its enlarged maxillae, diagnostic for the genus. It is recognized as a new species owing to its rostral proportions, and lower jaws that do not extend as far anteriorly as the tip of the rostrum as in other Aglyptorhynchus species. The new species is the most complete and informative fossil billfish described to date from the Southern Hemisphere.
4524116|New cranial material of Mesturus cordillera Martill et al., 1998 from the Oxfordian of Quebrada del Profeta locality of northern Chile allows a detailed study of the jaw apparatus and some additional cranial bones. The tooth morphology in combination with a short and pyriform edentulous maxilla refers the species to the pycnodont fish genus Gyrodus Agassiz, 1833. The available material is not sufficient for a specific determination, therefore, the taxon is left as Gyrodus sp. (=Mesturus cordillera). This is the first species of Gyrodus known from the Upper Jurassic of South America. A second Gyrodus species, G. macrophthalmus cubensis Gregory, 1923, is known from the Upper Jurassic of Cuba. The stratigraphic and biogeographic occurrences of Gyrodus are discussed and the genus Mesturus Wagner, 1862 is thus restricted to the Jurassic of Europe.
20490999|A partial postcranial skeleton from the Late Jurassic (Tithonian) of Dorset, England represents a new species of the theropod dinosaur Stokesosaurus, Stokesosaurus langhami. S. langhami is a member of Tyrannosauroidea, showing a distinct median vertical ridge on the lateral surface of the ilium, a prominent shelf medial to the preacetabular notch, a pronounced ischial tubercle, and a tibia that is elongate relative to the femur. One of only two definitive Jurassic tyrannosauroids known from more than isolated elements, it is the largest Jurassic tyrannosauroid reported to date and provides additional evidence for the presence of relatively small- or medium-sized basal tyrannosauroids in Asia, North America, and Europe during the Late Jurassic. The occurrence of Stokesosaurus in the Tithonian of the UK and USA and the absence of tyrannosauroids in contemporaneous west African faunas supports the hypothesis of a paleobiogeographic link during the Late Jurassic between North America and Europe, to the exclusion of Africa.
4523012|Evidence of a large pterodactyloid pterosaur in the Two Medicine Formation (Campanian) near Choteau, Montana, is provided by a superbly preserved left distal carpal and an assortment of long bone fragments diagnostic of pterodactyloids. The size of the animal represented by the material is estimated at the lower range of 25 to 30 ft (7.5-9.0 m) in wing-span, based on comparison with more complete specimens of Pteranodon and Quetzalcoatlus, two large Cretaceous pterodactyloids. These two genera can be differentiated morphologically, but no characters link the new find diagnostically with either genus. This is probably the second largest pterosaur yet known of Campanian age; its size is intermediate between the largest Pteranodon and Quetzalcoatlus northropi. Diagnosis of a new family, Titanopterygiidae, is made on the basis of cervical form and proportions; this family is differentiated from the Pteranodontidae, which is also newly diagnosed in a strict sense.
4523922|Numerous isolated and fragmentary remains of a pipid frog from Paleocene-Eocene lacustrine beds of the Vaca Mahuida Formation are described and referred to a new species of the genus Shelania Casamiquela. A cladistic analysis of fossil and extant pipoid frogs based on 47 osteological characters places the new species in a trichotomy with the South American Paleogene pipids S. pascuali and "Xenopus" romeri. These three species share a seemingly derived arrangement of perilymphatic and jugular foramina in the occipital region. The species described herein, "X." romeri and, presumably, S. pascuali lack discrete superior perilymphatic foramina as in extant African xenopodines; however, they possess several plesiomorphic conditions with respect to the latter. The presence of a pipid lineage distinct to that represented by extant taxa in South America is confirmed by this study.
42568674|New anatomical observations of the holotype skull of Plotosaurus bennisoni from the Maastrichtian Moreno Formation of California, U.S.A., are used as a framework to examine cranial kinesis in derived members of the Mosasaurinae. Enlarged posteromedial flanges of the frontal and extensive lateral contacts of the prefrontal and postorbitofrontal contributed to increased rigidity along the frontoparietal suture (the mesokinetic joint). Sutural contacts of the parietal with the supraoccipital posteriorly and the prootic ventrally would have restricted metakinetic movements. Furthermore, the unusual shape of the epipterygoid, and its dorsal contact with the prootic and parietal, shows that the epipterygoid and pterygoid were probably not capable of anteroposterior movements. Most strikingly, Plotosaurus exhibits a tight association of the quadrate with the temporal arcade, suggesting that streptostyly was limited or lost in this derived mosasaurine, the loss of such a feature having never been described in a mosasaur. These charcteristics are placed in a functional context to examine aquatic adaptations in mosasaurs. As one of the most specialized mosasaurs known, the loss of cranial kinesis may have evolved as a result of its piscivorous diet.
4524644| The hadrosauroid dinosaur Pararhabdodon isonensis is known from partial cranial and postcranial material from the Maastrichtian of the south Pyrenean foredeep basin (northern Catalunya, Spain). We revise and emend the taxonomic history, stratigraphic context, osteology, and systematic position of this taxon. Our study leads us to rediagnose P. isonensis on the basis of a maxilla that combines an extremely elevated jugal joint with a sub vertical and concave lateral surface of the maxilla ventral to the jugal joint, as well as a craniocaudally broad dorsal process; and a proximal half of the humerus medially offset 30 from its long axis. Our parsinomy heuristic analysis of P. isonensis and 22 other iguanodontoideans infers the phylogenetic position of the former as the sister taxon to Hadrosauridae (restricted here to the clade comprising Hadrosaurinae and Lambeosaurinae). One dentary, previously referred to P. isonensis, was collected at a site that is both stratigraphically and geographically separated from the type locality of P. isonensis. The dentary becomes the holotype of a new taxon, Koutalisaurus kohlerorum, on the basis of a uniquely elongated and medially projecting edentulous portion. This results in a distance between the symphysis and the lateral wall of the dentary that is three times the mediolateral breadth of the bone. K. kohlerorum shares with other hadrosauroids a tooth row that extends caudal to the apex of the coronoid process and, with Hadrosauridae, a tooth row that is, in occlusal view, straight and parallel to the lateral face of the dentary. 
40666207|The new genus and species Plesiobalaenoptera quarantellii is established and compared to other living and fossil mysticete taxa. The new taxon belongs to the family Balaenopteridae (rorqual and humpback whales) and represents the oldest balaenopterid taxon of the Mediterranean basin coming from Tortonian sediments of the Stirone River, northern Italy (11-7 Ma). Plesiobalaenoptera quarantellii has a wide rostrum, dentary with postcoronoid fossa, periotic with triangular anterior process and raised central portion, tympanic bulla with ventral keel, and high Eustachian opening. From a phylogenetic view, it is closely related to the Late Miocene Parabalaenoptera baulinensis of California, a taxon used to establish the subfamily Parabalaenopterinae. Both Plesiobalaenoptera and Parabalaenoptera are sister taxa of the clade that includes Megaptera, Balaenoptera, and other crown balaenopterids. The presence of the postcoronoid fossa in the dentary of Plesiobalaenoptera quarantellii suggests that the intermittent ram feeding as performed by living balaenopterids was not fully developed in this extinct species.
4523036|Skull material of the prosauropod dinosaur Massospondylus, previously known only from Africa, has been found in the Kayenta Formation (Glen Canyon Group) of northeastern Arizona. A reconstruction of the skull, corrected for distortion, is compared with that of Plateosaurus. The dentition provides evidence for an herbivorous diet in prosauropods; the presence of small palatal teeth is reported for the first time in any dinosaur. The associated fauna is related to faunas from the Elliot and Clarens sandstone formations in southern Africa, and an Early Jurassic (rather than Late Triassic) age is accepted for these formations as well as for the Kayenta Formation.
42568542|North American Late Cretaceous salamanders are principally known by isolated atlantes and trunk vertebrae. Here I describe a new genus and species of fossil salamander, Paranecturus garbanii, gen. et sp. nov., based on these elements from the lower portions of the Hell Creek Formation (Maastrichtian), Garfield County, northeastern Montana, U.S.A. It is diagnosed by a unique combination of character states that include the presence of an alar-like process of the atlas and a groove on the posterior face of the neural arch and solid dorsal rib-bearers of the trunk vertebrae. My phylogenetic analysis of 13 caudate taxa and 23 atlantal and trunk vertebral characters recovered P. garbanii as a member of the Proteidae. P. garbanii represents the oldest fossil record of the Proteidae and demonstrates that this lineage was present before the Cretaceous-Paleogene mass extinction event.
4523315|The description of two previously unknown petrosal specimens of Arsinoitherium highlights a number of derived ungulate characteristics. A phylogenetic analysis based on ungulate periotic anatomy implies that perissodactyls, sirenians, proboscideans, and arsinoitheres are united by the absence of a subarcuate fossa, derived course of the facial nerve, and open stylomastoid foramen. The form of the fenestra ovalis and fenestra rotundum links proboscideans, sirenians, and arsinoitheres. Absence of a discrete cochlea aqueduct implies a sister-group relationship between arsinoitheres and proboscideans. Artiodactyls are primitive in all respects except for the complete enclosure of the epitympanic recess by the tegmen tympani. The phylogenetic position of hyracoids is equivocal with the possibility of amastoidy and absence of promontorial grooves being independently derived.
4523578|A well preserved, complete skull from the upper part of the Nye Mudstone (early Miocene; late Arikareean or early Hemingfordian correlative) of coastal Oregon is referred to a new species of pinniped, Pinnarctidion rayi, sp. nov. Several additional crania and associated postcranial elements from this same rock unit are referred to cf. Pinnarctidion rayi. Until now, Pinnarctidion was based on a single species, Pinnarctidion bishopi from the Pyramid Hill Sand Member of the Jewett Sand in Pyramid Hill, California. Pinnarctidion rayi, sp. nov. is diagnosed by a narrow crest connecting the paroccipital and mastoid process, and a transversely compressed infraorbital foramen. Pinnarctidion is a member of the phocoid clade which includes Desmatophoca, Allodesmus, and the Phocidae.
20062018|The skull roof, palate, and lingual side of the lower jaw of the primitive dipnoan Melanognathus canadensis are described. Melanognathus is a denticulated dipnoan with: a sarcopterygian-like composition of bones arranged in sequence on the external side of the lower jaw; "splenial" and "postsplenial" fused; plow-shaped parasphenoid; and a primitive snout region formed by a mosaic of bones. It is the sister taxon of Uranolophus, both being the most primitive dipnoans in a resolved cladogram of Devonian dipnoans. The first resolved cladogram of Devonian dipnoans shows that denticulation is the primitive feature of dipnoans, it reoccurs independently as a neotenic feature in the Late Devonian (Barwickia to Jarvikia) and also in Carboniferous/Permian (Conchopoma) dipnoans. True dipnoan tooth plates appear with Stomiahykus in the dipnoan phylogeny above Dipnorhynchus. 'Dipnorhynchus' lehmanni does not cluster with 'Speonesydrion' iani, which is part of the genus Dipnorhynchus. A new genus, Westollrhynchus, has been erected for 'Dipnorhynchus' lehmanni. Dipterus appears just above the node with the highest number of changes in Devonian dipnoan phylogeny.
4524599|New anatomical details are described for the acanthodian Brochoadmones milesi based on nearly complete body fossils from Lochkovian rocks at MOTH, Mackenzie Mountains, Northwest Territories, Canada. The body and caudal peduncle are deep, and a prominent nuchal hump is present before the dorsal fin origin. The caudal fin is correspondingly deep and ventrally, the caudal fin lies close to and is partly joined to the slender anal fin. A delicate pectoral fin trails the flattened pectoral-fin spine where previously known specimens showed only a fin spine resembling a bivalve shell. Seen for the first time in any vertebrate, each of the six pairs of prepelvic spines supports a small, scale-covered finlet. Both prepelvic spines and scalecovered finlets increase in size posteriorly. The series of paired prepelvic finlets originates ventral to the branchial chamber and anteroventral to the pectoral fin, and extends posteriorly as far as the pelvic fins. The scales of the body and fins are thin and flat, without obvious evidence of ossified basal tissue or entry point for vascular tissue. The main lateral-line canal passes dorsal to the branchial chamber and terminates at the trailing edge of the caudal fin web. Lateral-line scales are thicker than body scales and show concentric growth zones. Scales from the dorsal midline of the caudal fin are also thicker, showing few superpositional growth zones in the mesodentine of the crown together with what appears to be cellular basal tissue. The structure and position of the pectoral spine and fin, the extremely thin body scales, the slender anal fin, and the prepelvic finlets are all unique and appear to be autapomorphic features compared to those of other acanthodians. Brochoadmones milesi is derived relative to other fishes traditionally classified in the Climatiiformes. Kathemacanthus rosulentus is removed from the Brochoadmonoidei, leaving only B. milesi in a monotypic suborder.
20491010|A new species of moschid, Micromeryx azanzae sp. nov., is described on the basis of new fossil material from Toril-3 localities (upper Aragonian; local zone G3, MN 7/8, Zaragoza province, Spain). The fossil localities of Toril-3A and 3B have yielded exceptional material of this taxon, including the first ever described Micromeryx skull remains, dramatically improving the knowledge of Micromeryx morphology; previously unknown regions of the skeleton described here include the tympanohyal complex and most of the postcranial skeleton, both of which will be of great importance in reconstructing the sequence of character state changes within the Moschidae. Evidence for metric sexual dimorphism in M. azanzae is also discussed. Micromeryx azanzae is the best-represented species of the Moschidae in the Spanish fossil record, not only because of the quality and quantity of the fossil material but also because the species appears at nine fossil sites and three sedimentary basins that span three million years (local zones F-H, MN 6 to early MN 9).
4523343|The taxonomy of the North American cheetah-like cats is unresolved as they have been assigned at different times to Felis, Puma, or Acinonyx. A recently discovered, nearly complete skeleton of a large, slender-limbed cat of Irvingtonian age from West Virginia prompted this study of their relationships. We describe the new specimen and compare it with the living puma (Puma concolor) and cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) as well as with the extinct Old World cheetah (A. pardinensis) and New World cheetah-like cats most recently assigned to Acinonyx trumani and A. studeri. The new specimen appears to be a member of the earlier of the two North American species, previously known as A. studeri, here called Miracinonyx inexpectatus based on the priority of Cope's (1895) name. A cladistic analysis suggests that the New and Old World forms are distinct at the generic level and we remove the North American taxa from Acinonyx and place them in the genus Miracinonyx. The two genera are distinguished by a minimum often features of the skull and postcranial skeleton. Miracinonyx differs from Puma primarily in limb proportions, slenderness of the long bones, and aspects of the nasomaxillary region of the skull. A review of the fossil record suggests that the extinction of M. inexpectatus preceded the appearance of both the cursorial M. trumani and the shorter-limbed Puma concolor. Thus, M. inexpectatus could have given rise to both of these taxa in the middle Pleistocene.
4524040|Immunohistochemical studies, supported by additional lines of evidence, suggest that original proteinaceous components of keratin claw sheath material may be preserved in the pedal ungual phalanx associated with the primitive bird, Rahonavis ostromi, from the Late Cretaceous of Madagascar. This conclusion is based upon immunohistochemical analyses, and supported by brightfield, transmission, and scanning electron microscopy, mass spectrometry, and x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. Although keratinous structures such as hair, nails, claws, scales and feathers have been identified in the fossil record, these identifications were based on morphological similarity rather than molecular analyses. Chemical or immunological evidence for the survival of keratin has not previously been established in fossils older than [Spacing Modifier Letters]33,000 BP. This study demonstrates immunological staining and amino acid composition consistent with the presence of fragments of beta keratin, a protein family unique to reptiles and birds, in the specimen of Rahonavis ostromi.
20491074|Distinct textures have been observed on the surface of the parietals and squamosals of centrosaurine dinosaurs. It is widely held that they exhibit an ontogenetic succession and can be used as an index of progressive age-related changes. To date, the pattern of texture expression across the parietals and squamosals has not been traced. The pattern of transition from long-grained to subsequent textures on centrosaurine parietals is investigated by mapping their distribution on a size series hypothesized to represent an ontogenetic series. These data reveal a distinct and conservative pattern of texture occurrence and transition across all examined centrosaurine taxa. Small (putatively juvenile) specimens exhibit straited or long-grained texture, whereas the largest elements (presumed adult) demonstrate the complete absence of this texture. The transition from exclusively long-grained to total absence of long-grained texture is characterized by surficial changes in two regions: (1) the long-grained texture regresses along a front situated lateral and posterior to the parietal fenestrae, and (2) an anterior to posterior series of point source 'islands' forms along the dorsal midline of the parietal, associated with the midline undulations. Our findings are consistent with the interpretation that the surface texture change is associated with growth and aging, and have implications for the taxonomy of both immature individuals and small-bodied taxa. Investigation of texture transitions subsequent to the long-grained to mottled transition (the mottled to adult transition) await the assembly of suitable series of nearly full grown conspecific individuals and cannot be reliably assessed employing the methodology used herein.
4522912|Three new genera of pteraspidids from Arctic Canada improve the known distribution of the family beyond Europe, Spitsbergen and eastern Canada where they have biostratigraphic value. Stegobranchiaspis baringensis, S. baringensis var. falcata, Unarkaspis schultzei and Escharaspis alata from the Peel Sound, Drake Bay and Snowblind Bay formations of Prince of Wales and Cornwallis Islands, N.W.T., are medium-sized to large pteraspidids with distinctive proportions of probable adaptive significance. Faunas containing these pteraspidids provide a local correlation between the basal Snowblind Bay Formation and upper members of the Peel Sound and Drake Bay formations. Associated conodonts indicate a late Gedinnian to Siegenian age for the fauna, and comparison with successions elsewhere suggests an equivalence with the "vogti" horizon in Spitsbergen and the "crouchi" zone of the Anglo-Welsh succession.
4523360|At least 33 vertebrate taxa from the lower and middle Siwalik Group (middle and late Miocene) of southern and western Nepal compare well with assemblages from the lower and middle Siwaliks of Pakistan and India. Localities low in the Nepal section contain the suid Conohyus, the hominoid Sivapithecus, the rhinocerotid Brachypotherium, and typical lower Siwalik artiodactyls, carnivorans, and proboscideans. Several stratigraphically higher localities yield Hipparion, as well as artiodactyls characteristic of the middle Siwaliks. The Nepal fossils were found in rocks deposited under apparently relatively moist climatic conditions, primarily marl, siltstone and fine sandstone without prominent multistoried channel sandstone sequences. Abundant remains of fish, chelonians, and crocodilians in the Nepal fauna corroborate this sedimentological interpretation. The structural development of the Himalaya had an effect on the paleoclimate of South Asia. A pattern of increasing dryness westward along the mountain front probably had developed by the Miocene. The mountains and the Tibetan Plateau to the north, however, did not achieve their present great elevations until the Pliocene and Pleistocene.
42568678|The mammal fauna from Harrodsburg Crevice, a late Pleistocene site from southern Indiana, U.S.A., has several notable features, including one of the most northerly occurrences of Panthera onca augusta (Pleistocene jaguar) and a putatively late occurrence of Platygonus vetus (Pleistocene American peccary). The fauna contains 1050 specimens distributed among 21 identifiable species, including members of Canidae, Felidae, Mephitidae, Equidae, Tayassuidae, Talpidae, Geomyidae, Scuiridae, and Cricetidae. Two previously published radiocarbon dates (25,050 and 34,460 years before present [ybp]) suggested that the Harrodsburg fauna belonged to an interstadial of the Wisconsinan (marine isotope stage [MIS] 2 or 3), which if true would make the occurrence of P. onca the northernmost of the Rancholabrean and the occurrence of P. vetus the only one in the Rancholabrean. Based on biostratigraphic and environmental analysis of the mammals, we argue that the Harrodsburg fauna is older, likely from the last full interglacial period (Sangamonian, MIS 5e, approximately 125 ka). Cluster analysis failed to link the Harrodsburg fauna with any nearby late Pleistocene to Recent sites and more closely linked it to sites in south-central Texas. Areas of maximum sympatry suggest that the paleoclimate of the Harrodsburg fauna had mean annual temperatures of 12.5-14.5C, similar to modern Arkansas and Kentucky. Paleoclimate models suggest that the nearest areas with that climate during the last glacial maximum (18-20 ka) were in northern Florida or Texas, whereas the appropriate climate was found in the Harrodsburg area during the last interglacial. Attempts to replicate the published radiocarbon dates failed because collagen in the fossil material is degraded, leading us to conclude that the published dates are unlikely to represent the true age of the material.
24523210|The study of bone growth rate and metabolic rate evolution in archosaurs (crocodiles, dinosaurs including birds, and pterosaurs) and close outgroups has become a subject of major interest among paleontologists in recent years. In this paper, we estimate the bone growth rate of Euparkeria using a new statistical inference model for the humerus. We modified the taxonomic range of extant species used in previous studies, on which we performed quantitative measurements of histological features and bone growth rates. Bone growth rate values estimated for Euparkeria are crucial in understanding the ancestral condition for archosaurs because this taxon is considered the closest relative to the archosaur crown group. We obtained an instantaneous growth rate of 6.12 m/day, suggesting that Euparkeria shared with other non-archosaurian archosauromorphs (Prolacerta, Proterosuchus, and Erythrosuchus) a condition of high growth rate compatible with endothermy. This derived state may have been inherited by some Triassic crurotarsans, as suggested by the high instantaneous bone growth rate (14.52 m/day) estimated in this study for Postosuchus. Jurassic crurotarsans may have lost endothermy during the transition from terrestrial habitats and active predation to aquatic habitats and sit-and-wait predation behaviors, so that Cretaceous crocodiles may be secondarily ectothermic, as suggested by O values. In conclusion, we provide new evidence for the hypothesis of an ancestral endothermic state for the last common ancestor of archosaurs, and show that non-archosaurian archosauromorphs and Triassic crurotarsans may have been characterized by a thermometabolism more similar to that of dinosaurs than to that of lepidosaurs and turtles.
4523300|Vertebrates from the Comanche Series (Lower Cretaceous) in central Texas occur in the superposed Twin Mountains, Glen Rose, and Paluxy formations. Stratigraphic position and relationship to marine units are more clearly defined for the central Texas localities than for the classic mammal-producing sites in the Antlers Formation of north-central Texas. The diverse terrestrial to marine faunas include new records for the ray Rhinobatos, a ptychodont (cf. Hylaeobatis ornata), and the salmoniform Enchodus. Anurans, salamanders, lacertilians, and mammals representing early forms relevant to the emergence of extant higher taxa are present but fragmentary. Crocodilians are represented by at least three taxa and theropods by more than three. Eight species of mammals have been named from the Comanche Series, with perhaps as many as four other unnamed species represented. Paleoenvironments appear to control the distribution of taxa: dinosaurs are found in coastal settings and are abundant in some terrestrial sites with little aquatic component, while mammals occur in mixed sites with abundant fish faunas. During the Early Cretaceous, the Texas coast was flanked by a broad, flat, carbonate-dominated shelf, and fed by southeast flowing streams in low-relief paleovalleys under a semiarid climate.
4524789|We describe skulls of the Wasatchian perissodactyl Homogalax and the Bridgerian-Uintan perissodactyl Isectolophus from North America for the first time. These skulls provide information on cranial evolution in tapiromorph perissodactyls as well as on primitive character states for Perissodactyla as a whole. They confirm the retention of a primitive rostrum in these taxa, as Radinsky had previously stated without reference to particular specimens. Characters from skull morphology suggest that Homogalax and Isectolophus should not be included in the same family.
40864358|The structurally complex ankles of Triassic archosaurs (Reptilia: Diapsida) have been repeatedly described, and tarsal characters have played an important role in analyses of archosaur phylogeny. Morphological variations in the ankle joint undoubtedly had a major impact on locomotion, but the functional implications of many ankle features remain poorly understood. This paper investigates the function of one such structure, the prominent and highly distinctive lateral to posterolateral calcaneal process that occurs throughout basal archosaurs and is homologous to the heel-like calcaneal tuber of pseudosuchians. A morphologically analogous lateral process occurs in extant varanid lizards, and X-ray rotoscopic analysis of the limb movements of savannah monitors (Varanus exanthematicus) indicates that the lateral process rotates into a vertical orientation as the limb retracts. As the varanid lateral process approaches the vertical, it becomes increasingly effective in adding to the propulsive moment arm of m. peroneus longus. A computer model of the ankle was compared to modified versions in which the lateral process and the associated proximal expansion of the fifth metatarsal were eliminated, and this virtual experiment demonstrated that the combination of the two structures increases the peak propulsive moment arm of the varanid m. peroneus longus by over 26%. The lateral calcaneal process of basal archosaurs probably acted similarly, enhancing the ability of the peroneus musculature to contribute to propulsion during walking. Like the calcaneal tuber of pseudosuchian archosaurs, the primitive lateral process was a lever that contributed to locomotion by allowing ankle plantarflexion to generate a greater propulsive moment.
4524429|A mammalian upper molariform tooth recovered from the Late Triassic (Carnian) Tiki Formation of the South Rewa Gondwana Basin, India, is described as a new taxon, Tikitherium copei, gen. et sp. nov. Coming from such an ancient horizon, the tooth is remarkable in having on its crown, which is supported by three roots, three buccally placed cusps forming an obtuse triangle, another prominent cusp with two associated shearing crests in the posterolingual corner, and a talon-like depression anterior to the latter. The molar with its several derived features, though showing partial similarity with those of some seemingly allied early mammalian dentitions, stands apart as a distinctly different entity in detailed comparison. Through close examination of the Tikitherium upper molar, its probable occlusal relationship with the unknown lower dentition is suggested. The posterolingual cusp with its two shearing crests and basin, appearing as a significant apomorphy, probably indicates the development of a better mode of mastication by grinding. The molar of Tikitherium copei, may thus be regarded as the earliest representative of several independent evolutionary developments of the grinding mechanism found in later mammalian groups such as the boreosphenidans, australosphenidans, shuotheriids, and docodonts.
4523872|Three dimensional reconstructions of the dermal skulls of Ceratodus sturii, Ptychoceratodus serratus, Asiatoceratodus (Arganodus) atlantis, and Mioceratodus gregoryi are described, and compared with adult skulls of Recent lungfish of the genera Neoceratodus and Protopterus. Inferred patterns of fusion and reduction of the skull bones of Neoceratodus, Mioceratodus, and Protopterus suggest that these form one natural lineage, excluding Ceratodus, Ptychoceratodus and Asiatoceratodus. The study of skull roofing bones also indicates that Asiatoceratodus atlantis and Ptychoceratodus serratus are related to each other but not close to other Mesozoic and Cenozoic lungfish, and that Ceratodus sturii is a distinct taxon more distantly associated with other derived dipnoans. The dentitions of the different genera provide unifying characters as all are based on initially isolated cusps that fuse in a pattern of radiating ridges to form tooth plates.
40666198|MSM P4166, a specimen from the Moreno Hill Formation (middle Turonian) of New Mexico, is described as the holotype of a new genus and species of hadrosauroid dinosaur. Jeyawati rugoculus, gen. et sp. nov., is diagnosed by a rugose texture that covers the entire lateral surface of the postorbital and the presence of a large neurovascular foramen at the base of the jugal process of the postorbital, as well as a unique combination of characters. A preliminary phylogenetic analysis reveals that Jeyawati is a basal hadrosauroid more derived than Probactrosaurus, Eolambia, and Protohadros, but more basal than Shuangmiaosaurus, Bactrosaurus, and Telmatosaurus. Assessment of ontogenetic criteria indicates that MSM P4166 represents a subadult or adult individual. Even with the recognition of Jeyawati, Late Cretaceous hadrosauroid biogeography remains somewhat ambiguous because of the lack of material from the late Turonian-early Santonian in western North America.
20627054|Previous works discussing interrelationships of squamates, mosasauroids, and aigialosaurs have alternately suggested Opetiosaurus bucchichi and Aigialosaurus dalmaticus to be accurately diagnosed, congeneric, and in some cases, conspecific taxa. Recent systematic work has shown that these two species, as basal mosasauroids, are critical to understanding the evolutionary history of mosasaurs. Because earlier attempts at descriptions of O. bucchichi have proven insufficient for systematic purposes, the specimen is redescribed here based on the counterpart skull to the holotype part specimen, revealing new anatomical details unavailable to previous workers. This comparison of O. bucchichi and A. dalmaticus reveals no morphological differences that support a generic differentiation of the two specimens assigned to these monospecific genera. The genus Opetiosaurus is therefore a junior synonym of Aigialosaurus and O. bucchichi is re-diagnosed as A. bucchichi; the species A. bucchichi is retained because some minor differences are present between the individual specimens assigned to the respective species. Incorporation of new anatomical information into a phylogenetic analysis lends support to suggestions from previous workers that the paddle-shaped limb evolved more than once within Mosasauroidea; however, the tree topologies are not robust. The results of this study indicate that the systematic relationships of halisaurine mosasaurs are of primary importance in the study of mosasauroid interrelationships.
20627116|Fossil remains of clupeomorph fishes are commonly found in Cretaceous and Tertiary deposits from the northeastern Brazil. The taxonomic diversity is relatively high and include ellimmichthyiforms, early clupeiforms, and advanced clupeoids. However, well-preserved specimens are very scarce so that very little is known about affinities of most taxa. Recently, new localities containing clupeomorphs have been discovered and prospected in Alagoas State, in Northeastern Brazil. From them, Atol Quarry, in which Barremian shales from the Coqueiro Seco Formation crop out, has demonstrated to be meaningful by having a diverse fish assemblage. It contains holosteans, coelacanths, gonorynchiforms, and enchodontids besides clupeomorphs. Most of fishes correspond to new taxa. In this paper, an early clupeiform fish, Pseudoellimma gallae gen. et sp. nov., is described from those shales. The fish shows many informative characters and revealed to be advanced in comparison with other early and relatively well-known clupeomorphs such as Spratticeps and Santanaclupea. Although lacking pleurostyle, it shares with clupeoids derived features such as accessory anterior foramen of temporal canal, hidden post-orbital branch of supraorbital canal on frontal, longitudinal and parallel ridges sculpturing the skull roof, and reduced first ural centrum. If so, many derived features found in advanced extant clupeoids appeared early in the history of clupeiform fishes. Furthermore the present study indicates divergence between Clupeoidei and Denticipitoidei lineages older than Barremian age.
4523595|The characters used by Engelmann (1985) to unite various Nothrotheriinae and Megatheriinae in the Family Megatheriidae are assessed for their suitability as synapomorphies for such a clade. The elongate, slender premaxillae were cited as a synapomorphy of these subfamilies. A tendency for the posterior external opening of the mandibular canal to be located medially, together with the presence of an odontoid tibial articular process of the astragalus, were cited to unite Nothrotherium with megatheres. However, these characters are unsuited to resolving the relationships among Nothrotheriinae, Megatheriinae, and Planopsinae. The Y-shaped premaxillae of some Nothrotheriinae sensu lato may be a synapomorphy of the Plio-Pleistocene and some Santacrucian nothrotheres. These premaxillae are morphologically distinct from the V-shaped, triangular type seen in Eremotherium, which is probably the plesiomorphic condition in sloths, and the robust, quadrangular, and derived premaxillae of Megatherium. The posterior external opening of the mandibular canal may be located more medially in Nothrotheriops and some species of Hapalops, but not in Nothrotherium, Nothropus, and Pronothrotherium. The presence of an odontoid tibial articular process is not restricted to Nothrotheriinae sensu stricto and Megatheriinae. The greater separation of the astragalar ectal and tibial facets (probably a derived condition) occurs only in some mylodonts, and thus is not useful in distinguishing the significance of the presence of the process. Other evidence (size; form of the astragalus, auditory region, and tibial process for the long digital flexors) suggest a closer relationship between Megatheriinae and Planopsinae than some other combination of these subfamilies. The astragalar odontoid tibial process is usually considered to be independently derived in megatheriids and mylodontids, based on the interpretation of other morphological evidence. The alternate hypothesis, that the process is a synapomorphy of these families, is explored. Alternate polarities to those usually accepted for the dentition and dentary are suggested on the basis of Pseudoglyptodon.
4523122|Amphibian and reptile fossils were recovered from a high-altitude (2300 meters) montaine desert in south-central Colorado. The locality spans nearly 0.2 million years during the Irvingtonian land mammal age and Nebraskan Glaciation, with three main time/climatic zones apparent from analysis of the herpetofauna. A warm and dry period preceded a cold, wet period that correlates with glacial advance down the surrounding mountains, followed by a cold and dry period after the retreat of the glacier. Ambystoma alamosensis is described as a new species of salamander related to A. tigrinum. Other salamanders show evidence of neoteny in some units.
4522845|The phylogenetic relationships of the extant Craniata are analyzed, and the position of the best known fossil groups of jawless craniates is discussed. Some of the patterns obtained are inconsistent with previous opinions on the phylogeny of the Craniata, e.g. on the question of monophyly of the Cephalaspidomorphi. It is concluded that the fossil jawless Craniata provide little information on the affinities of the Craniata, but they do provide complementary data on distribution of characters. According to their respective positions in the cladogram, these fossil groups allow determination of polarity of some characteristics, such as paired fins, naso-hypophysial complex, and eye musculature.
23251298|In mosasauroids, one of the major groups of Mesozoic marine reptiles, various ecological grades have been identified. However, no data are available concerning the ecology of the poorly known juveniles. Osseous microanatomical organization appears to rely mainly on the biomechanical constraints undergone by organisms. As such, it is considered as a valuable paleoecological marker. The vertebral microanatomy of several juvenile specimens of hydropelvic mosasauroids (whose adult forms are active pelagic swimmers) was analyzed. This study provides data about their growth mode and speed but, above all, reveals that juvenile hydropelvic mosasauroids display microanatomical features comparable to those of adults. This signifies that hydropelvic mosasauroids were already highly efficient swimmers at a very young age, contrary to plesiopelvic forms (i.e., those with a terrestrial-like pelvis and limbs), that were relying on hydrostatic (and not hydrodynamic) regulation of buoyancy and body trim. This study tends to support recent views challenging the old hypothesis of sheltered nurseries and shows that, in mosasauroids, the functional requirements for buoyancy and body trim control are not correlated with individual size.
30126346|The late early Miocene Santa Cruz Formation of Patagonian Argentina is remarkable for its wellpreserved and diverse mammalian fauna. This study evaluates the feeding preferences of three notoungulates.from Santa Cruz (Nesodon imbricatus, Adinotherium ovinum and Protypotherium), typically reconstructed as open habitat grazers. Diets are inferred from enamel microwear features using a low-magnification microscopy technique. Analysis indicates that these notoungulates were primarily feeding on browse, a result that contrasts sharply with previous interpretations based on their hypsodont dentitions. All three notoungulates exhibit a low average number of scratches per taxon, indicative of browsing; high scratch averages are characteristic of grazers. Furthermore, these notoungulates were not primarily feeding on either hard objects (e.g., fruits with seeds) or abrasives (e.g., grasses). Nesodon imbricatus, however, exhibits microwear, suggesting it infrequently fed on hard objects such as bark. The association of tall tooth crowns with browsing diets as demonstrated by the Santa Cruz notoungulates is evidence that hypsodonty does not necessarily indicate open habitat feeding or grazing and that the diets of hypsodont herbivores should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
4524731|Eobalaenoptera harrisoni, gen. et sp. nov., is described from a partial skeleton collected from the middle Miocene Calvert Formation of Virginia. Characteristics of this taxon, particularly of the petrosal, indicate that the new whale is a member of the clade that includes the Balaenopteridae (rorquals) and Eschrichtidae (gray whales) to the exclusion of "cetotheres" and the Balaenidae (right whales). Some of the probable synapomorphies of this clade include an elongate pars cochlearis, a tubular internal auditory meatus, the greater petrosal nerve foramen on the tympanic side of the petrosal, the stylomastoid fossa extending onto the posterior process of the petrosal, no medial groove on the pars cochlearis, four digits on each forelimb, depressed supraorbital processes, and ascending processes of maxillae extending onto the vertex. The approximate 14-million-year age of the specimen makes it the oldest known member of the clade by some 3 to 5 million years, and extends the fossil record of this clade closer to the divergence time estimated by some recent molecular studies.
20491029|Osteostracans are Paleozoic jawless vertebrates, likely the sister group to gnathostomes (jawed vertebrates). It was previously believed that the osteostracan dermoskeleton began ossification when the individual neared adult size, restricting further growth once a dermoskeletal covering was achieved. However, we describe here small, well-preserved articulated specimens of the osteostracan Superciliaspis gabrielsei. These specimens are the best-known juvenile osteostracans, and document dermoskeletal development at an evolutionary stage highly relevant to the origin of gnathostomes. Ossification began before the animal reached 20% of adult size. Bones grew by multiple means, including initiation of new bone units, marginal growth, and fusion into larger bones. In the head, paired elements were among the first to ossify. In the trunk dermoskeleton of juvenile heterostracans, bones developed first along the midline, but in Superciliaspis gabrielsei, a lateral to median polarity is seen, with ventrolateral ridge scales the first to appear.
4523610|Mammals have two apomorphies in the ear region: an elongated cochlear canal and an eminence on the tympanic side of the cochlear housing, known as the petrosal promontorium. In non-mammalian cynodonts, the cochlear recess is shorter, smaller, and oriented more medially than the mammalian cochlear canal; their cochlear housing is formed by the prootic, opisthotic, and basisphenoid. New fossil materials of two early mammals, Adelobasileus and Sinoconodon, reveal evidence on the evolutionary transformation of the mammalian cochlear canal and bony cochlear housing. Adelobasileus is more derived than any known non-mammalian cynodont in possessing an incipient promontorium, but more primitive than other mammals in retaining a vestigial basisphenoid wing. Sinoconodon has a fully developed petrosal promontorium but a short cochlea that extends only one third of the promontorium length. The cochlear canal of Morganucodon is twice as long as that of Sinoconodon, relative to both skull and promontorium. More derived mammals, such as Haldanodon and multituberculates, have an even longer cochlear canal. We propose that the promontorium transformed by expansion of the petrosal bone at the expense of the basisphenoid (probably also the basioccipital) through the transition from non-mammalian cynodonts to mammals. This change in ossification of the cochlear housing resulted in a re-orientation of the cochlea and a better acoustic insulation of the inner ear. The mosaic of a fully developed promontorium and a short cochlear canal in Sinoconodon suggests that the formation of the promontorium preceded (and thus may be necessary for) the elongation of the mammalian cochlea.
4524007| A nearly complete rostrum (USNM 358534) similar in morphology to the extant blue marlin, Makaira nigricans Lacpde 1802, is identified from the Gatn Formation (late Miocene, Panama). Identification is based on comparison with a large series of Recent istiophorid species and with fossil species of the genus Makaira. The Gatn specimen and additional examples from other fossil vertebrates provide evidence that the ancient Panama Seaway probably was a travel route between the Atlantic and Indo-Pacific for large marine vertebrates during the middle Miocene to earliest Pliocene. This is the first record of an istiophorid billfish from the Gatn Formation and the second record of a fossil marlin from Panama. 
4523764|Several specimens of Ariekanerpeton sigalovi are described and illustrated for the first time. This taxon is similar to Discosauriscus austriacus, and only three characters separate them: 1) the absence of an interpterygoid vacuity, 2) the loss of a phalanx in the fourth manual digit, and 3) the absence of dermal scales in post-metamorphic specimens of Ariekanerpeton. Both taxa are represented by larvae and juvenile post-metamorphic specimens, but no fully adult individuals. Ariekanerpeton and Discosauriscus share several derived characters with Seymouria and are considered to be closely related to the latter.
40666186|The first occurrence of the lamniform Cardabiodon ricki is reported from the late Cenomanian of Alberta, Canada. Previously, this taxon was described from Australia and Europe and has been hypothesized in the published literature as having an antitropical distribution. Whereas the occurrence of C. ricki in Alberta seemingly supports this hypothesis, no formal methodology exists to determine if Cardabiodon had an antitropical distribution because sampling for Cenomanian fossil elasmobranchs in the tropics is poor. We offer a novel methodology to test the purported hypothesis of an antitropical distribution for Cardabiodon by examining three paleoecological aspects. We compare the range of sea surface temperatures (SST) and paleolatitudinal ranges of Cardabiodon localities to those of the extant antitropical shark, Lamna nasus, because Cardabiodon should exhibit a similar magnitude of thermal and paleolatitudinal ranges to those of L. nasus. Furthermore, the paleodistribution of Cardabiodon localities should shift with climate change. Cardabiodon is concluded to have an antitropical distribution because (1) the SST range for Cardabiodon was only slightly greater (by 1.7C) than that recorded for L. nasus; (2) the difference in paleolatitude range for Cardabiodon was 10 latitude less than the modern range for L. nasus; and (3) the paleolatitudes of Cardabiodon localities are positively correlated with global temperature to indicate that, during warm periods, Cardabiodon was found at higher paleolatitudes in both hemispheres, but it was found at warmer, lower latitudes during cooler periods.
4523793|Eggshell fragments collected from the Oldman Formation, southern Alberta, are described as Spheroolithus albertensis, oosp. nov. This oospecies exhibits a spheroolithid microstructure, sagenotuberculate outer surface ornamentation, and a shell thickness of 0.98-1.22 mm. A multilayering pathology of S. albertensis suggests that the egg laying taxon had a reptilian-like reproductive system.
4523816|The dugongid sirenian species Halitherium olseni Reinhart, 1976 was based on a skull and skeleton of latest Oligocene age from beds of the Parachucla Formation, exposed on the Suwannee River in northern Florida. The new genus Crenatosiren was established for it by Domning in 1991. New specimens of this species, mostly from the late Oligocene Ashley and Chandler Bridge formations in South Carolina, are described here. C. olseni is a small dugongid characterized by tusks of moderate size and a very deep nasal incisure. It is a member of the subfamily Dugonginae (which now includes the former subfamily Rytiodontinae), and is the sister group of all other known dugongines, including the Recent Dugong dugon. Because the dugongine clade had both its greatest known diversity as well as its most primitive known member (Crenatosiren) in the West Atlantic-Caribbean region, it seems likely to have arisen in the New World, apparently during the Oligocene.
25835850|Graptemys kerneri, n. sp., from the Suwannee River drainage of north-central Florida, represents the most southeastern occurrence of the genus. This species is morphologically and geographically most similar to the extant Barbour's map turtle, Graptemys barbouri. G. kerneri exhibits sexual dimorphism similar to extant G. barbouri, G. ernsti, G. pulchra, and G. gibbonsi, with females being megacephalic and attaining a much larger size than males. The new species possesses a very wide skull and mandible, making it the most blunt-headed member of its clade. Specimens described here include a nearly complete skull, eight mandibles, two epiplastra, 34 neural bones, and an assortment of other shell fragments. Previously reported fossil material from Florida was collected in the 1960s along the Santa Fe River and referred to both the Pliocene and Pleistocene. Rare earth element (REE) analysis of this material is reinterpreted here as being Rancholabrean in age.
20491070|A tetrapod-based biochronologic framework for the terrestrial Triassic, which subdivides the Triassic into eight 'Land Vertebrate Faunachrons' (LVFs), has been proposed and developed by Lucas and coworkers. In a recent article, these authors reiterated their support for this scheme and used this opportunity to respond to criticisms dealing with the validity and utility of Triassic LVFs. This article is a reply to Lucas and colleagues and demonstrates that many aspects of this Triassic biochronology are dependent on: (1) subjective opinions regarding the taxonomic assignments of key specimens; and (2) unjustified extrapolation of correlations on the basis of geographically restricted endemics. Furthermore, it is suggested that the methodological basis for recognizing the onset of a particular LVF, the identification of the 'first appearance datum' for those taxa deemed to be biochronologically significant, leads to imprecision in correlation and potential ambiguity in dating. Finally, it is argued that geographic information systems are ideal tools for testing biostratigraphic hypotheses.
23251279|Here, we present information regarding the braincase anatomy of Chanaresuchus ischigualastensis, from the Ischigualasto Formation (Carnian) of Argentina. The braincase is very similar to that previously described for Chanaresuchus bonapartei, but bears some differences: rostral contour of the basal tubera nearly transversely oriented in ventral view; basal tubera with rounded distal tips in ventral view; paroccipital processes with a slight distal widening in caudal view; sulcus on the caudal surface of each paroccipital process restricted to the proximal two-thirds of the latter; and parabasisphenoidal ventral surface transversely concave. A phylogenetic analysis was performed using exclusively neurocranial characters, including a few new characters, to investigate phylogenetic hypotheses suggested by the neurocranial evidence. The neurocranial data support a sister-group relationship between Chanaresuchus ischigualastensis and C. bonapartei, on the basis of the presence of an intertuberal plate with a concave border. Our analysis also suggests the monophyly of a group formed by both species of Chanaresuchus and Proterochampsa. This group was supported by one apomorphy: the paroccipital processes are elongated relative to their height, which did not show homoplasy in our results. Our results show that Doswellia is the sister group of the clade formed by these proterochampsids, supporting inclusion of the former within the Proterochampsia, and this clade is recovered as more closely related to archosaurs than to Euparkeria.
20627081|Isolated skull and postcranial bones previously assigned to the monotypic batrachosauroidid salamander genus Mynbulakia Nesov, 1981 (Uzbekistan, Byssekty Formation, Turonian) are re-interpreted as a mixture of two salamander taxa. The holotype maxilla of Mynbulakia surgayi Nesov, 1981, and dentaris, parietals, and femora previously referred to that species belong to smaller and, presumably, younger individuals of the cryptobranchid Eoscapherpeton asiaticum Nesov, 1981. Atlantes and trunk vertebrae previously referred to M. surgayi, along with additional vertebrae collected more recently from the Byssekty Formation, belong to Nesovtriton mynbulakensis gen. et sp. nov.. The structure of the atlas, the absence of spinal nerve foramina in the trunk and anterior caudal vertebrae, and the presence of unicipital transverse processes on the trunk vertebrae suggest that N. mynbulakensis may be a member of the Cryptobranchoidea. Two salamander taxa (E. asiaticum and N. mynbulakensis) are currently known from the Bissekty Formation and no salamander families are shared between the Late Cretaceous tetrapod assemblages of Asia and Euramerica.
4522863|An analysis of the functional morphology of the skull of Teratomis merriami indicates that these giant flying birds were predaceous carnivores. This contrasts with prior assumptions that teratorns were scavengers like vultures. The large wingspans of teratorns limited them to savanna habitats. Teratorns probably originated in South America, sharing the dominance of the carnivore adaptive zone in the Tertiary of South America with the better known cursorial carnivorous birds collectively referred to as phorusrhacoids. Their evolution to such large flying birds was most likely directly tied to the progressive development of widespread savanna habitat in South America during the Tertiary. The soaring manner of flight of teratorns may have prevented their dispersal into North America until after the closure of the Central American land bridge. Expansion of savanna habitats in the Americas during Pleistocene glacial periods probably aided this dispersal.
4524176|We report here the discovery of the first well identified "condylarths" from Africa, from the phosphatic beds of Ouled Abdoun Basin, Morocco, of probable early Ypresian age, which have also yielded the oldest known proboscidean. Abdounodus hamdii n. gen., n. sp. and Ocepeia daouiensis, gen. et sp. nov., show closest relationships with Mioclaenidae and Phenacodonta respectively. Both taxa also have resemblances with South American primitive ungulates, especially Abdounodus which resembles kollpaniine mioclaenids in several derived features, mostly related to a similar crushing specialization. However divergent specializations in Abdounodus and kollpaniines strongly suggest their parallelisms, in accordance with their age disparity. Some features of Abdounodus appear to be even original with respect to known mioclaenids. Though Ocepeia shares peculiar derived features with phenacodontids, it is strikingly specialized in its secondarily simplified p4, indicating sister-taxa relationships within Taxeopoda (Phenacodonta, Pantomesaxonia). Moreover, Ocepeia shares a remarkable derived feature with more advanced pantomesaxonian ungulates (Perissodactyla, Hyracoidea, Tethytheria and extinct relatives): the development of an entolophid. This raises the alternative question of their sister-taxa relationships within Taxeopoda and indeed the question of an African origin of Pantomesaxonia, which is congruent with the Paenungulata hypothesis. Though still poorly documented, these new Ouled Abdoun taxa show that early Paleogene African mammal faunas might provide key-data for the problem of the origin and basal phylogeny of main pantomesaxonian ungulate lineages. These fossils show again the importance of the African scene in the early evolution of (modern) eutherians and the poor state of our knowledge there.
4524640|A reexamination of the French Compsognathus corallestris, from the Portlandian lithographic limestones of the Tithonian of southern France, provides new cranial and postcranial information crucial for a better understanding of the taxon Compsognathus. The French Compsognathus is almost completely preserved either as actual bony elements or as impressions, lacking only the distal portion of its tail, and some of the manual phalanges. It is preserved in two blocks, one containing the skull and postcranial skeleton up to the seventh caudal vertebra, the other caudal vertebrae nine through 31. Compsognathids are currently known from Europe, South America, and China. The absence of an external mandibular fenestra, dorsally fan-shaped dorsal neural spines with hook-shaped ligament attachments, and a very short Mel and a Phl-l, which is stouter than the radius distinguish compsognathids from other coelurosaurs. Anatomical and morphological characters of the Bavarian specimen of Compsognathus are nearly identical to those of the French specimen. The differences are related to ontogenetic or within-species variation or are caused by preservational factors. Therefore this study proposes that C. corallestris is a subjective junior synonym of Compsognathus longipes from Bavaria.
4524476|A new eureptile, Concordia cunninghami, gen. et sp. nov., is described from the Upper Pennsylvanian Hamilton-Fossillagerstatte, Kansas, U.S.A. The new taxon is currently known on the basis of two well-preserved skulls. A phylogenetic analysis groups Concordia consistently with captorhinids; the holotype, therefore, can be regarded as the oldest record of a captorhinid reptile, and the first one from the Carboniferous. Concordia reduces to a notable extent the stratigraphic gap between captorhinids and the first appearance of other eureptiles. Furthermore, the new taxon is the third known amniote representative from the Hamilton fauna, improving our knowledge of Late Carboniferous terrestrial communities.
42568682|We describe the earliest petrosal bone referred to the South American endemic Notoungulata, from the late Paleocene-early Eocene Beds of Itabora, which provides a critical basis for assessing their enigmatic origins. As indicated by our phylogenetic analysis, the fossil belongs to a taxon most likely close to the ancestral root of the Notoungulata. We describe the entire external anatomy of this isolated ear bone and also investigate the bony labyrinth of the inner ear through computed tomographic scan reconstruction. Within Notoungulata, the specimen retains a number of features considered plesiomorphic, such as a narrow medial flange on the tympanic surface, the presence of a petromastoid canal, and a rather deep fossa subarcuata. We also present a survey of the petrosal anatomy of early diverging notoungulates compared with other members of Eutheria. Features regarded as plesiomorphic in Notoungulata comprise a low stapedial ratio, a cavity for the trigeminal ganglion, a secondary crus commune, a ramus superior of stapedial artery (although reduced) and arteria diplotica magna, and the tegmen tympani pierced by a canal. Derived features include notably a laterally located tensor tympani fossa, a bean-shaped promontorium and adjoining flattened medial flange, and a stapedial fossa poorly separated from the postpromontorial tympanic sinus. A number of derived notoungulate characters are interestingly shared with the extant hyrax Procavia. Further investigation of this anatomical region in other eutherians is required in order to fully exploit the phylogenetic potential of our new observations. This is especially needed for other groups of South American endemic ungulates possibly related to Notoungulata.
4524643|Latest Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) terrestrial vertebrates from western North America occur in two faunal provinces. The Triceratops fauna is found in Canada, Montana, and Wyoming; and the Alamosaurus fauna occurs in Utah, New Mexico, and Texas. Although the two faunas are thought to have been contemporaneous, only the Northern Province contains intercalated volcanic units that have been isotopically dated. The first isotopic age from within the southern province is presented. A single outcrop of distal tuff within the Upper Cretaceous Javelina Formation in northern Big Bend National Park, Texas, contains monazite with a U-Pb age of 69.0 0.9 Ma (2 sigma). The age is from a 207Pb/204Pb vs. 235U/204Pb isochron, an approach chosen to avoid the effects of 230Th-derived excess 206Pb. The age falls within the boundary interval between the poorly calibrated Edmontonian and Lancian North American Land Mammal Ages. The tuff bed occurs approximately in the middle of the fluvio-lacustrine Javelina Formation, about 90 m stratigraphically below the position of the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary. This position is within the local range of the sauropod Alamosaurus, below two sites that have yielded remains of the pterosaur Quetzalcoatlus, and above a site with petrified logs of the dicotyledonous tree Javelinoxylon. The range zones of all three taxa span the full thickness of the Javelina Formation elsewhere in the Big Bend region. The Alamosaurus fauna is therefore Lancian to late Edmontonian in age.
4522903|D. sussmilchi is found to have several distinctive bones forming an otic capsule, a large quadrate and a short parasphenoid; the hyomandibula has a single attachment to the lateral otic; the spiracular recess contained a blind pit for a spiracular organ, and transmitted the internal carotid artery and branches of the facialis nerve; the efferent pseudobranchial artery joined the internal carotid just posterior to the neurocranium; the foramen prooticum basicraniale transmitted the orbital artery, the jugular vein, and the hyomandibularis VII; there is no open cavum epiptericum. The courses of the glossopharyngeal and vagus nerves, as well as various nerve commissures and the posterior cerebral vein, are reconstructed. The ethmoidal canals leading to the rostral tubuli form a set of major canals lying in a single plane, and are innervated by the ramus profundus V and the ramus ophthalmicus superficialis VII, both of which pass through the planum antorbitale; the ramus buccalis VII passes around the post-nasal wall, entering the ethmoid capsule laterally. The post-nasal wall is penetrated only by the olfactory nerve canal and the ramus maxillaris V; the canal for the ramus profundus V passes over the nasal capsule into the ethmoid capsule, but branches from it pass through the nasal capsule and form part of the complex of rostral tubuli in the snout. The anterior end of the notochord lay in a conical pit in the posterior face of the massive prootic bridge. The braincase is elongated; the hemispheres are small; the parapineal, pineal, and two other previously unrecorded canals lie dorsomedially; the hypophysial stalk is unusually long and thin; palatine arteries and nerves form a complex vascular system between the palate and the neurocranium. The structure of the hyoid arch, the spiracular recess, the otic bones, the degree of neurocranial ossification, and the median dorsal canals from the braincase, indicate that D. sussmilchi is more primitive than any known lungfish with the possible exception of Uranolophus.
4524567|The Lumbrera Formation is the uppermost unit of the Santa Barbara Subgroup of the Salta Group, exposed in northwestern Argentina. It consists of fine clastic sediments of characteristic brick red color with an intercalation of green mudstone levels, which are called Faja Verde. The specimen described here was collected from the middle part of the Faja Verde II at the Alemania locality in sediments dated as Eocene. The material comprises a specimen, preserved as part and counterpart, which is assigned to a new genus and species: Proterocara argentina, gen. et sp. nov. The phylogenetic analysis to establish its position within Cichlidae was based on a matrix with 51 taxa and 91 characters. The most parsimonious tree shows P. argentina as sister group of the clade formed by the subfamilies Cichlasomatinae and Geophaginae based on three characters: articulating process of premaxilla moderately distinct, first hemal arch on last abdominal vertebra, and 13-14 pectoral-fin rays. Two autapomorphies are recognized for P. argentina: ascending arm of premaxilla as long as dentigerous arm, and dorsal lateral line on caudal fin between caudal rays D2 and D3. Extant members of the family Cichlidae live mostly in lentic freshwater bodies, corroborating the lacustrine paleoenvironment assigned to this formation.
4523297|Leptopterygius tenuirostris is a long-snouted ichthyosaur which extends from the Upper Triassic (Rhaetian) to the Lower Jurassic (Hettangian and Sinemurian) of England. The species is quite common, but few complete skeletons are known and most of these were collected from the vicinity of Street, in Somerset, during the last century. Some of these skeletons bear a distinctive pattern of chisel marks on their surrounding matrix, and since one such specimen has been shown to be a composite, the authenticity of the others is thrown into question. A survey is made of questionable specimens to alert others to the problem.
40864398|In addition to its abundance in the middle Eocene of the Western Interior of North America, fossils of the brontothere Metarhinus are known from similar aged deposits in Southern California. Because of additional material from the Friars and Santiago Formations, San Diego County, California, M. pater Stock (1937), a dubious species formerly known from a single specimen, can now be differentiated from other nominal species of Metarhinus, M. fluviatilis Osborn (1908), and M. abbotti (Riggs, 1912). Inclusion of M. pater into an analysis of brontotheriid phylogeny establishes Metarhinus as a monophyletic genus of uncertain origin. The three species of Metarhinus differ in the shapes of their nasals and the lengths of their nasal incisions, whereas other aspects of their skulls are undifferentiated. The majority of Metarhinus specimens lack species-diagnostic features and thus have unknown specific identities. At least two species co-occur wherever Metarhinus is abundant. We question whether these morphospecies represent population-lineage units (i. e., species), or if they are intraspecific variants possibly explained by ontogeny or sexual dimorphism. Dental wear stages, used as an age proxy, are uncorrelated with Metarhinus morphospecies. Likewise, variation observed within Metarhinus samples is inconsistent with sexual dimorphism. Coefficients of variation (CVs) suggest that the cheektooth dimensions of Metarhinus assemblages are more variable than monospecific referent samples, and that most assemblages are mixtures of two size-differentiated species. The persistent sympatry of Metarhinus species is a biogeographic pattern that appears to be atypical in comparison to other brontotheriids and could indicate an unusual case of sympatric speciation.
20491042|Eggs containing well-preserved skeletons were collected from Bugin-tsav, an Upper Cretaceous locality in the Nemegt Formation, mngov' Aimag, Mongolia. These embryos, found in a weathered nest of eggs, are oviraptorid theropods. Eggshell morphotype is Elongatoolithidae, typical of theropods, including basal birds. Bone histology indicates that all embryos were probably close to hatching, based on the degree of ossification and in comparison with ossification patterns in living birds. Maturity of ossification indicates that oviraptorids hatched at a precocial stage of development. Two of the embryos are relatively large, while the other is 25% smaller, suggesting that size disparity of hatchlings in oviraptorids may be a consequence of asynchrony in egg laying.
20061973|Most lungfish tooth plates, that are arranged in radiating ridges derived from the fusion of separate cusps in young juveniles, are based on a framework of enamel, mantle dentine and bone that encloses a mass of specialized dentines forming the occlusal surface. In most taxa, the specialized dentines are interdenteonal and circumdenteonal dentine, but a few derived genera have petrodentine as well. Petrodentine, as originally defined, describes a specific form of hypermineralized dentine in adult tooth plates of the Recent African lungfish Protopterus. The ontogeny of fossil and Recent lungfish tooth plates demonstrates that petrodentine is derived by continuous enhancement of the hard tissue of the primary core of the initially isolated cusps of the tooth plate, and that interdenteonal dentine with denteons of circumdenteonal dentine is a secondary development in the tooth plate around and below the first formed cusps of the ridges. In dipnoans that lack petrodentine in adults the primary core of the cusps is not enhanced, but is removed by wear. The hard tissues of the dipnoan tooth plate provide useful characters for defining dipnoan taxa, as do the differing arrangements of the tissues in each species. Details of the arrangement of the enclosed specialized dentines are surprisingly variable among genera, and are significant for the structure and function of the tooth plate. Little regularity of structure is discernible in the histology of tooth plates of early dipnoans, but derived genera have more predictable structure. Consistent with other uniquely dipnoan characters, like the composition of the dermal skull, an evolutionary progression is evident within the group in the fine structure of the dentition, and, as with the bones of the dermal skull, little similarity is demonstrable between the dentines of dipnoans and tetrapods.
4523874|Masses of small (up to 0.8 mm in diameter) oviform bodies were found in association with fossil plants as well as freshwater and terrestrial invertebrate and vertebrate remains in the Waggoner Ranch Formation (Wichita Group, Leonardian Series, Lower Permian) of Baylor County, Texas; this is the first record of fossilized amphibian eggs. The eggs occur as compact, rounded masses and as irregular sheetlike or unilayered aggregates, some of which cover plant remains to which they may have been attached originally. Individual eggs consist of a compressed central body surrounded by a thin, apparently flexible membrane, and an outermost halolike covering. Characteristics of the egg masses and the morphology of individual eggs are indistinguishable from those of modern anuran amphibians. Because dissorophoid temnospondyls are phylogenetically related closely to Recent amphibians and are well represented in the Lower Permian of north-central Texas, dissorophoids are the most probable source of the eggs.
40666176|Dental mesowear and microwear are used to determine diet in the palaeothere Plagiolophus minor from a sequence of four localities across the Eocene-Oligocene transition in Europe: La Dbruge, Soumailles, and Ronzon in France, and Frohnstetten in Germany. Plagiolophus minor was the only member of its family to survive more than fleetingly the mammalian faunal turnover, the Grande Coupure, which occurred during the earliest Oligocne in Europe. P. minor has a browsing diet at all the localities studied, but shows changes in the proportion of fruit and abrasive material. There is a decrease in the proportion of fruit between La Dbruge and Frohnstetten (before the Grande Coupure) and an increase in the proportion of abrasive leaves across the Grande Coupure. There are two steps in increasing abrasiveness, one before the Grande Coupure and one across the Grande Coupure. The increase in abrasiveness across the Grande Coupure coincides with the timing of the Oi-1 glaciation. After the Grande Coupure, there is no change in diet for the first ~0.3 Ma.
4524458|Fossil representatives of the two extant African rhinoceros lineages, Ceratotherium and Diceros, co-occur in the Pliocene deposits of the Hadar Formation, Ethiopia. Both arose, in turn, from Ceratotherium neumayri of the late Miocene. The first of these Pliocene species, Ceratotherium mauritanicum, can be distinguished from the living C. simum, to which it probably gave rise in the earliest Pleistocene, by its less plagiolophodont cheek teeth. The second, Diceros praecox, is closely related to D. bicornis, although many specimens, including the type, were previously referred to Ceratotherium. The teeth of D. praecox are little changed relative to those of its Miocene ancestor, but its skull displays the apomorphic rearrangements typical of D. bicornis, suggesting increased browsing specialization. The split between the two lineages probably indicates ecological divergence and character displacement between browsing versus grazing specializations.
4523627|New material of Eldenosteus arizonensis from the Upper Devonian Martin Formation of Mt. Elden, northern Arizona allows a more complete description of the body armor and the hitherto unknown skull. The new reconstruction verifies the position of Eldenosteus as a coccosteomorph arthrodire, and shows its affinity with the Torosteidae (=Plourdosteidae).
4524382|The holotype of Judithemys sukhanovi gen et. sp. nov. from the Late Cretaceous (Campanian) Dinosaur Park Formation of Alberta, Canada, has been included in four cladistic analyses. New material allows for a more complete description of this taxon. Judithemys sukhanovi is represented by 65 specimens (most very fragmentary) including one virtually complete skeleton (the holotype) and several partial shells. It differs from all other "macrobaenids" in the combination of wide vertebral scales, absence of central plastral fontanelles, and lack of strongly upturned peripherals. The morphology of Judithemys reiterates a suite of characters (large size, well- differentiated neurals reduced to eight, and greater overlap of the twelfth marginal scales onto the second suprapygal) common to Late Cretaceous- Paleocene "macrobaenids" and distinct from Early Cretaceous members. Judithemys and "Clemmys" backmani are close in morphology, geography, and stratigraphic position and are possibly closely related phylogenetically. A preliminary phylogenetic analysis supports the hypothesis that Judithemys is not part of the crown group.
23361050|LACM 128319, which was collected in western Kansas, U.S.A., and is assignable to Platecarpus tympaniticus (Mosasauridae, Plioplatecarpinae), represents arguably one of the most exquisite mosasaur specimens known to date. Measuring 5.67 m from the tip of the snout to the end of the tail, it comprises an exceptionally well-articulated skeleton, accompanied by soft-tissue remains, such as skin impressions and tracheal cartilage. P. tympaniticus is one of the most numerously collected mosasaur taxa in North America, but as most specimens are fragmentary or reconstructed to various degrees, LACM 128319 provides a unique opportunity to document the taxon's osteology from a single skeleton. In this study, we first present a detailed osteological description of LACM 128319. Following this, we present an analysis of the evolution of a streamlined body shape in P. tympaniticus, specifically by comparing the length distribution of the dorsal ribs in relevant anguimorphan taxa. We conclude that both an anterior migration of the rib cage and an increasing regionalization within the dorsal vertebral series are key features contributing to formation of a streamlined body profile in P. tympaniticus, and probably in many other hydropedal members of mosasaurs.
4522998|The microscopic anatomy of the peculiar spine-"brush" complex of the Paleozoic shark Stethacanthus altonensis (Symmoriida: Stethacanthidae) reveals that the spine consists of trabecular dentine throughout-no shaft and mantle components are discernible. Parts of the trabecular dentine contain abundant fibers that suggest attachment surfaces for tendons and other connective tissue membranes to the epaxial musculature. The "brush" consists of parallel, membranous tubes and connecting membranes that form an intricate, internal cavity system. In section, this structure resembles sections of erectile tissues in man. The "brush" may thus have been inflatable. The "brush" is covered with a patch of large, massive, dermal denticles pointing forward. Associated with this spine-"brush" is a second patch of enlarged dermal denticles on top of the head whose crowns face backward. The entire complex consists of a variety of gross anatomical, histological, and microscopic anatomical elements. Sexual display or even injurious courtship activities, such as the lacerating of the flanks of the female by the male, do not require such a complicated mechanism. It is suggested that the spine-"brush" and head denticle patch may have acted in concert to effect a threat posture simulating a tooth-studded, wide-open mouth of a much larger fish.
4524545|A partial postcranial skeleton from the late Eocene of the Shara Murun region of northern China is described as a new genus and species of fossil pangolin, Cryptomanis gobiensis. Cryptomanis displays numerous diagnostic pangolin characteristics, including enrolled lumbar zygapophyses and fissured ungual phalanges. Like the anatomically similar North American Eocene pangolin Patriomanis, it retains primitive mammalian features such as a convex astragalar head and a prominent femoral third trochanter that are lost in extant pangolins. The systematic position of Cryptomanis within Pholidota is not unambiguously resolved. It is tentatively placed in the family Patriomanidae, which we restrict to Cryptomanis and the closely similar Patriomanis. Cryptomanis differs from modern pangolins in its more robust proximal limb elements, its lack of a greatly enlarged third manual digit, its slender tail, and its more elongate, grasping pedal digits. These traits suggest an animal well adapted for digging but with a tendency toward a semi-arboreal lifestyle. This new genus and species represents the oldest and most northerly Asian record of pangolins, and indicates that pangolins were widely distributed throughout Laurasia during the Eocene. It is consistent with a Laurasian origin for pangolins.
4524222|A heretofore unknown teiid lizard, recovered from the Cedar Mountain Formation (Albian-Cenomanian boundary) of Emery County, Utah, is the oldest teiid that is represented by numerous specimens. This new taxon has a heterodont dentition with conical anterior teeth and transversely oriented bicuspid posterior teeth that are distinct from those of Peneteius (Late Cretaceous) and Teius and Dicrodon (Recent). It also shows ontogenetic variation in tooth shape, in which the posterior teeth become more massive and have more transversely expanded crowns, as the individual grows older. Further comparisons and analysis indicate (1) that North American Cretaceous Polyglyphanodontinae (characterized by teeth with transversely-oriented crests) achieved their unusual dental specializations inde- pendently from those of analogous modern taxa; (2) that their transverse tooth-cresting resulted from addition of a medial cusp (rather than crown rotation, as previously hypothesized and which apparently is the case for living taxa); and (3) that the species from the Cedar Mountain Formation represents a sister-taxon to other North American polyglyphanodontines Polyglyphanodon, Peneteius and presumably Paraglyphanodon and Dicothodon. The new taxon thus represents an example of the morphologically antecedent dental specializations that culminated in the strikingly specialized dentition of Polyglyphanodon sternbergi.
4523806|Some specimens of the Late Cretaceous shark, Cretoxyrhina mantelli (Agassiz), from the Niobrara Chalk in Kansas have been found with partial or nearly complete sets of teeth. Analysis of these dentitions offers a better understanding of the shark's systematic position and tooth function. Cretoxyrhina mantelli has a lamnoid dentition with closely spaced tooth rows without any overlap, and with a tendency toward monognathic heterodonty. The best specimen shows four symphysial, two anterior, three intermediate, five lateral, and at least seven posterior teeth in the upper dental series, and one? symphysial, three anterior, five lateral, and at least ten posterior teeth in the lower. Some variation in individual tooth morphology is noted. Dental features support current taxonomic assignments of C. mantelli at ordinal, familial, and generic levels. Cretoxyrhina mantelli probably stabbed and anchored its food with large anterior teeth, and cut food primarily with its more distally located teeth.
40666203|The St. Mary River Formation (Fm) crops out in restricted parts of southwestern Alberta and northwestern Montana. Mammals are poorly known from the formation, but material collected from Alberta has played a role in recognizing an 'Edmontonian' Land Mammal Age between the better sampled Judithian (~79-74 Ma) and Lancian (~67-65 Ma) land mammal ages. New and well-preserved multituberculate and metatherian material collected from a single locality in the lower third of the St. Mary River Fm of Montana adds complexity to the interpretation of a discrete 'Edmontonian' Land Mammal Age. We report here three taxa of multituberculates (Paracimexomys propriscus, sp. nov., Nidimys occultas, gen. et sp. nov., and a primitive ptilodontoid of comparable size to the smallest species of Mesodma Jepsen, 1940, and Cimexomys Sloan and Van Valen, 1965) and two metatherian taxa (Leptalestes toevsi, sp. nov., and Turgidodon russelli). Paracimexomys propriscus and Turgidodon russelli are probably conspecific with Judithian forms that did not survive to the Lancian. Leptalestes toevsi and Nidimys occultus are taxa unique to the 'Edmontonian' but may represent lineages that separated from their closest relatives prior to the Judithian. Lack of Lancian-aspect mammals contrasts sharply with other 'Edmontonian' faunas, including an older fauna recovered from the Williams Fork Fm of Colorado, suggesting that the replacement of Judithian mammals by Lancian forms was a complex transition. We tentatively suggest that the Lancian fauna may have expanded into the northern part of the Western Interior in response to the appearance of new terrestrial habitats as sea level fell.
41407711|Two new fossil crania of Old World vultures (Accipitridae, Aegypiinae), from the middle Pleistocene Jinniushan site of Liaoning Province, northeastern China, were studied. A new species of Aegypius, A jinniushanensis, is erected and characterized by possessing a less developed processus zygomaticus and processus suprameaticus, as well as a relatively larger condylus occipitalis, compared with A. monachus. Another specimen, assigned to Torgos, is the first record of this genus from outside Africa. The presence of two large vultures, apparently in the same feeding group, in the Jinniushan faunal assemblage suggests that there were more opportunities for interspecific competition among scavengers in the middle Pleistocene of northeastern China than at present. By analogy with phylogenetically related modern vultures, we suggest that niche differentiation between the two extinct species may have reduced the degree of competition between them. The disappearance of the genus Torgos from northeast China might be the result of the Pleistocene extinction of a suite of large mammalian herbivores, and the loss of grassland and savannah from this region.
4524442|An anterior (distal) rostrum (MMNS 2957) from the Moodys Branch Formation (late middle Eocene), Tesheva Creek, Yazoo County, Mississippi, U.S.A., is described and identified as Xiphiorhynchus cf. X. eocaenicus. The specimen is compared to various species of Xiphiorhynchus, especially the holotype of X. eocaenicus (BMNH 25744), Bracklesham Group, early middle Eocene, England. This represents the first record of a species of Xiphiorhynchus in deposits on both sides of the North Atlantic Ocean. Xiphiorhynchus eocaenicus is thought to have had similar environmental preferences and habits as the extant swordfish, Xiphias gladius. Since the swordfish prefers oceanic water and makes transatlantic movements, then distribution of a xiphiorhynchin on both sides of the Atlantic is not unexpected. The environment at Tesheva Creek and the type locality in England were both shallow, nearshore, tropical to subtropical habitats. The holotype was probably transported into shallow water either as stomach contents or by ocean currents, whereas the Tesheva Creek specimen was either the remains of a stranded individual or of an animal that died in shallow water after being impaled.
4524011|A phylogenetic hypothesis for ichthyopterygians is proposed, based on a cladistic analysis of 105 discrete osteological characters coded for 27 ingroup and five outgroup taxa. The monophyly of Ichthyopterygia is established; at least nine characters support its basal node. The group contains two basal species and a clade formed by the Ichthyosauria and Grippidia. All ichthyosaurs from post-Triassic strata form an unnamed clade, which in turn forms the group Euichthyosauria (new taxon) with four Late Triassic genera. The traditional Shastasauridae is polyphyletic, with Cymbospondylus forming the sistergroup of a clade containing mixosaurs, shastasaurs, and euichthyosaurs. In addition, Californosaurus and Toretocnemus are not shastasaurs but euichthyosaurs. Two new generic names, Macgowania and Isfjordosaurus, are proposed.
4523714|Pawpawsaurus campbelli gen. et sp. nov. from the Paw Paw Formation (late Albian), Tarrant County, Texas, appears more primitive than other pre-Campanian nodosaurids, Silvisaurus condrayi and Sauropelta edwardsi. New cranial synapomorphies for the Nodosauridae are prominent W-shaped basioccipital tubera, anteriorly concave and anteroposteriorly flattened quadrate, and transversely continuous and straight posterior margin of the pterygoid aligned with the quadrate shaft. These synapomorphies are closely related to the downward orientation of the nodosaurid head in life. A pair of bony eyelids recovered with the skull are the first discovered for the Nodosauridae. Other Paw Paw Formation nodosaurid remains, including new postcranial elements and a baby nodosaurid, are taxonomically indeterminate.
4523469|The extinct marine reptiles of the family Mosasauridae supposedly all swam by means of lateral undulation of the body. This paper explores an alternative method of locomotion in some mosasaurs. The enormous pectoral girdle and highly unusual bones of the forelimb of Plioplatecarpus marshi are examined. Their mechanical implications, viewed in the context of the morphology of the animal as a whole, lead to the conclusion that P. marshi swam using subaqueous flight-a previously undescribed mode of swimming in mosasaurs. Paraxial swimming, the use of limbs in active propulsion, in Plioplatecarpus marshi adds yet another unusual characteristic to those distinctive features of the genus previously described in the literature, e.g., the large basioccipital foramen for the basilar artery, large parietal foramen, and huge quadrate. Lastly, it is proposed that paraxial locomotion in P. marshi may have been a special adaptation to a structurally complex environment and to more specific prey forms.
20490957|A partial but largely articulated skeleton of a 'rauisuchian' archosaur from Late Upper Triassic strata of the Durham sub-basin, Deep River basin, Newark Supergroup, North Carolina, represents a new species of Postosuchus Chatterjee, 1985. It represents the first record of this taxon from eastern North America. The well preserved specimen includes cranial bones, a largely articulated right manus, right and left pedes, pubes, axis, several postaxial cervical, dorsal, and caudal vertebrae, chevron bones, osteoderms, interclavicle, clavicles, cervical ribs, a sacral rib, and a complete set of gastralia. The skeletal elements are described and compared to those of other 'rauisuchians'. An apparant autapomorphy of Postosuchus alisonae includes a well developed flange on the proximal portion of metacarpal II fitting into strongly proximally grooved metacarpal I. The new specimen includes many bones previously unknown for Postosuchus and it allows a more complete differentiation of Postosuchus from other 'rauisuchian' genera. Diagnostic features of this genus include an axis with two ventral keels; postaxial cervical centra with strongly developed single ventral keels that are anteriorly and/or posteriorly extended into hypapophyses; short ribs on the anterior cervical vertebrae; heart-shaped cervical neural 'spine tables'; a subrectangular, relatively short coracoid; and proportionately short manus with dorsoventrally compressed, reduced, blunt unguals on manual digits III and IV. Morphological comparisons indicate a close relationship between Postosuchus and Batrachotomus and possibly also Tikisuchus.
20062005|Two new species of thelodont are described. A new thelodontiform is based on articulated skeletons and isolated scales from late Telychian (Llandovery) to earliest Sheinwoodian (Wenlock) shales of the Avalanche Lake sections, Mackenzie Mountains, N.W.T., Canada. The head is blunt; it and the anterior trunk are broad and dorsoventrally flattened, while the posterior trunk and tail are more slender and laterally compressed. Unlike most other articulated thelodonts, there is no evidence of fins apart from the caudal fin. The hypocercal tail displays no evidence of rays or intermediate secondary lobes. The scales are robust, with large bases, large pulp cavities, and strong crown ridges in a stellate pattern; scale crowns are almost unornamented along the presumed ventral margin of the trunk and tail. An articulated specimen from the uppermost Telychian of Baumann Fiord, Ellesmere Island, Canadian Arctic Archipelago, is considered conspecific because of similarities in scale size and ornament, and extends the stratigraphic range of the species from the late Telychian griestoniensis-sakmaricus Graptolite Zone to the early Sheinwoodian centrifugus-insectus Graptolite Zone/Pterospathodus procerus Conodont Superzone, and the geographic range from the Selwyn Basin of the Yukon and N.W.T. to the Franklinian Basin of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, Nunavut. A new phlebolepidiform is based on scales only. It also occurs both in the Mackenzie Mountains and the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. The two new species contribute significantly to a preliminary vertebrate faunal succession scheme for both areas and are therefore considered to be biostratigraphically useful.
40666159|A new cichlid referable to the extant genus Gymnogeophagus is described from the Eocene Lumbrera Formation of the Salta Group, northwestern Argentina. Gymnogeophagus eocenicus, n. sp., presents the synapomorphies that support the genus: absence of supraneurals and a presence of a forward spine in the first dorsal pterygiophore. The existence of an early to middle Eocene-aged species presenting the synapomorphies and the appearance of a modern genus requires the acceptance of an extensive differentiation from the basal cichlid lineages. Extant Gymnogeophagus species are restricted to the La Plata drainage and a few coastal drainages of southern Brazil and Uruguay. The occurrence of an Eocene fossil in the geographical area corresponding to the present distribution of the genus suggests the patterns of distribution and endemism of the Neotropical fish fauna have a very old history in the continent.
4522993|The paper describes the external shape and ornament of four stem-vertebrate mitrates (Mitrocystites mitra, Mitrocystella incipiens, Ateleocystites guttenbergensis, Placocystites forbesianus) and, by using two-dimensional working models, reconstructs their locomotion. A cladogram suggests that the evolution of these species, which occur in the Ordovician and Silurian of Europe and the U.S.A., reflects increasing adaptation to a shallow-burrowing mode of life with differing amounts of yaw. The external ontogeny of Placocystites forbesianus is described.
4524200|The hyracoid Antilohyrax pectidens Rasmussen and Simons, 2000 from quarry L-41 in the Fayum, Egypt displays many interesting features, including a comb-like, pectinate lower first incisor similar to that of the dermopteran Cynocephalus. Antilohyrax was originally described as lacking upper incisors, and having retracted nasal bones and selenodont cheek teeth, functionally resembling characters found in bovid artiodactyls. Analysis of cranial and postcranial material led to the hypothesis that Antilohyrax was a cursorial browser. Recent expeditions have recovered additional material that contributes greater detail about cranial and dental morphology and allows for the reassessment of characters previously unknown or misinterpreted. Among these is the presence of at least two pairs of upper incisors, the central pair of which form tusks as in all other hyracoids, and a slender nasal bone which projects anteriorly to the level of the premaxilla. There is evidence of a pad on the premaxilla that occludes with the pectinate lower incisors. In the mandible, a second pair of incisors has been recovered that are sickle shaped, lack pectinations, and occlude with the upper tusks. Other notable characters preserved in the new specimen include the presence of a complete postorbital bar, a large, round, and blunt postorbital boss, a lateral flange on the zygomatic arch, a deep antorbital groove of the frontal bone, a lambdoid crest, a long paroccipital process, and a unique nuchal region. Comparisons with newly recovered and as yet undescribed cranial material of Titanohyrax reveal more characters shared by these genera, strengthening the case for their inclusion as sister taxa within the Titanohyracinae. Examination of characters relevant to paenungulate phylogenetics confirm earlier observations that extant hyracoids have changes in cranial proportions that result in some character states not representative of early hyracoids. Functional inferences lend further support to the suggestion that Antilohyrax was a folivorous browser.
20062010|Kannathalepis milleri, gen. et sp. nov. is described from the Upper Sheinwoodian to Lower Homerian interval (Wenlock) of the Baillie-Hamilton Island section, Canadian Arctic. Based on several distinct features, such as the occurrence of several canals in the neck region, much smaller length of the wide and short base compared to the crown, presence of compound scales, character of dentine canals and tubules, and specific ultrasculpture of the crown, the new taxon Kannathalepis milleri, gen. et sp. nov. is assigned to Kannathalepididae fam. nov. of uncertain order of the subclass Elasmobranchii, class Chondrichthyes.
4523713|Numerous remains of the azhdarchid pterosaur Quetzalcoatlus sp., have been recovered over the last twenty years from the Late Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) rocks in Big Bend National Park in Trans-Pecos Texas. Among more than 200 bones found at one locality are four incomplete skulls and mandibles, which provide the most complete information about cranial structures in the Azhdarchidae. What is currently known indicates that the Azhdarchidae is the sister group of the Tapejaridae from Early Cretaceous deposits in northeastern Brazil.
4523242|Protoprocyon savagei Linares, 1982, is a senior objective synonym of Lichnocyon phoenicus Baskin, 1982. Probassariscus antiquus (Matthew and Cook, 1909) is a senior subjective synonym of Rhapsodus tedfordi Linares, 1982. Probassariscus is structurally the most primitive New World procyonid, but it occurs too late to be directly ancestral to the non-bassariscine New World procyonines, which can be derived from Edaphocyon. The extinct South American procyonids of the Cyonasua group are most closely related to Arctonasua, not Protoprocyon.
4524303|The skull material of a new iguanodontian dinosaur, Fukuisaurus tetoriensis gen. et sp. nov., discovered from the fluvial deposits of the Lower Cretaceous Kitadani Formation, Tetori Group, Fukui Prefecture, Japan, is described here. Some features of Fukuisaurus show affinities with Iguanodon, Ouranosaurus, and Altirhinus, referred to as Iguanodontidae by some. A phylogenetic analysis using mainly cranial characters shows that Fukuisaurus is a definitive derived non-hadrosaurid iguanodontian and implies that Fukuisaurus is more derived than the clade of Iguanodon + Ouranosaurus and more basal to the clade of Altirhinus, Probactrosaurus, Eolambia, Protohadros, Bactrosaurus, Telmatosaurus, and hadrosaurids. It also supports that Iguanodontidae is paraphyletic by the exclusion of Altirhinus as suggested previously. The presence of Fukuisaurus indicates a wider geographical distribution of the group in eastern Asia. The occurrences of derived non-hadrosaurid iguanodontians from the Kitadani Formation and other formations in Japan support a dispersal of this group into eastern Asia by the Early Cretaceous and its temporal range extension in Japan. Fukuisaurus possesses a strong maxilla-vomer articulation, indicative of the independent acquisition of a non-pleurokinetic skull (not present in Hypsilophodon, Iguanodon, and hadrosaurids).
4524067|Ontogenetic changes in the bone histology of Maiasaura peeblesorum are revealed by six relatively distinct but gradational growth stages: early and late nestling, early and late juvenile, sub-adult, and adult. These stages are distinguished not only by relative size but by changes in the histological patterns of bones at each stage. In general, the earliest stages are marked by spongy bone matrix with large vascular canals. Through growth, the cortical bone differentiates into fibro-lamellar tissue that tends to become more regularly layered in the outer cortex. By the subadult stage, lines of arrested growth (LAGs) begin to appear regularly. Resorption lines and substantial Haversian substitution in many long bones also begin to appear at this stage, and the external cortex has a lamellar-zonal structure in some bones that indicates imminent cessation of growth. Judging by the rates of apposition of similar bone tissues in living amniotes, and by the number and placement of LAGs, these patterns suggest that young Maiasaura nestlings grew at very high rates, and at high and moderately high rates during later nestling, juvenile, and sub-adult stages, slowing to low and very low growth rates in adults (7-9 m total length). The nesting period would have lasted one to two months, late juvenile size (3.5 meters) would have been reached in one or two years, and adult size in six to eight years, depending on the basis for extrapolating bone growth rates. The histological tissues, patterns, and inferred growth rates of the bones of Maiasaura are completely different from those of living non-avian reptiles, generally similar to those of most other dinosaurs and pterosaurs for which data are available, and much like those of extant birds and mammals. No living reptiles (except birds) grow to adult size at these rates, nor do they show these histological patterns. We conclude that Maiasaura did not grow at all like living non-avian reptiles, which cannot be considered informative models for most aspects of dinosaurian growth (or physiology, to the extent that growth rates reflect metabolism). The use of lines of arrested growth (LAGs) to infer dinosaurian physiology has never been tested and is not supported by independent lines of evidence; their use in calculating age is also more complex than previously suggested and should not be based on single bones.
4523150| Four type specimens and three other important fossils, all mammalian, which were apparently lost to science, have recently been rediscovered in an old building located in Mexico City. Recovered types include Glyptodon mexicano, Mastodon oligobunis, Equus conversidens, and Equus (Hesperohippus) mexicanus. The three important nontypes are a lower jaw of Arctodus simus, a partial skull of Euceratherium collinum, and a partial skull of Bison antiquus. All the specimens have been recataloged and are now in the Museum of Paleontology, Institute of Geology, at the University of Mexico. /// Recientemente han sido recuperados importantes fsiles de mammferos, los cuales fueron aparentemente perdidos para la ciencia, en un edificio viejo en Ciudad de Mxico. De estos, cuatro son holotipos: Glyptodon mexicano, Mastodon oligobunis, Equus conversidens y Equus (Hesperohippus) mexicanus; los tres especmenes no tipo son: una mandbula inferior de Arctodus simus, parte de un crneo de Euceratherium collinum y un fragmento de crneo de Bison antiquus; todos estos ejemplares han sido recatalogados y se encuentran actualmente en el Museo de Paleontologa del Instituto de Geologa en la Ciudad Universitaria. 
4523384|We describe the morphology of Semionotus, focusing on the Semionotus elegans group from the Newark Supergroup of eastern North America. Our description is based largely on specimens from the Boonton Formation (Early Jurassic) of New Jersey because they are particularly well-preserved and include good material of both the dermal skeleton and the endoskeleton. A single anamestic suborbital distinguishes Semionotus from its sister-genus Lepidotes. We restrict the Semionotidae, defined by the presence of dorsal ridge scales between the nape and dorsal fin as well as a large posteriorly directed process on the epiotic, to two genera, Semionotus and Lepidotes. We restrict the Semionotiformes, defined by four characters and five character losses, to the Lepisosteidae, Macrosemiidae, and Semionotidae. Our study of Semionotus and previous work on Watsonulus suggest new interpretations of characters and character polarities. These data support the hypothesis that the Semionotiformes as we define them are more closely related to teleosts than either is to Amia. Analysis of the same data using PAUP suggests an equally parsimonious hypothesis that the Semionotiformes and Amia form a monophyletic group that, in turn, forms the sister-group to teleosts.
4524350| An accumulation of skeletons of the pre-dinosaur Silesaurus opolensis, gen. et sp. nov. is described from the Keuper (Late Triassic) claystone of Krasiejw in southern Poland. The strata are correlated with the late Carnian Lehrberg Beds and contain a diverse assemblage of tetrapods, including the phytosaur Paleorhinus, which in other regions of the world co- occurs with the oldest dinosaurs. A narrow pelvis with long pubes and the extensive development of laminae in the cervical vertebrae place S. opolensis close to the origin of the clade Dinosauria above Pseudolagosuchus, which agrees with its geological age. Among the advanced characters is the beak on the dentaries, and the relatively low tooth count. The teeth have low crowns and wear facets, which are suggestive of herbivory. The elongate, but weak, front limbs are probably a derived feature. 
4523667|Two new ceratopsid dinosaurs, Einiosaurus procurvicornis and Achelousaurus horneri, are described from the Two Medicine Formation (Upper Cretaceous) of Montana. E. procurvicornis is known from three skulls and numerous cranial and postcranial elements from two bonebed assemblages. A. horneri is based on three skulls, one with associated postcranial elements. A phylogenetic review of the subfamily Centrosaurinae reveals two clades, one containing Centrosaurus and Styracosaurus and the other Pachyrhinosaurus plus the two new taxa from Montana. Diagnostic traits for resolving within-group relationships are found only in the skull roof in association with what appear to be secondary sexual characters, probably the result of sexual selection. In addition to illuminating the pattern of ceratopsian evolution, these taxa suggest an increased rate of evolution that may correlate with the late Campanian transgression of the Bearpaw Sea.
4522865|Pedinorhis stirpsarcana, an enigmatic new genus and species of emberizine finch, is known from four cave deposits of probable Wisconsinan age in central Puerto Rico. The most distinctive feature of this bird is the broad, flat ridge of the rostrum. Pedinorhis represents a group unknown in the Antilles and, although of uncertain affinities, somewhat resembles the mainland genera Atlapetes and Pipilo. The disappearance of Pedinorhis may be related to the postglacial loss of arid, savanna-like habitats that caused the extinction, or contraction in range, of many xerophilous vertebrates in the West Indies.
4523883|The nearly complete dentition of the rare tapirid Miotapirus marslandensis was recovered from the recently discovered late Arikareean Toledo Bend Local Fauna, Newton County, Texas. The species was previously known from only two associated upper molars found near Marsland, Nebraska, in 1917. The Nebraska molars, together with the Toledo Bend material and additional specimens from the Monroe Creek Formation, South Dakota, share unique characters lacking from the genotypic species, Miotapirus harrisonensis Schlaikjer. The species from Texas, South Dakota, and Nebraska appears closely related to the rare Protapirus robustus Sinclair from the upper John Day Formation, Oregon, based on derived characters of the dentition. Miotapirus marslandensis and Protapirus robustus are here referred to Nexuotapirus, gen. nov. A review of all late Oligocene-early Miocene North American tapirids concludes that Protapirus validus Hatcher and Tanyops undens Marsh are junior synonyms of P. simplex Wortman and Earle.
4522840|Pseudoprotoceras semicinctus, new combination, includes Cope's species Leptomeryx semicinctus and Hypertragulus transversus, each originally based on a single tooth from the Chadronian Cypress Hills Formation of Saskatchewan. New topotypic material, and referred material from Wyoming, allow description of the complete dental series, and show some cranial and mandibular features. A new species, Pseudoprotoceras taylori, is based on Wyoming material. Pseudoprotoceras semicinctus occurs in the early to medial Chadronian, and P. taylori in the later Chadronian.
4524221|Terminal fusions-fusions of skeletal elements thought to mark the cessation of significant growth-can be used to estimate the relative maturity of fossilized individuals. Little is known of how the absolute timing of terminal fusions relates to sexual and skeletal maturity in squamates. Examination of postnatal ontogenetic series of extant representatives of 14 crown squamate clades reveals that no terminal fusion universally coincides with the achievement of either sexually or skeletally mature size; however, certain fusions may serve as benchmarks of maturity within particular crown clades. Complete fusion of the braincase is a reliable benchmark for skeletal maturity in scleroglossans, but not iguanians. Complete fusion of long bone epiphyses will indicate that a squamate individual is within roughly 20% of maximum size, whereas complete fusion of the scapula and coracoid, the pelvis, and the astragalus and calcaneum can be taken as evidence only that an individual has achieved at least half of the maximum size of its species.
4523640| This study focuses on the petrosal and bony structures of the inner ear of a fossil squalodontoid whale (Odontoceti, Mammalia) from the Chandler Bridge Formation (late Oligocene) of South Carolina. High frequency hearing in toothed whales (odontocetes) has been attributed to specialized bony structures and their associated membranes in the inner ear cochlea. Whales also have very peculiar vestibule and semicircular canals by comparison to terrestrial mammals. By using serial grinding and computerized reconstruction, we identified in this fossil squalodontoid whale several inner ear structures specialized for high frequency hearing: 1) a well developed secondary bony lamina for the basilar membrane in the basal  cochlear turn; 2) numerous foramina for the ganglion cells of the auditory nerve and a partially preserved spiral ganglion canal; 3) great size difference between the scala tympani and the scala vestibuli (including the scala media); and 4) wide separation between the cochlear turns. All these structures are correlated with high frequency hearing in modern odontocetes. The basilar membrane width, as inferred from the gap of the bony laminae preserved in the fossil, is greater in this squalodontoid than in modern delphinoids. The squalodontoid also has a higher cochlear spiral than modern delphinoids. These indicate that frequency of maximum sensitivity was lower in squalodontoids than in modern delphinoids. The vestibule of the squalodontoid is a very narrow and curved passage to the fenestra vestibuli. The semicircular canals are small and thin. These highly specialized structures suggest that specializations of the inner ear occurred prior to the diversification of all extant toothed whales, of which squalodontoids are the stem group. 
4523859|A skull of the oldest described argyrolagid, Proargyrolagus bolivianus (late Oligocene of the Salla Beds, Bolivia) allows an assessment of the phylogeny of this group and a reconstruction of its paleobiology. Several aspects of the cranial anatomy of the Monodelphis-sized Proargyrolagus serve to support the hypothesis that argyrolagids are marsupials: the palate has large vacuities, the angular process is medially inflected, the auditory bulla is composed of a wing of the alisphenoid, and the dental formula includes four molars. Like Argentine Plio-Pleistocene argyrolagids, Proargyrolagus has an unfused symphysis, and a phaneric and almost vertically oriented ectotympanic in the shape of a flattened ring. Proargyrolagus is more primitive in having a less globular braincase, smaller orbits, and a shallower mandible. The dental formula is 4/3.1/1.3/2.4/4 or 4/4.1/0.3/2.4/4 (vs. 2/2.0/0.1/1.4/4 for Argyrolagus). Large infraorbital foramina transmitted nerves and vessels of the snout. The snout is long with the nasals projecting well forward of the incisors and with a strong antorbital fossa for facial muscles. It can be inferred that this animal had well-developed vibrissae and a mobile proboscis, and relied heavily on its rostrum to gather tactile information. Food manipulation was assisted by an elongate, procumbent lower incisor that occluded with three sharply-edged upper incisors, as in living phalangeriform marsupials. Like Plio-Pleistocene argyrolagids and extant elephant shrews, Proargyrolagus has prismatic and high crowned cheek teeth suggesting an abrasive diet consisting perhaps of seeds.
41407680|The main objective of this paper is to undertake a detailed re-description of the neotype (skull and lower jaw) and the referred material (postcranial remains) of Niolamia argentina. Additional preparation of this material has revealed previously unrecognized details of the cranial and postcranial skeleton, including the recognition of additional cranial scales, bone sutures, and foramina, the presence of a distinct ornamentation on the skull roof, and the identification of several new inner skull structures. Importantly, the additional preparation shows detailed carotid artery anatomy: the entrance of the carotid artery lies posteriorly in the pterygoids, runs anteriorly and bifurcates into the cerebral and palatine arteries within the basisphenoid, and is not covered ventrally by the pterygoids. In addition, the pterygoids are placed in a ventral position with respect to the basisphenoid and an intrapterygoid slit, a character diagnostic of Meiolaniidae, is present. We corroborate that Crossochelys corniger is a junior synonym of Mo. argentina. Following our preferred phylogenetic hypothesis, South American and Australian taxa related to or belonging to Meiolaniidae and Mongolochelys efremovi from the Upper Cretaceous of Mongolia form a monophyletic group, implying that the origin and diversification of this lineage predated the complete break up of Pangea in the Early to Middle Jurassic. The presence of a ghost lineage between this clade and Cryptodira, extending from the Middle Jurassic to the Early Cretaceous, supports this assessment.
4524610|The recent discovery of a dense, paucispecific bonebed from the Early Cretaceous Cedar Mountain Formation, central Utah, has yielded new information on the morphology and evolution of therizinosaurs. Detailed description of the pectoral girdle and forelimb of Falcarius utahensis-the predominant taxon recovered from this site- provides the basis for a species-level, phylogenetic investigation of this enigmatic group. The analysis, consisting of 32 characters arrayed among 13 taxa, supports previous assertions that Falcarius represents the basal-most known member of the clade. The analysis further supports a monophyletic Therizinosauroidea on the basis of seven unambiguous synapomorphies of the pectoral girdle and forelimb. Contrary to previous hypotheses, analysis of the pectoral girdle and forelimb suggests that Therizinosauridae is more appropriately defined as a derived clade including Nothronychus, Erlicosaurus, Neimongosaurus, Therizinosaurus, and Segnosaurus. Equally strong support is recovered for a clade containing these five genera plus "Alectrosaurus" and Erliansaurus. The morphology of primitive therizinosauroids-characterized by Falcarius, Beipiaosaurus, and Alxasaurus-suggests that Early Cretaceous taxa already exhibited the beginnings of a trend toward increased robustness and altered range of motion of the pectoral girdle and forelimb. Derived therizinosaurs exhibit an amplification of these evolutionary trends as well as increased dorsal reach, increased wrist flexibility, and severe reduction in manual digit length. The functional reorganization of the pectoral girdle and forelimb throughout the evolutionary history of therizinosaurs can be reasonably attributed to a shift from obligatory predation to a novel paleoecological role that reached its pinnacle in derived Late Cretaceous members.
20491007|The Arvicolinae from the latest Ruscinian and early Villanyian sites of the section of Tollo de Chiclana (Southern Spain) are re-examined in the light of new material and exhaustive comparisons with other European populations. The uppermost Ruscinian population from TCH-1B, previously assigned to Mimomys stehlini, is now ascribed to M. hassiacus, cited for the first time from southern Spain. The populations from the lower Villanyian localities of TCH-3 and 13, assigned to M. minor, are considered to belong to M. stehlini. In addition, the material from the uppermost Ruscinian karstic level of Mo1-A, assigned to "Mimomys" occitanus is ascribed to M. hassiacus. The presence of different species of Arvicolinae is key for delimiting the Ruscinian-Villanyian boundary in the continental deposits of southern Spain and correlating them with European biochronological schemes. In this paper we discuss the problems associated with specific identifications of upper Ruscinian and lower Villanyian arvicolines from Spain, pointing out the invalidity of many citations, and demonstrating the need for an extensive revision of these faunas.
41515288|Metaxytherium subapenninum was a halitheriine dugongid distributed along the northwestern coasts of the Mediterranean Basin during the early and late Pliocene. It represents the latest sirenian species of the Mediterranean Basin, the latest Metaxytherium species in the world, and also the latest species belonging to the paraphyletic subfamily Halitheriinae. We review M. subapenninum in the light of new discoveries, including its stratigraphic and geographic distribution, osteology, paleoecology, and relationships. M. subapenninum represents a more derived stage of evolution in comparison with the earlier Metaxytherium species. It is characterized in particular by an increase in body size, an increase in tusk size, and a dorsal broadening of the nasal process of the premaxilla. Its variation in tusk size does not appear to represent sexual dimorphism as in the modern Dugong, but instead progressive intraspecific evolution of larger tusks as a feeding adaptation convergent on that of derived dugongines. It was a relict species limited to the Mediterranean Basin, and responded to long-term climatic cooling by an increase in body size and by an increase in tusk size and rostral reinforcement in order to obtain a more nutritious diet richer in rhizomes.
4523177|A mosasaur recently rediscovered in the collections of the University of Alabama Museum of Natural History represents a new genus and species of plioplatecarpine, Selmasaurus russelli. No accurate locality or stratigraphic data are available for the specimen, but it was collected from a chalky facies of the Selma Group (early Campanian-late Maestrichtian) in western or westcentral Alabama. Selmasaurus displays an almost complete loss of intracranial mobility compared with the kinetic skulls of more generalized plioplatecarpines. It differs markedly from other known members of this subfamily of mosasaurs, but shares some characters with the North American genus Ectenosaurus and the African genus Goronyosaurus.
4523734|?Brachychampsa sealeyi sp. nov. is a small alligatoroid based on a partial skull, associated partial mandible, and a dorsal? osteoderm from the Upper Cretaceous (lower Campanian) Menefee Formation, northwestern New Mexico. The holotype of ?B. sealeyi is the oldest of four documented Late Cretaceous alligatoroid skulls. ?Brachychampsa sealeyi differs from Bra montana, Albertochampsa langstoni, and other alligatoroids primarily in having an anteriorly tapering rostrum with a relatively reduced anterior dentition and smaller narial and incisive openings but relatively larger and more bulbous posterior teeth. The single associated osteoderm has a longitudinal keel and surfaces for articulation with overlapping osteoderms. Cladistic analysis suggests that ?B. sealeyi is a sister taxon to B. montana and supports the hypothesis that Brachychampsa and Albertochampsa form a monophyletic clade outside the Alligatoridae. Punctures on the mandible suggests that a bite was inflicted by another alligator.
23361071|Pepemkay maya, gen. et sp. nov., is described based on a single complete specimen collected in El Chango Quarry, a marine Cenomanian limestone outcrop of the Sierra Madre Formation, near Tuxtla Gutirrez, Chiapas State, southern Mexico. This species is identified as a new member of the Lissoberycinae and differs from other genera of this subfamily because it has an unornamented skull; bones of opercular series with non-spiny posterior borders; dorsal fin with five spines and eight soft rays; pelvic fin including a spine plus three branched soft rays; predorsal formula 0+0/0/1+1/; cycloid scales in the caudal peduncle and anterior half of the body, crenate scales between these body regions; and at least one scale on the opercle and other over the quadrate. Pepemkay maya is the first Trachichthyidae and Lissoberycinae fish found in marine Cretaceous deposits of America; its discovery complements our comprehension on the taxonomical diversity of fossil Trachichthyidae and supports the efforts directed to describe the processes involved in the evolution, origin, and early diversification of this group within an appropriate biogeographical framework, which now involves fossil evidence that has begun to appear in the Cretaceous fossil deposits of America.
4524300|A new mesoeucrocodylian, Pachycheilosuchus trinquei, from the Lower Cretaceous (Albian) Glen Rose Formation, exhibits progressive caudal-to- cranial vertebral procoely. This modification is characterized by an intermediate semi-procoelous condition in which the posterior condyle is dimpled by a concavity. Pachycheilosuchus differs from all known crocodyliforms in having an expanded maxillary margin that displaces the tooth row medially, and in possessing a cervical shield formed by the complete fusion of six osteoderms. Phylogenetic analysis indicates a sister taxon relationship with the weakly defined Atoposauridae. The presence of variable procoely in both Pachycheilosuchus and the closely related atoposaurid Thehosuchus indicates convergent evolution of the character with Eusuchia. Sediments at the locality were deposited in near-shore, marine-to- brackish waters, suggesting that Pachycheilosuchus inhabited euryhaline marine environments.
4524479|A newly prepared elasmosaurid plesiosaur specimen, from the Haumurian (Upper Cretaceous) Conway Formation of North Canterbury, is more complete than any found previously in New Zealand. The specimen, a young adult, comprises posterior fragments of the skull, almost the entire vertebral column, fragments of the major bones of both pectoral and pelvic girdles, and portions of all four limbs. Comparison with the partial pelvic girdle and hind paddle that constitute the lectotype of Mauisaurus haasti Hector, 1874 (including the femur, diagnostic of the species), indicates that the new specimen belongs to that species, permitting a more complete description and diagnosis. The species is characterized by an estimated 86 presacral vertebrae, at least 66 of which are cervicals, other than the atlas and axis. The coracoids possess a pronounced, blunt, ventral process, and a broad, rounded, transverse ridge on their dorsal surface. In large adults the medial profile of the coracoid becomes markedly sigmoidal. The adult femur has a large hemispherical capitulum; the humerus is relatively broad with an elliptical capitulum. In life, the animal would have been in excess of 8 m long. Comparisons with previously described elasmosaurs are difficult because of barely adequate published descriptions, but Mauisaurus haasti is distinguished particularly by postcranial characters that vary among Late Cretaceous elasmosaurs from both the Northern and Southern hemispheres. The only other established New Zealand elasmosaur, Tuarangisaurus keyesi Wiffen and Moiseley, 1986, cannot be directly compared with Mauisaurus haasti and must remain a separate taxon.
4524032| Notogoneus montanensis, sp. nov. (Teleostei: Ostariophysi: Gonorynchidae) is described from Late Cretaceous freshwater deposits of the Two Medicine Formation of Montana. The species is represented by one articulated skeleton and a partial trunk region of a second individual. Articulated freshwater fish fossils are almost unknown in Early Cretaceous through Middle Paleocene age deposits of North America. Localities such as the Two Medicine fish locality are extremely important to a better understanding of the biodiversity of early North American freshwater teleosts. Notogoneus montanensis, sp. nov. is the earliest known occurrence of the genus Notogoneus, and it is the earliest known freshwater gonorynchiform from North America. The distribution of Notogoneus and other gonorynchid species is briefly reviewed. Additional fragmentary fish fossils found associated with N. montanensis, sp. nov. include a number of teleost scales, which appear to belong to at least two different taxa other than Notogoneus. 
4524750|Eothoracosaurus mississippiensis, gen. et sp. nov., is based on a skull and partial skeleton from the Upper Cretaceous (early Maastrichtian) Ripley Formation of Mississippi. Less complete material from the late Campanian or early Maastrichtian of western Tennessee is referred to this taxon. It can be distinguished from late Maastrichtian Thoracosaurus neocesariensis on the basis of a wider distance between the supratemporal fenestrae, a long anterior frontal process, and closer apposition of the third and fourth dentary alveoli. Longirostrine crocodylian remains from the later Maastrichtian and earliest Paleocene of New Jersey pertain to a single species {Thoracosaurus neocesariensis), as do remains from the early Paleocene of France and Sweden {Thoracosaurus macrorhynchus). The basisphenoid in these animals is still an anteroposteriorly thin lamina wedged between the basioccipital and pterygoid, reflecting the "verticalized" condition seen in extant non-gavialoid crocodylians. At least some late Paleocene occurrences from New Jersey, Maryland, and Virginia can be referred to Thecachampsoides minor (Marsh, 1870), and a second larger gavialoid may also be present in these units. North American "thoracosaurs" lacked antorbital fenestrae. "Thoracosaurinae" are a paraphyletic grade at the base of Gavialoidea, with Thecachampsoides being closer to Gavialis than are Thoracosaurus or Eothoracosaurus. Prior referral of "thoracosaurs" to Tomistominae reflects a typological approach to taxonomy, with longirostrine crocodylians maintaining plesiomorphic rostral states being regarded as tomistomines.
40666160|Here we present a detailed anatomical description of cranial and post-cranial remains of a Jurassic turtle, Condorchelys antiqua Sterli, 2008, from the Caadn Asfalto Formation (Middle Jurassic) in central Patagonia. Although C. antiqua is similar in morphology to the Early Jurassic turtles Kayentachelys aprix and Indochelys spatulata, it differs in that it lacks both pterygoid teeth and a V-shaped suprapygal 2, respectively. In light of new discoveries and reinterpretations of other fossil taxa, we suggest that several changes in the evolution of the skull morphology of turtles (such as the closure of the basipterygoid articulation, the closure of the interpterygoid vacuity, the development of the secondary lateral wall in the braincase, the development of temporal emargination and/or the posterior extension of the crista supraoccipitalis) could be related to the acquisition of a stronger skull to accommodate the modern pulley system. The optimization of these characters in a phylogenetic framework shows that they are coincident with the appearance of trochlear systems (oticum or pterygoidei) in turtles, suggesting a functionally correlated relationship among them.
40666208|Screen-washing of unconsolidated fossiliferous sediments from the late Neogene Pipe Creek Sinkhole (Grant County, Indiana) yielded two coprolites. Maximum preserved diameter of both is about 26 mm, and both are apatitic in composition. Although one coprolite is largely amorphous internally, the other preserves remnants of hair and at least two teeth of a small carnivoran. The crowns of both teeth are highly corroded, and the enamel of one of the teeth has been completely removed. Although large turtles cannot be excluded as the scat-makers, the most likely candidate is a wolf-sized carnivoran, possibly a canid.
4523138|The phylogenetic relationships of hornless ruminants are reassessed in light of consideration of the systematic position of the genera Lophiomeryx (previously assigned to the Gelocidae), and Bachitherium (previously assigned to the Leptomerycidae or Hypertragulidae), and the reality of the Gelocidae as a cladistically valid taxon is questioned. It is concluded that Lophiomeryx should be placed in its own family, the Lophiomeryicidae (along with the genera Cryptomeryx and Iberomeryx, previously assigned to the Tragulidae), and that the family forms the sister group to the Pecora. Bachitherium is also best placed in its own family, the Bachitheriidae, forming the sister group to the Pecora plus the Lophiomeryicidae. The Gelocidae cannot be united by any unique character, and are best considered a polyphyletic assemblage of primitive pecorans, from among which the higher pecoran families may be derived.
20627154|A new double-armored member of the Ellimmichthyiformes (Clupeomorpha, Teleostei) is described from the Cenomanian (Upper Cretaceous) of Ein Yabrud, near Ramallah, Middle East. The anatomical description of Rhombichthys intoccabilis, gen. et sp. nov., is based on 13 subcomplete or incomplete acid-prepared specimens. This taxon shows several remarkable characters such as an important dorsoventral elongation of the lateral wings of the ventral scutes that give an apex-shaped ventral profile in the biggest specimens. Some dorsal fin rays are very extended and branched, and the dorsal fin extends along the major part of the dorsal margin of the body. Rhombichthys intoccabilis, gen. et sp. nov., shares the synapormorphies of the family Paraclupeidae and the subfamily Paraclupeinae. It appears closely related to the genera Triplomystus and Ezkutuberezi, mainly in the basis of the shape of dorsal and ventral scutes and the absence of a hypural diastema.
4523162|A Cervalces antler rack is reported from Canton, South Dakota, and is compared with that of C. scotti from New Jersey and with other specimens from North America and Eurasia. Other new materials are reported from the Old Crow Basin, Yukon Territory, Canada, the Fairbanks area, Alaska, U.S.A., and from various localities in the eastern U.S.A. Additional measurements are given for previously recorded specimens. Known only from the Pleistocene Epoch, Cervalces possibly represented a Holarctic genus in which beam length and conformation of the tines and palmations varied considerably across its range. The genus appears to comprise two species: the North American species, C. scotti, with branching antlers whose variations are explicable either through age, maturational, geographic, or possibly stratigraphic variation; and the Eurasian species, C. latifrons, with flat palmate antlers. The specific status of the Beringian population with large antler beams is unknown, because no palmations have been reported. The antler differences between C. scotti and C. latifrons are so marked that C. latifrons is placed in the subgenus Libralces, and C. scotti in the subgenus Cervalces, as C. (L.) latifrons and C. (C.) scotti, respectively.
4523729|An acid prepared specimen of Araripelepidotes temnurus (Agassiz, 1841) (Actinopterygii, Semionotiformes) shows the maxilla, dentary, and antorbital. These bones, which were previously only poorly known in this fossil actinopterygian, are described in detail. From the development of a mobile maxilla and the presence of an interoperculum, it is concluded that A. temnurus was a suction feeder. By analogy to the Recent Cyprinus, the diet of A. temnurus probably consisted mainly of small invertebrates.
4522850|New fossils from the Deep River Formation, Meagher County, Montana, add to our knowledge of aplodontid evolution in the Rocky Mountain region. The new material shows much greater diversity than was indicated by the single species previously known. At least four groups, Niglarodon koemeri, N. progressus n. sp., N. blacki n. sp., and N. loneyi n. sp., represent a series ranging from brachyodont to rather strongly hypsodont forms. Stratigraphic and local geographic differences of occurrence indicate a chronologic succession. The diversity of morphology and apparent regional endemism suggest an early dispersal followed by extensive geographic partitioning. After initial settlement, subsequent histories in different subregions of the Rocky Mountains involve appearance of characters of rather proximal origin, as well as introduction of characters which seem to be derived from more distant populations of the region. Interregional immigration between the Rocky Mountains and the West Coast did not occur. Replacement of a few characters maintained upwards through the stratigraphic section by characters resembling contemporaneous groups existing elsewhere occurred between the Rocky Mountains and West Coast, but less frequently than within the Rockies, and is consistent with a decreasing likelihood of character or population replacement with increasing distance. The most advanced species in the Deep River Formation, N. loneyi, occurs in association with Promylagaulus montanensis (Rensberger, 1979) and Gregorymys, a combination suggestive of the Entoptychus-Gregorymys Concurrent-range Zone. The stratigraphically oldest and most primitive species, N. koemeri, possesses about the same degree of hypsodonty as the most primitive species of Meniscomys at the base of the Meniscomys Concurrent-range Zone in the John Day Formation. The species of the Lemhi Valley, Idaho, demonstrate almost the same range of hypsodonty, except that the stratigraphically lowest form is slightly more advanced than N. koemeri.
24523213|Ceratopsidae represents one of the last and best-known radiations of non-avian dinosaurs. Interspecific variation is well documented qualitatively with linear measurements, but little has been done to quantify shape differences in the frill that may indicate functional or evolutionary signals. In order to investigate shape change in the squamosal across Chasmosaurinae and Centrosaurinae, we applied geometric morphometrics to the outline of the squamosal for 155 specimens representing 27 ceratopsid species and Protoceratops spp. A Mantel test suggests that the shape of ceratopsid squamosals is highly constrained by phylogeny. MANOVA, ANOVA, and their phylogenetic versions suggest that an evolutionarily significant allometric signal exists between the two clades, but not within clades. Principal component analysis indicates that centrosaurines have a uniform squamosal shape, with the exceptions of Spinops and Diabloceratops. Even when accounting for phylogeny, the relationship between squamosal shape and size is significant. Mapping shape onto the phylogeny, we estimated ancestral shapes at nodes. The transition from the non-ceratopsid to ceratopsid condition is characterized by a squamosal with a wider angle between the infratemporal process and the caudoventral margin, and a more dorsoventrally elongated and caudally expanded blade. From root to tips, centrosaurine squamosals were found to be conservative, but exhibit a slight dorsoventral expansion and a narrow angle between the infratemporal process and the caudoventral margin in more derived taxa. Chasmosaurines, compared with centrosaurines, show a derived morphology, with a trend towards a blade that is strongly expanded dorsoventrally and with a narrower angle between the infratemporal process and the caudoventral margin.
4524415|Akromystax tilmachiton, gen. et sp. nov., is described from Late Cretaceous Cenomanian beds in the Lebanon. The new taxon is the first new pycnodont to be published from the recently discovered locality of en Nammoura. It is a member of the Pycnodontidae that presents an unexpected combination of primitive and derived characters, including autapomorphies such as: hypertrophy of the lateral laminae of the mesethmoid, covering the lateral portion of the ethmoidal region plus part of the lower jaw; extrascapular bone forming part of the border of the orbit; expansion of the premaxilla, which bears no less than eight molariform teeth arranged in at least two rows; opercular and preopercular bones separated from each other; unique pattern of scale ossification; overlapping of the spines of the ventral keel scales; first ventral keel scale markedly larger than other keel scales. A new type of replacement teeth is reported for the first time in a pycnodontiform fish. Akromystax tilmachiton is at present the most primitive taxon of the family Pycnodontidae, despite its relatively derived characters, and confirms the mosaic evolution of the pycnodonts. The new taxon is present in the localities of Haqel, Early Cenomanian, and en Nammoura, Middle Cenomanian. It is an interesting common element of both localities, indicating that their paleoichthyofaunas, contrary to previous thought, are more similar than other components of their fossil associations.
4524730|Aelurodon montanensis, sp. nov. (Carnivora, Canidae, Borophaginae), is described from a new locality, Aelurodon Cut, near Pipestone Springs in Jefferson County, Montana. The new species is a primitive representative of the previously recognized Aelurodon mcgrewi-A. stirtoni clade, one of the most hypercarnivorous, relatively rare clades in the subfamily Borophaginae. It shares with this clade such derived characters as a broadened posterior cingulum of p3, initial development of a posteriorly expanded Ml internal cingulum, and similarities in dental proportions. Evolutionary trends within this clade include reduction in size, increasingly hypercarnivorous dentition with lengthened shearing blades on the upper and lower carnassials, a more trenchant talonid on ml, a reduced grinding part of upper and lower molars, and a posteriorly expanded Ml internal cingulum. Based on the stage of evolution of the new canid and on an associated metapodial fragment of Aepycamelus, we tentatively assign an early Barstovian age to the Aelurodon Cut locality.
4523251|The anterior half of an ichthyosaur skeleton from the Middle Triassic Grenzbitumenzone Beds of Monte San Giorgio, Switzerland, is described as Cymbospondylus buchseri, sp. nov. When compared with Cymbospondylus petrinus from the Middle Triassic of Nevada, C. buchseri shows several advanced features, in part due to increased aquatic adaptation. In the skull, the postorbital region is shortened, and the orbits are slightly enlarged. The pectoral girdle and forelimb bones are wider and less constricted. The humerus is almost as wide as long, thus differing greatly from the humerus of C. petrinus. In the Middle Triassic of Europe, Cymbospondylus occurs in the southern Alps of Italy (a specimen formerly described as Shastasaurus sp.) and in the Muschelkalk Beds of northern Switzerland and Germany, in addition to Monte San Giorgio. Thus Cymbospondylus appears to have had a cosmopolitan distribution.
4524092|A specimen of a juvenile individual of Dinochelys from the Dry Mesa Quarry, Morrison Formation, provides the first record of the skull and neck in this genus. Dinochelys is interpreted as related to Glyptops on the basis of a similar development of sculpture on the vertebral scutes of juvenile individuals, and a similar development of a beak on the premaxilla and dentary. Desmemys, a turtle from the Early Cretaceous of Europe is interpreted as closely related to Dinochelys on the basis of similarities in the proportions of the scutes of the carapace and similar development of fenestration on the carapace and plastron. The relationship between Desmemys and Dinochelys further emphasizes the connections between the turtle assemblages of North America and Europe during the Jurassic and Early Cretaceous.
4524251|The skull of Augustasaurus hagdorni from the Middle Triassic of northwestern Nevada is described in detail, and compared to those of Pistosaurus and Plesiosaurus. New information amends the earlier description of the postcranial skeleton of Augustasaurus. Phylogenetic analysis corroborates the sister-group relationship of Augustasaurus and Pistosaurus. These two taxa form a clade that is the sister-group of Plesiosaurus. The paleobiogeographical implication of the sister-group relationship of Augustasaurus and Pistosaurus is discussed and linked to the exotic terrane model.
4523878|Population variation in Allosaurus fragilis is estimated using a principal components analysis. Specimens included in this analysis were found at Como Bluff, Dry Mesa, Dinosaur National Monument, Canyon City, and Cleveland-Lloyd quarries. Except for the material identified as Allosaurus (Saurophaganax) maximus, there is only one species of Allosaurus indicated in the Morrison Formation. Almost all of the variables on all elements load heavily on the first principal component, a size factor. Loading patterns on the successive components contribute to a correspondingly low shape influence. Some of the elements display two clusters along the allometric trajectory, probably reflecting sexual dimorphism. The non-Cleveland-Lloyd specimens tended to be larger than those from Cleveland-Lloyd, but there is no evidence of consistent evolutionary or geographic trends. A comparison of the second principal component, interpreted as the main shape factor, for Allosaurus with that of Plateosaurus showed that there was less shape variation in the theropod. This result may be of systematic importance.
25835820|We describe a new insular endemic lagomorph from the Late Neogene karstic deposits of Minorca (Balearic islands, Spain). Nuralagus rex, gen. et sp. nov., is characterized by an array of odd traits unknown for lagomorphs. Most outstanding are the gigantic size (average 12 kg), the robust postcranial skeleton with unique morphological traits (short manus and pes with splayed phalanges, short and stiff vertebral column with reduced extension/flexion capabilities), and the relatively small size of sense-related areas of the skull (tympanic bullae, orbits, braincase, and choanae). These morphological traits denote an important decrease in locomotor and neurological activities and, hence, a decrease in metabolic energy expenditure, which is concordant with the ecological conditions of the insular environment characterized by absence of predators and low levels of resource supply. Our discovery enhances the importance of the frequently neglected fossil record for our understanding evolution on islands, because it provides the perspective of time and adds valuable data from fossil insular ecosystems unaffected by anthropogenic alterations.
20491071|Several Teleosaurus skulls were described during the nineteenth century. Unfortunately, all skulls from this genus were destroyed during World War II. The only available skull is currently preserved in the MNHN. Thanks to a new preparation, new anatomical features can be seen, such as the morphology of the nasal cavity, the external otic recess, and the distribution of the foramina for the cranial nerves. A phylogenetic analysis is presented, including 14 thalattosuchian taxa. This analysis has generated four equally most parsimonious trees, where the thalattosuchians are closely related to the pholidosaurids and dyrosaurids, forming a longirostrine taxa. These relationships have been often considered to be based on homoplasies, related to the longirostrine morphology. This is also suggested herein, as the deletion of the longirostrine dependant characters or of the most longirostrine thalattosuchians in the analysis provide a consensus tree where thalattosuchians are basal crocodyliforms, a result more generally accepted. As the deletion of the most longirostrine thalattosuchians precludes the longirostrine problem in the phylogenetic analysis of Crocodyliformes, this deletion seems to be the less unsatisfactory solution to assess the crocodyliform relationships. The phylogenetic analysis also provides interesting information on the thalattosuchian relationships: Teleosaurus is the basal-most thalattosuchian, Teleosauridae is paraphyletic and Pelagosaurus is neither the basal-most thalattosuchian nor the basal-most metriorhynchid. The metriorhynchid relationships support previous works, as 'Teleidosaurus' is paraphyletic and the basal-most metriorhynchid, Metriorhynchus is more closely related to other metriorhynchid than 'Teleidosaurus,' and Enaliosuchus, for which the relationships are tested for the first time, is the sister taxon of Dakosaurus. Geosaurus is the sister taxon of the clade Dakosaurus + Enaliosuchus.
4524323|A partial sauropod skeleton from the Middle Jurassic (Callovian) Balabansai Formation in Kirghizia, comprising two dorsal and 16 caudal vertebrae, pelvis and limb bones is described and referred to Ferganasaurus verzilini, gen. et sp. nov. The manus is known only from drawings as original material has been lost; foot bones, except the astragalus, are unknown. Ferganasaurus forms an unresolved polytomy with neosauropods Jobaria, Diplodocoidea (Nemegtosauridae, Rebbachisauridae, Diplodocidae, and Dicraeosauridae), and Macronaria (Camarasaurus, Haplocanthosaurus and Titanosauriformes). The neosauropod characters of Ferganasaurus include five coossified sacral vertebra, metacarpal proximal ends subtriangular, composite proximal articular surface of metacarpus U-shaped, tibia with sub-circular proximal end, astragalar ascending process extends to the posterior margin of the astragalus, and astragalus wedge-shaped in anterior view. Ferganasaurus is one of the oldest known neosauropods, and possesses two primitive characters unusual for a neosauropod (femur shaft with sigmoid curve, and fourth trochanter of the femur blade-like with acuminate apex).
4523606|Newly discovered lizard fossils from the Upper Cretaceous Djadochta Formation in the Gobi Desert of Inner Mongolia, China, include early iguanids and agamids that are taxonomically and biogeographically important. Two iguanids reported here, Anchaurosaurus gilmorei, gen. et sp. nov. and Xihaina aquilonia, gen. et sp. nov., document the geologically earliest record of the family from Asia, and extend the fossil record of the group by 11-13 Myr. The geological age and primitive structure of these Cretaceous iguanids, coupled with other material of the same group from the slightly younger Barun Goyot Formation, suggest that the group had a long evolutionary history on the northern continents, and hence, challenge the widely accepted South American origin hypothesis of the Iguanidae (sensu lato). Three taxa of agamids are documented in the new collection: Mimeosaurus crassus Gilmore, 1943, Priscagama gobiensis Borsuk-Bialynicka and Moody, 1984, and Pleurodontagama aenigmatodes Borsuk-Bialynicka and Moody, 1984. Several well-preserved skulls of M. crassus show a structure that requires a taxonomic revision of this genus. Priscagama and Pleurodontagama are poorly documented. It has been long held that the iguanids and agamids have different centers of origin, and that the two groups have been separated geographically from one another since the beginning of their evolution. With the discoveries of new iguanids and agamids together from the Gobi, it is now clear that the two families were sympatric during their early evolution on the northern continents.
4523797|The rich Pleistocene (Ensenadan) mammalian fauna from Tarija, Bolivia, contains abundant fossil horses. Traditionally, it has been stated that three genera, Equus and the hippidiforms Hippidion and Onohippidium, and as many as five species are represented by the equids in the Tarija fauna. Recently, it has been proposed that Onohippidium is a junior synonym of Hippidion and thus there is only one valid genus of hippidiform at Tarija. The present study reports new data from upper and lower dentitions, metapodials, and the skull (particularly the preorbital facial fossa) showing that three monospecific equid genera are present in the Pleistocene of Tarija, including the primitive hippidiforms Hippidion principale and Onohippidium devillei, and the advanced equine Equus insulatus. The genus Onohippidium is indeed valid and distinct from Hippidion based on facial characters, dental pattern, and metatarsal proportions. Comparisons with relevant equids from North America confirm that the hippidiform horses share synapomorphies with Pliohippus and that they diversified in North America during the late Miocene prior to dispersal to South America before, or about, 2.5 myr ago, at the beginning of the Uquian (late Pliocene). Equus, which shares synapomorphies with North American Dinohippus, apparently was a later immigrant, first appearing in South America at the beginning of the Ensenadan (early Pleistocene), about 1.5 myr ago.
23361057|Two incisors and five postcanine teeth of complex crown morphology were found in the lower levels of the Burgersdorp Formation of the Beaufort Group, corresponding to the basal Subzone A of the Cynognathus Assemblage Zone (late Olenekian). All the teeth bear a single root and the postcanines show two rows of mesiodistally aligned cusps and a central basin or groove. Among the postcanines, two general patterns of crown morphology are recognized on the basis of relative length of the cusp rows, number of cusps per row, and width of the central area. Phylogenetic affinities of the described specimens remain unclear, and thus they are regarded as Eucynodontia incertae sedis. However, comparisons with non-mammalian cynodonts with labiolingually expanded postcanines show that they are most similar to those of Aleodon, Candelariodon, and some haramiyids. Many cynodont taxa such as Aleodon, Candelariodon, Cromptodon, haramiyids, and tritylodontids, which are probably not closely related to each other, have labiolingually expanded postcanines with cusps arranged mesiodistally in rows and a central basin; thus pointing to the homoplastic nature of dental morphologies in the cynodont lineage. The teeth presented here are the oldest record of therapsid teeth with crowns having parallel rows of cusps, representing a temporal extension of approximately 10 million years for this crown pattern.
4524277| Using three-dimensional, digitized data of the crania and maxillary teeth of seventeen theropod dinosaurs, biomechanical analysis reveals a series of interrelated correlations between the sizes, orientations, and ellipticity (narrowness) of the orbits and the inferred mechanical properties of the skull and teeth that relate to biting. A value for the sagittal bending strength of a cranium was computed at the longitudinal position of the orbit under an assumed load applied at the longitudinal position of the longest maxillary tooth. With the area of the orbit expressed as a percentage of the total lateral area of the skull, an inverse relationship was found to exist between the area of the orbit and the bending strength of the skull. Orbits with long-axis inclination angles in the range of 150  15 are associated with taxa possessing small teeth and relatively weak skulls. Orbits with inclinations in the range of 95 10 are associated with taxa possessing relatively strong skulls and long and/or strong teeth. In weak-skulled taxa, the long axes of the orbits are orientated at angles of not less than 45 to the mean inclination direction of the maxillary teeth. In strong-skulled taxa, the long axes of the orbits are sub-parallel to mean maxillary tooth direction. Finally, the ellipticity of the orbits are positively correlated with the strengths of skulls. It is proposed that the form of the orbital opening in theropods with strong skulls is governed by the requirements of the posterior half of the skull to resist the muscle generated forces associated with prey capture and/or dismemberment. 
4523715|Well preserved skulls of Triceratops are extremely abundant in Maastrictian rocks from western North America. Although ossification obscures sutural and structural details in many skulls, others reveal much previously undescribed morphology. The circumnarial area includes enlarged nares and a complex narial fossa. A nasal horn of varying size, augmented by an epinasal ossification, caps the snout. The anterodorsal orbital margin is formed by the lacrimal and the supraorbital, which has fused to the lateral side of the prefrontal. This thick and laterally extensive orbital rim restricted forward vision in Triceratops. The ossified braincase completely surrounds the brain cavity, and is overlain by a deep frontal and cornual sinus complex. These sinuses probably acted as shock absorbers to counteract stresses placed on the postorbital horns during intraspecific interactions. The frill is heavily vascularized, lacks fenestrae, and is well buttressed by expansive paroccipital processes. Endocasts reflect all twelve cranial nerves, major structures of the brain, and some arterial and venous drainage systems.
4523689|Well-preserved skull bones referable to a new protosuchid, Protosuchus micmac, are common in the lower portion of the McCoy Brook Formation (Lower Jurassic: Hettangian) of Nova Scotia, Canada. P. micmac is closely related to P. richardsoni (Brown, 1933) from the Moenave Formation (Lower Jurassic) of Arizona and to P. haughtoni (Busbey et Gow, 1984) from the upper Stormberg Group (Lower Jurassic) of southern Africa. It differs from the latter taxa in several craniodental features, most notably in the presence of two large caniniform teeth in the dentary. The geographic range of protosuchid crocodyliforms provides further confirmation of a cosmopolitan distribution of many groups of terrestrial tetrapods during the Early Jurassic.
25835846|The acanthothoracid Hagiangella goujeti Janvier, 2005, has been described exclusively on the basis of isolated thoracic plates from the Lochkovian (Lower Devonian) Khao Loc Formation of Tung Vai, Ha Giang Province, northern Vietnam. It is characterized by a very high, triangular median crest on the median dorsal plate, and has been referred to the Acanthothoraci on the basis of the morphology of its fused anterolateral, spinal and anterior ventrolateral plates, and the characteristic stellate ornamentation of the group. Isolated plates of H. goujeti are relatively abundant at Tung Vai and no other placoderm taxon from this locality seems to share the same type of ornamentation. However, the skull of this species remained elusive. Here we report two well-preserved skull roofs from Tung Vai, which we refer to H. goujeti. They display the same stellate ornamentation and small size as the previously described plates of the thoracic armor of this species. This new material shows that the head of H. goujeti is surprisingly short (i.e., possibly lacking dermal rostral and pineal elements), in contrast to the elongate and narrow skull of all other acanthothoracids. The combination of unique characters (e.g., presence of two pairs of posterior pit lines, two pairs of central and paranuchal plates, etc.) suggests a possible sister group relationship to the placoderm assemblage Petalichthyida + Ptyctodontida + Arthrodira.
23251304|Several new specimens of the Triassic therocephalian Tetracynodon darti have become available in recent years, allowing substantial corrections and expansions to previous descriptions. We here analyze T. darti in the context of therocephalian relationships and biology, using computed tomographic (CT) scanning to reveal details of the skull. Histological sections, as well as the degree of ossification of individual elements, both suggest that the available specimens are subadults (rather than rapidly growing neonates), and probably yearlings. A maxillary shelf bearing a long suture with the vomer similar to that of Lycideops is present, and T. darti also shares a nasal-lacrimal contact with that taxon. There is no evidence for the presence of maxilloturbinal bones. The postcranial skeleton is slender and similar to that of regisaurids and other small baurioids. The skull bones show clear indentations demarcating the major divisions of the brain, allowing one of the most detailed reconstructions of a non-mammalian therapsid brain published to date. The brain is strikingly plesiomorphic in many features, particularly in the retention of large dorsally positioned optic lobes of the tectum, but generally shows features that are intermediate between gorgonopsians and cynodonts, thus clarifying this stage of the evolution of the synapsid brain. A cladistic analysis of 33 therapsid taxa and 131 morphological characters supports the monophyly of Therocephalia, and there is evidence for a monophyletic Lycideopidae within Baurioidea. Lycideopidae contains species with long snouts, nasal-lacrimal contacts, and incipient secondary palates, including Lycideops, Choerosaurus, T. tenuis, and T. darti.
20490966|Craniodental remains of fossil bovids from the late Miocene ncesu Formation, from sites near the city of Sivas, Turkey, are described. The bovid remains represent at least five species: Gazella cf. G. capricornis, Prostrepsiceros houtumschindleri syridisi, cf. Protoryx sp., Tethytragus cf. T. koehlerae, and Tragoportax cf. T. amalthea. The Sivas fossil bovid assemblage is fairly typical for the Greco-Iranian-Afghan paleobiological province, and compares well with the classic Turolian sites of Samos, Pikermi, and Maragheh. Biochronological correlations using these fossil bovids suggest the Sivas fossil assemblage is MN11 or early MN12 in age, or somewhere between 9-7 Ma. The presence of Tethytragus at Sivas represents only the second occurrence of this typically mid-Miocene (MN5-8) taxon from the late Miocene. Paleoecological attributes of the Sivas fossil bovids suggest local paleoenvironments at Sivas comprised shrubland to woodland biomes, perhaps devoid of expansive grasslands or dense forests. The presence/absence and relative abundances of bovid taxa within and among different Greek and Anatolian late Miocene fossil sites is compared and contrasted by way of correspondence analysis. Sivas plots among a number of sites all characterized by high proportions of Gazella, Tragoportax, and Protoryx/Pachytragus, and these in turn are readily distinguished from sites in which Palaeoreas/Majoreas, Protragelaphus, Oioceros, and Miotragocerus are more common. It is suggested that Sivas and similar sites (e.g. Sinap, Akkada) may have sampled drier, more open habitats than those with strongly differing faunal compositions (e.g. Nikiti-1, orakyerler).
4523813|An incomplete skull and associated mandible of "Megantereon" piveteaui Ozansoy, 1965, from the Middle Sinap Formation (Vallesian Mammal Age, early late Miocene) of Turkey is one of the best preserved and perhaps the latest known record of the Nimravidae outside North America. It shares many synapomorphies (such as the very specialized carnassials, reduced P3s and lower canine, broad palate, large infraorbital foramen, and large masseter insertion) with North American Barbourofelis, and is accordingly referred to this genus, which probably also includes B. vallesiensis (Beaumont and Crusafont, 1982) from the late Miocene of Spain. Immigration of this group into North America may have taken place near the middle/late Miocene boundary.
30126305|Two exquisitely preserved specimens from the Late Cretaceous of southeastern France, together with less complete material from southwestern France, allow the most complete description of the cranial morphology of Acynodon iberoccitanus. The extremely brevirostrine condition associated with a unique dentition might indicate derived dietary behavior for Acynodon. New characters were coded in a previously published matrix. In this context, Acynodon is placed in a polytomy at the base of Globidonta. As an early European form, the position of Acynodon implies that no biogeographic models can be favoured to explain alligatoroid and globidontan migrations between North America and Europe.
4523237|The first species from the United States that can clearly be referred to the European genus Iguanodon is described from the Lakota Formation of South Dakota. Consisting of virtually the entire skull and two vertebrae, I. lakotaensis (sp. nov.) represents the most primitive of Iguanodon species. Presence of Iguanodon from the Barremian (Lower Cretaceous) Lakota Formation confirms the suggestion that there was a close connection between the North American and Eurasian continental blocks during or immediately before this time.
4523144|A partly complete skeleton from the late Paleocene of western North Dakota is described as Simoedosaurus dakotensis, n. sp., and is compared with European individuals of the genus. This specimen represents the earliest occurrence of the genus and is the first species to be recognized from North America. Skull characters that differ from the type species and indicate an early stage of development are: shorter muzzle; marginal teeth of more uniform size; larger lachrymal and a broader and longer skull table. Postcranial distinctions from its close ally Champsosaurus, with which it is often confused, are also presented, and its association with crocodilians is noted.
4522989| Astrohippus stocki is characterized by a very complex cheek region with lacrimal and malar fossae that contain smaller concentric pits. Dinohippus mexicanus is characterized by a relatively simple cheek region; the nasomaxillary ("lacrimal") fossa is moderately developed and the malar fossa is absent. Analysis of characters of the cheek region, when combined with those of the dentition, yield the following phylogenetic hypotheses: 1) A. stocki (and A. ansae) are derivable from Pliohippus s.s. and are only distantly related to Equus; 2) D. mexicanus is a very close relative of some segment of the Equus radiation. A. stocki and D. mexicanus are known from Mexico, Texas, and Florida. These occurrences are biochronologically useful; they indicate a latest Hemphillian age. /// Astrohippus stocki est caracterizado por una regin preorbital muy compleja con una fosa "lacrimal" y una fosa malar que contiene pequeos depresiones concentricas. Dinohippus mexicanus est caracterizado por una region preorbital relativamente simple; la fosa nasomaxillar ("lacrimal") est moderadamente desarrollada y la fosa malar est ausente. Cuando se combinen los caracteres de la regin preorbital, con los de la denticin, da como resultado las siguientes hipotesis filogenticas: (1) A. stocki (y A. ansae) derivan de Pliohippus s.s. y estn solo distanciadamente relacionados a Equus; (2) D. mexicanus est estrechamente relacionado con Equus. A. stocki y D. mexicanus son conocido de Mxico, Texas, y Florida. Estos registros de ocurrencia son muy tiles e indican una edad Hemphillian tarda. 
4523590|The Cretaceous theropod families Ornithomimidae, Tyrannosauridae, Troodontidae, Elmisauridae, and Avimimidae share an unusual condition of the metatarsus. The central (third) metatarsal is greatly reduced proximally, completely excluded from anterior view and nearly to completely excluded in dorsal aspect. This bone forms a wedge shape distally, triangular in transverse cross section, which is buttressed against the more columnar metatarsals II and IV. This morphology forms a tightly bound structure, here termed the arctometatarsalian condition. Morphometric analysis indicates that the arctometatarsalian structure is significantly more elongate and gracile than underived metatarsi, and this structure is associated with relatively elongate distal hind limbs per unit femoral length. When compared with limb proportions of modem and extinct mammals and flightless birds, these limb proportions are seen to be consistent with a hypothesis of enhanced cursoriality in the derived theropods. In some genera, intrametatarsal mobility in this structure may have served as an energy storage system analogous to the snap-ligaments of modern equids. The wedge-and-buttress morphology would have resulted in a more direct transmission of locomotory forces to the epipodium than in less derived theropods. Biomechanical analysis indicates that this type of relatively gracile pes was not significantly weaker than pedes of underived theropods with regards to bending stresses, due to elongation into the parasagittal plane. To the contrary, these metatarsi were well designed to withstand the forces and stresses associated with enhanced cursorial ability.
20491067|The monospecific genera Eothyris (Petrolia Formation, Leonardian, Archer County, Texas) and Oedaleops (Abo/Cutler Formation, Wolfcampian, Rio Arriba County, New Mexico), known solely from cranial remains, are confidently assigned to the monophyletic Caseasauria based on cranial and dental characters. In addition, Eothyris and Oedaleops comprise the monophyletic Eothyrididae based on nine cranial and dental characters. In contrast to the medium to large sized herbivorous caseids, the small eothyridids exhibit dental features that indicate that they were faunivores. The presence of well-developed caniniform teeth suggests that they were predators. Both Eothyris parkeyi Romer and Oedaleops campi Langston exhibit a suite of plesiomorphic cranial characters that identify them as basal synapsids. Thus, the eothyridids are better representatives of the primitive synapsid cranial morphotype than the often-used ophiacodontids. Although they appear relatively late in synapsid evolution, both eothyridids are significantly older than all other caseasaurs, forcing the establishment of a long unrecorded lineage for caseids.
40864356|We describe Prosictodon dubei, gen. et sp. nov., from the Abrahamskraal Formation, Karoo Basin, Middle Permian of South Africa. Diagnostic characters of P. dubei include postorbitals that slope ventrolaterally and overlap the parietals nearly completely; median anterior palatal ridges that converge with the posterior median palatal ridge, forming a V-shaped structure; caniniform process with an anterior edge that is set off from the palatal rim forming a notch; 'postcanine' teeth present on the maxilla; a ventrally directed transverse flange of the pterygoid with an obtuse posterior margin; a short interpterygoid vacuity that does not reach the level of the palatine pads; a dentary table that forms an elongate grooved surface on the dorsal surface of the dentary, bounded laterally by a low ridge and medially by a tall, thin, dorsally convex blade; 'postcanine' teeth present on the dentary blade; and the absence of a posterior dentary sulcus. A phylogenetic analysis confirms that P. dubei is a member of Pylaecephalidae, although we cannot corroborate that it is the sister taxon of Diictodon feliceps. The holotype of P. dubei was collected low in the Tapinocephalus Assemblage Zone in the northwestern Karoo Basin, near the contact between the Ecca and Beaufort groups, within the stratigraphie range of Robertia but above the ranges of Eodicynodon and Colobodectes. On-going research suggests dicynodonts in the Tapinocephalus Assemblage Zone appeared in sequence (Colobodectes first; Lanthanostegus, Robertia, Prosictodon second; Diictodon and Pristerodon third), in contrast to earlier works that portrayed Diictodon, Robertia, and Pristerodon as occurring throughout the zone.
4523516|Mammalian teeth show a considerable complexity in microstructure. The arrangement of decussated enamel prisms gives enamel the functional advantages of a composite material. This prism arrangement is genetically determined and altered throughout evolution. As the evolution of hypsodont molars implies a drastic alteration of the loading conditions and of the stress pattern in teeth, it can be expected that enamel microstructure is also affected. Equids and several other ungulates evolved the modified radial enamel in adaptation to these altered conditions. As the fossil record for the phylogeny of horses is available in considerable completeness, this group is suitable to investigate the correlation of morphologic evolution and the evolution of enamel microstructure. Indeed, the same patterns of evolutionary change previously known from the morphologic level can also be demonstrated on the microstructural level. Modified radial enamel is characterized by the orientation of the interprismatic crystallites, the thickness of the inter matrix, and the radial prism arrangement. The three characters appear step by step in a phylogenetic context. First the orientation of the interprismatic crystallites perpendicular to the prisms occurs in Mesohippus. In Parahippus, all three characters appear together for the first time, but the location and the very small amount of modified radial enamel suggests that a function in strengthening the enamel is very unlikely. In all hypsodont equids, modified radial enamel appears in a considerable amount and obviously is an adaptation to the altered stress distribution in hypsodont molars. Hypohippus shows a further combination of two of the characters; the crystallite orientation and the thickness of the interprismatic matrix is similar to the modified radial enamel, but the prisms are not arranged in radial rows but in decussating layers. Because the characters of modified radial enamel appear stepwise and preadaptively, and because some other lineages that lack the development of these characters did not evolve hypsodont molars, it seems probable that enamel microstructure influences the potential for macromorphologic phylogenetic change.
30117455|A new genus and species of basal mosasauroid reptile from the Cenomanian (Upper Cretaceous) of Slovenia, previously referred to as the "Trieste aigialosaur," is described. The new taxon is known from only a single specimen including a well-preserved postcranial skeleton and parts of the skull (i.e., left quadrate, left surangular-prearticular complex, and left angular and splenial). Morphological characters of the quadrate and postcranial skeleton distinguish this new taxon from other basal mosasauroids such as Aigialosaurus dalmaticus, Aigialosaurus (=Opetiosaurus) bucchichi and Carsosaurus marchesettii. Cladistic parsimony analysis of a taxon character matrix composed of 135 characters and 31 terminal taxa resulted in the recovery of 12 equally parsimonious cladograms of 351 steps (CI = 0.48, HI = 0.52, and RI = 0.73). From these cladograms we present a phylogenetic hypothesis on the interrelationships of mosasauroids. Species assigned to Aigialosaurus form the basalmost mosasauroid clade. The new genus described here is reconstructed with Carsosaurus marchesettii in a clade that is the sistergroup to the following clade: (Haasiasaurus ((Halisaurinae, (Tethysaurus nopcsai (Yaguarasaurus columbianus, Russellosaurus coheni)) (Russellosaurina)))); the "Dallas aigialosaur," Dallasaurus turneri, is found to be the basal-most mosasaurine. Arguments supporting the importance of pelvic evolution to the aquatic adaptations of mosasaurs are given along with a discussion of recent hypotheses of limb evolution in mosasauroids.
4522905|The history of South American therapsids and archosaurs during the Early, Middle and Late Triassic is analyzed. Improvements in the locomotor apparatus are discernible in seven groups of archosaurs and indicate that a great adaptive radiation took place before the oldest recorded fauna dominated by archosaurs appeared. Competition between therapsids and archosaurs began at the outset of the Triassic, when the proterosuchids were cosmopolitan and ceased 10 m.y. before the end of the Triassic. The rich Dicroidium flora and the variety of types of both therapsids and archosaurs were synchronous. The flora probably triggered the radiation in both reptilian groups. It is assumed that the extinction of therapsids was caused by: (a) the locomotor superiority of the Middle and Late Triassic archosaurs; (b) the capability of archosaurs to increase their body size during the Triassic; (c) the appearance of herbivorous archosaurs at the outset of the Late Triassic; and (d) the competitive pressure imposed by rhynchosaurs on medium-sized therapsids.
4523460|Exostosis, terminating in a mushroom-like overgrowth of bone with a central distal depression, was found on the medial aspect of the distal radii of 61% (19 of 31) of the Oligocene Hesperocyon sp. examined. X-rays revealed that the trabecular and cortical regions of the neck of the exostosis are contiguous with those of the adjacent shaft. Lesions are bilaterally symmetrical in all individuals in which both radii were preserved. New findings after Romer's (1924) report of Daphoenus exostoses indicate that the tumors are not limited to the distal radius. Presence of exostoses in 61% of Hesperocyon sp. and in the contemporary primitive caniform carnivorans Daphoenus and Cynodictis suggests an autosomal dominant disorder. Presence of sternal and radial shaft exostosis in Hesperocyon further supports the diagnosis of multiple hereditary osteochondroma. The distribution of osteochondroma has now been extended to the Oligocene canids.
4524478|Most of the Cretaceous ichthyosaurian materials are referable to the single genus Platypterygius, which includes seven species. Although Cretaceous ichthyosaurs were probably cosmopolitan in their distribution, South American records are scarce. In recent revisions, the name Platypterygius hauthali has been retained for Early Cretaceous material from South America, but no specific diagnosis has been provided. The species P. hauthali was proposed on the basis of fragmentary material from the Neocomian of Santa Cruz Province (Patagonia, Argentina). However, analysis of the forefin features of the holotype shows that the pattern of carpal ossifications is different from that of other species of the genus and, furthermore, that this pattern is sufficient for specific diagnosis. Based on these data and additional findings of ichthyosaurs in Neuquen, Argentina, it can be concluded that there are three valid ichthyosaur taxa present in the Early Cretaceous of South America: Caypullisaurus bonapartei (Berriasian of Neuquen, Argentina), Platypterygius hauthali (Early Barremian of Santa Cruz, Argentina) and P. sachicarum (Barrenian-Aptian of Colombia).
4523799| Symplokeomys zaysanicus is a new genus and species of eomyid rodent from the upper part of the Aksyir Formation of the Zaysan Basin, eastern Kazakhstan. The new taxon differs from other eomyids in having a complex pattern of interconnecting lophules within the central basin of its cheek teeth. Other mammals from the Aksyir Formation indicate an Ergilian (late Eocene) age. Symplokeomys zaysanicus               .                 .          ( ). 
4523498|The recent discovery of a nearly complete ceratopsid skull in the Aguja Formation of southwest Texas supports previous conclusions that the Aguja ceratopsid represents a distinct species, Chasmosaurus mariscalensis. The diagnostic features of C. mariscalensis include an extensive anteromedian projection of the nasal between the premaxillae, erect supraorbital horns, and laterally rounded squamosal. Nine cranial features that vary among Chasmosaurus species, Pentaceratops sternbergii, and other chasmosaurines are analyzed. Chasmosaurus mariscalensis appears to be most closely related to northern species of Chasmosaurus (C. belli, C. russelli), which also exhibit a transversely flattened nasal horn and modifications of the anterior margin of the external naris. The genus Chasmosaurus, in turn, appears to be most closely related to the other southern chasmosaurine, Pentaceratops sternbergii. The biogeographic history inferred from these relationships suggests that the biogeographic exchange between northern and southern chasmosaurines cannot be explained by a single dispersal event to the south.
4523927|Cladistic phylogenies of the archosaur ingroup are reviewed in light of recent concerns regarding an over-dependence on characters relating to tarsal and pedal morphology. The use of simple statistical techniques shows that the exclusion of ankle characters from recent cladistic phylogenies has no significant effect on the relative support of relationships proposed. Contrary to current opinion, ankle characters should be considered unimportant when attempting to reconstruct the broad shape of archosaur phylogeny.
4523592|An early Eocene didymoconid skull with perfect basicranial region from Hubei Province of China is described. Important cranial features include a small orbit, a broad temporal region, a maxilla-frontal contact in the orbit, absence of the jugal-lacrimal contact, a broad dorsal process of the alisphenoid, an extensive squamosal, absence of the postglenoid foramen, a transversely elongate glenoid fossa, a fully ossified bulla, an external auditory canal floored by the squamosal and mastoid of the petrosal, a greatly expanded mastoid of the petrosal, and a large foramen for the epitympanic sinus in the tympanic roof. In addition, the internal carotid artery may be reduced, although the stapedial artery is well developed. Analyses of the cranial features reveal that this skull is already highly specialized. The analyses also indicate that the North American genus Wyolestes and the Asiatic didymoconids form a paraphyletic group and that derivation of both Wyolestes and didymoconids from a Paleocene Yantanglestes-like mesonychid is not supportable. Instead, on the basis of cranial evidence, a didymoconid-insectivore relationship is suggested.
24523220|Eurygnathohippus is a genus of hipparionine horse that evolved in and was confined to the African continent from the late Miocene to Pleistocene interval. Eurygnathohippus woldegabrieli is a new species from Aramis, Ethiopia, dated between 4.4 and 4.2 Ma. The hypodigm is currently restricted to 157 specimens from 14 Aramis localities and one nearby Gona locality. We nominate a mandible as the type and a maxillary dentition and two complete metacarpal IIIs as paratypes. Our analysis reveals that Eurygnathohippus woldegabrieli is derived compared with late Miocene Eurygnathohippus feibeli in its overall size, cheek tooth crown height, mandibular symphysis length, and robusticity of distal limb elements. It is primitive in mandibular symphysis length and robusticity of distal limb elements compared with the more advanced medial Pliocene species Eurygnathohippus hasumense. A study of Eurygnathohippus woldegabrieli's paleodiet as measured by two mesowear methods, corroborated by carbon isotope studies, reveals that it was a dedicated grazer with a coarse C4 diet akin to that of modern zebras, wildebeests, and white rhinoceroses.
23251295|An exquisitely preserved skull of Feeserpeton oklahomensis, gen. et sp. nov., collected from the Lower Permian fissure-fill deposits near Richards Spur, Oklahoma, is the newest parareptile from the locality. The specimen comprises an almost complete skull, lacking most of the premaxillae, parts of the jugals, and parts of the braincase. The maxillae and dentaries possess caniniform regions, including large caniniform teeth that are at least twice as large as any other tooth in the jaws. A phylogenetic analysis of Parareptilia that includes the new taxon indicates that the Early Permian F. oklahomensis is a member of the poorly known Lanthanosuchoidea, positioning it as the sister taxon of a clade consisting of Acleistorhinus pteroticus and Lanthanosuchus watsoni. This new taxon adds significantly to our limited knowledge of the early stages of parareptile evolution, as well as the large terrestrial tetrapod diversity found at Richards Spur.
20062009|The structure of the orbito-nasal cavity in the antiarchan placoderm fish Asterolepis ornata has been studied, providing a detailed description of the premedian, rostral, and pineal plates, and bones of the sclerotic ring. Both eyes and nostrils were directed antero-latero-dorsally in Asterolepis. Eyes were enclosed within the sclerotic capsule. Nasal cavities were not opened into a so called "prenasal slit," but directly above the head of fish. A new reconstruction of the nasal openings and position of the nasal sacs shows broader similarities between various antiarchs than was previously claimed, and allows the evaluation of the differences in the structure of the orbito-nasal cavities in antiarchs and osteostracans to disclaim the hypothesis about the presence of nasohypophyseal opening in antiarchs.
23361053|Placodus gigas is an unarmored placodont marine reptile (Diapsida, Sauropterygia) known from the Middle Triassic of Europe, most commonly found in the shallow marine carbonate facies of the German Muschelkalk (lower Anisian to middle Ladinian, approximately 243235 Ma). Generally, the morphology of the skull is well understood, with the exception of the braincase, which is partially obscured by dermatocranial bone. Two skulls that display well-preserved and intact chondrocranial elements were scanned using industrial micro-computed tomography (CT), thus revealing parts of the braincase that were previously obscured and allowing a new three-dimensional reconstruction of the region to be constructed. This includes a complete osteological description, the first reconstruction of a sauropterygian vestibular apparatus, and a new virtual cranial endocast. The morphology of the braincase and sphenoid region has been revised, revealing the position of the hypophyseal pit. The enigmatic 'alisphenoid bridge' has been reinterpreted as being a dorsally extended dorsum sellae. The vestibular apparatus is shown to have strongly dorsoventrally compressed vertical semicircular canals, a commonly observed morphology of other marine reptiles, and an 'alert' head position of about 20, indicating a highly aquatic lifestyle. Because placodonts are the sister group to all other sauropterygians, these new data are of great comparative and phylogenetic significance, providing insight into some of the morphological and functional changes that occurred on the stem leading to the more derived sauropterygians.
4523069|An ontogenetic series of spines smaller than but very similar to the form taxon Physonemus attenuatus Davis have been found to be anterior dorsal spines of a cladodont chondrichthyan. The specimens, from the Upper Mississippian (Chesterian) Bear Gulch Limestone of Montana, are closest to the Stethacanthidae although they lack a modified dorsal fin following the spine and have prominent metapterygia in the pelvic fins. The new genus and species Damocles serratus is erected for them and they are provisionally included within the Stethacanthidae together with the referred species Damocles attenuatus (Davis).
4523256|Relationships among diprotodontian marsupials have remained enigmatic despite recent work in neontology and paleontology. Thus, the long suspected monophyly of phalangeriform marsupials in not well established. Basicranial anatomy, however, may be useful in elucidating phylogenetic relationships within the Diprotodontia. Specifically, phalangeriform marsupials have a broadened ectotympanic, a tympanic cavity that is firmly surrounded by bone, and an alisphenoid tympanic wing that extends posteriorly to the anterior margin of the paroccipital and/or posterior lacerate foramen. Within the Phalangeriformes, phalangeroids and petauroids exhibit several derived characters not present in the macropodoids. These characters include modifications of the postglenoid process, the external auditory meatus, the ventral postglenoid foramen, and the bones of the auditory region of the skull. Other derived characters, both cranial and dental, argue against the monophyly of a clade containing phalangeroids and petauroids, but are less convincing than those that support their inclusion in a monophyletic group. Finally, there may be strongly adaptive reasons for reorganization of the phalangeriform basicranium.
20627132|A remarkably well-preserved primitive horned brontothere skull from the Wiggins Formation of western Wyoming is described. Noteworthy characters of this specimen include an extensive system of large paranasal sinuses, a distinct vomerine plate, and a confluence of the anterior lacerate foramen and foramen rotundum. A nearly complete endocranial cast allows for a description of the brain and many of the cranial nerves. Perhaps the most important structures described are the large openings on the basicranium, here dubbed "sphenoidal apertures," which may be unique among the Brontotheriidae. Among North American brontothere taxa, the skull is closest in morphology to the holotype of Protitanotherium emarginatum Hatcher, but has some important differences that make assignment to that genus and species uncertain. If reference to the genus Protitanotherium is correct, then the name P. australis (Wilson) may apply, although this may be a junior synonym of P. superbum Osborn. Given the uncertainties, the specimen is identified only as cf. Protitanotherium for the purposes of the present paper. Regardless of which name should be applied, characters displayed by the specimen suggest that it is the primitive sister genus to all other diplacodont brontotheres.
4523771|The Plotopteridae are wing-propelled, penguin-like diving birds of the order Pelecaniformes found in mid-Tertiary deposits of the North Pacific. Much new material representing a considerable radiation of genera and species has been discovered in Japan since the basic adaptations and characters of the family were revealed. A new genus and species, Copepteryx hexeris, is named here from previously known but underscribed material upon which much of our knowledge of the family had originally been based. A second new species, C. titan, is described from a single gigantic femur from a bird that was probably larger than any known diving bird, living or fossil.
30126309|A new burnetiamorph therapsid, Lophorhinus willodenensis, gen. et sp. nov., is described on the basis of a partial skull from the Permian Teekloof Formation (Beaufort Group) of the Beaufort West District, Western Cape Province, South Africa. Although similar to the coeval burnetiamorph Lobalopex, Lophorhinus is autapomorphic in its possession of a semicircular median nasal crest formed by unfused nasals, doubled lacrimal foramina, an ossified sphenethmoid, and a mesiodistally compressed first premaxillary tooth. New morphological data provided by Lophorhinus permit the recognition of several character states that have been difficult to evaluate in other burnetiamorph taxa, including a (1) short dorsal process of the premaxilla, (2) contribution of the frontal to the upper orbital margin, and (3) lack of a significant contribution of the prefrontal to the supraorbital boss. An updated cladistic analysis of twelve biarmosuchians suggests that Lophorhinus is the sister taxon to Lobalopex + Burnetiidae. However, the precise relationships among Lemurosaurus, Lobalopex, and Lophorhinus are unresolved in the strict consensus of 25 primary trees. The discovery of Lophorhinus in the Tropidostoma Assemblage Zone (AZ) demonstrates that multiple burnetiamorph taxa co-existed in southern Gondwana during Middle and Late Permian times. Systematic collecting from the Tropidostoma AZ suggests that carnivorous burnetiamorphs, gorgonopsians, and therocephalians are exceedingly rare components of the tetrapod fauna, with herbivorous dicynodonts dominating the fossil record (121/126 specimens collected). Field collections of tetrapods from the Tropidostoma AZ are most similar in their composition to those described from the stratigraphically higher Dicynodon AZ, implying relatively stable tetrapod community structure in southern Pangea for the final 10 million years of the Permian.
4523911|Four new late Pleistocene faunas have been collected in Chatham County, Georgia, in the vicinity of Savannah. Together they have produced 103 vertebrate taxa (12 chondrichthyans, 25 actinopterygians, 7 amphibians, 20 reptiles, 4 birds, and 35 mammals), of which at least 14 are extinct. About 75 percent of these taxa are reported for the first time as fossils from coastal Georgia. The Isle of Hope, Mayfair, and Jones Girls sites are numerically dominated by neritic marine fossils, both vertebrate and invertebrate, implying that their original depositional environment was estuarine or nearshore marine. The less common, terrestrial component of these faunas was either brought in by fluvial and tidal current transport or introduced by reworking of underlying continental sediments. These sites apparently date to the last interglacial (oxygen isotope Stage 5), at a time when relative sea level was close to or slightly above current values. This age assignment is supported by the composition of the fauna and uranium-series and radiocarbon dating. The fourth new site, Porters Pit, is a fluvial channel lag deposit of coarse clastic sediments and a chronologically mixed assemblage of Miocene, Pliocene, and Pleistocene fossils. It dates to a period of fluvial down-cutting during an eustatic sea-level lowstand. The Isle of Hope Site contains the first rich vertebrate microfauna from coastal Georgia. The most significant aspects of this fauna are the presence of several extralimital taxa (e.g., Ambystoma maculatum, Blarina brevicauda, Microtus pennsylvanicus, Neofiber alleni), and the dominance among the small rodents by arvicolines rather than peromyscines and sigmodontines. An unlikely member of the fauna is the small felid Leopardus. Although represented by only a single element, a mandible, it differs morphologically from modern members of the genus and the late Pleistocene species Leopardus amnicola.
4524703|Four distinct stages have been identified in the ontogeny of Diictodon feliceps based on variations in cortical thickness, organization of primary osteons, porosity, incidence of growth marks, and extent of endosteal reconstruction. In general, the cortex comprises fibrolamellar bone tissue suggesting rapid bone deposition and growth. In the initial two stages of growth, when up to 70% of adult size is attained, no growth marks interrupt the fibrolamellar tissue, indicating a sustained, fast growth. Growth marks appear late in ontogeny and indicate periods of slow or complete cessation of growth after which, fast growth resumed. Although growth was interrupted and much slower in the later stages, D. feliceps probably had an indeterminate growth strategy. Variations in cortical thickness, porosity, organization of primary osteons, and incidence of annuli and LAGs are observed between elements of the same individual, suggesting variable inter-elemental growth. The propodials had faster appositional growth than did the epipodials, with the humerus having grown much faster than the femur in the same individual. The high cortical thickness (RBT) and correspondingly low k values suggest that the limbs were selected for impact loading. The relatively high RBT and low k value of the humerus compared to other limb bones indicates that the forelimbs were more modified for postural support and digging.
4524320|Recognition of avascular necrosis through propodial head subsidence in fossils indicates that plesiosaurs were susceptible to decompression syndrome and implies deep, prolonged or repetitive diving behavior for these animals. Contrary to the situation in mosasaurs, plesiosaur vertebrae were not targets of avascular necrosis. This suggests that the anastomosing internal vascularization of plesiosaur vertebral centra was functionally adaptive. No phyletic trend is evident in the susceptibility of plesiosaurs to the pathology, although stem group sauropterygians were almost never affected (not surprising for near-shore, shallow water animals). Cryptoclididae were the only plesiosaur family not regularly afflicted with decompression syndrome. The difference between this and other groups is most likely to have been behavioral and/or ecological.
40864386|A detailed re-description and revised diagnosis is given for Macroplata tenuiceps Swinton, 1930, a plesiosaurian known from a single almost complete specimen (BMNH R5488) from the Blue Lias Formation (Hettangian) of Harbury, Warwickshire, U.K. The Early Jurassic was an important time in the early evolution of the clade Plesiosauria and saw its diversification into two superfamilies, Plesiosauroidea and Pliosauroidea. As one of the earliest nearly complete, wellprovenanced plesiosaurians known, M. tenuiceps is important for understanding early plesiosaurian evolution. Three new autapomorphies for Macroplata tenuiceps are presented, confirming the validity of this taxon: a triangular emargination in the posterior border of the coracoid; a triangular emargination in the posterior border of the ischium; and posterior convergence of the long axes of the posterior interpterygoid vacuities. Contrasting phylogenetic hypotheses of the position of M. tenuiceps and other Lower Jurassic plesiosaurians (some of which have not been treated scientifically since the 19th Century) highlights the need for revision of their anatomy and taxonomy for use in fine-grained species-level cladistic analysis.
30117457|Spinosaurid theropod dinosaurs appear to represent convergent morphological evolution toward a crocodylian-like cranial morphology, previously linked to the possibility that spinosaurs adopted a similar, partially piscivorous, trophic niche. Further conclusions are hindered by a lack of quantitative evidence, and an incomplete understanding of the functional significance of key crocodylian cranial characters. A comparative biomechanical analysis of function in the snout of the spinosaurid theropod Baryonyx walkeri has been performed, comparing B. walkeri with a generalised large theropod dinosaur and two extant crocodylians (Alligator, Gavialis) that represent different endpoints of extant crocodylian morphological diversity. The aims of the analysis were (a) to determine which group is the closest functional analogue to B. walkeri, and (b) investigate the mechanical influence on cranial function of the antorbital fenestra and the secondary palate; morphological characters that appear to be of importance in both crocodyliform and spinosaur functional morphology. Results demonstrate that the closest structural and biomechanical analogue to B. walkeri is the extant gharial, rather than the alligator or conventional theropods. The secondary palate confers strength to the alligator skull in torsion, but provides resistance to bending in gharials and B. walkeri. Loss of the antorbital fenestra strengthens narrow or tubular theropod and gharial snouts, but has limited influence on the broader-snouted alligator morphotypes. Consequently, with their large antorbital fenestrae and lack of secondary palate, most theropod skulls were surprisingly suboptimally constructed to resist feeding-related bite loads. The mechanical impetus for archosaur palatal development and fenestral closure appears more complex than previously thought.
41407677|A new protocetid archaeocete, Aegyptocetus tarfa, is represented by a nearly complete cranium and an associated partial skeleton. The specimen was recovered when marbleized limestone was imported commercially to Italy and cut into decorative facing stone. It came from middle Eocene Tethyan marine strata of the Gebel Hof Formation of Wadi Tarfa in the Eastern Desert of Egypt. Exceptional preservation and preparation enables study of some internal features of the skull as well as its external morphology. The skull of Aegyptocetus is unusual in having the rostrum and frontal portions of the cranium deflected more ventrally relative to the braincase than is typical for archaeocetes. This ventral deflection, clinorhynchy, is a rare specialization related to feeding or hearing that is widely distributed across mammals. Aegyptocetus has well-developed ethmoidal turbinal bones, indicating retention of a functional sense of smell. It also has cranial asymmetry, thinning of the lateral walls of the dentaries, enlarged mandibular canals, and thinning of the anterolateral walls of the tympanic bullae, indicating enhanced ability to hear in water. Neural spines are long on thoracic vertebrae Tl through T8, suggesting that Aegyptocetus was able to support its weight on land like other protocetids. This combination of terrestrial and aquatic characteristics is consistent with interpretation of protocetids as semiaquatic. The pattern of tooth marks preserved on the ribs of Aegyptocetus indicates that the individual studied here was attacked by a large shark, but it is not certain whether this was the cause of death.
4524607|The structure of the braincase and the posterior portion of the palate of the type and only known specimen of Phantomosaurus neubigi (Sander, 1997) from the Upper Muschelkalk (Late Anisian) of Franconia (Southern Germany) is redescribed. P. neubigi is unique among hitherto known ichthyosaurs in numerous features of braincase morphology. These include an anteroposteriorly compressed, elongate and slender processus paroccipitalis, a clear sutural connection between the basioccipital and opisthotic, a foramen metoticum that is completely enclosed by the exoccipital and opisthotic, fusion between exoccipital and opisthotic, the retention of rudimentary postparietals -which are recorded in ichthyosaurs for the first time- and a concave occipital condyle (the latter feature is also known in a limited number of other Triassic ichthyosaurs). These characters of the Phantomosaurus braincase differ from post-Triassic ichthyosaurs, which are characterized by a strong reduction of braincase ossification, particularly with regard to the otic capsule. A short survey of current knowledge on ichthyosaur braincase anatomy as well as comparison to well-known basal amniotes and basal diapsids suggests, that the features shown by Phantomosaurus must largely be regarded as plesiomorphic and that its braincase is the most plesiomorphic ichthyosaur braincase currently known. This leads to a new view on the primitive condition of the ichthyosaur braincase that has to be considered in any further studies on ichthyosaur origins and evolution.
41407703|Abelisaurid theropods are common members of Cretaceous Gondwanan faunas and are characterized by a bizarre, highly reduced forelimb. Unfortunately, forelimb elements are rarely preserved and thus the basic structure of the abelisaurid forelimb remains poorly understood. Until recently, the Upper Cretaceous Maevarano Formation of northwestern Madagascar has produced numerous exceptional specimens of the abelisaurid theropod Majungasaurus crenatissimus but comparatively little forelimb material. A recently discovered articulated skeleton of Majungasaurus preserves a virtually complete pectoral girdle and forelimb, which, along with additional isolated forelimb elements, affords important new insights into the structure of these elements. New specimens of the scapulocoracoid and humrus allow more detailed description of their morphology, and antebrachial and manual elements are described for the first time. The radius and ulna are approximately one-quarter the length of the humrus and both have expanded proximal and distal articular surfaces relative to their narrow diaphyses. The manus consists of four digits, each composed of a short metacarpal and one (digits I and IV) or two (digits II and III) phalanges. No ossified carpis are present. The proportions of the brachium and antebrachium are stout, more similar to the condition in Carnotaurus than in Aucasaurus. We reinterpret manual digit identities in Aucasaurus and Carnotaurus based on new information provided by the manus of Majungasaurus. Overall, the morphology of the forelimb in Majungasaurus reveals that abelisaurids share an extremely reduced, unique morphology that is dissimilar to the more typical theropod condition seen in other ceratosaurs.
23361074|A new fossil crocodyliform, Paluxysuchus newmani, gen. et sp. nov., is established on the basis of a nearly complete skull from the Lower Cretaceous (late Aptian) Twin Mountains Formation of north-central Texas. Partially articulated and disarticulated cranial material representing two individuals was recovered from the Jones Ranch locality in close association with the sauropod Paluxysaurus jonesi. The holotype skull is nearly complete, missing the premaxillae, left palatine, and pterygoids, and does not preserve the choanal region. This taxon is notable for having its frontal separated medially from the orbital margin, an extremely elongate anterolateral process of the postorbital, large and rounded supratemporal fenestrae, and a narrow, rod-like posterior ramus of the jugal. These features indicate affinities with goniopholidids, pholidosaurids, and thalattosuchians. A phylogenetic analysis places Paluxysuchus newmani deep within Neosuchia as the sister taxon to the clade that includes Goniopholididae and Eusuchia.
4524254|A mosasaurid skull, 6 cervicals, the anterior two dorsals and a single posterior dorsal vertebra were found in Oron, Negev Desert, Israel, in latest Campanian deposits. The skull is dorsoventrally compressed and somewhat distorted, but otherwise in good condition, although sutures are often indistinct, in part due to weathering and in part due to the great size and presumable old age of the specimen. At an overall length of 1,422 mm it is one of the largest skulls ever discovered. The skull bears resemblance to those of advanced mosasaurines, in particular the type species of Prognathodon, P. solvayi, but differs from all previously known mosasaurids in having a frontal distinctly wider than long. Cladistic analysis on cranial and mandibular characters of 33 ingroup taxa were performed. A Nelsen consensus tree (1:225, ci:44 ri:76) based on 3 equally parsimonious trees placed this new specimen as the sister taxon to P. solvayi, with the American species of Prognathodon forming successive outgroups to these two. The present specimen extends the size range of known globidensine mosasaurines by around a factor two.
4523832|A new diapsid reptile, Jesairosaurus lehmani, gen. et sp. nov., is described on the basis of cranial and postcranial remains from the base of the Zarzaitine Series (Triassic) of Algeria. Jesairosaurus is a small prolacertiform with a low skull and an elongated neck; the snout is narrow and elongated and the post-orbital region short and narrow; the quadratojugal is lost; the posterior process of the jugal is reduced and spur-shaped; the hind-limb is large in comparison with the forelimb and the rest of the postcranial skeleton. The relationships of basal archosauromorphs and the interrelationships of the prolacertiforms are examined. The analysis of 71 binary characters leads to the identification of Jesairosaurus lehmani as a prolacertiform and suggests that Prolacertiformes forms a monophyletic group within the Archosauromorpha. The analysis indicates that the Rhynchosauria is the sister group of a clade comprising Trilophosaurus, Prolacertiformes, and Proterosuchus. The Choristodera is the most plesiomorphic taxon within the archosauromorphs. Jesairosaurus is most closely related to Malerisaurus langstoni while Boreopricea is closely related to the (Cosesaurus(Tanystropheus longobardicus, Tanytrachelos)) clade, and Langobardisaurus and Macrocnemus are the successive out-groups of this clade. Protorosaurus is the most plesiomorphic of the best known Prolacertiformes. The relationships of the poorly known prolacertiforms Kadimakara, Prolacertoides, Malutinisuchus, and probably Trachelosaurus remain unresolved.
4523580|Prorastomus sirenoides is both the oldest and the most primitive sirenian known; it is the only unquestioned sirenian recorded from beds of probable early Eocene age. The unique holotype skull from Jamaica is here redescribed, new material from middle Eocene beds in Jamaica is referred to this species, and two atlases from the late Eocene of Florida are referred to the family Prorastomidae. Although Prorastomus appears to have some autapomorphies that exclude it from the direct ancestry of other sirenians, it is the best available approximation to a structural ancestor of the Sirenia. Therefore, Prorastomus is more appropriate than any Recent species as a representative of the order in analyzing the relationships of sirenians to other mammals. Sirenians are cladistically related to some other primitive ungulates as follows: (Arctocyon (Phenacodus (Moeritherium, Sirenia))). The 3.1.5.3 dental formula of Prorastomus and other Eocene sirenians may be a synapomorphy of the order and a reversal of the loss of P5 and M3 postulated by McKenna (1975) to have occurred in early eutherians; or it may be simply a retention of the primitive eutherian formula. Prorastomus was probably an amphibious but mainly aquatic quadruped that inhabited coastal rivers and embayments. It was probably a selective browser on floating and emergent aquatic plants and, to a minor degree, on seagrasses.
4522846|Two isolated vertebrae of the giant aquatic snake Pterosphenus schucherti Lucas were recently discovered in deposits of the late Eocene Jackson Group near Forrest City, Arkansas. This is the first record of the species in deposits of the Mississippi Embayment, and its westernmost occurrence in North America. The fauna associated with the Arkansas specimens of P. schucherti contains marine, freshwater, and terrestrial forms indicative of estuarine environment. A review of the faunas associated with the previously reported specimens of P. schucherti also indicates that their burial occurred under hyposaline conditions. This implies that P. schucherti inhabited Eocene estuaries rather than seas.
4523906|A new skull of Stygimoloch spinifer (MPM 8111) from the Upper Cretaceous Hell Creek Formation of North Dakota is the most complete specimen discovered to date. It allows much of the skull and braincase of this unusual pachycephalosaurid to be described for the first time and confirms a suite of diagnostic characters for the species. The skull is long with a vaulted, transversely narrow frontoparietal dome and a robust squamosal forming a prominent posterior shelf. The shelf is ornamented by three to four large, low-angle horns and multiple clusters of smaller bony nodes. The orientation of the squamosal is preserved along an unambiguous contact with the frontoparietal suture, allowing definitive determination of the orientation of the squamosal horns. These cranial features indicate a different mode of agonistic behavior than previously suggested for Stegoceras and Pachycephalosaurus. The high, narrow dome of S. spinifer is not suited for head-butting, and the orientation of its squamosal horns and ornamental nodes strongly suggest display functions. Several additional specimens are described and referred to S. spinifer.
25835799|All previous records of the lamniform shark, Archaeolamna kopingensis, are based on isolated teeth. Here we describe a partial skeleton from the Sharon Springs Formation of the Pierre Shale Group of western Kansas, U.S.A. The specimen includes portions of the upper and lower jaws with articulated teeth. The dentition consists of two files of upper and lower anterior teeth that, together with a single file of intrabullar intermediate teeth, are housed in a dental bulla, as well as multiple files of lateral teeth, along with at least two files of lower symphysial teeth and a single file of upper symphysial teeth. The intrabullar intermediate tooth is slightly shorter than the other anterior teeth and has a median cusp with distinctive distal curvature. The dental sequence of A. kopingensis is unique among both extinct and extant lamniforms. Associated with the jaws are fragments of the neurocranium and multiple vertebral centra. A sagittal section through a centrum shows that this shark deposited 18 annual marker bands after its birth and adult size was attained by the 10th band. The robust but penetrating tooth morphology and large jaw circumference suggest that A. kopingensis likely fed upon large prey items.
4523909|New specimens of the heteromyid genus Cupidinimus have been found at the Barstovian (middle Miocene) Hepburn's Mesa site in the Yellowstone Valley, southwestern Montana. The population is not placed within a new or existing species because the high coefficients of variation of several dental measurements indicate the presence of more than one species. However, lack of any clear character differentiation (qualitative or quantitative) within the population makes it impossible to distinguish separate species. Possible explanations proposed for this high variation and lack of specific diagnosibility are: morphologically similar species (including the products of a recent speciation event or introgression); sexual dimorphism; geographic variation; and temporal mixing. The age, location, and size of the surrounding Cupidinimus taxa, the lack of any size differentiation of the population into two species, and the geological history of the area suggest that the variation in the Hepburn's Mesa Cupidinimus population might be the result of the presence of multiple species or forms during a speciation event.
4523166|Cormohipparion emsliei n. sp. is documented from the latest Hemphillian and late Blancan of peninsular Florida. This extends the known temporal range of the genus in North America by about four million years. C. emsliei continues and accentuates many of the trends observed in earlier species of Cormohipparion, including increased fossette complexity (on average it is the most complicated of North American hipparionines) and pli caballinid development on both premolars and molars. The dorsal preorbital fossa is reduced, as is frequently observed in late Neogene equids, but a number of shared derived characters suggests referral to Cormohipparion rather than Nannippus. The topotypic sample, which includes cranial and post-cranial elements, was collected in situ from a narrow horizon under- and overlain by diverse marine shellbeds of Pliocene age. It was found in lithosympatry with specimens of Nannippus peninsulatus, Neochoerus dichroplax, Glossotherium chapadmalense, Dasypus bellus, and Sigmodon medius. Their combined presence indicates a late Blancan age. C. emsliei is the descendant of the earlier Hemphillian species Cormohipparion ingenuum, also known from Florida, and possibly represents a relictual taxon limited to the Gulf Coastal Plain.
4523047| All specimens of the Stegosauridae from England are described. The material from the lower and upper Bathonian (Middle Jurassic) of Oxfordshire and Gloucestershire is the earliest record of the family. The holotype femur of Omosaurus vetustus Huene is tentatively referred to the genus Lexovisaurus Hoffstetter as L.? vetustus (Huene). Lexovisaurus durobrivensis (Hulke) includes Omosaurus durobrivensis Hulke, O. leedsi Seeley, and Stegosaurus priscus Nopcsa; it is represented by two partial skeletons and isolated bones from the Lower Oxford Clay (middle Callovian, Middle Jurassic) of Northamptonshire and Cambridgeshire. The dermal armor of Lexovisaurus consisted of large, thin plates with the height more than twice the anteroposterior width, in addition to at least one pair of parasacral spines. The holotype femur of Omosaurus phillipsi Seeley (Oxfordian, Upper Jurassic, Yorkshire) is from a juvenile individual and is generically and specifically indeterminate. Dacentrurus armatus (Owen) includes Omosaurus hastiger Owen and ?O. lennieri Nopcsa; it is represented by a partial skeleton and isolated bones from the lower Kimmeridge Clay (Kimmeridgian, Upper Jurassic) of Wiltshire and Dorsetshire. In Dacentrurus, the vertebral centra are massive, the solid pedicel-like region of the dorsal neural arches is short, and the minimum angle between the transverse process and the neural arch is 55. The armor consists of at least small plates plus elongate and massive tail spines. Craterosaurus pottonensis Seeley consists of a partial neural arch of a dorsal vertebra from the Neocomian (Lower Cretaceous) of Bedfordshire. This taxon is characterized by a very deep depression in the top of the arch posterior to the prezygapophyses. The relationships of Dacentrurus and Lexovisaurus are discussed, but the record is too poor to reconstruct any meaningful phylogenetic relationships. 
20627118|New anatomical data are presented for the vertebrae and osteoderms of Dissorophus multicinctus Cope, 1895 and a previously unexamined specimen of Cacops aspidephorus Williston, 1910a from the Early Permian of Texas. The transverse axis of the zygapophyses of vertebrae in Cacops without osteoderms is closer to the horizontal plane than vertebrae with osteoderms. Ontogenetic fusion of internal osteoderms in Cacops to their respective neural spines begins with the anterior vertebrae and proceeds posteriorly. Midventral flanges appear on the external osteoderms after formation of the internal and external series, but prior to fusion of internal osteoderms to vertebrae. The midventral flange initially has a low round shape, but later assumes an adult blade-like morphology. Zygapophyses in Dissorophus are closer to the midline than in Cacops. Their transverse axis is at an angle of approximately 45 to the horizontal plane and the parasagittal axis is approximately 25 to the horizontal plane throughout the presacrals. A flange on each of the four internal osteoderms of Dissorophus immediately posterior to the enlarged first osteoderm inserts into a deep notch along the anterior, dorsal, and posterior sides of the neural spine. These flanges largely immobilized the vertebrae. Flanges of more posterior internal osteoderms in Dissorophus insert between neural spines. A pronounced anterior inclination of these posterior flanges and close proximity of neighboring internal osteoderms suggests either contact or a small gap between a flange and the next anterior internal osteoderm. Interosteodermal ligaments likely bound the osteoderms and limited lateral flexion.
23361044|The Lower Devonian (Lochkovian) Man On The Hill (MOTH) Lagersttte preserves a large diversity of early vertebrates fossils, including several species of osteostracan. Waengsjoeaspis nahanniensis had previously been named on the basis of material from MOTH and is redescribed herein. The genus Waengsjoeaspis Janvier was originally established in 1985 for two species from Spitsbergen. In addition, the new species Waengsjoeaspis platycornis is recognized. Both species from MOTH lack barbs on their cornual processes. The new species differs from W. nahanniensis in proportions of the cornual processes and of the median field. New specimens from MOTH clarify the condition of the infraorbital sensory line, the mouth, and other morphological features within the genus, and confirm that the dermoskeleton grew like that of Superciliaspis by separate ossification of tesserae, fusion of tesserae to form larger units, and centrifugal growth of these units. The new observations are consistent with the earlier phylogenetic placement of Waengsjoeaspis within a clade basal to the Benneviaspidida and add to the considerable diversity of osteostracans at this important locality.
25835831|A three-dimensionally preserved metriorhynchid braincase from the Oxfordian of northern Chile is described. The specimen is referred to the metriorhynchid Metriorhynchus cf. M. westermanni. The excellent preservation provides clear sutures and a detailed description, and X-ray computed tomographic (CT) scanning provides internal anatomical details. The general pattern of the orbitotemporal region is consistent with that of the basal thalattosuchian Pelagosaurus typus as described recently. The specimen from northern Chile shares with other metriorhynchids (e.g., Cricosaurus araucanensis, Metriorhynchus westermanni, M. casamiquelai, and Dakosaurus andiniensis) a dorsally exposed laterosphenoid, a laterosphenoid-prootic suture forming a blunt crest separating the supratemporal fenestra into two fossae for muscular attachment, and the quadrate incompletely sutured to the braincase. Thus, these features characterize not only basal but derived Thalattosuchia, as suggested by previous authors. The main difference in the orbitotemporal region is that in the specimen described herein, and in the other metriorhynchids examined, the trigeminal fossa is developed mainly caudal to the trigeminal foramen, whereas in P. typus the fossa is developed rostral and caudal to the trigeminal foramen. CT scanning indicates the presence of enlarged dorsal dural venous sinuses overlying the brain, as it has been described recently in Steneosaurus pictaviensis, and a well-developed sinus within the quadrate. The large foramen ventrolateral to the occipital condyle, which characterizes metriorhynchids, is confirmed as the entry for the internal carotid artery.
4523203| Dentitions of juvenile multituberculate mammals are rarely preserved in the fossil record. A previously undescribed skull and jaws of a juvenile individual of Taeniolabis taoensis contains in situ both upper and lower deciduous incisors, lower fourth premolars, and upper and lower first molars, all of which are just beginning to erupt. Based on this and other specimens, patterns of tooth eruption and replacement in at least some multituberculates can be reconstructed. All known multituberculates exhibit a pattern of diphyodonty similar to that seen in most placental mammals. Tooth eruption apparently occurred in an anteroposterior sequence. The primary generation P (perhaps all the primary generation lower premolars) erupted by anterodorsal rotative eruption. The P of most (perhaps all) Late Cretaceous-Tertiary multituberculates (ptilodontoids, taeniolabidoids, cimolomyids) appears to be monophyodont, in contrast to the diphyodont P found in at least one paulchoffatiid plagiaulacoid. Comparisons of eruption patterns suggest that the adult P of Late Cretaceous-Tertiary forms is homologous to the dP of diphyodont taxa; accordingly, the "adult" P of monophyodont forms is not comparable to the "adult" tooth in diphyodont taxa. The suppression of replacement at the P locus may have evolved as a result of selection for a single, enlarged blade-like tooth in the lower dentition. The P also appears to have been monophyodont in Late Cretaceous-Tertiary multituberculates. Because suppression of replacement is theoretically possible at any polyphyodont or diphyodont tooth locus, the study of development (e.g., tooth eruption and replacement) is crucial for correct assessment of dental homologies in nonmammalian cynodonts and early mammals. 
4523453|Fossil lungfish skull and jaw bones from Riversleigh Station in North Queensland, though not found associated with each other, have well preserved articular facets for adjoining bones. The skull of the new Cenozoic neoceratodont, Mioceratodus anemosyrus can be reconstructed with reasonable accuracy, and compared with those of the Recent lungfishes Neoceratodus forsteri from Australia and Protopterus annectens and P. aethiopicus from Africa. In N. forsteri the ascending process of the pterygopalatine bone is angled, flattened and slightly twisted at the distal extremity, and fits within a socket on the descending process of the JLM bone. M. anemosyrus has a short, angled ascending pterygopalatine process with two lateral suture facets that fit within a matching groove in the descending process of the JLM bone. In protopterid species the descending process of the JLM bone is a simple peg fitting within a groove in the elongate ascending pterygopalatine process. A pterygopalatine/calvarial suture appears to be reduced or absent in more primitive dipnoans, and to have a different form in gnathorhizids. It is therefore possible that the structure of this suture is of use in the characterization of some dipnoan taxa.
25835878|Argentoconodon fariasorum is the only triconodont from the Jurassic of South America. Originally described on the basis of an upper molariform, A. fariasorum is now known by several specimens, including one that preserves most of its dentition, upper and lower jaws, and several postcranial elements. Close anatomical similarity exists between Argentoconodon fariasorum, Ichthyoconodon jaworowskorum, from the Cretaceous of Morocco, and the likely Jurassic Volaticotherium antiquus, from China. The results of a phylogenetic analysis including most taxa relevant to addressing triconodont phylogenetic relationships show Argentoconodon and Volaticotherium as a clade, which in turn is more closely related to Ichthyoconodon than to any other taxon. Our most parsimonious hypotheses support a triconodontid ancestry for Argentoconodon, Ichthyoconodon, and Volaticotherium as members of the monophyletic traditional subfamily Alticonodontinae. The inclusion of Argentoconodon among alticonodontines extends the geographical and temporal distribution of this triconodont subfamily to the South American Early Jurassic, resulting in extensive ghost lineages for many triconodontid groups. Postcranial similarities between Argentoconodon and Volaticotherium make it possible that the Argentinean taxon might have had gliding capabilities; if this is the case, our cladistic analysis highlights the possible existence of a gliding clade of triconodonts of wide distribution from at least as early as the Early Jurassic.
4524318|The problem of missing data is often considered to be the most significant obstacle in reconstructing the phylogeny of fossil taxa and their relationships to extant taxa. In this paper, I review the results of recent simulation studies and present new results that explore how missing data affect phylogenetic accuracy, which is defined here as the success of a method at reconstructing the true phylogeny. Missing data cells are typically added to a phylogenetic analysis in the form of incomplete taxa (e.g., highly fragmentary fossil taxa) or incomplete characters (e.g., a set of DNA sequence or soft anatomical characters in an analysis including living and fossil taxa). These two types of incomplete data affect phylogenetic analyses in two very different ways, suggesting that there is not a single "missing data problem." Recent simulation results show that including incomplete taxa is a problem of including too few characters rather than too many missing data cells-if enough characters are scored in these taxa, even the relationships of highly incomplete taxa (e.g., 95% missing data) can be accurately reconstructed. Including incomplete characters is largely a problem of taxon sampling. Adding incomplete characters can improve accuracy under many conditions, but inadequate taxon sampling in these characters can lead to problems of long branch attraction (which causes methods to reconstruct an incorrect tree). New simulation results show that highly incomplete taxa may have little impact on the relationships estimated for the complete taxa. Thus, adding highly incomplete taxa may not adversely affect relationships among the complete taxa. However, these added taxa may be unable to improve accuracy for the complete taxa if they are too incomplete. These results suggest that analyses which combine data from fossils and molecular data sets can be successful, despite large amounts of missing data. The accuracy of these analyses will depend on adequate sampling of characters for fossil taxa and adequate sampling of taxa for molecular data sets.
30117453|Abstract-The described actinopterygian-from the Middle Triassic of Canton Graubnden, Switzerland-is a small fish with bones and scales covered with a thick layer of ganoine and with a cranium characterized by large nasal bones sutured medially, an orbital region with an uncommon, large postero-dorsal infraorbital 4+5, possibly one small accessory suborbital bone, and an enlarged preopercle with an expanded antero-ventral region that almost contacts the lateral margin of the skull roof throughout the dorsal limb. The new fish shares with halecomorphs the presence of a supramaxillary bone, and a new halecomorph synapomorphy-the presence of a well-developed dorsal supramaxillary process of the maxilla bearing a posterior notch or articulatory surface for contact with the supramaxilla. The interopercle is small and far away from the posterior part of the lower jaw unlike the condition in halecomorphs and teleosts. Prosantichthys buergini new genus and new species is proposed as a Halecomorphi incertae sedis, probably close to parasemionotids, but not yet assignable to any of the known halecomorph subgroups.
25835800|The first Mochokus (Siluriformes, Mochokidae) remains of the fossil record are described, including a new species based on a sub-complete neurocranium discovered in the Late Miocene deposits of Toros-Menalla, Chad, Central Africa, dated to 7.0 Ma. Mochokus gigas, sp. nov., is the first fossil species described for the family Mochokidae, which is the largest family of African catfishes. The description is based on the comparison with the two living species of the genus, M. niloticus and M. brevis. Mochokus gigas, sp. nov., is a very large species presenting original features, notably on the pectoral spines and on the anterior part of the neurocranium. One of the apomorphies characterizing the modern genus Mochokus is found on the fossil: the root of the mesocoracoid arch is located on the posterior side of the vertical lamina of the coracoid and lacks any dorsally directed prominence. Several other Mochokus fossil remains, including nuchal plates, cleithra, and dorsal spines, are described and attributed to Mochokus, sp. indet., or Mochokus sp. Finally, and on the basis of preliminary observations of the fossil fish assemblages from different sites of Toros-Menalla, the lack of Mochokus fossil remains is discussed.
4523858| A previously unrecognized partial skeleton of Chirostenotes pergracilis Gilmore, 1924 from the Upper Cretaceous Horseshoe Canyon Formation of Alberta (Canada) includes parts of the skull, much of the pelvic girdle, and elements from all regions of the vertebral column. It provides much new information concerning the skeletal structure of this unusual theropod dinosaur. Close structural correspondence between the maxilla of this specimen and the mandible of Caenagnathus collinsi R. M. Sternberg, 1940 indicates that the latter taxon should be considered a subjective junior synonym of Chirostenotes pergracilis. "Ornithomimus" elegans Parks, 1933 is probably also referable to Chirostenotes. The family-level taxon Elmisauridae Osmlska, 1981 is regarded as a subjective junior synonym of Caenagnathidae R. M. Sternberg, 1940. The newly recognized specimen of Chirostenotes pergracilis provides important new evidence for referring Caenagnathidae to Oviraptorosauria. Preliminary phylogenetic analysis indicates a sister-group relationship between Oviraptorosauria and Therizinosauroidea. 
20061975|Two Jurassic-Cretaceous anurans are described based on well-preserved specimens from the lower part of the Yixian Formation, western Liaoning Province, northeastern China. One specimen, from the Heitizigou site, documents a new genus and species, and the second, from the Sihetun site, is the holotype and only known specimen for the recently named Callobatrachus sanyanensis. Phylogenetic relationships of the major archaeobatrachian anuran clades are investigated with incorporation into the analysis of selected (well-established) early fossil taxa. The new taxon named and described in this paper is placed as the representative of a distinct archaic anuran clade, and Callobatrachus is considered to be an ingroup member of the Discoglossidae, constituting the earliest record of the family from Asia. The oldest known fossil anuran, Prosalirus from the Early Jurassic of Arizona, is grouped with Notobatrachus as sister taxa, and the two together form the most basal clade of Anura. Contradicting the widely accepted Leiopelmatidae-Discoglossidae sistergroup relationship, new evidence places the Leiopelmatidae as the most basal extant familial group and the sister group to other archaeobatrachian clades. The relationships and classification of the major archaic anuran clades are discussed, based on the phylogenetic results of this study.
4523061|Chalicotherium wuduensis, n. sp., from the late Miocene of Gansu Province, China, is based on two mandibles, one an adult and the other a juvenile. This species of Chalicotherium has a relatively long diastema, short premolar row, and narrow lower molars. Canines are present, but incisors are completely lacking. The jaw is very robust with a long, thick symphysis. C. wuduensis is closest to C. goldfussi, Nestoritherium sivalense, and N. sinense but is clearly different from all three. It is distinct from C. brevirostris, a medial Miocene Chinese species with an abbreviated snout. Differences between Chalicotherium and Nestoritherium seem to be part of a continuum and may not warrant generic distinction.
4523225| Two lower jaws of the Judithian didelphid Alphadon halleyi were recovered from the Egg Mountain locality, Two Medicine Formation, near Chouteau, Montana. These are the first mammalian fossils reported from this formation and they document for the first time the association of M through M in A. halleyi. Of the small, Judithian species of Alphadon, A. halleyi Sahni, A. sahnii Lillegraven and McKenna, and A. attaragos Lillegraven and McKenna were established on isolated lower teeth. Only A. russelli Fox from the Oldman Formation was established on associated upper and associated lower molars. These species were distinguished by differences in size and subtle morphological features. The new material from the Two Medicine Formation documents the changes in size of the teeth in a single lower molar dentition and provides the basis for a test of the validity of the small Judithian species of Alphadon. A. praesagus, A. russelli, and A. halleyi are recognized as members of the Judithian faunas. A. sahnii may be a valid species or might be based on a sample of larger teeth of A. halleyi. 
4522995|Evidence for two competing theories of relationships between Recent agnathans (hagfishes and lampreys) and gnathostomes is reviewed. The hypothesis that lampreys and gnathostomes are sister-groups is favored. The more obvious structures (fins, gill chambers, skeleton) seen in fossil agnathans are discussed and conclusions about their distribution are used in an attempt to include the fossil groups within a classification of Recent craniates. It is concluded that heterostracans are the sister-group of lampreys + gnathostomes; that anaspids are the sister-group of lampreys; and that galeaspids are the sister-group of osteostracans + gnathostomes.
4523074|More complete specimens of the early Blancan camelid Megatylopus (?) cochrani indicate that it is a cameline and not closely related to Camelops as has previously been supposed. The latter genus makes its first definite appearance in rocks of medial Blancan age. Intermediates between the most primitive Camelops species and their presumed Hemphillian ancestor, Alforjas, are not yet known.
4523635|Boundaries of land mammal ages have rarely been addressed. Now that North American land mammal ages are well ordered and reasonably well calibrated, it is fitting to seek more rigorous guidelines for the definition and recognition of their boundaries. Criteria for recognizing boundaries of land mammal ages are discussed briefly, with selected examples of problems in boundary recognition. The boundary of a land mammal age should be defined as (a) the appearance of a single taxon, preferably an immigrant, that is morphologically distinctive, widespread and well represented, taxonomically stable; and (b) strata where the boundary event is recorded should be well sampled, both above and below the level where the "boundary event" taxon appears. The Hemingfordian/Barstovian boundary is reviewed and the boundary redefined, based on the appearance of the cricetid rodent Copemys. This small mammal best meets the criteria for a "boundary event" taxon discussed in the text. The revised Hemingfordian/Barstovian boundary is recognized low in the Rak Division of the Barstow stratigraphic sequence in the Mud Hills of southern California. This is lower than previous designated boundaries and equates (more or less) to the lower part of magnetic chron C5CN, or approximately 16.8 Ma, about 0.8 Ma older than previous calibrations.
4523546|Theropod teeth are some of the most diagnostic fossils from dinosaur assemblages, with taxonomic utility to the genus or even species level. One hundred and twenty-nine teeth, representing five theropod taxa, have been recovered from eight localities along a 75 km east-west transect in the Judith River Formation of south-central Montana. Unlike the pattern of distribution observed for the Judith River Formation in Alberta, no geographic or temporal differentiation of the theropod faunas seems to have occurred in this formation in south-central Montana.
4524359|This paper describes new remains of Stegotetrabelodon from Southern Italy, the first evidence of this genus from Eurasia. The material consists of a mandible and a lower tusk fragment collected at Cava Brunia, Cessaniti (Vibo Valentia, Calabria), in late Tortonian Clypeaster-bearing coastal sands. The morphology of the mandible and teeth conforms to the Libyan species S. syrticus, to whom the Italian specimen is referred. The occurrence of this elephantid and other mammal species with african affinity at Cessaniti, suggests that the Calabria-Sicily area was a northern extension of the African continent. The Cessaniti elephantid adds new information on the morphological variability of Stegotetrabelodon and provides clues of an early distribution of the genus since the Tortonian.
41515284|Recent studies have blurred the distinctness of two major avian groups: the Enantiornithes, a major radiation of early birds in the Cretaceous, and the Ornithuromorpha, the clade including extant birds. Here we describe a new enantiornithine bird from the Lower Cretaceous Jiufotang Formation of western Liaoning, China, Xiangornis shenmi, gen. et sp. nov., which further reduces the morphological gap between the two groups. Xiangornis shenmi has several enantiornithine features, including a furcula with a significantly elongated hypocleidium, a coracoid with a convex lateral margin, and a minor metacarpal that extends further distally than the major metacarpal. However, it also possesses some derived ornithurine features, such as a short alular metacarpal (about one-sixth as long as the major metacarpal) that is completely fused to the major metacarpal, a large extensor process on the alular metacarpal, proximal and distal fusion between the minor and major metacarpals, and an intermetacarpal space positioned significantly distal to the alular metacarpal. This new find indicates that a carpometacarpal morphology similar to that seen in modern birds probably evolved independently in enantiornithines and appeared earlier than in Ornithuromorpha, and demonstrates that character evolution in early birds was more complex than previously believed.
4524129| A new genus and species of Toxodontidae from the Huayquerian (late Miocene) of El Cajn Valley (Catamarca, Argentina) is described. Calchaquitherium mixtum gen. et sp. nov. (Toxodontinae) is characterized by a combination of features of different genera, being closest to Mixotoxodon, Xotodon, and Nonotherium. Cladistic analysis of the family Toxodontidae has been attempted in order to assess the phylogenetic relationships of the new taxon. Four genera of the families Leontiniidae and Notohippidae were used as outgroups. The five subfamilies previously included in Toxodontidae do not represent monophyletic groups according to this analysis. A new classification of Toxodontidae, with two subfamilies, Nesodontinae and Toxodontinae, with three main groups of genera within the latter, is proposed. 
40864390|Tsoabichi greenriverensis, tax. nov., is based on cranial and postcranial remains from the lower Eocene (Wasatchian) Green River Formation of Wyoming. Casts of additional material in private collections include the complete skeleton of an immature specimen. It has abrupt supratemporal fenestral rims, extensive supraoccipital exposure on the skull table, and bipartite ventral osteoderms. The nasals are reduced to a thin anterior process as they approach the external naris, and the rim of the naris extends beyond the dorsal surface of the snout as a thin crest. There was no ' spectacle' between the orbits, but there are three distinct craniocaudally elongate ridges between the orbits. The parietal extends to the posterior margin of the skull table on either side of the large V-shaped dorsal exposure of the supraoccipital. Some of the dorsal osteoderms are mediolaterally elongate and bear two dorsal keels. A close relationship with caimans is supported by a parsimony analysis, although its precise position is unclear and some of the characters supporting a caimanine relationship also occur in poorly known Late Cretaceous and Early Tertiary alligatoroids. A possible close relationship with Paleosuchus (the living dwarf caimans) would imply a very complex biogeographic scenario with multiple dispersals between the Americas during the Tertiary.
4524193|A new Early Cretaceous enantiornithine bird, Eocathayornis walked, gen. et sp. nov. is reported from Liaoning, northeast China. It is about the size of Cathayornis but is more primitive. Teeth are present on the jaws. Claws are retained on three wing digits, but that of the minor digit is reduced. The width of the radius is nearly three-fourths that of the ulna. The sternum is relatively short, with a pair of long caudo-lateral processes and a low and caudally distributed keel. The coracoid is strut- like and caudally concave, typical of enantiornithine birds. The advanced features of the scapula and the wing suggest a powerful flapping flight capability. This bird is referred to the family Cathayornidae based on a few shared derived characters with Cathayornis.
41515061|Rhoetosaurus brownei is the only known named pre-Cretaceous sauropod from Australia. It is therefore a potentially important taxon for understanding global paleobiogeographic and phylogenetic patterns among early sauropods. Despite its obvious significance, Rhoetosaurus has been too poorly understood to be included in most recent analyses of early sauropod evolution. With this in mind, we evaluated the osteology and phylogeny of undescribed materials of Rhoetosaurus, in order to attempt to close the gap in this understanding. The lower hind limb of Rhoetosaurus highlights a plethora of differences from other sauropods, supporting the distinctiveness of Rhoetosaurus even in the absence of other materials. Some unique traits include prominent crests and sulci on the tibia medially, a narrow metatarsal articular bridge, and pedal claws with an accessory groove or fossa. The pes plesiomorphically retains four claws where most sauropods have three, and bears superficial similarity to that of Shunosaurus. Preliminary cladistic analysis confirms that Rhoetosaurus is a non-neosauropod gravisaurian, although weak support for the most parsimonious topology suggests further findings are required to improve upon incompleteness in the character data. Examination of alternative phylogenetic hypotheses rules out a close relationship between Rhoetosaurus and East Asian Jurassic sauropods, and indicates a closer examination of the potential relationships between Rhoetosaurus and other contemporaneous Middle Jurassic Gondwanan sauropods is necessary.
4523347| New records of Atopomys salvelinus from West Virginia and Florida, and additional remains of A. texensis from Texas are reported. A partial mandible of A. salvelinus with M from Alachua County, Florida, is the first record of the genus from that state, and the most complete specimen of Atopomys known. Although Ms of A. texensis have not been recovered, three Ms of A. salvelinus are now known from Hamilton Cave, West Virginia. These teeth, as well as the others, are similar to those of the Blancan arvicoline genus Nebraskomys. These similarities support Hibbard's (1970) suggestion that Nebraskomys was ancestral to Atopomys. 
42568658|The giant Miocene erinaceid Deinogalerix from the Gargano paleoisland, southern Italy, represents one of the most spectacular cases of insular adaptation among terrestrial mammals. The type species of this genus, Deinogalerix koenigswaldi, was described for the first time early in the 1970s based on a nearly complete skeleton and the limits and composition of the genus were subsequently defined based on a large number of disarticulated remains. Recent excavations in the Gargano area led to the discovery of a second partially complete skeleton of Deinogalerix koenigswaldi. This material, which is described herein, consists of a well-preserved nearly complete skull and a large portion of the postcranial skeleton. As a result of its excellent preservation, this material allowed the description of previously unrecognized morphological features of the braincase, tympanic region, and forelimb. Finally, based on a comparative analysis of the skeletal features of Deinogalerix, its affinities within the Erinaceidae have been discussed. Several features observed on the skeleton documented in this paper conclusively demonstrate that this giant hedgehog is a member of the subfamily Galericinae and, more particularly, of the extinct tribe Galericini.
4524356|A second specimen of the basal therapsid Lemurosaurus pricei preserves aspects of this taxon's cranial anatomy, such as the structure of the temporal region, palate, and lower jaw, that were either unknown or poorly preserved in the holotype. Although typically considered a dinocephalian feature, intermeshing of the incisors is confirmed for Lemurosaurus. Autapomorphies of the genus include a nubbin-like boss at the apex of the lateral temporal fenestra, the presence of very coarse serrations on the posterior margins of the upper postcanine teeth, and the low, ridge-like form of the median frontal crest. The anatomical data provided by the new Lemurosaurus specimen permits the first cladistic appraisal of its phylogenetic position among biarmosuchian therapsids. A cladistic analysis of 10 therapsids, two outgroups, and 38 characters indicates that Lemurosaurus is the sister taxon to a clade including Bullacephalus, Proburnetia, and Burnetia. Taxonomically, this position implies the reclassification of Lemurosaurus as a basal burnetiamorph, rather than as an ictidorhinid. Biogeographically, the position of Lemurosaurus makes it most parsimonious to infer that burnetiamorphs originated in southern Africa, although this hypothesis ignores potential sampling biases.
4523716|Sixteen species of Triceratops have been proposed since the genus was erected by O. C. Marsh in 1889. Five of these species are here considered technically invalid and a sixth is reassigned to Diceratops. Based on both cladistic analysis and morphometric shape analysis, all available skulls of the ten remaining "species" of Triceratops are placed in one of two species: T. horridus and T. prorsus, invalidating eight of the original ten species. These two species overlap in geographic and stratigraphic ranges. Because specimens of T. horridus greatly outnumber those of T. prorsus, these morphotypes may represent distinct taxa rather than a single sexually dimorphic species.
25835858|Published computed tomographic (CT) data from the holotype of the early tribosphenidan Slaughteria eruptens were reanalyzed to test a new hypothesis of dental formula in this taxon. Results indicate that Slaughteria had a premolar count of five, and that erupted (or erupting) teeth of the holotype all represent premolar locithe p2, p3, dp4, and dp5 (a partially calcified p5 is identified below the dp5). This dental formula is supported by serial homology of cheek teeth between eutherians and metatherians and the pre-tribosphenic mammal Peramus. The presence of five premolars in Slaughteria provides additional evidence that this tooth count is primitive for tribosphenidans as a whole. Slaughteria also presents an undocumented mode of tooth replacement, with a mixed alternating and sequential pattern. This pattern may represent the condition in other taxa with five premolars, such as Peramus and some early eutherians, with potential bearing on the polarity of tooth replacement at the base of the Tribosphenida.
4524604|A reexamination of the holotype of ' Plesiochelys' tatsuensis Yeh, 1963, from the Late Jurassic of China, allows us to establish previously unknown characters of this species. A phylogenetic analysis places 'P.' tatsuensis on the stem of Trionychia, near the clades Adocidae and Nanhsiungchelyidae. Given the hypothesized phylogenetic position of 'P.' tatsuensis, a new genus, Yehguia gen. nov., is erected for this species. The phylogenetic position of Y. tatsuensis pushes the origin of the crown clade Cryptodira into the Late Jurassic. This is remarkable in light of recent studies that moved the origin of crown group turtles (Testudines) from the Triassic to the Late Jurassic. This means that the establishment of basal cryptodiran lineages must have quickly followed the origin of Testudines in the Late Jurassic. The fact that the most ancient fossil Cryptodira is hypothesized to be on the stem of Trionychia is concordant with recent molecular hypotheses that place Trionychia as the most basal extant lineage of Cryptodira. Finally, our results further highlight that the Late Jurassic of China is important for understanding the earliest evolution of cryptodiran turtles.
4524385|Three new specimens of the rare alligatoroid Brachychampsa montana from the upper Campanian Kirtland Formation (De-na-zin Member), San Juan Basin, New Mexico, are the first bona fide examples of this taxon from this stratigraphic interval. The most complete specimen (SMP VP-1312) consists of much of the skull table and snout and a nearly complete mandible. SMP VP- 1264 consists solely of an incomplete partial skull table (parietal, right squamosal), partial basicranium (basioccipital, otoccipital), and incomplete right quadrate, whereas NMMNH P-7988 is an isolated frontal. Together, these new specimens supplement and allow for further comparison to other globidontans and to previously documented specimens of Brachychampsa. ? Brachychampsa sealeyi, from the Menefee Formation of the San Juan Basin, New Mexico, is based on a juvenile specimen that cannot be distinguished from B. montana, so it is a subjective junior synonym. The crocodylian assemblage of the Kirtland Formation consists of Brachychampsa montana, Leidyosuchus sp. and Denazinosuchus kirtlandicus. It is doubtful that tooth morphology alone can be correlated with "cheloniphagous" diet within the globidontans.
20061951|Extensive and well preserved sauropod material belonging to more than twelve individuals were recovered from the Early Jurassic Kota Formation of India. The sauropod Kotasaurus yamanpalliensis is characterized by simple dorsal vertebrae and a low iliac blade. Detailed osteological description of Kotasaurus is presented. The characters that distinguish Kotasaurus from the primitive sauropods are provided. It is considered to be one of the earliest sauropods and has some primitive features. The character analysis revealed that Kotasaurus is a basal sauropod in addition to Vulcanodon, Shunosaurus, Barapasaurus, and Omeisaurus.
41407683|A skull and mandible of a new species of notosuchian, Caipirasuchus paulistanus, belonging to the Sphagesauridae, were discovered in the rocks of the Adamantina Formation (Bauru Basin: Late Cretaceous). The main autapomorphies are external naris bordered only by premaxillae; very high pterygoids and ectopterygoids; palatines contacting maxillae by a cuneiform process; well-developed oval antorbital fenestra; premaxilla with four teeth; dentary with ten teeth and two diastemata; and one diastema in the premaxilla and another between the fourth alveolus of the premaxilla and the first of the maxilla. Morphological analysis and experimental data suggest an animal with a powerful bite and a dentition with specific regions of action, one adapted to apprehension and the other to food processing.
4524618|The skulls and isolated tympanies are described for the earliest whales, pakicetids, from the H-GSP Locality 62 in the Ganda Kas area in Northern Pakistan. Currently three pakicetid genera are known: Pakicetus, Ichthyolestes, and Nalacetus. Ichthyolestes is smaller than the two other genera. Nalacetus and Pakicetus are similar in size, but morphologically different. Pakicetids have a nasal opening at the tip of the rostrum. Their palate retains an incisive foramen. This study reveals three characters of the cranial anatomy useful for systematic analyses. In pakicetids the orbits are orientated dorsally, and there is no supraorbital shield. The dorsal orientation of the orbits is diagnostic for the family, and the lack of supraorbital shield distinguishes pakicetids, ambulocetids, and remingtonocetids from the other Eocene archaeocetes. The intertemporal region of the pakicetid skull is very narrow, a feature that also occurs in many other Eocene cetaceans. The tympanic, which is the most abundant cranial bone (more than 30 specimens) in the pakicetid collections from H- GSP Locality 62, can be used to distinguish the species of pakicetids. In Ichthyolestes, the tympanic bulla is of the same absolute size as in Pakicetus, hence relatively larger, and the tympanic bulla of Nalacetus is larger than either of these. Morphologically, the tympanic bullae differ between the genera, and on the basis of these morphologies it is possible to recognize a fourth species of pakicetid at this locality.
20491031|A new elasmobranch, Thrinacoselache gracia, is described from the Bear Gulch Limestone lens (Heath Formation; Sepukhovian) of Montana, with an elongate neurocranial region, occipital region that incorporates several separate vertebral zygal elements, extremely elongate, low body, and anatomically heterocercal, but horizontally oriented tail. Teeth are borne upon the rostrum, palatoquadrate, and mandible. The palatoquadrates articulate with both palatobasal and postorbital processes, as well as with the ethmoid; the hyomandibula articulates with the posterior upper corner of the neurocranium remote from the postorbital process. The mandible is longer than the neurocranium and meets its contralateral element in an extended, but mobile symphysis. Squamation is placoid, except for a dorsal pre-otic shield of elongate denticles. Digestive cavity contents identifiable as elasmobranch and holocephalan indicate that Thrinacoselache was predominantly a piscivore. The teeth are close to isolated teeth described as Thrinacodus, and particularly to the twisted, asymmetrical teeth of T. ferox Turner rather than the symmetrical teeth of the genotype, T. nanus. Tooth asymmetry and elongated preotic scale morphology in Thrinacoselache gracia are attributed to the strong positive allometry of the rostral region relative to the remainder of the neurocranium. The implications of distinctly different growth patterns between Thrinacodus and Thrinacoselache support the removal of T. ferox and its assignment to the new genus. The Thrinacodus-complex is removed from the Phoebodontidae and assigned to the new family Thrinacodontidae. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that Thrinacoselache and Diplodoselache occupy a basal position relative to other elasmobranchs for which holomorphological information is available.
42568633|We describe the anatomy and bone histology of an enantiornithine specimen from the Early Cretaceous Jehol Group of northeastern China. CNUVB-0903 is larger than most Early Cretaceous enantiornithine birds and also different from all other named taxa. Thus, we erect the new species Zhouornis hani for the new specimen. CNUVB-0903 preserves a suite of new morphologies for the clade. Noteworthy are those of the braincase and occipital region of the skull, which was previously poorly known for enantiornithines. The morphology and placement of the large basipterygoid processes and the well-developed basisphenoid recesscomparable in morphology to those of non-avian dinosaurshighlights the evolutionary conservatism of the enantiornithine skull. The histological characterization of CNUVB-0903 indicates that it was not yet a full-grown individual at the time of death. This, combined with the comparatively large size of the skeleton, supports previous evidence indicating that early in their history, enantiornithines were able to achieve relatively large sizes.
20627064|Mimotonids have recently been recognized as the likely ancestors to Lagomorpha (rabbits, hares, and pikas). Here a new species of mimotonid, Gomphos ellae, from Tsagaan Khutel locality, Valley of Lakes, Mongolia is described. This new material shows typical mimotonid features while also exhibiting important derived lagomorph features and helps to bridge the morphological and temporal gap between mimotonids and lagomorphs. The fossils comprise a right dentary, including cheek teeth and incisor, and a partial maxilla with two teeth. The dental features of G. ellae are similar to the mimotonid G. elkema, but G. ellae is distinguished from G. elkema and all other mimotonids by its long diastema. The diastema length of G. ellae is intermediate between all other mimotonids and all living and extinct lagomorphs. This feature distinguishes mimotonids from lagomorphs and the intermediate diastemal length of G. ellae further supports a strong pattern of lengthening of the diastema throughout Duplicidentata. Geologic and paleontological evidence suggest that the specimen is of Middle Eocene age, consistent with the notion that this taxon is an advanced mimotonid that likely lies near the ancestry of the lagomorphs.
20061980|The Bromacker locality in the Tambach Sandstone of Germany represents the first significant Lower Permian assemblage of terrestrial tetrapods outside of North America. The left forelimb (humerus, radius, ulna, carpus, metacarpals, and digits) and serveral vertebrae of subadult Seymouria sanjuanensis are described. The manus phalangeal formula is 2-3-4-4-3.
20627087|A new ornithischian dinosaur, Albalophosaurus yamaguchiorum gen. et sp. nov., is described on the basis of a partial skull and lower jaw recovered from the Lower Cretaceous Kuwajima Formation (Tetori Group) of central Japan. The specimen exhibits a unique suite of characters in the dentition, maxilla, and dentary. A phylogenetic analysis recovers Albalophosaurus as a basal member of Ceratopsia: however, this placement is weakly supported and no unambiguous ceratopsian synapomorphies can be identified in the material. This new taxon should, therefore, be regarded as Cerapoda incertae sedis until further material is discovered. Nevertheless, Albalophosaurus offers additional information on the diversity of east Asian dinosaur faunas during the Early Cretaceous and represents only the third valid dinosaur taxon to be described from Japan.
42568647|Here we present for the first time a detailed taxonomic study of a diverse chondrichthyan fauna from the Middle Triassic of the Iberian Range (Spain). The assemblage consists of isolated remains of seven species of five non-neoselachian shark genera (Palaeobates, Hybodus, Pseudodalatias, Prolatodon, gen. nov., and Lissodus), including a new species of hybodontiform shark, Hybodus bugarensis, sp. nov. In addition, a new homalodontid genus, Prolatodon, sp. nov., is erected for the taxa 'Polyacrodus' buchen and 'Polyacrodus' contrarius. The chondrichthyans of the Iberian Range represent a heterogeneous group from a paleogeographic point of view made up of common components of Middle Triassic shark faunas of northern Europe (Hybodus plicatilis and Palaeobates angustisimus) together with species only known previously from North America and China (Prolatodon bucheri, comb. nov., and Prolatodon contrarius, comb. nov.), as well as several 'endemic' taxa (Pseudodalatias henarejensis, Hybodus bugarensis, sp. nov., and Lissodus aff. L. lepagei). This fauna demonstrated adaptation for a wide diversity of feeding strategies, implying that non-neoselachian sharks dominated among the predator community of Middle Triassic coastal ecosystems of Iberia. The co-occurrence with bivalves, ammonoids, and conodonts allows us to date the chondrichthyan assemblage as 'Longobardian' (upper Ladinian).
4522982| The early and middle Tertiary land-mammal record of Mexico includes five local faunas, two faunules and four isolated occurrences that range from ?late Paleocene to late Miocene and includes 10 orders, 24 families and 36 genera (both determined and inferred) from localities in eight states throughout the country. They show a mixture of endemic and non-endemic elements. This seems to result from the coexistence and interaction of two distinct biotic regions, North America proper and Middle America. Their degree of difference increases with latitudinal distance plus local environmental conditions. Northern Mexico has been a broad transitional zone. Throughout the Tertiary, Middle America probably functioned as a major center of evolution and differentiation of mammals that spread both north and south, appearing in the North American record as tropical immigrants, and in turn received northern elements because a measure of interchange remained possible during this period. /// El registro de los mamferos terrestres del Terciario temprano y medio de Mxico, incluye cinco faunas locales, dos faunulas y cuatro registros aislados, abarca del Paleoceno tardo? al Mioceno tardo, e involucra a 10 rdenes, 24 familias (determinadas e inferidas) y 36 gneros (tambin determinados e inferidos), procedentes de localidades en ocho estados distribuidos en todo el territorio nacional. El registro muestra una mezcla de formas endmicas y no endmicas, que resulta probablemente de la coexistencia e interaccin de dos entidades biogeogrficas distintas, Norteamrica en s y Mesoamrica. El grado de diferencia entre ambas se incrementa con la distancia latitudinal y, desde luego, con las condiciones ambientales locales. El norte de Mxico ha sido una amplia zona de transicin. Muy probablemente, Mesoamrica en s ha funcionado durante el Terciario, como un gran centro de evolucin y diferenciacin de mamferos, que se han distribuido al norte y al sur, apareciendo repentinamente en el registro norteamericano como inmigrantes. Adems Mesoamrica ha recibido contnuamente elementos nrdicos, porque siempre se mantuvo una cierta medida de intercambio durante este perodo. 
4523470|Metric data from the large collection of the Late Cretaceous pterosaur Pteranodon are bimodally distributed with a more numerous small size-class and a less numerous large size-class. The size-classes differ in cranial crest and pelvic structure. The small size-class has small cranial crests and deep puboischiadic plates that produce a large pelvic canal, while the large size-class has large cranial crests and shallow puboischiadic plates that produce a small pelvic canal. The difference in pelvic structure suggests that the small size-class is female. The various functions proposed for cranial crests are reviewed, and it is concluded that none can account for the difference in crest size. The conclusion is that the large crests of males are display structures.
30126329|Wuttagoonaspida is a very peculiar group of Arthrodira, hitherto known only in the Early-Middle Devonian deposits of Australia. The new genus and species Yiminaspis shenme described here is known from an incomplete skull roof from the Pragian of Zhaotong (Yunnan, South China). Despite sharing some features with the Petalichthyida (e.g. two pairs of posterior pitlines), it presents many features of the genus Wuttagoonaspis (e.g. long preorbital plates not separated by the pineal plate, pineal plate placed further anteriorly from the orbits). Some thoracic armor material, also from Zhaotong, is referred to this taxon on the basis of the ornamentation. The occurrence of such a basal arthrodire from the Lower Devonian of China, added to the ante-Emsian geographic isolation of the South China block (evidenced by its vertebrate endemism rate), suggests a Chinese origin for the Wuttagoonaspididae, and a migration episode into the northeastern margin of Gondwana dated at the end of the Pragian (E'Em bioevent).
4523773|The tremendous increase in fossil egg and eggshell discoveries throughout the last decade necessitates the establishment of uniform methods for description and for a parataxonomical system for classification of fossil eggs. Principles and applications of fossil egg parataxonomy, which have been developing slowly over the last decades, are summarized in this paper. Adoption of these principles is advocated. A list of all described egg parataxa, ordered into respective oofamilies and oogenera, is presented. A simplified chart shows basic types of eggshell organizations, structural morphotypes, parataxonomical families, and corresponding higher order taxonomic relations. Familial and lower level correlation between fossil vertebrate taxa and egg parataxa are limited to the rare finds of identifiable embryos within their eggs.
4523562|Shantungosuchus hangjinensis, sp. nov. is described on the basis of a partial skull and lower jaws from the Lower Cretaceous Luohandong Formation, Zhidan Group of Hangjin Qi, Inner Mongolia (China). S. chuhsienensis, from the ?Upper Jurassic deposits of Shandong province, eastern China, is re-examined. Shantungosuchus is primarily distinguished from all other crocodyliforms by a short premaxilla/maxillary portion of the skull, a transversely broad shelf of the jugal ventral to the orbit, a pair of posterolaterally divergent ridges on the pterygoid, a pair of large basisphenoid depressions, the exclusion of the angular from posterolateral surface of the mandible, and the superficially asymmetrical appearance of the two dentaries in the symphysial region. Shantungosuchus is probably also unique in possessing a quadratojugal fossa, a leaf-shaped palatine separated from the suborbital fenestra, a pronounced coronoid projection of the surangular, and a tibia longer than the femur. A phylogenetic analysis of the early crocodyliforms represented by better preserved material tentatively indicates that the Protosuchia is monophyletic and strongly suggests that Shantungosuchus is closely related to the Protosuchidae rather than to the Atoposauridae of the "Mesosuchia."
41515281|We describe a new crocodile, Crocodylus thorbjarnarsoni, sp. nov., on the basis of skulls and jaws from Pliocene and Pleistocene deposits in the Lake Turkana Basin of Kenya. The new species has a comparatively broad, deep snout and resembles an extinct horned crocodile from the Quaternary of Olduvai Gorge (C. anthropophagus), but the squamosal 'horns' are not as well developed. The skull table has a strongly trapezoidal outline different from those of the living Nile crocodile (C. niloticus) and crocodiles from late Miocene deposits in the Turkana Basin. The largest specimens are from animals up to 7.5 m in total length. It would have been the largest predator in its environment, and the early humans found in the same deposits were presumably part of its prey base. A phylogenetic analysis, including the new species and an improved sample of extinct crocodyline diversity, suggests a more complex phylogenetic and biogeographic history for the clade in Africa and the eastern Indian Ocean region than previously supposed. The anales limits the known geographic and stratigraphie range of Rimasuchus lloydi, previously thought to occur throughout Africa from the early Miocene through the Pleistocene of northern Africa. Crocodylus niloticus is not known with certainty from units older than the Quaternary, and most late Miocene fossils from the Turkana Basin previously referred to C. niloticus can instead be referred to C. checchiai. The current first appearance datum for Crocodylus in Africa is approximately 7 Ma.
4522964|The fragmentary material described in this account supplements the initial report on the temnospondylous labyrinthodonts of the Lower Triassic Fremouw Formation of Antarctica given by Colbert and Cosgriff (1974). Some of the fragments are referred to the lydekkerinid Cryobatrachus kitchingi, others (with question) to the brachyopid Austrobrachyops jenseni, and still others to the family Rhytidosteidae without generic or specific determination. The rhytidosteid is a new entry for the tetrapod faunal list of the Fremouw Formation. Taphonomy is considered, and it is shown that the lithologic contexts of the Fremouw Formation which are productive of temnospondyls are consonant with the view that brachyopids, lydekkerinids, and rhytidosteids were tetrapods primarily adapted to the fresh-water and water-edge habitats of the general flood plain regime under which the Fremouw Formation was deposited.
4523769|The identification of some pterosaur bones and associated soft tissue from the Early Cretaceous of Brazil is a controversial issue. The specimen (DGM 1475-R) was previously mistaken as part of a forearm and the associated soft tissue was misinterpreted as part of the wing membrane near the radius and ulna. However, the bones described as the "radius and the ulna" are in fact the proximal part of a left humerus and a rib. The scapula, coracoid, and other ribs are also present. SEM analysis shows that there is no duplication of any layer (e.g., epidermis) and that structural fibers (except muscle fibers) are absent, contrary to what would be expected in a transverse section of wing membrane. This suggests that the soft tissue is part of the integument near the shoulder girdle and thorax, and is not part of the soft tissue primarily involved in flight (=wing membrane).
24523204|Late Cretaceous vertebrate faunas of India are known predominantly from intertrappean deposits in the Deccan volcanic province of the central and western parts of the country. A thick and nearly continuous sequence of Early CretaceousEarly Paleocene fossiliferous sediments exposed in the Cauvery Basin of South India has been comparatively poorly explored. Here, we present a preliminary description of a new fauna consisting of vertebrate fossils discovered from the continental Upper Cretaceous (late Maastrichtian) Kallamedu Formation. The Kallamedu Fauna includes ganoid fishes, amphibians, turtles, crocodiles, and dinosaurs, with many taxa suggesting Late Cretaceous biotic links between India and other Gondwanan landmasses. Teeth of abelisaurid dinosaurs, known previously from the Middle Jurassic of South America and the Late Cretaceous of Africa, Madagascar, and central and western India, support a pan-Gondwanan distribution for this group of theropod dinosaurs. Of greatest significance, however, is the first discovery of a Simosuchus-like notosuchian crocodile outside of Madagascar. This report of the first Indian Simosuchus-like notosuchian crocodile further strengthens earlier evidence from other vertebrate groups for close biotic links between India and Madagascar in the Late Cretaceous, most likely through dispersal via the Seychelles block, Amirante Ridge, and Providence Bank.
4524151|Based on an extensive survey of quadrate morphology in extant and fossil birds, a complete quadrate from the Maastrichtian Lance Formation has been assigned to a new genus of most probably odontognathous birds. The quadrate shares with that of the Odontognathae a rare configuration of the mandibular condyles and primitive avian traits, and with the Hesperornithidae a unique pterygoid articulation and a poorly defined (if any) division of the head. However, the quadrate differs from that of the Hesperornithidae by a hinge-like temporal articulation, a small size of the orbital process, a well-marked attachment for the medial (deep) layers of the protractor pterygoidei et quadrati muscle, and several other details. These differences, as well as the relatively small size of about 1.5-2.0 kg, suggest a feeding specialization different from that of Hesperornithidae.
4524090|We describe a new species of coelacanth, Miguashaia grossi sp. nov., recognized from isolated cranial, shoulder girdle bones and scales from the Upper Givetian Gauja and Lode Formations of two Latvian localities. This coelacanth, together with comparisons with other Devonian coelacanths, allows a more precise description of the plesiomorphic condition of the lower jaw, shoulder girdle, and palate. These plesiomorphic conditions are as follows. The dentary is shallow throughout, the articular-retroarticular is deep posteriorly where it is developed as two processes-one for the symplectic articulation and the other demarcating the posteroventral angle of the jaw. In the shoulder girdle plesiomorphic attributes include the large triangular clavicle, a cleithrum which is directed anterodorsally and possibly a large and polygonal extracleithrum. In the palate the pterygoid shows a dorsal process of unknown function mid-way along the dorsal margin and this is also a plesiomorphic feature of coelacanths.
40864354|The Lower Permian amphibamid Doleserpeton annectens (Temnospondyli) is of great importance to our understanding of the origin of modern amphibians. Here, we describe this taxon in detail. The pedicellate bicuspid dentition of Doleserpeton is more similar to that of modern amphibians than any other Palaeozoic form, including Gerobatrachus. The dermal bones of the skull are almost completely smooth, unlike other dissorophoids. The braincase and parts of the postcranial skeleton are more highly ossified than in other amphibamids, and Doleserpeton is unlikely to represent a juvenile stage. The ribs are relatively short and posteriorly curved, as in many modern amphibians, but unlike most lepospondyls. The palate shares numerous features with modern amphibians, including the configuration of the interpterygoid vacuities and the structure of the vomers. We propose that the closest sister taxon to Amphibamidae is Dissorophidae (armored dissorophoids) and that the trematopids are more basally situated than has been suggested by some studies. Micropholis is probably not basal to the other amphibamids, and the clade support for a monophyletic Amphibamidae is surprisingly weak unless Dissorophidae and branchiosaurs are included in this taxon. Doleserpeton adds to the strong evidence for a temnospondyl origin of batrachians, particularly for anurans, and the hypothesis proposing a lepospondyl origin of modern amphibians is therefore questioned. Doleserpeton also shares numerous features with Eocaecilia, pointing to a monophyletic origin of lissamphibians from amphibamid temnospondyls.
4524016|The discovery of new remains assigned to Stenoplesictis (Feliformia, Carnivora) in the deposit of Quercy (France) allows a more precise study of this genus. S. cayluxi Filhol, 1880 and S. minor Filhol, 1882, two species previously described by Filhol, are synonymized. A new species, Stenoplesictis crocheti, is described. It is represented by dental remains and two well preserved skulls. The basicranial anatomy is studied with special focus on the auditory region. Stenoplesictis may be a primitive feloid, like the extant Nandinia binotata. Some other material recently assigned to the genus is discussed. The African and Asian material differs from the European specimens, especially the morphology of the teeth and is excluded from the genus. Therefore, an Asian origin of the genus can not be demonstrated and the presence of Stenoplesictis in Asia remains to be confirmed.
4524432|A new species of squirrel, Sciurus olsoni, from the late Miocene (Clarendonian) of Nevada, is distinguished from other species of Sciurus by its smaller size and minor differences in the cheek teeth. It is the first Miocene record of the extant genus Sciurus, and the first record of a tree squirrel (tribe Sciurini) in North America between the early Miocene (Arikareean) and the Pleistocene. This late Miocene occurrence in North America suggests that the history of tree squirrels in North America was probably continuous through the Neogene, and the intermittent fossil record is due both to preservation bias and to their never having been abundant as living elements of fossil faunas; they are rare even where they do occur in deposits that are otherwise very richly fossiliferous. The later Tertiary and Pleistocene radiation of tree squirrels may have originated in North America.
20627055|The axial skeleton of hyposaurine dyrosaurids differs significantly from that of extant crocodylians, most notably in the height of the neural spines, the vertically oriented thoracic ribs and osteoderms that lack external keels. This indicates a different configuration of the epaxial musculature for hyposaurine dyrosaurids compared with extant crocodylians and possibly all other fossil species. In the trunk, m. transversospinalis tendons formed a tendinal lattice. M. tendinoarticularis and m. longissimus dorsi were divided into high, medially open myoseptal cones. M. iliocostalis of hyposaurine dyrosaurids was larger than in extant crocodylians and braced the arcade of the vertebral column during locomotion. The trunk bracing-system of hyposaurine dyrosaurids is referred to as a Hyposaurus-type bracing system, and is modeled as a segmented, hydraulically stabilized string-and-bow-construction, with the single segments consisting of inverse T-beams. The trunk bracing-system and osteoderm morphology of hyposaurine dyrosaurids indicate that the vertebral column could not be sufficiently stabilized against dorsoventral shear loads, and possibly transverse shear loads. As a consequence, the high walk and gallop could only be performed by individuals with low body mass. In the tail, the enormously elongated neural spines indicate a large cross section of the epaxial musculature, which facilitated the effective use of aquatic locomotor modes like axial and hybrid swimming.
4522853|The growth pattern of rodent incisors closely approximates a segment of a circle and can be described graphically by measuring the radius of that circle (radius of curvature) and the length of the segment in degrees (subtended angle). When tested on specimens from a modern owl pellet accumulation, this method yielded consistent results and suggested that both the radius of curvature and subtended angle increase during ontogeny. Potential applications include improved identification and description of isolated incisors, studies of population age structure, and interpreting the evolution of incisor procumbency.
25835847|Vertebrate fossils have been known from South India's Cauvery Basin since the 1840s, but records of marine vertebrates from the late Albian to Turonian Karai Formation have been limited to a single set of ichthyosaur remains. Recent surface collecting and sieving of lower Cenomanian glauconitic mudstones has yielded the first ichthyosaur material reported in India over the last 140 years, as well as a diverse and previously unrecorded shark assemblage. The ichthyosaur material, including several teeth and vertebrae, is assigned to the sole described Cretaceous genus Platypterygius and to the species P. indicus (Lydekker, 1879). Eight species of shark (one squaliformes, two hexanchiformes, and five lamniformes) are recorded. A new hexanchiform genus Gladioserratus is erected, and two new species (Gladioserratus magnus, gen. et sp. nov., and Dwardius sudindicus, sp. nov.) are named. Many of the shark genera within this largely species-level endemic fauna are known from high paleolatitudes elsewhere, with many showing an antitropical distribution, but are absent in Tethyan areas. This first description of the Karai Formation marine fauna documents the previously unappreciated diversity and unique character of India's Cretaceous marine vertebrates, and indicates a cool-water paleoenvironment for the marine vertebrate assemblage.
4523910|Herein we describe triconodontid mammals from the upper part of the Cedar Mountain Formation (placed approximately at the Albian-Cenomanian, or Lower-Upper Cretaceous, boundary), Emery County, Utah. Three new species, based on dentulous jaw fragments and isolated teeth, are included; one is referred to Astroconodon, one to Corviconodon (both previously recorded from the Aptian-Albian), and one to a new genus. This diversity is comparable to that seen in the Aptian-Albian Cloverly Formation, and differs from succeeding faunas of the North American Cretaceous, in which triconodontids are rare or lacking altogether. The species differ greatly in size; the largest, at an estimated body weight of 750 g, is the largest known triconodontid and presumably incorporated vertebrate prey into its diet. Triconodont relationships are problematic. Craniodental evidence supports a monophyletic Triconodontidae, and there is weak support for a monophyletic grouping of the North American Cretaceous taxa within the family. However, an exclusive common ancestry for North American Cretaceous triconodontids cannot be readily identified among the morphological diversity known for Late Jurassic taxa. Instead, limited evidence at hand suggests that Late Jurassic Triconodontidae (Triconodon, Priacodon, Trioracodon) form a monophyletic group.
23251276|The ability to determine relationships of Cenozoic fossil fishes relies heavily on having osteological information from their extant relatives with which to compare the fossil remains. For many higher teleost fishes, these osteological data do not exist. For example, Parachanna fayumensis, from Eocene and Oligocene deposits of Egypt, was placed in the Recent snakehead genus Parachanna, but in the absence of data from extant members of the genus, this hypothesis could not be tested. Three other fossil channids were each given their own new genera, without an analysis of their relationships to one another or to the living genera. In order to properly test the relationships of these fossil species, the osteological information for living species is needed. This paper documents the osteology of the African snakehead, Parachanna obscura, for the first time. The documentation of the osteology forms the basis of a phylogenetic study of the relationships of the African fossil, Parachanna fayumensis, with living African snakeheads. This study supports the generic placement of P. fayumensis as being correct, as well as reciprocal monophyly of the two living snakehead genera and monophyly of the family. Monophyly of the Asian genus Channa and the relationships of the other fossil species need to be further assessed using a broader range of species, but this preliminary study is an essential first step. Apomorphic osteological characters are given for the family and genera, as well as a discussion of the biogeographical relationships of species of Parachanna.
30126340|Historically, the scarcity of non-adult Triceratops fossils collected from Upper Cretaceous sediments of North America limited our understanding and promoted controversy with regard to the morphology, and presence or absence of cranial epi-ossifications in this widely known horned dinosaur. The recent discovery of several exceptionally well preserved juvenile and subadult Triceratops skulls and numerous juvenile, subadult, and adult cranial elements, from the Hell Creek Formation of eastern Montana, confirms the ontogeny and morphology of epi-ossifications in this study. We propose to standardize the terminology for these four cranial epi-ossifications: epinasal, epijugal, epiparietal, and episquamosal. We describe the ontogeny and timing of the fusion of each of these epi-ossifications and the rostral from a cranial growth series. Although the timing is variable, the epinasal fuses first, followed by the rostal, the epijugals, the episquamosals, and lastly by the epiparietals. Co-ossification of the epinasal, rostral and epijugals unites several of the anterior (rostral-nasal-premaxillae) and lateral (jugal-quadratojugal) skull elements. In combination with forward directed postorbital horns and a massive fan-shaped frill, cranial epi-ossifications may have enhanced visual display and species communication in Triceratops.
4523388|Saxonella Russell is a small plesiadapiform described in 1964 from incomplete dental and jaw remains occurring in Paleocene fissure fills at Walbeck, Germany. The first North American discovery of Saxonella was reported in 1984, based on an incomplete dentary with teeth from the late Paleocene Paskapoo Formation, Alberta, nearly 10,000 km from the Walbeck site; since then, several additional Paskapoo specimens have been collected. The Canadian fossils represent a new species evidently more primitive than the Walbeck S. crepaturae. In the new species, both p3 and p4 are blade-like teeth (p3 is the larger), in contrast with S. crepaturae, in which p4 is smaller relative to p3 and its crown rounded. The new fossils include three incomplete maxillaries that together preserve P2-4, M1-3; these are the only articulated upper dentitions of Saxonella now known. A long diastema separates P2, which is small and peg-like, from the next more anterior tooth, which is undiscovered. P3 is the largest cheek-tooth and is highly specialized, showing an unusually expanded anterior (parastylar) lobe, which occluded with the plagiaulacoid p3. In its entirety, the dentition of Saxonella makes up a mosaic of primitive, convergent, and uniquely specialized characters that conforms with Rose's (1975) suggestion that the genus is best classified in its own family within the Plesiadapiformes.
40666195|The eusuchian Allodaposuchus is described from Late Cretaceous continental strata of southeastern France. Contrary to recent work involving this genus, a new and more derived position within Eusuchia is proposed in the present study. Allodaposuchus cf. A. precedens from southern France and Allodaposuchus precedens from Romania can be assigned to basal alligatoroids, but their relationship to other basal forms such as Leidyosuchus, diplocynodontids, and other basal globidontans remains unresolved. Most of the inconsistency in the position of Allodaposuchus within alligatoroids may be related to the presence of a laterally open canalis quadratosquamosoexoccipitalis in at least Allodaposuchus precedens from Romania, which also characterizes the basal eusuchian Hylaeochampsa. Although this character remains problematic, the combination of alligatoroid synapomorphies in Allodaposuchus supports its position within Alligatoroidea. The new Allodaposuchus specimen from France suggests the presence of a stock of basal alligatoroids in the Late Cretaceous of Europe, whereas North America and Europe remain equally likely options for the biogeographic origin of the clade.
4524384|Recent discovery of an almost complete skull of Sphagesaurus huenei, a previously poorly known form from the Late Cretaceous of southern Brazil, shows unexpected morphology for a crocodyliform, including an extreme heterodonty with small lower incisors, large upper caniniforms, and reversed triangle-like postcanines; edentulous anterior region of premaxilla; and maxilla with posterior wall over the anterior margin of the suborbital fenestra. The postcanine teeth have extensive wear facets, implying an alternate unilateral occlusion and suggesting the presence of both lateral and fore-aft movement of the jaw. These characteristics appear unique within the crocodyliform lineage, showing that feeding diversity was wider than thought in this clade. The phylogenetic relationships of Sphagesaurus huenei are evaluated through a parsimony analysis. Sphagesaurus lies within a monophyletic group formed by Cretaceous and Tertiary taxa traditionally referred as notosuchians and sebecosuchians. Interestingly, several mammal- like tooth morphologies were present in this clade of terrestrial crocodyliforms.
4523854|Some specimens of the Late Cretaceous lamniform shark, Cretoxyrhina mantelli (Agassiz), from the Niobrara Chalk in Kansas are represented by partial skeletons. The vertebral and neurocranial structures of C. mantelli suggest its placement in Lamniformes. The pectoral fins of C. mantelli may be plesodic, possibly indicating that the taxon is an "advanced" lamnoid. The total vertebral count of C. mantelli, approximately 230, is a unique number among lamniforms, supporting the view based on tooth-based taxonomy that this taxon is a distinct species. The total length of large C. mantelli is estimated to be 5 m. Very large C. mantelli possibly attained a total length of about 6 m or slightly more. Cretoxyrhina mantelli possessed a conical head with a blunt snout and large eyes. The body form of C. mantelli could have resembled that of extant Carcharodon carcharias.
20490958|New material of the fossil crocodyliform taxon Mahajangasuchus insignis from the Upper Cretaceous Maevarano Formation is described. The holotype lacked cranial remains but the new material includes an almost complete skull as well as at least two additional partial skulls. These new specimens add important information and allow us to diagnose Mahajangasuchus insignis as a derived mesoeucrocodylian crocodyliform distinguished by the following combination of characters (autapomorphies indicated with an asterisk): broad platyrostral snout; laterally compressed and serrated teeth; dorsally arched mandible; prominent caudofemoralis flange on femur; surangular with prominent lateral expansion anterior to glenoid fossa; supraocciptial excludes the parietal from occipital margin; massive choanal septum; anterior margins of choanal septum contact ventral lamina of pterygoid, enclosing internal choanae; strongly arched jugal with depression below orbit; three prominent ridges running longitudinally on dorsal surface of snout; fused nasals. The new specimen offers new information to explore the phylogenetic relationships of Mahajangasuchus insignis and bears important information for understanding the evolutionary history of the crocodyliform palate and the adaptive significance of the modern eusuchian-style palate. The phylogenetic analysis conducted results in the discovery of monophyly of the traditional Peirosauridae and a derived position for Mahajangasuchus and Stolokrosuchus as successive sister taxa to Neosuchia. Inclusion or exclusion of Trematochampsa taqueti, a fragmentary taxon from Africa, greatly affects the phylogenetic relations of Mahajangasuchus.
25835860|Canids were important members of Clarendonian faunas from the Great Plains and the southwestern part of North America, but they remain little studied in the northwestern portion of the continent. We present an overview of the canid fauna of Oregon's Juntura Formation, the best-preserved Clarendonian fauna from the northwest United States. The fauna is dominated by borophagines. The genus Carpocyon is reported for the first time in the Northwest and is represented from Juntura by postcrania. Most positively identifiable borophagine remains can be attributed to two species of Epicyon: E. saevus and E. haydeni. Only one specimen is attributable to the Caninae, showing that, as elsewhere, this subfamily remained a minor part of canid faunas until late in the Miocene. The presence of Epicyon and the absence of Aelurodon and Borophagus in the Juntura fauna provide support for the suggestion that these borophagine genera underwent a rapid ecological succession in the Northwest that constrains regional biostratigraphy.
20061959|An extended and revised mammal succession of 99 fossil localities from the Upper Miocene sediments of the Teruel-Alfambra region (NE Spain) is presented. An updated biozonation is proposed. The biostratigraphic justification for the correlation of the magnetic polarity patterns of the La Gloria, El Bunker, Masada Ruea, Masada del Valle and Masa de la Roma sections to the Geomagnetic Polarity Time Scale (GPTS) is discussed. A comparison with Late Miocene faunas from elsewhere in Europe demonstrates that faunal resemblance across the continent is very low. As illustrated by an analysis of the "Progonomys event," local appearances of genera may be strongly diachronous and even species should not a priori be assumed to be isochronous at resolutions higher than several hundred thousands of years. These observations have implications for European continental stratigraphy and chronology: (1) The usefulness of the European mammal-based Stages/Ages can be doubted because their biostratigraphic significance is mainly local, and because more and more direct calibrations of mammal faunas to the numerical time scale are becoming established; (2) The European Mammal Neogene (MN) system, currently defined as a series of 16 time-ordered faunas, should not be divided into sub-units, because this weakens its power for cross-continental faunal correlation. In addition, the use of MN "boundaries" is erroneous and misleading, both from a philosophic and technical point of view.
4522954|The systematic approach to the Rauisuchidae suggests that the lowest level of locomotor organization of the Thecodontia is represented by the Proterosuchidae, which can be regarded as forming the suborder Proterosuchia. The morphological and ecological relationships of the families Erythro-suchidae and Rauisuchidae suggest that they should be referred to a new suborder, the Erythrosuchia, whose locomotor apparatus shows several important characters derived from the primitive condition present in the Proterosuchia (Proterosuchidae). In the advanced Rauisuchidae the ilia moved from vertical to almost horizontal position, with the acetabulum projecting nearly ventrally. It required significant modifications in the sacral ribs and proximal areas of the pubes and ischia, and resulted in a type of graviportal relation with the subvertical femur. Because of this condition, the femur did not require the anteromedially projecting head and the prominent fourth and lesser trochanters as in the two orders of dinosaurs. The Rauisuchidae with vertical hind limbs remained plantigrade, with a crurotarsal tarsus and the tibia shorter than the femur. It is suggested that the evolutionary history of the vertical hind limbs in archosaurs followed at least two very different models of improvements as shown by the rauisuchids and the dinosaurs.
20627092|Three-dimensional finite element analyses were performed on the cranium of the horned theropod Carnotaurus sastrei to assess how it would have performed mechanically during biting and frontal butting. This technique proved to be an effective tool to provide a better understanding of the cranial functional morphology of C. sastrei. The analyses indicated that the jaw-closing musculature of C. sastrei would have played a key role in diminishing the stress level on the cranium during biting, particularly for the braincase. Force analyses show that C. sastrei would have had a comparatively weak (and faster than Allosaurus fragillis) muscle-driven bite. The finite element analyses also provide quantitative evidence to suggest that the cranium of C. sastrei could have withstood high velocity impacts to its teeth resulting from a hypothetical hatchet-like biting mode, but could not have endured severe, rapid frontal blows during agonistic encounters.
30126314|The record of Neogene faunas from the northeast of Argentina (Mesopotamia) is sporadic, whereas the late Miocene vertebrate-bearing horizons in this area contain a very abundant and diverse fauna, the Pliocene deposits are poorly known and have been unfossiliferous until now. This situation makes the understanding of the biogeographic and evolutionary history of the Mesopotamian taxa difficult. In this contribution, the first mammals are described that were recovered from the most basal levels of the Punta Gorda Group ( = Alvear Formation) at Entre Ros Province, assigned to the late Pliocene (Lower Matuyama) by previous paleomagnetic studies. These beds are paleomagnetically bracketed between 1.95 and 2.6 Ma (late Pliocene) in the Alvear section and help to refine the biostratigraphy of these species elsewhere in northeastern Argentina. The echimyids Paramyocastor diligens (Ameghino, 1888) and Eumysops sp., and the hegetotheriid Paedotherium cf. typicum herein reported support a Pliocene age for the sediments from which they were recovered. These mammals suggest a paleoenvironment characterized by semiarid and open lowlands, markedly different than that inferred for the Late Miocene in this area.
42568635|The craniodental anatomy of Machairodus catocopis is assessed through the study of a well-preserved specimen from the early Hemphillian site of Sebastin Place (Kansas) and through comparisons with other Miocene American and Eurasiatic machairodonts, in order to resolve its affinities and to gain a clearer understanding of the evolution of machairodontine felids in the Holarctic. In view of the similarities with the Old World species Machairodus aphanistus, the original generic assignment seems correct, and later attribution of this species to the genus Nimravides appears unjustified. Similarities with Old World Miocene homotherins are too extensive to be the result of convergent evolution, especially considering the mosaic evolution of different machairodont adaptations. Hypotheses suggesting that M. catocopis is a part of a native American lineage originating from a feline, rather than machairodontine, immigrant are unjustified on anatomical or evolutionary grounds. The succession of sabertoothed felid species in the American Miocene is best explained as the result of three immigration events. A first immigration of a felid of Pseudaelurus grade led to the evolution of primitive species such as Pseudaelurus intrepidus and Nimravides pedionomus. A second immigration of a species of Machairodus aphanistus grade around the time the 'Hipparion event' would result in the evolution of M. catocopis. The late Hemphillian species 'Machairodus' coloradensis is clearly a member of the Old World Turolian Amphimachairodus lineage, and would be the result of a third immigration event.
4524452|A new genus and species of swan (subtribe Cygnina) are described here from the late Miocene deposits of Toros Menalla (Chad, Africa), which have yielded the earliest known hominid. Afrocygnus chauvireae, gen. et sp. nov., is about the size of Cygnus atratus of the Australasian region, but differs morphologically from all living members of the genus Cygnus, and from all other extinct taxa of swans. Several extinct genera of swans or supposed extinct species of Cygnus actually appear not to belong to the Cygnini or to Cygnus, respectively, and should be revised. Afrocygnus chauvireae fills a biogeographical gap because there is no swan today in Africa except on the Mediterranean coast in winter, and the continent is now the only one-with Antarctica-lacking breeding swans. An unidentified swan is also represented in the Pliocene of Koro Toro (Chad). Remains previously identified as a goose-like member of Anserinae from the Mio-Pliocene boundary of Sahabi (Libya) are referred to Afrocygnus cf. A. chauvireae. Two records of a larger, unidentified swan are known in the early/middle Pleistocene of East Africa, but none for the southern part of the continent. Afrocygnus appears as the closest genus to Cygnus. The Chadian and Libyan swans indicate rather calm freshwater bodies in the vicinity of the deposits. Afrocygnus is indicative of some vertebrate endemism in the Chadian-Libyan area during the latest Miocene, in humid settings, through the incipient eastern Sahara desert.
23361083|Modern pinnipeds distributed along the coasts of continental South America consist almost entirely of otariids (sea lions and fur seals). In contrast, phocids (true seals) are present only on the southernmost extreme of Chile. This recent biogeographic pattern is consistent with the zooarchaeological record (82 ka), but it is incompatible with the pinniped fossil record during the Neogene. From the middle Miocene to the Pliocene, true seals exclusively dominated pinniped assemblages, and they were only replaced by the fur seals and sea lions sometime after the early Pliocene. Here, we describe pinniped material collected from two new localities in the Atacama Desert, northern Chile, that clarifies this marine mammal faunal turnover. Specifically, these finds provide records of the first occurrence of Otariidae (late Pleistocene) and the last occurrence of Phocidae (early Pliocene) in Chile, which in turn constrain the timing of this turnover to between the early Pliocene and late Pleistocene. The stratigraphic context of these findings provides new insights into hypotheses that explain this faunal turnover in South America, and we briefly discuss them in the context of turnover events involving other marine vertebrates throughout the Southern Hemisphere.
4524616|Miocene land mammals are described from the Gaillard Cut Local Fauna based on a collection made by Stewart and Whitmore in the 1960s from Cucaracha Reach, former Canal Zone, Republic of Panama. In addition to the Order Rodentia described elsewhere, the land mammals represent three other orders (Carnivora [new record], Artiodactyla, Perissodactyla), including the canid Tomarctus brevirostris, indeterminant Amphicyonidae or Hemicyonidae, oreodont Merycochoerus matthewi, protoceratid Paratoceras wardi, horses Anchitherium clarencei and Archaeohippus sp., and rhinocerotids Menoceras barbouri and Floridaceras whitei Despite its close proximity to South America, all of the taxa in the Gaillard Cut Local Fauna are of distinctly North American faunal affinities. Given their geological context in Panama and biochronology of the Cucaracha mammals as they are known from North America, the age of this assemblage is within an interval from latest Arikareean (Ar4) through early Barstovian (Ba2), between 19.5 and 14 Ma. Field relationships indicate a collection from a narrow stratigraphic zone: there does not appear to be temporal mixing from different land-mammal ages. Depending on the exact absolute age, which has not yet been determined, the Gaillard Cut Local Fauna either contains relictual 'Hemingfordian' species that persisted into the Barstovian, or 'Barstovian' indicators that originated earlier in Central America than they are known from North America. The predominance of low-crowned herbivores in the Gaillard Cut Local Fauna is interpreted to indicate forested and woodland habitats in the ancient Neotropics.
4524648|Fossils from early Tertiary phosphate deposits of northern Mali include a new diminutive proboscidean taxon intermediate in size between Daouitherium rebouli and Phosphatherium escuilliei. Although a fragmentary specimen, it has two dentary characters previously demonstrated to be diagnostic for basal proboscideans: a labially expanded mandibular corpus in the region of m2 and m3 and a mesiolabially positioned mandibular ramus. The locality that produced the fossils, Tamaguelelt, has historically been hard to date even though it has produced many vertebrates. A section is presented that includes the locality and relates it to surrounding sediments. The locality is Eocene, lies very close to the Paleocene-Eocene boundary, and is most likely early Eocene (Ypresian). The depositional environment suggests substantial reworking of older sediments, and the fossils within them, including the proboscideans, may be even older than early Eocene. The Mali proboscidean is one of the oldest members of Afrotheria that has been found in Africa and this locality is the southernmost African early Eocene locality for mammals.
25835825|A new genus and species of Pachypleurosauria, Dianopachysaurus dingi, gen. et sp. nov., from a recently discovered Middle Triassic Lagersttte in the Anisian Guanling Formation of Yunnan Province is described. The monophyly of Pachypleurosauria, including all potential Chinese pachypleurosaurs in this study, is supported by the rigorous cladistic analysis conducted here. Phylogenetic relationships of Chinese pachypleurosaurs are clarified. Wumengosaurus occupies the most basal position within Pachypleurosauria. Keichousaurus and Dianopachysaurus form the monophyletic Keichousauridae that is the sister group of all European pachypleurosaurs. Our cladistic analysis also supports a previously proposed paleobiogeographic hypothesis of an eastern Tethyan origin of pachypleurosaurs and their migration into the western Tethyan faunal province. The existence of a long ghost lineage as required by the paleobiogeographic hypothesis is greatly shortened by the discovery of Dianopachysaurus.
20490967|Stenasodelphis russellae, a new genus and species of extinct dolphin in the odontocete family Pontoporiidae, is based on a partial cranium of Late Miocene age (Tortonian), circa 9 to 10 Ma, from the Little Cove Point Member of the St. Marys Formation, Maryland, USA. Pontoporiidae are amongst the smallest cetaceans, and this dolphin is one of the smallest reported pontoporiids, being probably less than 1.5 m long. It is also the second oldest named pontoporiid in the world. Stenasodelphis russellae shares with late Middle Miocene Brachydelphis mazeasi (eastern South Pacific) and the latest Miocene and Pliocene species of Parapontoporia (North Pacific) left-skew asymmetry of the cranial vertex. Thus, all of the earliest known Pontoporiidae have cranial asymmetry, in contrast to symmetrical crania in the Pliocene pontoporiids, Pontistes rectifrons and Pliopontos littoralis, and the Recent Franciscana, Pontoporia blainvillei. This suggests that cranial asymmetry may be the primitive character state among stem Pontoporiidae. Autapomorphies of Stenasodelphis russellae include small size, thick cranial bones, wide premaxillary sac fossae, a medial projection of each maxilla onto the lateral side of each nasal, and the highest part of the cranial vertex being formed by the nasals rather than the frontals.
4523000|Evaluation of the characters used to determine the phylogeny and classification of arthrodires leads to the following conclusions: Actinolepidae are defined only by characters primitive for the order. Holonematidae are not brachythoracans but are related to Phlyctaeniidae. Brachythoraci are difficult to define, but are probably monophyletic and are useful taxonomically. Buchanosteoids, heterosteoids, homosteoids and brachydeiroids all retain primitive characters that indicate an early origin among Brachythoraci, in spite of the specializations attained by each superfamily. Coccosteidae are the central stock of the major brachythoracan radiation, the Coccosteoidea, but can be defined only by the absence of the specializations of the families to which they gave rise; these include the Rhachiosteidae, Pholidosteidae, Camuropiscidae and Incisoscutidae fam. nov., as well as the Dinichthyidae which are grouped with the Leiosteidae and Trematosteidae in a separate superfamily, Dinichthyoidea.
30126358|As a single stratigraphic source and site of high-fidelity vertebrate trackways and superbly preserved skeletons, the Lower Permian Tambach Formation, lowermost unit of the Upper Rotliegend, of the Bromacker locality in the middle part of the Thuringian Forest near Gotha, central Germany, provides a unique opportunity of matching late Paleozoic trackways with their trackmakers. Here the track-trackmaker association is firmly established between two species of the ichnogenus Ichniotherium, Ichniotherium cottae and Ichniotherium sphaerodactylum, and the skeletal fossils of the closely related diadectids Diadectes absitus and Orobates pabsti, respectively. These are the first well-documented species-level identifications of the trackmakers of Paleozoic trackways. The Ichniotherium ichnospecies are principally separated by the relative lengths of the digits of the pes imprint and the degree of overstepping of the pes and manus imprints. Both characters are shown to be clearly due to differences in the number and lengths of phalangeal elements and the number of presacral vertebrae of the diadectid species. The unique methods employed here in establishing the track-trackmaker associations provide not only an innovative data source for studying the evolutionary biology, paleo-biogeography, and locomotor behaviour of the trackmakers, but also a valuable methodology for evaluating taxonomic concepts in vertebrate ichnology.
30117462|Molecular estimates for the divergence of Chrysochloridae (golden moles) and Tenrecoidea (tenrecs) date back to near the K-T boundary, but at present the oldest undoubted fossil members of these clades are early Miocene in age (~20 Ma). The only Paleogene African genus that has been proposed as a possible stem tenrecoid is late Eocene (~34 Ma) Widanelfarasia from Egypt, heretofore known only from the lower dentition. Here we employ high-resolution computed tomography to reveal the morphology of the maxillary post-canine dentition of Widanelfarasia, and describe fragmentary dental and mandibular remains of early Oligocene Jawharia (gen. nov.) and Eochrysochloris (gen. nov.). The upper molar dentition of Widanelfarasia provides evidence for an intermediate morphological stage between moderate dilambdodonty and incipient zalambdodonty. Phylogenetic analysis employing the morphological character matrix of Asher and Hofreiter (2006) places Widanelfarasia within crown Tenrecoidea, but an alternative placement of that genus as a stem tenrecoid could not be statistically rejected. Additional support for the latter hypothesis, and for the hypothesis of convergent evolution of zalambdodonty within Afrosoricida, is provided by Eochrysochloris gen. nov., which shares apomorphic premolar features with Miocene Prochrysochloris and extant chrysochlorids, but retains a well-developed talonid basin on its lower molars. Jawharia gen. nov. is interpreted as an advanced stem tenrecoid that provides additional support for the hypothesis that tenrecoid zalambdodonty evolved from moderate dilambdodonty. Some of the apomorphic morphological features shared by Widanelfarasia and early Miocene Protenrec are also seen in Todralestes, from the oldest (late Paleocene) placental mammal-bearing locality in Africa. As such Todralestes may be a stem or crown afrosoricid, and, if so, the oldest known Afro-Arabian member of Afrotheria.
4522877|A review of North American Late Cretaceous frogs demonstrates that Paradiscoglossus americanus n. gen. et sp. (Discoglossidae) and Palaeobatrachus occidentalis n. sp. (Palaeobatrachidae) definitively establish the presence of these families in the Late Cretaceous of North America (Lance Formation, Wyoming). P. occidentalis is also represented in the Late Cretaceous Hell Creek Formation in Montana. Interrelationships of palaeobatrachids are briefly discussed. A critical review of Scotiophryne pustulosa, earlier referred to the bombinid line within the Discoglossidae, establishes that there is a weak but definite case for maintaining this taxon in the Discoglossidae. Material that has been questionably referred to the pelobatid frog Eopelobates may be referred to the genus with some confidence. Familial relationships of Theatonius lancensis remain obscure. The presence of discoglossids and palaeobatrachids in North America during the Cretaceous strengthens the hypothesis of Estes and Reig (1973) that these groups were Holarctic in distribution, although both groups seem to have been primarily Eurasian.
4523441|Discoveries at the Ellisdale Site (Campanian, Marshalltown Formation) in New Jersey add significantly to knowledge of vertebrate microfaunas east of the Cretaceous Interior Seaway. Lizard and amphibian remains from Ellisdale appear congeneric with taxa known from western sites. Mammals in the Ellisdale Local Fauna include multituberculates and a marsupial. Two of the teeth thus far recovered are indistinguishable from specimens referred to Alphadon lulli (Marsupialia) and Cimolomys cf. C. clarki (Multituberculata), species known from western faunas of Judithian age.
4523784|Reexamination of the dentition of Grippia longirostris (Ichthyosauria) provides new information, and also reveals errors in the original descriptions. A dental groove is present in G. longirostris, with shallow sockets at the bottom; hence, the implantation is subthecodont, at least in the posterior part of the mandible. There are two rows of maxillary teeth as originally described, but it seems that the lingual row comprises replacement teeth for the labial row, and that each replacement tooth is positioned disto-lingual of its predecessor. The anterior teeth are not well preserved in any of the specimens. The posterior teeth are blunt but rarely spherical, and are small both absolutely and relative to the skull width. The dentition and the jaw structure suggest a wide range of prey items, rather than strict durophagy as previously proposed. The dentition of G. longirostris is similar to that of Utatsusaurus hataii in general tooth structure, tooth implantation and replacement, and in relative tooth sizes, in contrast to previous interpretations.
4523176|The Lac Pelletier Lower Fauna, of early- to mid-Duchesnean age, includes 22 species of rodents, representing seven or eight families. Eighteen species are discussed here, and four species of eomyids are described elsewhere. A striking Duchesnean increase in rodent diversity and faunal provinciality, as shown in this assemblage, indicates an O-type rapid faunal exchange in the latest Eocene, probably occurring independently in each biogeographic province. A Chadronian drop in species diversity and provinciality may have arisen from crossing of physiographic barriers by the products of latest Eocene radiation. I name the new genus Anonymus and new species Microparamys nimius, Anonymus baroni, Pseudotomus timmys, Pseudocylindrodon lateriviae, Janimus dawsonae, Eutypomys tilliei, Eutypomys acares, and Eutypomys obliquidens.
40864369|A new genus and species of anomaluroid rodent, Kabirmys qarunensis, is described based on isolated teeth, partial mandibles, and an edentulous partial maxilla from the earliest late Eocene Birket Qarun Locality 2 (BQ-2) in the Fayum Depression of northern Egypt. Kabirmys is the largest known Paleogene anomaluroid, with first lower molar area being about 2.5 times that of the roughly contemporaneous Nementchamys and Pondaungimys from Algeria and Myanmar, respectively. The genus exhibits distinctive features not seen in other Paleogene taxa, such as a complete mure, weak neo-endoloph, and open lingual sinus on the upper molars; Kabirmys lacks the complex enamel crenulations seen in Nementchamys and Pondaungimys. Phylogenetic analysis of dental features nests Kabirmys within crown Anomaluridae as a sister taxon of Nementchamys and Pondaungimys, but parsimony analysis following addition of a chronobiogeographic character places all of these taxa as basal stem members of Anomaluridae. This new evidence indicates that there was considerable diversity in body size and molar morphology among African anomaluroids near the middle-late Eocene boundary, and suggests that the group had an ancient origin on that landmass. Kabirmys shares some primitive features with the possible zegdoumyid ' Glibia' namibiensis from the Paleogene of Namibia, and suggests that anomaluroids might be derived from a zegdoumyid-like ancestor. The disappearance of anomaluroids in the upper (latest Eocene to early Oligocne) levels of the Fayum succession might be related to global cooling through the later Paleogene, which might have removed suitable habitats from northern Africa.
30126342|Detailed description of the Middle Permian Russian caseid Ennatosaurus tecton shows that three autapomorphies distinguish it from other caseids: a broad anterior ramus of the jugal, a large contribution of the frontal to the dorsal orbital margin, and a relatively narrow parasphenoid body. Phylogenetic analysis of Caseidae yields a single most parsimonious tree and its topology posits Ennatosaurus tecton as the sister taxon to the clade of the North American caseids Angelosaurus dolani and Cotylorhynchus romeri. Phylogenetic analysis supports the position of Oromycter dolesorum from the Lower Permian Richards Spur locality as the most basal member of Caseidae. In addition, the genus Casea is resolved as paraphyletic, whereby C. rutena forms the sister taxon to the clade containing E. tecton, C. romeri, and A. dolani. The current topology reveals that the pattern of dental complexity in terms of the number of apical cuspules is homoplasious, cautioning against its use as a unidirectional phylogenetic character.
4523006|Watsonulus eugnathoides (Piveteau, 1935) is a parasemionotid fish from Early Triassic rocks of Madagascar. The skull and pectoral girdle of this holostean are described from new material. The braincase retains a number of primitive chondrostean-like characters such as an open lateral cranial fissure and frequently open vestibular fontanelle, presence of an endochondral intercalar without membranous outgrowths, and fusion between most of the the endochondral bones in the adult, but is otherwise similar to "caturids" such as Heterolepidotus. The dermal skull retains one major, putatively primitive, feature shared with chondrosteans, a preopercular with a broad dorsal edge. The dermal shoulder girdle retains a chondrostean-style clavicle, but the endochondral shoulder girdle is most similar to teleosts among actinopterygians. Watsonulus also has an Amia-style jaw joint. The non-reduced clavicle and dorsally expanded preoperculum are lost in all other non-parasemionotid neopterygians (the reductions being synapomorphies), and the combination of these two primitive characters with an Amia-style jaw in Watsonulus shows that gars and teleosts are more closely related to each other than either is to Amia.
40864382|A lag deposit that separates the underlying late Maastrichtian Arkadelphia Formation marl from the overlying Paleocene Midway Group limestone in Hot Spring County, Arkansas, U.S.A., contains osteichthyan teeth, scales, and skeletal elements belonging to: Cylindtacanthus ornatus Leidy, 1856, Atractosteus sp., Lepisosteus sp., cf. Hadrodus prisms Leidy, 1857, Pseudoegertonia cf. P. granulosas (Arambourg, 1952), Paralbula casei Estes, 1969, Enchodus ferox Leidy, 1855, Enchodus gladiolus (Cope, 1872), Enchoduspetrosus (Cope, 1874), Enchodus sp., and Teleostei incertae sedis. Outcrop exposures of this lag deposit occur within the Ouachita River and are expressed as a series of partially submerged, steeply inclined fold limbs that strike obliquely to water flow. The co-occurring osteichthyans recovered in this study span a broad range of salinity tolerances, foraging behaviors, and dietary preferences. Concentration of these osteichthyans indicates transport, exhumation, and reburial associated with storm activity or sea level cyclicity across a shallow Late Cretaceous marine shelf. Arkadelphia-Midway osteichthyan taxa belong to groups that survive the Cretaceous-Paleocene extinction event.
4524726|Two new specimens of the aquatic sloth Thalassocnus from the Pliocene of Peru are described, one of T. carolomartini McDonald and Muizon, 2002 and the other T yaucensis, sp. nov. Comparisons with the type species of Thalassocnus, T natans, demonstrates that T. carolomartini and T. yaucensis are more similar morphologically to each other than to other species of the genus and are more derived. For example, both have a more elongated rostrum (premaxillae and mandibular spout) and more robust, quadrate to circular molariform teeth. The aquatic sloth Thalassocnus is sufficiently distinct morphologically that it is placed in a new subfamily, the Thalassocninae, and the Nothrotheriinae is raised to family rank. The morphological features shared by T. carolomartini and T. yaucensis indicate these species were better adapted to grazing on marine vegetation than earlier species of Thalassocnus.
30126331|A specimen collected in 2006 from the Smoky Hill Chalk of central Kansas, USA, represents a rare occurrence of a chimaeroid fish from the Niobrara Chalk. The associated material includes associated right and left vomerine plates, and the right palatine plate. Comparison of the Kansas vomerines with the type of "Edaphodon" laqueatus, a right vomerine from Lower Campanian strata of eastern Mississippi, indicates that the remains are conspecific. However, our analysis also shows that these vomerine plates are distinct from Edaphodon, principally because of a massive, hammer-like beak, and overall modification of the oral surfaces into flat crushing plates, rather than oblique shearing surfaces as seen in Edaphodon. In addition, whereas there are three large tritors on an Edaphodon palatine, the Niobrara palatine has four very small tritors, with two inner tritors, a middle tritor, and an outer tritor. Our conclusion is that the original taxonomic designation, Eumylodus laqueatus Leidy, 1873, is valid, and the geographic distribution of the taxon extended from the Mississippi embayment to the central portion of the Western Interior Seaway, U.S.A.
4523457|Several characters of the tarsometatarsus of the Cretaceous enantiornithine birds are discussed, with emphasis on the genus Avisaurus, which was considered a non-avian theropod taxon by its authors. Two synapomorphies (metatarsal IV reduced with respect to metatarsals II and III; well-developed knob on the anterior face of metatarsal II) relate Avisaurus to the remaining enantior-nithine tarsometatarsi types and support reference of this taxon within the Enantiornithes. Three other synapomorphies (laterally compressed, J-shaped metatarsal I; anterior surface of the mid-shaft of metatarsal III strongly convex transversely; strong posterior projection of the internal rim of trochlea on metatarsal III) shared by Avisaurus and a Late Cretaceous enantiornithine from northwestern Patagonia further support its avian affinities. Avisaurus and the family Avisauridae are assigned to the avian subclass Enantiornithes.
4524169|New temnospondyl material is described on the basis of cranial and postcranial remains from the GaiAs Formation of the Huab Basin, Namibia. An Early Permian age is indicated by U/Pb SHRIMP dating of zircons from fallout tuff beds occurring immediately above the temnospondyl remains. This material represents the oldest known amphibian with stereospondylous vertebrae and has implications for temnospondyl evolution, biogeography and Permo-Triassic Gondwanan basin development models.
4524345|A single specimen of the anterior portion of a small fish was collected from the Eocene Mahenge site of Tanzania in 1996. The specimen, preserved as part and counterpart natural mold, is identified as belonging to a characiform fish, although the presence of a Weberian apparatus has not been confirmed beyond doubt. Features of the bones, such as the prominent lateral ridge on the anterodorsal corner of the opercle, the fused postcleithra 2+3, and the lack of a dentary symphyseal hinge, indicate that the fish is related to the Citharinidae and Distichodontidae. The fossil cannot be included in any known genus, and is described here as a new genus and species, Eocitharinus macrognathus. The fossil record of characiforms includes few articulated skeletons, of which only one had been reported previously from Africa, described in the family Characidae (=Alestidae).
4522849| Stylinodon, the latest taeniodont, is known from the late Wasatchian and Bridgerian of Colorado and Wyoming, Uintan of Utah, and Bridge or Uintan of western Texas. Two species, S. mirus Marsh, 1874, and S. inexplicatus, new species, are here considered valid. A large gliriform tooth from the late Eocene of Shandong, China, formerly referred to "?Stylinodon," is here referred to the Tillodontia. Recently discovered specimens indicate that the dental formula of Stylinodon is I C P M. Thus, contrary to previous opinions, Ectoganus (dental formula I C P M) can be excluded from the direct ancestry of Stylinodon. 
4523721|Our general understanding of hyaenodontid phylogeny and classification, particularly the division between the phylogenetically and morphologically primitive Proviverrinae and the derived Hyaenodontinae, has been fairly stable since Matthew laid down its framework in the early 20th century. However, a wealth of material described since that time allows Matthew's conclusions to be re-examined. Adding to that wealth is a new skeleton of Gazinocyon vulpeculus gen. et comb. nov. The postcranium of this specimen indicates that this animal was probably incipiently cursorial. The hindlimb morphology suggests that motion in the ankle was restricted to a parasagittal plane and that the animal was digitigrade. The forelimb is less completely preserved, making its functional ability more difficult to assess. Cladistic analysis suggests that Gazinocyon was related to a clade containing Eurotherium, Propterodon, Hyaenodon, and "Pterodon" hyaenoides. It also suggests that Hyaenodontinae (containing Pterodon Hyainainlouros, Hyaenodon, and "Pterodon" hyaenoides, among others) is diphyletic. Pterodon and Hyainailouros appear to be only distantly related to Hyaenodon, losing the metaconid/(the diagnostic character of Hyaenodontinae) independently of the latter genus. Hyaenodontinae is restricted and Pterodontinae subfam. nov. is defined to reflect this hypothesis.
40864371|Nonomys gutzleri, sp. nov., is described on the basis of isolated teeth from the late Duchesnean or early Chadronian upper member of the Pomerado Conglomerate, San Diego County, California, U. S. A. It differs from Nonomys simplicidens (early to middle Chadronian of Wyoming and Texas) in several characters, including molars 10-13% larger, more conical metaconids and protoconids on m1 and m2, and small entoconid on m3. Nonomys gutzleri further differs from N. simplicidens in the apparently derived characters of one or more distinct cuspulids on the labial cingulid of ml and m2, weaker ectolophids on m1-3, and lack of preprotocristid and metalophulid on ml-3. These characters foreshadow the conditions in Diplolophus. An isolated ml (SDSNH 72232) from the Pomerado Conglomerate represents an unnamed new taxon of nonomyine morphologically intermediate between Nonomys and Diplolophus. It differs from Nonomys in having ml 19-28% larger than N gutzleri, a much larger metastylid, and, similar to the conditions in Diplolophus insolens, in lacking a distinct anteroconid and a complete ectolophid, but in possessing an arch-like ridge structure on the posterior flank of the protoconid. However, SDSNH 72232 is 59-68% smaller than the ml in D. insolens, is anteroposteriorly more elongated and much lower-crowned than the ml of D. insolens, and has a separate metaconid and metastylid. The derived similarities between Nonomys, SDSNH 72232, and Diplolophus support their inclusion in a redefined subfamily Nonomyinae, but this subfamily is not confidently assignable to either Muroidea or Dipodoidea, and is allocated only to Myodonta, incertae sedis.
4523320|The remains of the ornithomimid dinosaur Archaeornithomimus asiaticus from the Upper Cretaceous of the People's Republic of China are described and comparisons made with the bones of Elaphrosaurus, Gallimimus, Struthiomimus, Ornithomimus, Dromiceiomimus, Deinocheirus, and Allosaurus. The diagnosis of the Ornithomimidae of Russell (1972) is expanded to include the characters of Elaphrosaurus and Archaeornithomimus. Some of the remains from the Arundel Formation of Maryland that have been referred to Archaeornithomimus affinis are probably ornithomimid but are generically and specifically indeterminate.
4524673|The origins of the distinct sloth lineages are not well documented. The Deseadan SALMA site of Salla-Luribay presents four Tardigrada and constitutes one of the two oldest sloth assemblages. The peculiar glypto- sloth Pseudoglyptodon sallaensis is found together with two orophodontoid taxa and a Megalonychidae. The study of the P. sallaensis remains confirms that is effectively a sloth with various glyptodontoid convergences easily explicable by a grazing way of life. The orophodontids exhibit a common dental pattern with Octodontotherium from Patagonia. Except for the presence of Pseudoglyptodon, the Salla-Luribay Xenarthra assemblage closely resembles the La Flecha site from Santa Cruz province, Argentina. The Megalonychidae are also recorded, which increases the paleogeographic distribution of this clade in the late Oligocene. The phylogenetic status of Pseudoglyptodon remains doubtful and additional material is necessary to resolve it. Two species of Peltephilinae, a Glyptodontidae closely related to Eocoleophorus and Glyptatelus complete the xenarthran assemblage. All of the Bolivian specimens are considerably smaller than the Patagonian forms, a difference that may reflect distinct diets, latitudinal cline, and environments during the end of the Oligocene. The existence of Pseudoglyptodon, four Orophodontidae and two Megalonychidae at the end of the Oligocene (25.65 and 29.4 Ma) in South America is surprising and implies an early diversification of sloths and a Cingulata/Tardigrada split, probably before the Casamayoran, which would be in agreement with predictions based on molecular evidence.
4522879|Fragments of dermal bones referable to an undetermined aquatic chelonian have been discovered in the Huai Hin Lat Formation near the Chulabhorn Dam, northeastern Thailand. In the same area, this formation has also yielded ostracodes, semionotid actinopterygians, lungfishes (Ceratodus), capitosaurids (Cyclotosaurus), and phytosaurs, all suggestive of a Late Triassic (possibly Norian) age. The turtle remains are the first hitherto recorded from the Triassic of Asia, but it is still undecided whether they can be referred to one of the taxa known from the Triassic of Germany or belong to a new taxon. They resemble corresponding parts of post-Triassic chelydrid and thalassemydid turtles.
4522965|Two recently discovered skeletons of the enigmatic Lower Permian reptile Araeoscelis provide important, additional information on its osteology and permit a reassessment of its phylogenetic relationships. A combination of primitive and derived characters shared by Araeoscelis and Petrolacosaurus justifies their inclusion in the suborder Araeoscelidia as members of separate families and indicates that they represent the earliest, most primitive known stage in the adaptive radiation of the diapsid reptiles. Araeoscelis exhibits a suite of unusual cranial features resulting in a massive, sturdily constructed skull, which is interpreted as an adaptation to a specialized diet that probably included invertebrates protected by heavy exoskeletons. This theory is also used to explain the absence of a lower temporal fenestra in Araeoscelis as the result of secondary closure. Some cranial features are noted that support this hypothesis.
42568683|The Hadar giraffids belong to the genera Giraffa and Sivatherium. We recognize two species in the former genus; distinguishing between them on dental elements is straightforward, but it is more difficult on other remains. Giraffa jumae is about the size of the modern G. camelopardalis, but has a less pneumatized skull with more conical ossicones, more slender and often longer limb bones, and also differs in some dental features, making it an unlikely ancestor of the modern giraffe. Giraffa stillei has teeth that are always smaller than those of the modern form, less molarized premolars, ossicones smaller but otherwise similar to those of the larger Hadar species, and slender limb bones that are probably relatively long, thus not much shorter than those of the modern form. It might be the ancestor of the later G. gracias from the Turkana Basin, and of G. camelopardalis. We assign no specimen to Giraffa pygmaea. Sivatherium maurusium, a well-known form of the African Pliocene and Pleistocene, is a rare form at Hadar. In contrast to most bovids, giraffids are more common in the Sidi Hakoma than in the overlying Denen Dora Member, perhaps as a result of grassland expansion at Hadar at that time.
4523995|A new traversodont cynodont, Plinthogomphodon herpetairus, is described on the basis of a partial snout from Late Triassic strata of the Newark Supergroup exposed in the Deep River basin (Durham sub-basin) of North Carolina. In the structure of its upper postcanine teeth, Plinthogomphodon most closely resembles Boreogomphodon from the Upper Triassic (Carnian) of Virginia and Luangwa from the Middle Triassic (Anisian) of Zambia. It differs from these taxa only in some features of these teeth.
23251300|A new Middle Triassic archosaur, Diandongosuchus fuyuanensis, gen, et sp. nov., is described on the basis of a skeleton from the Zhuganpo Member (Ladinian) of the Falang Formation, eastern Yunnan Province, China. It is primarily characterized by the nasal process of the premaxilla extending posteriorly well beyond the external naris, the super-sized coracoid foramen laterally bordered by the scapula, the ischium with a strongly expanded medial portion anteroposteriorly longer than the proximodistal height of the bone, and anteriorly notched cervical osteoderms. D. fuyuanensis is a pseudosuchian on the basis of the crocodile-normal tarsal joint and other features, such as the distal end of the ulna in posterolateral view squared off, osteoderms with a distinct anterior process, the presacral vertebrae dorsally covered by more than one osteoderm, dorsal osteoderm alignment dorsal to presacrals 1024 staggered, the pubis-ischium contact reduced to a thin proximal contact, and the medial contact of the ischia extensive but the dorsal margins separate. It is from a marine deposit but shows few morphological adaptations of the postcranial skeleton for a semiaquatic way of life when compared with Qianosuchus from the Anisian limestone of the same area. A phylogenetic analysis derived from an existing data matrix suggests that the new archosaur occupies the basal-most position in Poposauroidea and further confirms the poposauroid status of Qianosuchus. On the basis of current information, the discovery of Diandongosuchus does not firmly underscore the affinity of the semiterrestrial vertebrate faunas between the eastern and western regions along the northern coastline of the Tethys.
40864399|The Cambay Formation at Vastan Mine in Gujarat, western India, has yielded the oldest artiodactyls and other land mammals from India, which are dated as middle Ypresian (~ 53 Ma) based on foraminiferids. Here we describe new dentitions, including dentaries and upper teeth of Diacodexis indicus (= Gujaratia indica) from Vastan. These provide better characterization of this Asian diacodexeid (Artiodactyla: Mammalia) than was available earlier. A new combination, Diacodexis indicus, is proposed in place of Gujaratia indica, and G. pakistanensis is referred back to Diacodexis. A new, very small species of Diacodexis, D. parvus, is reported based on isolated teeth. Whereas D. indicus is approximately the size of the largest known species of Diacodexis, D. parvus represents the smallest recorded species of the genus and is one of the smallest known artiodactyls. Diacodexeidae indet. from Vastan is exemplified by a fragment of a dentary and an upper molar, which are of intermediate size. Several isolated teeth represent a new genus and species, unrelated to Diacodexeidae, and are assigned to Artiodactyla indet. pending discovery of more adequate specimens. Early Eocene diacodexeid postcrania are described for the first time from India. Early Eocene artiodactyls from India are phenetically close to Euroamerican species of Diacodexis, providing further evidence of phylogenetic connections particularly with European faunas. A few postcranial features of the Vastan artiodactyls are also seen in primitive archaeocetes (Cetacea) indicating a possible relationship between Vastan artiodactyls and basal Cetacea.
4522836|The Yale Peabody Museum skull YPM 511 from the middle Eocene Bridger beds of Wyoming belongs to the crocodylid Crocodylus cf. affinis Marsh, 1871. Its general histological characters, particularly the organization of the skeletal growth lines, resemble closely those of a C. niloticus of the same size. Growth-line counts in both specimens allow ontogenic age estimates that are consistent with the available curves of size/age relationship for the genus Crocodylus. As in living crocodilians, some structural characters of bone annulation in the fossil crocodile appear to be related to the existence of seasons during the middle Eocene in Wyoming and suggest a yearly alternation of a cool and dry season with a warm and wet one.
4522941|The standard-length frequency histogram for the Eocene catostomid Amyzon aggregatum from the Horsefly beds of British Columbia shows a series of distinct peaks. The peaks, or modes, are interpreted as averaged year classes produced by repeated, annual winter deaths of the fishes. Fishes interpreted as being aged 0+ at death were about 40 mm SL (standard length), with peaks for successive averaged year classes at about 80 mm (1+), 125 mm (2+), 175 mm (3+), and 225 mm SL (4+). For most individuals, body depth increased rapidly between 60 and 120 mm SL, or between the ages of 1+ and 2+. These individuals are interpreted as females. Some individuals show no apparent change in bodth-depth to standard-length growth parameters, remain relatively slender and elongate, and are interpreted as males.
4523439|This study investigates the biomechanics of dental function in Ptilodus (Multituberculata) through vector analysis of masticatory muscles and comparisons of mechanically relevant cranial and dental dimensions to extant functional analogues. To isolate function, feeding behavior is divided into incision, slicing-crushing, and grinding, and these activities are related to corresponding dental regions (incisors, premolars, and molars, respectively). Quantitative comparisons to living mammals are made with respect to inferred muscle vectors. The masticatory apparatus of Ptilodus appears to have been adapted for a variety of jaw movements, including powerful retraction during the grinding cycle (utilizing the posterior part of the temporalis muscle), and the generation of large bite forces at a variety of tooth positions. The lateral compression of p4 is one indication that resistant food objects were a dietary component. However, the size and orientation of the posterior surface of the mandibular condyle indicates an upper size limit of approximately 10 mm for relatively resistant items. The size and arrangement of the bony and muscular structures indicate that the masticatory apparatus was potentially versatile and, thus, that Ptilodus and, by inference, other multituberculates, were probably omnivorous.
20627045|Ptychodus (Elasmobranchii: Ptychodontidae) is an enigmatic durophagous shark known from Cretaceous marine deposits nearly worldwide based primarily on isolated teeth. Here, we describe a specimen of P. occidentalis Leidy from the Greenhorn Limestone (middle Cenomanianearly Turonian) in Nebraska, U.S.A. The specimen does not offer any new taxonomic information concerning the unresolved ordinal placement of Ptychodus. However, it is significant because it preserves a partial skull including teeth, incomplete jaws, and neurocranial fragments as well as placoid scales and vertebrae, all of which provide a wealth of new anatomical information. The specimen contains at least 267 teeth and shows that the two dental plates are anteroposteriorly elongate. The partial paired Meckel's cartilages show a long, fused jaw symphysis and elongate jaw rami. The distribution of presumed neurocranial fragments and placoid scales with respect to the position of the dental plates suggests that the shark had a broad head with a narrow, subterminal mouth. The morphology of placoid scales suggests that the shark was a rather sluggish swimmer and had a stout, streamlined body similar to that in the extant orectolobiform sharks (e.g., Ginglymostoma). Based on the jaw length, the individual of P. occidentalis was approximately 2 m in total length (TL), while some of the largest Ptychodus known from younger Cretaceous horizons in the North American Western Interior likely attained at least 7 m TL. Ptychodus occidentalis is inferred to be an opportunistic generalist (rather than a hard prey specialist) that fed on a variety of readily available prey using inertial suction feeding.
4524617|The endemic insular canid Cynotherium sardous has been known for 1 Vi centuries, yet its phylogenetic position remained unsolved. This was because inherited ancestral characters and acquired adaptations to different ecological pressures could not be separated. In this study the problem is approached again, with the use of morphological features that were either overlooked or could not be explained properly, combined with results from recent major revisions of canid phylogeny. It appears that Xenocyon is the ancestor of Cynotherium, and that this large hypercarnivorous canid, once on the island, faced a rather different menu consisting of small prey only. The subsequent necessary adaptation resulted in a small-sized dog whose dentition remained much the same, whereas its skull lost the typical fortifications seen in the other hypercarnivorous canids; these are considered superfluous for Cynotherium, which had to exchange big and strong prey for small and fast prey.
42568550|With its short and pointed rostrum, the small fossil dolphin Brachydelphis mazeasi, from late middle to early late Miocene deposits of Chile and Peru, was originally described as an unusual member of the family Pontoporiidae (Cetacea, Odontoceti), presently only represented by the long-snouted Pontoporia blainvillei, a relict species from the eastern coast of South America. However, the phylogenetic relationships of Brachydelphis were debated in subsequent works. Based on a sample of well-preserved specimens from the late Miocene of the Pisco Formation (Tortonian, about 9 Ma) in the Sacaco Basin, southern coast of Peru, we describe a new species of Brachydelphis, B. jahuayensis, sp. nov. Also recorded in Chile, B. jahuayensis differs mostly from the type species in its considerably longer snout and higher tooth count. From a functional standpoint, the new species is interpreted as less specialized for suction feeding than the type species, relying more on its toothed jaws for prey capture. The inclusion of the long-snouted B. jahuayensis in future phylogenies will likely provide further support to the referral of Brachydelphis to the family Pontoporiidae. Finally, a review of the Mio-Pliocene vertebrate levels of the Pisco Formation in the Sacaco Basin clarifies the marine mammal content, succession, and stratigraphic correlation of each level, especially in the Aguada de Lomas locality.
4523167|Fossil vertebrates discovered in 1986 from Cameroon, West Africa, occur in three different areas in the northern part of the country. Cretaceous rocks northeast of Garoua, in the Babouri-Figuil Basin, yield complete Lepidotes skeletons. Southeast of Garoua, Cretaceous rocks of the Mayo Rey Basin, near Koum, are more clearly terrestrial and contain diverse vertebrates. The Hama Koussou Basin, just north of Garoua, produces fragmentary Lepidotes and dinosaurs. Weathered from a veneer of Pleistocene sediment overlying the latter deposit, the well fossilized remains of Equus, Phacochoerus, and a bovid were recovered.
4523226|The largest and best preserved complete specimen of the unusual lungfish Conchopoma edesi is described. The specimen was found in a Middle Pennsylvanian concretion from the Mazon Creek. The orbital region is particularly well preserved, including a sclerotic ring, the first described in a post-Devonian lungfish. The large F bone and the position of one of the Q bones between the F and one of the E bones are new features of the species. There is evidence of a hypohyal. The pelvic fins are large and leaf-shaped, unlike the long narrow pelvic fins preserved on other specimens. The variation in fin shape is probably a sexual dimorphism. Evidence that Conchopoma shed its dentition during growth confirms its closer affinity with the other denticle-shedding dipnoans, such as Uranolophus and Griphognathus, than with species bearing organized dental plates in their upper and lower jaws such as Dipterus, Chirodipterus, and Neoceratodus.
4523920|The Ellisdale site (Late Cretaceous, Campanian), Monmouth County, New Jersey, has produced the first representative fossil amphibian specimens from the Cretaceous of eastern North America. The known fauna includes indeterminate pelobatid and discoglossid frogs, an amphiumid (cf. Proamphiuma sp.), and a sirenian (cf. Habrosaurus sp.), however, the most abundant caudate remains are from a previously undescribed genus of batrachosauroidid salamander, herein described as Parrisia neocesariensis gen. et sp. nov. The genus Parrisia is established as batrachosauroidid by: an atlas with deeply concave anterior cotyles; lack of a well developed atlantal intercotylar process; and a ring or dome of calcified cartilage on the opisthocoelus vertebral condyles bearing a persistent notochordal pit. It differs from the other members of the family, including Opisthotriton and Prodesmodon (Late Cretaceous, western North America) by the presence of: unossified neural spine tips; paired caudal intravertebral nerve openings; ventral displacement of the posterior vertebral cotyle relative to the anterior; and a unique dentary morphology. The occurrence of delicately preserved amphibian fossils in the tidal channel facies at Ellisdale suggests a proximal fauna, which experienced limited post-mortem transport prior to burial. Typically salt-intolerant, these species may have been the residents of a barrier island/spit freshwater slough, an environment which hosts a number of extant amphibian species on the southeastern Atlantic coast of North America today.
20627122|Long bone histology has often been used to study growth, life history, and physiology of several dinosaurs but only little is known about life and growth parameters of Stegosaurus. This work provides the first extensive study of the long bone histology of Stegosaurus. We sampled several long bones and scapulae of four almost complete skeletons of Stegosaurus from the Late Jurassic Morrison Formation in Wyoming/USA, which are housed in the Sauriermuseum Aathal near Zurich in Switzerland. Long bone histology of Stegosaurus contains longitudinal primary osteons in a matrix that consists of a combination of both woven bone and parallel-fibered bone in varying proportions. In the inner cortex, fibrolamellar bone dominates, indicating fast growth. Toward the outer cortex, parallel-fibered bone dominates the tissue, indicating a gradual slow-down in growth. Three histologic ontogenetic stages were established. In the subadult stage, growth is still fast, whereas it decreases in adult stage I, and ceases in adult stage II. Comparing the ontogenetic stages to the body size of the specimens, two groups were recognized. This grouping may reflect intraspecific variability, sexual dimorphism, or taxonomic differences. Among dinosaurs, mainly showing true fibrolamellar bone, the long bone histology of Stegosaurus is most similar to that of the small basal thyreophoran Scutellosaurus. Accelerated growth led to the larger body size of the derived thyreophoran Stegosaurus compared to the small Scutellosaurus. Differences to the bone histology of other dinosaurs suggest that Stegosaurus grew more slowly and possibly had a lower metabolic rate than other dinosaurs of its size.
20491047|A new species of Crocuta (spotted hyenas), Crocuta eturono n. sp., from the Early Pliocene of the Turkana Basin, Kenya is described. The species has been recovered from LO6S, a site in the Kataboi Member of the Nachukui Formation, on the western side of Lake Turkana. The site is dated to &gt;3.4 Ma. The new species differs from all previously identified species of Crocuta in its length proportions of the cheek teeth, having a very long m1 and short p3 and p4. The species is also tentatively identified from the Tulu Bor Member of the Koobi Fora Formation, east side of Lake Turkana. The new species provides information for a discussion of the structure of the hyena guild in eastern Africa 4-3 Ma. Three groups of taxa are identified with distinct distributions. It is hypothesized that specific ecomorphologies of each group account for these distinctions.
41407708|The complete skeleton of a fossil mud turtle, Kinostemon pojoaque, n. sp., is described from the late Barstovian Rodent Pocket, San Ildefonso Locality of Santa Fe County, New Mexico. The new species represents the oldest member of the Kinostemon flavescens group and suggests that this clade first evolved in the southwestern United States, which, along with northern Mexico, is the center of diversity for these turtles today. The new taxon exhibits plastral characters that suggest phylogenetic affinities with Kinostemon angustipons, Kinostemon dunni, Kinostemon herrerai, Kinostemon hirtipes, and Kinostemon sonoriense and is interpreted here as an example of a morphological intermediate between the clade composed of these taxa and the flavescens group. The new fossil, along with other Miocene Kinostemon fossils from New Mexico, provides evidence that the flavescens clade likely diverged from other southwestern, Central, and South American Kinostemon by at least the late Barstovian, 14.3-13.3 million years ago.
4523991| The Middle Awash sites in Ethiopia, known for the find of one of the earliest known hominids-Ardipithecus ramidus-have also yielded many fish and other vertebrate fossils. The Middle Awash locality has sites ranging from late Miocene through to the Pleistocene, and provides the first extensive record of fossil fish in Ethiopia. This ichthyofauna includes many specimens of a tilapiine cichlid referable to the living genus Oreochromis. These cichlids are here described as a new species, Oreochromis (Oreochromis) harrisae, based on several osteological characters. The relationships of tilapiine cichlids are not well established. Few osteological studies of tilapiine cichlids have been done, and those that have tend to concentrate on pharyngeal characters that are phylogenetically useful at the generic and specific level, but not as useful at higher levels. The characters used in this paper may be useful to determine relationships among genera within the Tilapiini. 
4523500|The anatid genus Chendytes comprises two species from the Pleistocene and early Holocene of California: the comparatively large C. lawi and the smaller (poorly represented) C. milleri. Osteological comparisons confirm that Chendytes is a member of the Mergini, probably most closely related to the eiders (Somateria). Peculiarities of the pectoral skeleton of C. lawi include features of the humerus, ulna, and carpometacarpus. C. lawi exceeded the largest extant seaduck, the Common Eider (Somateria mollissima), in most dimensions of the skull and pelvic limb. Pectoral reduction in C. lawi was among the most extensive known for Anseriformes; reductions in C. milleri were of lesser magnitude. Distal wing elements of C. lawi had undergone the greatest shortening, whereas the elongate pelvic limb of C. lawi was characterized by disproportionately short femora and long tibiotarsi. Based on femur lengths and body masses of modern Mergini, estimated body masses of C. lawi and C. milleri are 2,550-3,700 g and 1,820-2,650 g, respectively. Based on mean wing areas and skeletal wing lengths of modern Mergini, and shortening of remiges in flightless Anas, an estimate for the wing area of C. lawi is
4523076|Five small (<2.5 mm), morphologically complex mammalian teeth were measured repeatedly (10 measurers, 2 dimensions per tooth, 1 daily measuring session repeated over 10 days, to accuracy of 0.01 mm) using a "Shopscope" measuring microscope. The experiment was designed to show, within and among measurers: (1) the ranges of variation that may be expected; and (2) the primary components of observed variation. Variations in repeated measurements consistently were very low (for lumped samples, N=100: 80% of time
4524704|Tashkumyrodon desideratus, gen. et sp. nov. from the Middle Jurassic (Callovian) Balabansai Formation near Tashkumyr in Kyrgyzstan is described from a single lower molar. The tooth exhibits the typical structure of a docodont lower molar with the main cusp a connected by crests to the lingual cusps (c and g) and to the mesial cusp b. Tashkumyrodon is plesiomorphic in retaining well developed crests c-d and d-f, and derived in reduction of crest b-g. By formation of crests b-e and e-g (derived), Tashkumyrodon resembles Tegotherium from the Late Jurassic of Mongolia and Sibirotherium from the Early Cretaceous of West Siberia, Russia. Tegotherium is more derived than Tashkumyrodon by the more prominent anterior basin ("pseudotalonid") and the reduction of the crests distal to cusp c. The Asian docodonts probably represent the sister group of all remaining docodonts, an Euramerican clade characterized by retention of crest b-g and reduction of cusp e as well as crest b-e. Simpsonodon from the Middle Jurassic of England is convergently similar to Tegotherium in development of a "pseudotalonid" and reduction of distal crests.
42568646|Based upon fragmentary remains of dermal armor, a new form of arandaspid fish, Ritchieichthys nibili, gen et. sp. nov., is described from subsurface core material from the Katian (Late Ordovician) Nibil Formation of the Canning Basin, Western Australia. Ritchieichthys nibili represents the first documented record of a fish from the Ordovician of the Canning Basin. Allied to the previous descriptions of arandaspsids from the Amadeus and Warburton basins of the Northern Territory and New South Wales, respectively, this record extends the paleogeographic range of arandaspids across the hypothetical Ordovician Larapintine Seaway and increases the stratigraphie range of the Order Arandaspidiformes into the Katian. The hard tissue histology of Ritchieichthys nibili confirms the presence of a cellular dentine forming the bulk of the dermal armor ornament in arandaspids, a tissue that had not been directly observed previously, and confirms the presence of largely unconnected osteocytes within the dermal bone that forms the majority of the armor.
4523929|Montanoceratops cerorhynchus has been described as the sister group of Ceratopsidae, even though analyses and diagnosis of this taxon have been tentative and incomplete. A second specimen of M. cerorhynchus includes new diagnostic elements, most notably a partial skull including the caudal half of the braincase, pectoral girdle and manus. Results of a cladistic analysis of eight basal neoceratopsians (Protoceratops, Leptoceratops, Bagaceratops, Microceratops, Breviceratops, Montanoceratops, Asiaceratops, and Udanoceratops) and four ceratopsids (Centrosaurus, Anchiceratops, Chasmosaurus and Styracosaurus) confirm Montanoceratops as the sister group of Ceratopsidae. Microceratops and Asiaceratops are positioned at the base of Neoceratopsia. Protoceratops, Leptoceratops, and Udanoceratops constitute a monophyletic Protoceratopsidae. Paleogeographical interpretation of the cladogram suggests that Neoceratopsia originated in Asia, and that there were at least two migrations of ceratopsians from Asia to North America.
4523405|Articulated specimens of fish recovered from the Paskapoo Formation, of Tiffanian (Paleocene) age, near Red Deer, Alberta, are described as a new genus and species of smelt (Family Osmeridae). The new smelt is characterized by a long, toothed mandible and premaxilla and a slender, toothless maxilla, in combination with the virtual absence of teeth inside the mouth and a distinct second ural centrum. Cladistic analysis of osteological features of osmerids and several outgroups indicates that the new genus is most closely related to Plecoglossus, a Recent genus not always included in the family. These two in turn are more closely related to a derived clade of osmerid genera (Allosmerus, Osmerus, Spirinchus, Thaleichthys) than they are to primitive osmerids (Hypomesus and Mallotus). Anal fins of the new fish are sexually dimorphic, and several presumed males probably have breeding tubercles. Possibly the fish became stranded after attempting to spawn during a high-water stage. Anadromous life histories, which characterize many modern smelt species, may well have originated prior to the Paleocene. The Joffre Bridge fossil site, however, is so distant from Paleocene seas that it is unlikely that these particular fish were anadromous.
4524103|A new, relatively complete and well-preserved mandible and dentition of the mesonychian Ankalagon saurognathus from the early Paleocene (Torrejonian) of the San Juan Basin, New Mexico, provides evidence of sexual dimorphism in dentary depth and canine size in Mesonychidae. The new specimen has a particularly well-preserved postcanine dentition, and m1 and m2 differ little in morphology or size from those in the holotype. The p3-p4 and m3 in the new specimen are smaller in length and width than in the holotype, but the size differences fall within the intraspecific range of variation exhibited in extant carnivorans. The holotype differs from the new specimen in having a canine that is approximately 1.5 times greater in length and width, as well as a dentary that is substantially deeper and larger. It has been suggested that two other mesonychians, Hapalodectes and Dissacus, also exhibit sexual dimorphism but evidence for this remains equivocal. We discuss the phylogenetic and behavioral implications of this character.
4524699|Rapetosaurus krausei (Sauropoda: Titanosauria) from the Upper Cretaceous Maevarano Formation of Madagascar is the best-preserved and most complete titanosaur yet described. The skull of Rapetosaurus is particularly significant because most titanosaurs are diagnosed solely on the basis of fragmentary postcranial material, and knowledge of the titanosaur skull has remained incomplete. Material referred to Rapetosaurus includes the type skull from an adult that preserves the basicranium, rostrum, mandible, and palate. A second, juvenile skull preserves most of the braincase and cranial vault, as well as some of the palate and lower jaw. Here we provide a detailed description of Rapetosaurus cranial anatomy and highlight comparative relationships among known titanosaur and other neosauropod skulls. The Rapetosaurus skull is similar to those of diplodocoids in its overall shape, with retracted external nares and an elongated snout. However, extensive tooth distribution and bone articulations surrounding the external narial region and orbit are more similar to those of macronarians like Camarasaurus and Brachiosaurus. The maxilla, basicranium, paroccipital process, and pterygoid are among the most diagnostic elements of the Rapetosaurus skull, along with the enlarged antorbital fenestra, anteroventrally oriented braincase, and mandible. Titanosaur crania exhibit a greater diversity than previously recognized and, in light of Rapetosaurus, it is apparent that there is not a narrowly constrained bauplan for the skull of titanosaurs. Broad generalizations about evolution based on previously known, fragmentary fossils require re-evaluation. Ultimately, Rapetosaurus will be key in resolving titanosaur higher-level and ingroup phylogeny.
20627153|The earliest Actinoptergyii (ray-finned fishes) and Sarcopterygii (lobe-finned fishes) have been studied intensely, and a consistent picture of interrelationships has begun to emerge for the latter. In contrast, there has been minimal documentation of the pattern of character acquisition leading to the osteichthyan crown. We review the synapomorphies proposed for various levels within osteichthyan phylogeny (total group; Acanthodes + crown group; crown group; Sarcoptergyii; Actinopterygii), confirming some, rejecting others, and making new additions. This distribution of characters is used to interpret the placement of problematic Siluro-Devonian genera traditionally assigned to Actinopterygii, and suggests these taxa are stem osteichthyans. Earlier placements of these forms within the crown are symptomatic of taxonomies based on unpolarized similarities rather than synapomorphies.
25835805|The cranial roof ornamentation and the degree of neurocentral closure in the holotype of the pachycephalosaurian dinosaur Homalocephale calathocercos is described in detail for the first time in order to assess its ontogenetic status and taxonomic validity. The parietosquamosal ornamentation consists of five primary nodes along the posterior margin of the skull roof on each side of the midline. The medial-most node is prominently enlarged relative to the others in the series and is bisected by the parietal-squamosal suture. Beneath the primary node row, a second enlarged node occurs immediately medial to lateroventral corner node on each side of the parietosquamosal bar. The degree of suture closure in the vertebral column suggests that the holotype specimen of H. calathocercos is immature, rather than adult. The presence of cranial doming at maturity is therefore unknown in H. calathocercos, and hypotheses that it represents a primitive flat-headed stage in pachycephalosaur evolution or is pedomorphic in the development of its skull roof cannot be supported or refuted at this time. Despite the probable immaturity of the holotype, H. calathocercos has a unique pattern of parietosquamosal ornamentation that is distinct from all other pachycephalosaurs, including Prenocephale prenes from the same host formation. Morphological differences in the cranial ornamentation, jaws, and dentition between the similarly sized holotype skulls of H. calathocercos and P. prenes provide weak support for recent suggestions that H. calathocercos is conspecific with the latter taxon. This study tentatively reaffirms the presence of two pachycephalosaur species in the Nemegt Formation
4523174|Fossil finds of the hyaenid genus Chasmaporthetes are reviewed. We consider the characters distinguishing this genus from Euryboas invalid and synonymize the two genera. The following species are included within the genus Chasmaporthetes: C. borissiaki (Khomenko), C. lunensis (Del Campana), with two subspecies, C. l. lunensis, from Europe, and C. l. honanensis, from China, C. nitidula (Ewer), C. ossifragus Hay, with two subspecies, C. o. ossifragus from the western United States, and C. ossifragus, an unnamed new subspecies from Florida, and C. exitelus, a new species from the Turolian of China. The presence of sexual dimorphism in C. lunensis is indicated from canine size. The stratigraphic range of the genus is early Blancan-Irvingtonian (North America), Turolian-Villafranchian (Eurasia), Langebaanian to lower Pleistocene (Africa). The possible relationships of Chasmaporthetes are considered, and it is concluded that the genus is most closely related to the genus Thalassictis.
4523694|Most of the cranial bones are preserved in the seventh skeleton of Archaeopteryx. Whereas most of the braincase bones and the quadrates are crushed against one another as a result of sediment compaction, the displaced bones lying apart are nearly intact. In contrast with the predominantly reptilian postcranial skeleton, the skull of Archaeopteryx shows a few specifically avian traits. The palatine has a maxillary (=premaxillary) process, a hookshaped choanal process, and a long pterygoid wing, which makes it distinctively avian and different from the tetraradiate palatine of archosaurs. The mandible lacks the coronoid bone. Being unrelated to locomotion, the avian features of the skull demonstrate that Archaeopteryx is a bird rather than a feathered nonavian archosaur. The interdental plates, ectopterygoid, a big rostroventral wing of the prootic that contacted the laterosphenoid rostral to the trigeminal foramen, and the postorbital and quadratojugal processes of the squamosal add to the evidence that Archaeopteryx is the most primitive of the unquestionable birds known to date. Archaeopteryx is more like certain theropods than any other nonavian archosaur in having a strongly curved, hook-shaped jugal process of the ectopterygoid and probably a single vomer.
4524152|The marine squamate, Dolichosaurus longicollis, from the Upper Cretaceous (Cenomanian) Chalk deposits of southeast England is redescribed. The elongate neck of D. longicollis is produced by an increased number of cervical vertebrae. Cervical peduncles are elongate, curved and are not fused to the hypapophyses. There is no scapulocoracoid fenestra, the coracoid is not emarginated, and the scapula and coracoid are not fused. The splenial and angular articulate in a ball-and-socket joint similar to that of mosasaurs and Coniasaurus crassidens. The forelimb and pectoral girdle elements show evidence of reduction as compared to the pelvic girdle and rearlimb. Cladistic analysis of six mosasaur taxa, three 'aigialosaur' taxa, Coniasaurus crassidens, Coniasaurus gracilodens, and D. longicollis, using 66 characters, found 27 most parsimonious cladograms (MPCs): 122 steps; C.I. 0.648; H.I. 0.352; R.I. 0.669. A Strict Consensus Tree found support for the monophyly of the Mosasauridae and Aigialosauridae; sister-group relationships between coniasaurs, Dolichosaurus, Aigialosauridae and Mosasauridae are an unresolved polytomy. A Majority Rule Consensus Tree finds Dolichosaurus as sistergroup to (C. crassidens, C. gracilodens (Aigialosauridae (Mosasauridae))) in nine (33%) of the MPCs. Lack of support for a more inclusive Dolichosauridae composed of Dolichosaurus + (C. crassidens, C. gracilodens) is attributed to the incompleteness of the fossil remains of these three taxa. Presence/absence of a pectoral girdle currently defines the presence/absence of a neck. This definition is insufficient and hypapophyses are found more informative regarding taxic differences and transformational scenarios. The paleobiology of Dolichosaurus is reconstructed as similar to coniasaurs, nothosaurs, and modern sea snakes.
4524295|A new brachyopid temnospondyl is described from the Early to Middle Triassic Cynognathus Assemblage Zone of the upper Beaufort Group, Karoo Basin of South Africa. Vanastega plurimidens, gen. et sp. nov. is the third brachyopid taxon from the South African Karoo and is distinguished from all other brachyopids mainly through a combination of primitive and derived character states. The position of the nostrils exceptionally close to and anteriorly confluent with the skull margin represents the single known autapomorphy of V. plurimidens. Incorporation of V. plurimidens into a data matrix modified from a recent PAUP-based study of brachyopoids produces a phylogeny in which V. plurimidens is the sister species to Vigilius wellesi from the Anisian of North America. In addition, the Brachyopoidea appear to be phylogenetically closer to the Dvinosauria than to other Triassic temnospondyls, with weak support for the alternative hypothesis, which places the Brachyopoidea closer to typical Triassic stereospondyls. This suggests that brachyopids are derived dvinosaurians, in agreement with earlier hypotheses of brachyopoid interrelationships. Stratigraphic calibration of this phylogeny reveals significant ghost lineages primarily within the Brachyopidae and Chigutisauridae, but also suggests a ghost lineage for the Brachyopoidea back into the Late Permian of southern Africa.
4524486|A new species of Hippopotamidae based on abundant and well-preserved remains was discovered in the late Miocene levels of the Toros-Menalla fossiliferous area in the Djurab desert, Chad, central Africa. This hippopotamid is contemporaneous with Sahelanthropus tchadensis, a hominid from the same area, with an age of ca. 7.0 Ma. Hexaprotodon garyam sp. nov. is a large species with a robust, high mandibular symphysis. This feature is unknown in the Miocene East African hippos found at Lothagam, Kenya, but characterizes the Asian Hexaprotodon. This discovery enhances the heterogeneous character of the paraphyletic Hexaprotodon and indicates that the Hippopotamidae were a major component of the late Miocene environments in Central Africa as well as in East Africa.
4524071|Diplacodon progressum Peterson is not referable to the genus Diplacodon Marsh and is assigned the new generic name Pseudodiplacodon. Diplacodon is regarded as a nomen dubium, but may be a senior synonym of Eotitanotherium, a genus that is clearly distinct from Pseudodiplacodon. Only the type species of Pseudodiplacodon is accepted as valid, although there is one large individual belonging to this genus that could potentially represent a second species. Recognition of a second species is regarded as inappropriate, however, in the absence of additional specimens or distinct character differences.
4524065|Re-examination of the surviving specimens of Thecodontosaurus antiquus indicates that this plesiomorphic sauropodomorph can be diagnosed on the basis of elongate basipterygoid processes, a relatively short dentary, and a squared posterior process of the ilium. Although much of the original topotype material found in the 1830s in Bristol, England, has now been lost, some 245 specimens remain. These indicate a small, gracile prosauropod, up to 2.5 m in length, distinguished primarily on the absence of derived characters seen in other prosauropods. Although attempts were formerly made to subdivide the Bristol specimens into several dinosaurian, and other, taxa, most appear to pertain to the prosauropod Thecodontosaurus antiquus. The specimens do indicate a clear separation into two morphs, a gracile and a robust form, presumably evidence of sexual dimorphism. A juvenile Thecodontosaurus sp. from South Wales may belong to the same species. A cladistic analysis indicates that Prosauropoda is probably a clade, rather than a series of outgroups to Sauropoda, but support for this conclusion is weak. Echoing other recent cladistic analyses, stronger support is found for the existence of a clade Sauropodomorpha, made up from Prosauropoda + Sauropoda, for the clade Sauropoda itself, and for the clade Eusauropoda within Sauropoda.
4524202|The late Early Miocene locality of Shanwang, China is known for its rich and well preserved fossils. Here new suid material is described and previously published material is revised. Hyotherium shanwangense, sp. nov. is described based on a partial skull and includes the M3 from the site that was previously assigned to Palaeochoerus cf. pascoei. A right lower jaw is referred to Sinapriculus linquensis, gen. et sp. nov., a primitive suid. The type material of Hyotherium penisulus is assigned to Listriodontinae. The Chinese Hyotherium seems to lie close to the ancestry of tetraconodonts. The more primitive suid Sinapriculus linquensis may represent a survival of an earlier suid radiation in East Asia and the Shanwang suid community as a whole could be seen as a sample of a previously unsuspected East Asian early suid diversity. Such a view would be concordant with the record of late Eocene and early Oligocene suoids from China and Thailand.
4523954| Une tude d'un crne attribu  l'espce Lycaenops angusticeps rvle la prsence d'un processus ventral du jugal qui supporte le processus transverse du ptrygode. Le carr n'tait apparemment pas streptostylique, contrairement aux suggestions antrieures. L'articulation entre le carr, l'piptrygode et le ptrygode auraient tout au plus permis une lgre flexion et de grands mouvements du carr auraient forcment entran des mouvements d'ampleur similaire du stapes. La rduction du contact entre le carr et le ptrygode a peut-tre t slectionne pour amliorer l'audition des sons transmis dans l'air. La lame rflchie de l'angulaire tait peut-tre implique dans la rception de ces sons (si elle tait effectivement possible chez les gorgonopsiens), comme le tympan. 
4523918| A second species of the genus Hypsidoris is described from the primitive catfish family Hypsidoridae. The new species is from Eocene freshwater deposits of the Clarno Formation of central Oregon and is known by numerous well-preserved skeletons. Like the type species from the Green River Formation of Wyoming, the Oregon species has a well-developed toothed maxilla, a feature thought to be primitive among catfishes. Among the more than 35 nominal families containing over 2,200 species of catfishes, only Diplomystidae and Hypsidoridae have well-developed toothed maxillae. The relationships of Hypsidoridae to other catfishes are briefly reviewed. The associated ichthyofauna is also briefly discussed in context with other Eocene faunas of western North America. 
4524509|Three taxa of small-bodied ornithischian dinosaurs have been described from the Middle Jurassic (Lower Shaximiao Formation: ?Bajocian) locality of Dashanpu, Sichuan Province, People's Republic of China. The taxonomy of these animals (Yandusaurus multidens, Xiaosaurus dashanpensis, and Agilisaurus louderbacki) has become highly confused, with many conflicting opinions regarding the validity of each species and the possible synonymies that might exist between them and other ornithischian taxa from both China and North America. Following re-examination of the relevant material, we propose that all three of the Dashanpu small ornithischians represent valid taxa, each of which can be diagnosed on the basis of at least one autapomorphy. In addition, these taxa can be distinguished from each other by a large number of cranial, dental, and postcranial character states. We demonstrate that 'Yandusaurus' multidens is not congeneric with either Y. hongheensis or any other taxon, and therefore propose the new generic name Hexinlusaurus for the reception of the species 'Y.' multidens. Consideration of the character states present in Hexinlusaurus, Agilisaurus, and Xiaosaurus shows that these taxa are not basal euornithopods ('hypsilophodontids'), as had been suggested by the majority of previous authors, but represent more basal ornithischians. Hexinlusaurus and Agilisaurus can be regarded as Genasauria incertae sedis, whereas Xiaosaurus can only be recognized as Ornithischia incertae sedis on the basis of current data.
4523456|The recent discovery of the Middle Jurassic stegosaur, Huayangosaurus taibaii has shed new light on the early phylogeny of Stegosauria. The skull of this taxon is described in detail and compared to those of other thyreophorans. Cranial and postcranial autapomorphies of Huayangosaurus include high premaxillary and maxillary tooth counts (7 and 25-30, respectively), small postorbital horn, intercostal articular flanges, and a carpus composed of a single coossified block. Nineteen synapomorphies unite Huayangosaurus and other stegosaurs and constitute a revised cladistic diagnosis for Stegosauria. Huayangosaurus is the sister-taxon to all other stegosaurs, which have lost premaxillary teeth, reduced the size of the antorbital fossa, increased the length of the prepubic process of the pubis, and lost lateral scute rows along the trunk.
41515059|We describe postcranial remains of new specimens referred to Sebecus icaeorhinus found in the lower section of the Sarmiento Formation at Caadn Hondo (central Patagonia, Argentina), commonly regarded as part of the Casamayoran South American Land Mammal Age (middle Eocene). The new specimens include a partially articulated postcranium associated with teeth and fragmentary remains of the mandible that allows their identification as S. icaeorhinus. This taxon was almost exclusively known from skull remains from the same stratigraphie unit and was characterized by unique cranial features such as a long, high, and narrow rostrum bearing serrated teeth. The new material reveals numerous details on the postcranial anatomy of this crocodyliform, including the presence of proportionately long limbs and 10 autapomorphies in the vertebrae, forelimb, and pelvic girdle (some of which are interpreted as adaptations to terrestriality and an erect limb posture). These features depict a highly modified postcranial anatomy for S. icaeorhinus in comparison with that of neosuchian crocodyliforms, paralleling the uniqueness of its skull anatomy. The new information is also phylogenetically informative and incorporated into a cladistic analysis that corroborates not only the close affinities of Sebecidae with Baurusuchidae (sebecosuchian monophyly), but also the deeply nested position of this clade within Notosuchia. The incorporation of postcranial characters to the phylogenetic analysis also results in a novel arrangement of the basal mesoeucrocodylians recorded in the Cretaceous-Cenozoic of Gondwana, clustering all of these species into a large monophyletic clade.
4523482|We recognize at least 22 taxa of vertebrates from the Paleocene Cannonball Formation, which records the last marine incursion into central North America. These include 12 elasmobranchs, two chimaeroids, five actinopterygians, and three reptiles. All but three taxa are described and illustrated for the first time for the formation. One species is new, Dasyatis concavifoveus. Teeth of Carcharias taurus are most frequently found; other vertebrate fossils are relatively uncommon or rare. Cannonball vertebrates are known from 72 localities, most from southwest-central North Dakota. The marine fishes suggest a temperate Cannonball Sea of primarily shallow subtidal depths. Surprisingly, osteichthyan diversity is much lower than that of chondrichthyans, likely because of taphonomic factors. The marine fishes confirm a Paleocene, more specifically Thanetian, age for the Cannonball Formation. The Danian-Thanetian boundary, however, may occur within the Cannonball Formation because other fossil evidence implies a Danian age. Of the 15 marine Cannonball fishes identified to species, 13 are known from western Europe, seven from Maryland and Virginia, and five from western Greenland. These occurrences imply a connection of the Cannonball Sea with the Atlantic Ocean. These fishes, with the possible exception of Otodus obliquus, are only known from Paleocene or younger strata, supporting proposed K-T boundary marine fish extinctions and Paleocene fish renewals.
4523160|Melvius thomasi, new genus and new species, from the Late Cretaceous Hell Creek Formation of northeastern Montana and Wyoming, is one of the largest known amiids (standard length 160 cm or more). It is based on disarticulated elements of the skull and axial skeleton. Additional isolated elements probably referable to this species are known from North and South Dakota, Utah, Texas and New Mexico. All known specimens occur below the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary. Specimens of large amiids from the Early Cretaceous Trinity Formation, Texas, may also be referable to this or a related taxon. Detailed comparison with other amiids, described from more complete material, is not yet possible, but some features of the new taxon appear to relate it to Enneles and Pachyamia. Melvius lived in estuaries and large rivers along the western margin of the Western Interior Sea.
4524548|Three partial skulls of odontocetes from the Miocene of Antwerp and Kessel, northern Belgium (southern North Sea Basin) are described here as a new genus and species of beaked whale (Ziphiidae), Archaeoziphius microglenoideus. This small new whale is one of the most archaic beaked whales, because of its low vertex, thin and laterally directed premaxillary crests, low contact between the supraoccipital and the frontals on the vertex, and its free atlas. It is also characterized by the strong transverse compression of the frontals on the vertex and a reduced glenoid surface on the squamosal; the two last characters might be considered as derived. Nasals wider than the frontals on the vertex might group A. microglenoideus with the extant larger genera Berardius and Tasmacetus; the nodular frontals and the premaxillary crests are more similar to the condition in Berardius. A sediment sample from the cetacean-bearing strata at Kessel is dated with dinoflagellate cysts as middle Miocene, tentatively late Langhian to early Serravallian, i.e., from ca. 15 Ma to ca. 13.2 Ma. Archaeoziphius microglenoideus is therefore the oldest reported beaked whale known by cranial material.
4523856|A new procolophonid, Libognathus sheddi, gen. et sp. nov. is reported from the Cooper Canyon Formation (Dockum Group; Upper Triassic: lower Norian) near Post, Texas. This is the first published description of an unequivocal procolophonid from the Upper Triassic of the southwestern United States. Some of the distinctive characters of Libognathus are the deep dentary, large anteriorly directed foramen on the lateral dentary surface, and the forward projecting coronoid. Libognathus provides a good example of tooth replacement and implantation, which are poorly known in procolophonids. The implantation is protothecodont, with the teeth set in sockets and firmly anchored by spongy bone of attachment. The stages of replacement are of the typical reptilian pattern. Libognathus is closely related to Hypsognathus from the Passaic Formation (Norian) of New Jersey, and correlative strata in Connecticut and Nova Scotia.
20491080|Lophiodon is the best-known member of the Lophiodontidae, a family of Eocene Eurasian perissodactyls, in terms of its skull and postcranial skeleton. Previous studies have allied Lophiodontidae with either Tapiroidea or Chalicotherioidea. This study describes the cranial and postcranial osteology of Lophiodon with an emphasis on characters pertaining to the phylogenetic position of lophiodontids. Although cranial and postcranial remains of Lophiodon are known from European faunas, the skull and postcranial skeleton have not been well studied, and few non-dental characters have been used to investigate the relationships of this genus to other perissodactyls. Lophiodon displays a mosaic of cranial and postcranial features that could be interpreted as possible synapomorphies uniting it with either tapiroids or chalicotherioids. Data collected from these studies were incorporated into a phylogenetic analysis of a variety of perissodactyl taxa scored for characters of the skull, postcranial skeleton, and dentition. These data indicate that lophiodontids, as represented by Lophiodon, are the sister-taxon to Ceratomorpha (Tapiroidea plus Rhinocerotoidea). Chalicotherioids are paraphyletic and placed in a clade with palaeotheriids and brontotheres, a result that may be due to superficial similarities of the dentition. Thus, lophiodontids still belong in the Tapiromorpha, but cranial and postcranial evidence does not support a special relationship with either tapiroids or chalicotherioids. Unlike previous studies, the results also do not support a monophyletic Equoidea (Palaeotheriidae plus Equidae).
4524234|The boundary between Hemphillian and Blancan North American Land Mammal Ages has been elusive and equivocal. Our work identifies that boundary at about 4.9 to 5.0 Ma, based on paleomagnetic and radioisotopic dating of strata producing Blancan and Hemphillian mammals in Meadow and Spring Valleys of Lincoln County, eastern Nevada, and in the Pine Nut Mountains of western Nevada. Magnetostratigraphic study of the Panaca Formation in Lincoln County yielded a composite section with six magnetozones. The Healdsburg Tephra was identified near the top of the section in Meadow Valley, thereby placing the Lincoln County composite section relative to the Geomagnetic Polarity Time Scale (GPTS). The arvicolid rodent Mimomys, an indicator of the Blancan LMA, appears near the base of magnetic chron C3n.3r, about 4.98 Ma, in the Panaca Formation. Both Blancan and Hemphillian mammals have been reported from a stratigraphic sequence near Buckeye Creek in the Pine Nut Mountains of western Nevada. Magnetostratigraphic study of this area produced a thick (280 m) section with six magnetozones. A pumice layer near the top of magnetozone D+ yielded an
4524378|Data from vertebrate microsites are important in paleoecological reconstructions, but their usefulness has been limited because of undemonstrated repeatability of sampling data and the time- and labor- intensive nature of their retrieval. Re-examination of a previously studied vertebrate microsite revealed that repeatable diversity and abundance data are obtainable using a controlled sorting methodology. It was found that a curve fitted to a plot of empirical diversity vs. sampling frequency will tend toward an asymptote as sampling frequency increases, indicating that the likelihood of discovery of new taxa having a major impact upon a paleoecological interpretation is diminishing. Rarefaction analysis was applied to the data obtained, and the rarefaction curve provided support for the behavior of the empirical diversity curve. It was also found that as sampling frequency increases, rank orders of relative abundance stabilize among the most common taxa in the sample, indicating that the likelihood of discovery of highly abundant taxa is diminishing. Adequate sampling of a vertebrate microsite can thus be achieved by dividing the original field sample into many small subsamples, and additively plotting diversity and relative abundance data. Once the diversity curve begins to tend toward an asymptote, and the abundance ranks among the most common taxa have stabilized, it is necessary to continue sampling only until double this number of subsamples has been analyzed in order to confirm the established patterns. Proceeding in this fashion will verify that ostensible exhaustion of the taxa present has been achieved. Standardization of sampling methodology will allow similarly compiled data to be compared, both from a single site and among multiple sites, improving the reliability of palaeoecological interpretations generated from vertebrate microsites.
4523295|A new acanthodiform acanthodian is described from the lowermost Pennsylvanian of Utah. The specimen is a primitive acanthodid, as is indicated by the posterior position of pelvic fin spine, and is named Utahacanthus guntheri, gen. et sp. nov. It is characterized by opposing dorsal and anal fin spines, relatively shorter pelvic and dorsal fin spines compared to other Acanthodidae, and strongly developed gill rays. Utahacanthus, in common with some other acanthodians, possessed three otoliths. A comparative analysis of gnathostome otoliths results in the postulation of aragonite as the basic mineral of otoliths for all gnathostomes, and of three otoliths as a feature common to all teleostomes including acanthodians. Many parallel characters apparently occur involving the mineral composition of statoconia and otoliths. The number of otoliths is reduced within osteichthyans from three (actinopterygians) to two (dipnoans) to one (actinistians), and finally to statoconia (reversal in tetrapods).
4524480|Intratendinous ossification is widespread in dinosaurs (including birds). Although intratendinous ossification in living birds is well understood, the physiological process of tendon metaplasia and associated histological variability in Dinosauria are not. Therefore, ossified tendons were histologically sampled across extinct dinosaurian clades. Tendons of living birds and alligators were also sampled. Despite various anatomical locations and large differences in body size, ossified tendons were found to possess uniform microstructure even in specimens that do not normally experience intratendinous ossification (such as Spinostropheus and Camarasaurus). The ossified tendons of non-avian dinosaurs are largely indistinguishable from skeletal bone with respect to microanatomical features. However, ossified tendons in birds lack periosteal bone and associated fibrolamellar structures associated with ornithischian dinosaur tendons. Variation in periosteal bone occurs along the length of individual tendons. Ossified tendons from marginocephalians are unique in that they have large quantities of anisotropic fibrolamellar bone, while those from pachycephalosaurids have radial vascularity.
25835822|The Siluriformes constitutes an important monophyletic ostariophysan group of mainly freshwater fishes that occurs in almost all continents. They are extremely abundant and diverse in South America, where the oldest otophysans and siluriforms occur. We restudied two putative catfish species from the early Eocene lacustrine Tufolitas Laguna del Hunco of northwestern Patagonia, Argentina, concluding that Arius argentinus Dolgopol, 1941, is a junior synonym of Bachmannia chubutensis Dolgopol, 1941. Phylogenetic analyses were performed to show the relationships of B. chubutensis, which appears as the sister group of Diplomystes. Bachmannia chubutensis is one of the most primitive catfishes known and we based on it a new family. The family is clearly diagnosed by the presence of a anterior ventrolateral expansion of cleithrum, short maxilla with two rows of teeth, double-headed autopalatine, accessory tooth plates, very huge teeth, supraoccipital process long and acute, first and fifth vertebrae not joined to complex vertebra, neural arch of fifth and sixth vertebrae very well developed, enlarged supraneural 5, suture between ceratohyal and epihyal without interdigitations, suture between contralateral cleithra and coracoids without interdigitations, six hypurals. Individuals of B. chubutensis inhabited lakes and were preserved into fine-grained, laminated fall-out and reworked pyroclastic debris inside a caldera.
4524777|Pintosaurus magnidentis gen. et sp. nov., a latest Permian procolophonoid reptile from the Buena Vista Formation of Uruguay, is described and its relationships are considered. The new taxon is characterized by the absence of a lateral maxillary depression, a premaxilla with a dorsally expanded maxillary process, a maxilla-premaxillary junction almost straight and marked by a shallow, but well-defined step that displaces the premaxillary alveolar margin slightly medially with respect to the maxillary tooth row, and the presence of a large conical, fang-like palatine tooth, which is positioned next to the suture with the vomer. The transitional nature of Pintosaurus is reflected in the retention of several plesiomorphic features that contrast with the presence of synapomorphies that are shared with procolophonids. A phylogenetic analysis suggests a basal position for Pintosaurus within Procolophonoidea, either as the sister taxon of a clade that includes Coletta and procolophonids or as the sister taxon of Coletta itself. The results of our phylogenetic analysis, together with the Permian age of Pintosaurus, are consonant with the hypothesis of a Gondwanan origin of Procolophonoidea.
4524533| We describe the edopoid temnospondyl Nigerpeton ricqlesi from the Upper Permian Moradi Formation of northern Niger on the basis of two partial skulls and tentatively associated postcranial material. This crocodile-like taxon displays several edopoid characters states such as a long prenarial region with enlarged premaxillae, elongated vomers, large, posteriorly tapering choanae, and a jugal that broadens anteriorly. Nigerpeton possesses a unique carnivorous dentition. It is autapomorphic in its possession of an extremely elongate snout bearing a maxillary bulge that accommodates three hypertrophied caniniform teeth, inner premaxillary tusks, and anterior paired fenestrae, which pierce the skull roof. In addition, both the maxilla and dentary tooth rows show the sporadic appearance of doubled tooth positions. The lateral-line system is present at the adult stage, which suggests an aquatic habitat for this taxon. A phylogenetic analysis of Edopoidea and its relatives places Nigerpeton as the sister taxon to the Permo-Carboniferous genus Chenoprosopus from the U.S.A. As with other members of the Moradi tetrapod fauna, the discovery of Nigerpeton strengthens support for the hypothesis that West Africa hosted an endemic fauna at the close of the Paleozoic Era. Biogeographically, we propose that Late Carboniferous and Permian edopoids were geographically widespread and that they twice crossed the Central Pangean mountain chain (between Laurussia and Gondwana) during their evolution. This distribution was later fragmented with the onset of Late Permian climatic warming. 
4524779|The ichthyosaur Shonisaurus sikanniensis sp. nov. is described from the Pardonet Formation (Norian, Late Triassic) of northeastern British Columbia. The type specimen is considerably larger than Shonisaurus popularis, with an estimated length of 21 m. It also differs from S. popularis in having a fan- shaped scapula, and relatively longer vertebral centra. Studies of this new species, along with re-examination of S. popularis, suggests that Shonisaurus was not as deep-bodied as previously reconstructed. Teeth are set in sockets, but are known only in a few, small individuals. This implies that teeth were present only in juveniles, and that adults were edentulous. The new species extends the geographical and stratigraphical range of Shonisaurus to the middle Norian of British Columbia.
4523434|The new albulid fish, Deltaichthys albuloides, is based on an almost complete specimen, which probably came from the Eagle Ford Shale (Upper Cretaceous) of Texas. The fossil is preserved in almost original shape, permitting description of much of the head skeleton. Possible reasons for the unusual preservation and the relationships of Deltaichthys to other albulids are discussed.
4523672| A new sirenian from upper Miocene rocks (8  2 Ma) in Takasato, Fukushima Prefecture, Japan, is described as Dusisiren takasatensis, sp. nov. (Sirenia: Hydrodamalinae), based on the skull, scapula, and forelimb. The geologic age, locality of the new species, and its skull size are similar to those of Dusisiren dewana, which is morphologically, chronologically, and phyletically intermediate between Dusisiren jordani and Hydrodamalis cuestae Domning. However, Dusisiren takasatensis has an anteroposterior arrangement of cheek-tooth alveoli in contrast to the bucco-lingual arrangement in D. dewana, and a large occipital condylar articular surface compared to D. dewana. The new species is more derived than D. dewana in reduction of the alveolar process, a mandolin-like shape of the palate of the maxilla as in H. cuestae, a decreased backward extension of the zygomatic process of the jugal, and a decreased rostral deflection. It is more derived than D. jordani in displaying a contact between the palatines as in Hydrodamalis cuestae. Our species is another intermediate type, and an important link for tracing the morphological change in palatal form, from D. jordani with teeth, to Hydrodamalis cuestae without teeth. 
4524178|Significant new material of the plesiadapiform Elphidotarsius russelli is described from Montana and Alberta. Previously the most poorly documented carpolestid, this species is now known from numerous isolated teeth and many jaw fragments. New material from the Crazy Mountains Basin, Montana substantially extends its known geographic range and shows that E. russelli is the most derived species of Elphidotarsius, with many features that foreshadow characteristics of Carpodaptes; consequently, emending the diagnosis of Elphidotarsius has been necessary. A phylogenetic analysis based on 73 characters scored for all species of Elphidotarsius, Pronothodectes, and Saxonella, as well as Purgatorius unio, Purgatorius janisae, Pandemonium dis, Chronolestes simul, and Carpodaptes hazelae, indicates that Elphidotarsius is a paraphyletic stem taxon at the base of Carpolestidae. Numerous crossing synapomorphies among these taxa show that a single anagenetic lineage can no longer represent the evolution of early carpolestids. This analysis also clarifies basal plesiadapoid relationships. Carpolestidae is the sister taxon to Plesiadapidae, and Saxonellidae is sister group to the carpolestid/plesiadapid clade. Contrary to previous hypotheses, Chronolestes and Pandemonium are found to lie outside of a clade including the other members of Carpolestidae, Saxonellidae, and Plesiadapidae, implying that they are basal plesiadapoids that diverged before the evolution of the common ancestor to the three main plesiadapoid families.
4524352|Six dinosaurian taxa, Therizinosauridae indet., Ornithomimosauria indet., Dromaeosauridae indet., Titanosauridae indet., cf. Mongolosaurus sp., and Psittacosaurus sp., are identified and described from late Barremian to middle Aptian strata of the Murtoi Formation at the Mogoito locality in Buryatia, western Transbaikalia, Russia. The Mogoito vertebrate assemblage is most similar to the Early Cretaceous assemblages from Khuren Dukh (Mongolia) and Elesitai (Inner Mongolia, China).
4523059|The Early Triassic Arcadia Formation of Queensland, Australia, has yielded a second rhytidosteid labyrinthodont, the description of which allows reevaluation of the Triassic temnospondyls, which are here divided into two groups, trematosaurians and capitosaurians. Characters used in this division are discussed, and an hypothesis of relationships among the families of Triassic temnospondyls is proposed. The superfamily Rhytidosteoidea is rejected. The superfamily Trematosauroidea is increased to two families, the Trematosauridae and the Rhytidosteidae, the members of the family Indobrachyopidae being included in the Rhytidosteidae. The superfamily Brachyopoidea is included as the sister group of the Trematosauroidea within the trematosaurian group. The family Lydekkerinidae shares some trematosaurian group characters but lacks others and thus has been placed with some hesitation in the trematosaurian group. Description of the anatomy of the new rhytidosteid has led to a reexamination of certain aspects of labyrinthodont anatomy, in particular the ascending process of the pterygoid, and the postcondylar area of the lower jaw.
4524201|Spermophilus cf. howelli, Spermophilus sp., Castor or Dipoides sp., Geomys cf. adamsi, Symmetrodontomys daamsi, sp. nov., Bensonomys hershkovitzi, sp. nov., Ogmodontomys pipecreekensis, sp. nov., and Pliophenacomys koenigswaldi n. sp. are reported from the Pipe Creek Sinkhole of Grant County, Indiana. The Geomys sample demonstrates a variable sulcus morphology of the upper incisor, suggesting it stands near the Geomys-Pappogeomys boundary. Symmetrodontomys daamsi is characterized by its short lower molars and small mandible. Bensonomys hershkovitzi has a unique ml, with an anteroconid that with little wear connects deeply with the labial cingulum, and a mesolophid. O. pipecreekensis, with relatively low dentine tracts and no enamel atoll on ml, may be related to both Ogmodontomys sawrockensis and Ogmodontomys poaphagus, although it is probably not ancestral to either of them. Ogmodontomys Hibbard is considered an endemic North American genus distinguished from Mimomys Forsyth Major on the basis of a suite of dental features, including absence of a full lamellar enamel layer on leading edges of the molar triangles. The dentition of Pliophenacomys koenigswaldi exhibits a set of features suggesting a close relationship with Pliophenacomys finneyi of the early Blancan Fox Canyon local fauna of Kansas. Together with the rhinoceros Teleoceras, the rodent assemblage collectively suggests an early Pliocene (latest Hemphillian) age for the Pipe Creek biota. This is the first report of a late Neogene rodent fauna from Indiana.
20491077|Two partial theropod braincases recovered from the Upper Cretaceous Prince Creek Formation confirm the presence of Troodon formosus in Alaska. Characters that distinguish one specimen as Troodon formosus include; a very strongly developed sagittal crest of fused parietals, details of pneumatic spaces within the skull bones, and the size and location of the nervous and venous foramina. The second specimen has the distinct lateral depression diagnostic of a troodontid braincase. The recovery of these specimens, coupled with the absence of non-dental material from other small theropod taxa in these deposits, is significant. It corroborates the conclusion based on dental remains that T. formosus was the most abundant theropod in northern Alaska, thus supporting the model of the adaptability of this taxon to the highly seasonal, low-light conditions that existed in the region during the Late Cretaceous.
4523857|A review of all described species referred to Leidyosuchus recognizes six valid taxa: Leidyosuchus canadensis, L. multidentatus, L. sternbergii, L. formidabilis, L. wilsoni, and L. acutidentatus. Leidyosuchus riggsi is a nomen dubium, L. gilmorei is a junior synonym of L. canadensis, and Diplocynodon stuckeri is a junior synonym of L. wilsoni. Phylogenetic analysis of 164 morphological characters indicates a basal position within Alligatoroidea for L. canadensis. The name Listrognathosuchus is established for L. multidentatus, which is an alligtoroid, but difficult to characterize further because of its incompleteness. The remaining taxa form a clade herein named Borealosuchus; this group is related to, but not within, a monophyletic group that includes Alligatoroidea and Crocodyloidea. A close relationship between these taxa and Diplocynodon is rejected. Although presently known only from the Tertiary of Europe, taxa closer to Diplocynodon than to Alligatoridae are expected to occur in the Late Cretaceous.
23251277|The nearly complete skeleton of a mud turtle, Kinosternon skullridgescens, n. sp., is described from Santa Fe County, New Mexico. The specimen was collected from the early middle Miocene, early Barstovian, Skull Ridge Member of the Tesuque Formation (16.014.9 Ma) and is one of the oldest and most complete fossil representatives of the genus Kinosternon. Phylogenetically, the new taxon is placed on the stem of the flavescens group in conjunction with the extinct Kinosternon pojoaque from the late Barstovian of New Mexico. In addition to the flavescens group, K. skullridgescens shares morphological similarities with members of the subrubrum group (of North America), as well as with Kinosternon herrerai (from gulf drainages of eastern Mexico). Close proximity of the fossils K. skullridgescens and K. pojoaque to Mexico suggests that a small-plastroned ancestor of the extant taxa K. herrerai, Kinosternon angustipons (from lower Central America), and Kinosternon dunni (from northwestern South America) could have dispersed from North America into Central America by the middle Miocene (Barstovian). Phylogenetic results based on morphology suggest that the taxon Kinosternon steindachneri (formerly Kinosternon subrubrum steindachneri) be reinstated at the species level.
4523003|Chanoides is a monotypic genus from the marine Eocene of Monte Bolca, Italy. It is the first fossil ostariophysan in which a Weberian apparatus is known in any detail. The Weberian apparatus of Chanoides includes a unique type of tripus, and is more generalized than that of Recent otophysans in several ways. Chanoides has other primitive features, unknown in otophysans, such as a basipterygoid process, a large supramaxilla, and a free second ural centrum. The jaws resemble those of Recent cypriniforms in having a median "kinethmoid," and in having teeth confined to the fifth ceratobranchial. But the jaws of Chanoides are unique in other ways, and it is concluded that the kinethmoid is not homologous with that of cypriniforms. Chanoides is placed as the sister-group of all Recent otophysans (cypriniforms, characiforms, siluriforms). Comments on other generalized fossil otophysans are included.
4524677|Gliridae is one of the oldest extant families of rodents with a fossil record dating back as far as the early Eocene. Eogliravus wildi, previously known from some isolated teeth from the European early Eocene, represents the oldest and most primitive glirid. The early middle Eocene oil shales of Messel, Germany, yielded an extraordinarily preserved specimen of E. wildi, exhibiting the virtually complete and articulated skeleton, the outline of the pelage, and gut contents consisting of various vegetable matter. E. wildi descended most probably from European small-sized microparamyine ischyromyids. Its protrogomorphous zygo-masseteric structure indicates that the myomorphy and hystricomorphy of the extant dormice evolved convergently to other rodent clades. The postcranial skeleton compares well with extant glirids. The postcranial morphology, proportions of the limb segments, bushy tail, and small body size indicate a gracile and swift animal moving among tree branches. The very large orbits suggest nocturnal activity. E. wildi was well adapted to an arboreal or scrub environment, the major habitat of today's dormice.
4523997|The Gondwanatheria is an enigmatic group of mammals known from the Late Cretaceous and Paleocene of Argentina and the Late Cretaceous of Madagascar and India. Although originally believed to be edentates, it has been argued recently that gondwanatheres comprise a derived clade of multituberculates. Aside from two tentatively referred, fragmentary dentaries (one edentulous and the other bearing a single tooth), each of the four named species of gondwanatheres is based only on isolated teeth. The discovery of a nearly complete dentary of the sudamericid gondwanathere Sudamerica ameghinoi provides important new anatomical information concerning the morphology of the lower jaw, the association and orientation of lower cheek-teeth, the direction of jaw movement, and the lower dental formula and thereby necessitates another reevaluation of the relationships of Gondwanatheria. Analysis of this specimen, which contains two molariform cheek-teeth and alveoli for two more, casts doubt on the hypothesis that gondwanatheres are multituberculates and raises questions concerning the allocation of specimens previously referred to gondwanathere taxa. Until additional, more informative material is recovered, it is best to regard Gondwanatheria as Mammalia incertae sedis.
4523609|Therapsids from the base of the upper Fremouw Formation in the Beardmore Glacier region of Antarctica are described. They are part of a new fauna that also includes large capitosaurid temnospondyl amphibians. Cynognathus sp., as well as indeterminate specimens of cynognathids, a diademodontid and a kannemeyeriid occur. While the presence of Cynognathus and the kannemeyeriid suggest a late Scythian (late Early Triassic) age for this level in the Fremouw Formation, some aspects of the indeterminant taxa may indicate a slightly younger Anisian (early Middle Triassic) age.
4523589|Most ichthyosaurs from the English Lower Jurassic are dolphin-sized, with skull lengths of about 500 mm and body lengths of up to 2,500 mm. Very large ichthyosaurs are rare, and the largest and best known of these is Temnodontosaurus platyodon, with skull lengths ranging from 1,200 to 2,000 mm and body lengths of up to about 9,000 mm. Two other species are referrred to the genus Temnodontosaurus, T. eurycephalus and T. risor. The former, known from a single 950 mm long skull, is characterized by its much shortened snout. T. risor, erected upon three isolated skulls ranging in length from 655 to 800 mm, is like T. platyodon but differs in having a slightly larger orbit, smaller maxilla, and a curved snout. An almost complete, three-dimensionally preserved skeleton was recently found which can be identified as T. risor but which has a slightly longer skull than the other referred specimens. The skull is remarkably large relative to the post-cranial skeleton, suggestive of immaturity, and this is supported by size-independent osteological features. T. risor therefore represents an immature stage, but of which taxon? The most likely candidate is T. platyodon, and when comparisons are made between the new material, and specimens formerly referred to T. risor and to T. platyodon, a case can be made that they form part of a growth series. T. risor is therefore recognized as a junior synonym for T. platyodon. The new material provides valuable additonal information for T. platyodon, a rather inadequately known species, for which an emended diagnosis is given.
4524721|The cranial anatomy of plesiosaurs in the family Polycotylidae (Reptilia: Sauropterygia) has received renewed attention recently because various skull characters are thought to indicate plesiosauroid, rather than pliosauroid, affinities for this family. New data on the cranial anatomy of polycotylid plesiosaurs is presented, and is shown to compare closely to the structure of cryptocleidoid plesiosaurs. The morphology of known polycotylid taxa is reported and discussed, and a preliminary phylogenetic analysis is used to establish ingroup relationships of the Cryptocleidoidea. This study also presents new material referable to Polycotylus latipinnis from the Mooreville Chalk Formation of Alabama. This skeleton is largely complete, and although the skull is fragmentary it does preserve several regions not previously represented. The preserved portions demonstrate that the palate of Polycotylus is similar to that of Trinacromerum in the possession of robust epipterygoids, and similar to that of all other polycotylids in the possession of a large anterior interpterygoid vacuity. Polycotylus therefore displays the derived palate morphology common to all polycotylids, but also displays some plesiomorphic features. This impression is confirmed by the results of the cladistic analysis.
4524578|A new species of hegetotheriid notoungulate, Hemihegetotherium trilobus, is described from the middle Miocene (Laventan SALMA) Quebrada Honda Fauna of southern Bolivia. It differs from all previously described hegetotheriines in possessing a distinctly trilobed m
20627062|The analysis of recently recovered ground sloth remains from Minas Gerais, Bahia, and Piau (Brazil) results in a major reinterpretation of the Scelidotheriinae and Megalonychidae of tropical Brazil. Among the specimens collected from Lagoa Santa (Minas Gerais) by Lund during the first half of the 19th century are skeletal elements attributable to two scelidotheriine species, as Lund himself determined and Winge corroborated. This is in contrast to the interpretation of these remains as representing a scelidotheriine and the postcranial remains of a peculiar megalonychid, as most authors, following Hoffstetter, have believed. A new combination is proposed here for one of the species. Another scelidotheriine recently described from Piau by Gurin and Faure is a synonym of this species.
4524233|Canis dims preserved in the late Pleistocene Rancho La Brea tar seep deposits display a remarkably high incidence of teeth broken in life as compared with modern species. This might reflect greater carcass utilization in the Pleistocene relative to the present. Here we compare tooth fracture frequencies in C. dims between two localities at Rancho La Brea, Pit 13 (about 15 ka) and Pit 61/67 (about 12 ka). Results indicate that Pit 13 C. dims exhibited heavier tooth wear and fractured their teeth about three times more often than those of the younger Pit 61/67. This might reflect a difference in diet between the two periods or a greater preservation of older individuals (which are more likely to have broken teeth) in Pit 13. To test for differences in the mortality profiles of the two pits, we estimated individual age C. dims from pulp cavity dimensions of lower canine teeth, as measured from radiographs of preserved mandibles. We first verified the validity of the approach using a sample of extant Canis latrans that had been previously aged using cementum counts. Pulp cavity analysis of the C. dims indicated no significant difference between pits in the age structure of the preserved populations. Consequently, it appears that feeding behavior of C dims differed in the latest Pleistocene in that bone consumption declined. Pulp cavity analysis has great potential for further studies of population parameters, such as mortality profiles, of extinct carnivorans. It is easy, non-destructive, and provides a continuum of age values rather than discrete categories.
4523690|The holotype of Platyognathus hsui Young, 1944, an incomplete mandible from the Lower Jurassic Lower Lufeng Formation of Yunnan (China), was lost or destroyed during World War II. Material subsequently referred to this taxon actually represents a different taxon of basal Crocodyliformes, and some authors have recently questioned the validity of P. hsui. A partial skull collected in 1984 is referable to P. hsui and is designated as a neotype. It corroborates most of the features originally used by Young to diagnose P. hsui and provides additional diagnostic characters for that taxon. P. hsui can be distinguished from other basal crocodyliform taxa primarily by the fused mandibular symphysis, large caniniform teeth in positions 5 and 6 in the dentary, and the polygonal cross-section of (at least) the sixth dentary tooth. P. hsui is referred to the Protosuchia sensu Wu et al. (1994).
4524532|A size series of 143 specimens of the Permo-Carboniferous temnospondyl Archegosaurus decheni from the Saar-Nahe Basin (south-west Germany), ranging in size from 18 to 280 mm skull length, can be interpreted as an extensive growth series. This study focuses on the reconstruction of ossification sequences and developmental patterns of skull, visceral skeleton, and postcranium in A. decheni. With respect to the dermal skull, the ossification of the postcranium is delayed. The basibranchial starts to ossify after formation of the dermal pectoral girdle, sclerotic ring, stapes, scales, and scapulocoracoid. Initial ossification of the ischium takes place distinctly later than that of the ilium, and the pubis remains entirely cartilaginous. Vertebral centra ossify late, after formation of the ischium. Branchial dentition is resorbed at a skull length of 150 mm, indicating a long larval phase. Carpals and tarsals start to ossify only in the largest individuals. Archegosaurus decheni exhibits no period of obvious metamorphosis, as indicated by the dissociation of developmental events during ontogeny. The delayed formation of scales, scapulocoracoid, and basibranchial, in comparison with the Permo-Carboniferous temnospondyls Sclerocephalus and Onchiodon, may be correlated with the secondary aquatic adaptation of A. decheni throughout its life history. The chronology of ossification of the endocranial elements can be reconstructed. The exoccipital ossifies first, followed by the quadrate, basioccipital, basisphenoid, sphenethmoid, and otic capsule. Comparison with other anamniotic tetrapods shows that the early ossification of the exoccipital and quadrate is a stable pattern, and that there is a tendency to eliminate ossification of the basioccipital and basisphenoid.
23251303|We describe the anatomy and bone microstructure of a new subadult specimen of Sapeornis chaoyangenis from the Early Cretaceous of Liaoning Province, China. To date, this is the only known sapeornithid that preserves substantial portions of its plumage. Found in the Yixian Formation, it also represents the oldest known sapeornithid, and as such, extends the stratigraphic range of this lineage 35 million years. This specimen also increases our knowledge of sapeornithid skeletal and integumentary anatomy, including previously unrecognized details of the primary and secondary wing feathers. Examination of the characters used to diagnose other named sapeornithid species reveals that such diagnoses have incorporated morphologies that are influenced by either taphonomy or ontogeny. Based on qualitative and quantitative comparisons between the new specimen and other sapeornithid species, we argue that all other named sapeornithids are junior synonyms of S. chaoyangensis.
4524172|Postcranial axial anatomy of six Jurassic ichthyosaurs is described and used to define a generalized pattern of regional anatomy with four structural units (neck, trunk, tail stock, fluke). Functional interpretation of each unit predicts a generalized swimming mode that used a laterally compressed, laterally oscillating caudal fluke as the propulsive organ. Fluke displacement was accomplished by the undulation of a dorsoventrally compressed posterior tail stock acting on a stabilized anterior tail stock. The trunk was largely uninvolved in locomotion. Osteological predictors of postcranial flexibility in living aquatic axial locomotors are reviewed and used to identify the existence of a range of swimming styles within this generalized pattern among surveyed ichthyosaurs.
4524542| The European-Asian taxon Placosaurus is a distinct glyptosaurine lizard that differs from the North American glyptosaurine genera Glyptosaurus, Helodermoides, Paraglyptosaurus, and Proglyptosaurus. Presently, species of Placosaurus can only be discriminated based on frontal morphology. Three species are recognized: Placosaurus rugosus Gervais, 1848-1952, Placosaurus estesi, sp. nov., and Placosaurus mongoliensis, all based on frontal material. Although the Asian species P. mongoliensis is retained in the genus Placosaurus, we consider this taxonomic assignment tentative. The species P. cayluxi, P. galliae, P. gaudryi, and P. margariticeps are considered nomina dubia. Placosaurus europaeus, based on a dentary with teeth, is tentatively retained in the genus Placosaurus but this eneric assignment is equivocal. The species "P." quercyi pertains to a new melanosaurin and not to Placosaurus. 
23251293|Ernanodon, one of the most enigmatic Asian fossil mammals, was previously known by a single specimen from the late Paleocene (Nongshanian) of China. Here we document the first record of Ernanodon from Mongolia, represented by a nearly complete skeleton from the late Paleocene (Gashatan) of the Naran Bulak locality. The new material provides an opportunity to understand the lifestyle and habits of this rare mammal and reevaluate the arguments used to establish the phylogenetic relationships of Ernanodon. Functional analysis indicates that Ernanodon had very strong forelimbs with large claws and used its forelimbs for scratch-digging. Character analysis reveals numerous similarities in postcranial anatomy between Ernanodon and Palaeanodonta. Phylogenetic analysis supports inclusion of Ernanodon in the order Palaeanodonta and suggests that Palaeanodonta and Pholidota are sister groups.
40666171|Few latest Cretaceous mammalian faunas are known from the central part of the Western Interior of North America. Here we report a collection of 28 mammalian fossils (23 isolated teeth, 5 dentulous jaw fragments) from five Upper Cretaceous localities in and around the Pawnee National Grassland (Weld County) in the Cheyenne Basin, northeastern Colorado. At least 10 taxa are represented, including two new multituberculates, a neoplagiaulacid Parikimys carpenteri and a ?cimolomyid Paressonodon nelsoni, which has greatest affinities to Essonodon browni. The new specimens combine with a previously reported sample for a total of 40 mammalian specimens from the area. Using a subsurface model based on geophysical log data, we stratigraphically arranged the fossil localities relative to the top of the Fox Hills Sandstone. Our stratigraphically lowest site is 95 m above the datum and likely near the top of the Laramie Formation. Presence of Meniscoessus collomensis at this site implies a late 'Edmontonian' or early Lancian age. The remaining sites are 220, 330, and 410 m above the datum and temporally equivalent to the Cretaceous part of the D1 sequence in the Denver Basin; the stratigraphically highest site is near the predicted Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary. The faunal samples from the latter sites include mostly typical Lancian taxa, except for two new taxa that suggest biogeographic differences with contemporaneous localities from farther north. This stratigraphie succession of fossil localities from northeastern Colorado may offer new perspectives on temporal and biogeographic changes of mammalian faunas leading up to the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary.
4523312|Middle and Late Pleistocene representatives of the genus Smilodon in South and North America are here assigned to different species. The South American S. populator, which existed east of the Andes, is distinguished from the North American S. fatalis by the following characters: generally larger size, narrower skull with cranial part elongated relative to facial part, high nasals resulting in nearly straight dorsal profile, marked angle between mastoid and occipital plane, more "graviportal" limb bones, and extremely massive metapodials. Most differences are shown to arise from changes in allometric growth pattern; the difference is on a par with that between other valid and accepted species of carnivores. The detection of sexual dimorphism, the proper use of the ratio diagram, and subspecific versus specific differentiation are discussed. The Smilodon of the west coast region in South America (Peru, Ecuador) is S. fatalis, presumably a member of the Rancholabrean carnivore fauna that entered western South America in the Late Pleistocene.
4524014|We describe transitional Eocene-Oligocene marsupials of the Tinguiririca Fauna of the central Chilean Andes. Phylogenetic definitions of names attaching to several higher level clades of South American marsupials are proposed. Three new taxa are described: (1) a new species of Polydolops, P. abanicoi, representing the youngest polydolopoid known; (2) Klohnia charrieri, the closest known relative of the poorly known Patagonia (Colhuehuapian SALMA), which together form the nearest outgroup to the bizarre Groeberia (Divisaderan SALMA); and (3) a new didelphimorphian, Pascualdelphys fierroensis. Analysis of dental features in Klohnia helps resolve interrelationships among argyrolagoids, with Argyrolagidae (Proargyrolagus, Argyrolaginae) as closest outgroup to Groeberiidae ((Groeberia (Klohnia, Patagonia)); support for clades within Argyrolagoidea remains weak, in part due to missing data. An unsuccessful attempt to provide a phylogenetic placement for Pascualdelphys highlights the unsatisfactory state of knowledge about interrelationships among early didelphimorphians. The phylogenetic relationships of these new marsupials are permissive of, but provide little independent support for, the inferred post-Mustersan, pre-Deseadan age of the Tinguiririca Fauna. Marsupials from the central Andes of Chile reflect Paleogene South American latitudinal faunal provincialism and help to close an important temporal gap in the group's history.
4524117|Skeletal remains attributable to large dissorophoid amphibians, including four femora, two humeri, and an isolated palatine bone, have recently been recovered from the Lower Permian fissure fill deposits at Richards Spur, Oklahoma. Three of the femora are assignable to Acheloma cumminsi. One humerus represents an indeterminate trematopid, perhaps A. cumminsi, whereas the remaining humerus and femur are evidently of dissorophid origin and probably assignable to Cacops. The palatine bone is of unusual morphology and evidently represents a third distinct large dissorophoid taxon. Although the Richards Spur faunal assemblage is unquestionably dominated by small animals such as Captorhinus aguti, Cardiocephalus, and Euryodus, the discovery of rare, larger skeletal elements at the site implies that some elements of the fauna approached or slightly exceeded a body length of about one meter. Although probably uncommon in the vicinity of the fissures, such larger species were clearly not excluded from the deposits by preservational biases. Like other taxa known from Richards Spur, the dissorophoids were fully terrestrial as adults, and their presence reinforces previous interpretations of the Richards Spur paleoenvironment as an arid highland region. However, some Richards Spur taxa have also been reported from lowland "deltaic" localities such as South Grandfield, Oklahoma, implying that their distribution was more cosmopolitan.
4524454|The postcranial skeleton of Lystrosaurus georgi from the lowermost Triassic of the Moscow Basin, Russia, is described for the first time. This species retains contact between the premaxillae and palatine and is characterized by a narrow and elongated ischium, an autapomorphy for this species. Phylogenetic analysis of 27 Permian and Triassic dicynodont taxa using 18 postcranial characters confirms other recent hypotheses, but does not support a close relationship between Cistecephalus and Kingoria. The low homoplasy level among characters of the pelvis and femur, compared with the shoulder girdle and forelimbs, suggests that the former region documents the pattern of anomodont evolution better than the latter. Analysis of character changes revealed that a general evolutionary trend in the dicynodont postcranium relates to acquisition of semisprawling locomotion.
4524146|A large collection of fishes from Tanzania, East Africa, includes representatives of four or five families of fishes. The majority of specimens are cichlids, with at least five species being represented, distinguished by osteological characters such as the shape of the opercular bones, frontals, and supraoccipital crest. These species are all named and described in the same genus based on shared scale and squamation characters. The site, at Mahenge in the Singida Region, was a crater lake about half a kilometer in diameter. It has been dated as Eocene, about 46 Ma, based on radiometric techniques. The cichlid species, being very closely related, may have constituted a species flock, which would indicate that cichlids had the ability to form flocks as early as the Eocene.
4524248|The holotype of Irritator challengeri Martill et al., 1996 from the Romualdo Member of the Santana Formation (Lower Cretaceous) in northeastern Brazil represents the most complete skull of a spinosaurid known to date. The now fully prepared specimen provides much new information on the cranial structure in these enigmatic predatory dinosaurs. The skull is remarkably narrow, especially in the region of the elongated snout. The maxillae are in broad contact along the midline, forming an extensive secondary bony palate. The maxillary teeth have straight or slightly recurved, conical crowns, with thin, fluted enamel and distinct but smooth carinae. As in Baryonyx walkeri, the anterior and ventral processes of the lacrimal meet at a more acute angle than in most non-avian theropod dinosaurs. The braincase is short anteroposteriorly but deep dorsoventrally, extending ventrally far below the occipital condyle. Irritator challengeri most closely resembles Spinosaurus aegyptiacus in the structure of its teeth, but more extensive comparisons between the two taxa are currently impossible due to the limited amount of cranial material known for the latter.
4524389|The origin of the small, Miocene horse Archaeohippus is poorly known. A recently collected specimen from the late Oligocene or earliest Miocene (Arikareean) of Florida represents Archaeohippus mannulus, sp. nov. It includes a complete upper dentition, a partial left dentary with dpl-m3, and most of the right and left manus. It is the most nearly complete skeleton of an Arikareean Archaeohippus. Distinguishing characteristics of A. mannulus include: on upper P2-P3, anteroposteriorly narrow hypocone with a pronounced medivallum ridge originating on the metaloph; lower cheek teeth with a mediolaterally broad and flat hypoconulid; and extremely small body size with very gracile limb elements. Body mass of this individual is estimated at 10 kg. The revised generic diagnosis includes derived features of Archaeohippus relative to Miohippus and Anchitherium such as crochets on upper cheek teeth and reduced tridactyly, which link it with Parahippus, merychippine-grade equids, hipparionines, and equines.
4524753|The biogeography and faunal evolution of middle to late Eocene mammals throughout East Asia is assessed. Appearance Event Ordination was used to get a reliable temporal ordination of 92 Paleogene faunas from East Asia. Results from this analysis are generally consistent with the faunal sequence of traditional East Asian Land Mammal "Ages" (EALMAs). Exceptions are that the Arshantan Fauna fell within Irdinmanhan EALMA faunas, and three latest middle to late Eocene faunas from southern East Asia are misaligned due to high degrees of endemism. Comparison of 30 major middle/late Eocene mammalian faunas at the generic level, using Simpson's Faunal Resemblance Index and the ordinal composition of each fauna indicate that: (1) the differentiation in faunal similarity and composition between northern and southern East Asia started near the middle Eocene-late Eocene boundary; (2) this differentiation is reflected by the decline of perissodactyls and radiation of several artiodactyl clades in the later Eocene of southern East Asia; and (3) in southern East Asia, faunal endemism increased in the later Eocene. The latest middle to late Eocene faunas of the southern area do not fit within the EALMA system, which was primarily established with northern faunas, because of their endemism. Mammalian faunal changes actually seem to have begun much earlier in the southern region of East Asia than in the northern part, so the faunal changes toward the end of the Eocene in East Asia were not synchronous. Faunal changes during the Eocene-Oligocene transition in southern East Asia seem not to have been controlled by global climatic changes.
4522984| Ten geographically restricted vertebrate faunas are recognized in late Cenozoic deposits of northwestern Mexico. The late Hemphillian Yepmera fauna of Chihuahua with 27 mammal genera and the Irvingtonian El Golfo of Sonora with 23 mammal genera are the most diverse and most securely placed in a temporal framework among the ten late Cenozoic faunas of northwestern Mexico. The presently known Hemphillian (early Pliocene) vertebrate record of northwestern Mexico indicates an abundance and diversity of both horses and cricetid rodents, and suggests a center of diversification for these mammal groups in Mexico prior to the Great American Interchange. /// En los depsitos del Cenozoico tardo del noroeste de Mxico se han encontrado diez faunas de vertebrados con una distribucin geogrfica limitada. De stas, la fauna Yepmera de Chihuahua (de edad Hemphillian tarda) con 27 gneros de mamferos, y la fauna El Golfo del estado de Sonora (edad Irvingtonian) con 23, son las ms diversas y mejor ubicadas cronolgicamente. El registro actual de los vertebrados de edad Hemphillian del noroeste de Mxico indica una abundancia y diversidad de quidos y roedores Cricetidae, y sugiere que este pas fue un centro de diversificacin de estos mamferos antes de que el gran intercambio americano ocurriera. 
4523615|Microtus (Pedomys) australis, sp. nov., is described from the Haile XVIA local fauna (l. f.) of Florida (ca. 1.3 to 1.6 Ma [million years ago]) and the Vera l. f. of Texas (ca. 0.6 Ma). Microtus australis shares a number of plesiomorphic features with M. pliocaenicus and is related to both the subgenus Phaiomys, from which it evolved, and the subgenus Pedomys, to which it is referred. Microtus (Pedomys) guildayi is subsumed under M. pliocaenicus. The sample on which this taxon was based, from Cumberland Cave, is referred to as M. pliocaenicus /guildayi, a slightly modified form of the informal taxonomic usage proposed by Krishtalka and Stucky (1985). Microtus llanensis is synonymized with M. ochrogaster and is recognized as M. o./llanensis. It is considered an intermediate in the phyletic sequence from M. p. /guildayi to modern M. ochrogaster. Specimens reported by Repenning and Grady (1988) from the middle Pleistocene Hamilton Cave l. f. as Pitymys hibbardi do not belong to that taxon and may represent a new species. Pitymys hibbardi is treated as a large form in a phyletic sequence leading to extant M. pinetorum. The Pleistocene replacement chronology of "pitymyinine" voles in Florida is as follows: M. australis-M. aratai-M. pinetorum/hibbardi-M.pinetorum/parvulus. A cladistic analysis of dental characters for select subgenera of Microtus is presented, and a revised classification is offered. Orthriomys, Pitymys, and Pedomys are recognized as endemic North American subgenera of Microtus, while representatives of Phaiomys (M. pliocaenicus) and Terricola (M. meadensis) are considered to be Old World immigrants. The relationships of M. quasiater, M. oaxacensis, M. guatemalensis, and M. aratai remain obscure.
42568622|An exceptionally well-preserved specimen of a batoid from the Turonian (Late Cretaceous) of Morocco has been named as Tingitanius tenuimandibulus, sp. nov. The fossil has been identified as a member of the Platyrhinidae and represents the oldest known example of a thornback ray. Mechanical and acid preparation of the ventral surface has revealed the general body form of the specimen and permitted teeth and three morphotypes of dermal denticles to be extracted. Computed tomographic (CT) scanning of the chondrocranium and thoracic region has allowed the detailed study of the skeletal elements concealed within the rock. The phylogenetic position of the new specimen and implications for the phylogenetic positions of the 'rhinobatoids' are discussed. Britobatos, gen. nov., is erected to accommodate Raja primarmata which is here shown to be a sister taxon to the Platyrhinidae including Tingitanius. It is likely that reassessment of isolated batoid teeth from the Cretaceous and Paleogene will confirm the former importance of the Platyrhinidae.
4523992|New material from the Arcadia Formation (Rewan Group) of Queensland is referred to the small temnospondyl Lapillopsis nana. This species is redescribed and its systematic position is reconsidered. Originally described as a dissorophoid, L. nana lacks most of the synapomorphies that diagnose the Dissorophoidea, such as a laterally exposed palatine, a dorsal process on the quadrate, and a ventral nasal flange. Instead, it possesses synapomorphies which diagnose the Stereospondyli or more inclusive clades, such as ornamented pterygoids, a pterygoid-parasphenoid articulation that sutures early in ontogeny, a postglenoid area on the mandible, and lacrimals that are excluded from both the orbital and narial margins. Rotaurisaurus contundo gen. et sp. nov. is described from the Knocklofty Sandstone of Tasmania, based on a specimen that was first identified as a juvenile lydekkerinid. It shares with Lapillopsis nana an unusual tabular horn morphology and a narrow pterygoid-parasphenoid articulation, as well as a similar combination of derived and plesiomorphic characters. The two taxa together form the Lapillopsidae fam. nov., a family of basal stereospondyls. Lapillopsids may have filled a semiterrestrial dissorophoidlike niche in the Early Triassic of Gondwana.
20490962|Several teeth with ceratosaurid affinities from the Tacuaremb Formation (Kimmeridgian-Hautevirian) of Uruguay (South America) are reported herein. The most diagnostic specimen is a small rostal crown (probably the first or second left premaxillary crown), the most conspicuous features of which are the presence of several, well-marked longitudinal grooves on the lingual face and the absence of mesial denticles. This combination of characters is only found in the Late Jurassic genus Ceratosaurus Marsh, 1884. The tooth was carefully compared with all potentially similar theropod teeth in order to discard non-ceratosaurid affinities. The occurrence of a South American ceratosaurid in the Tacuaremb Formation was not unexpected, given the temporal range known for the family and the probable Late Jurassic age independently proposed for the lower, fossiliferous member of this unit. Thus, the interpretation of this tooth as belonging to a Ceratosaurus-like ceratosaurid has important biostratigraphic implications, reinforcing the aforementioned hypothesis. Furthermore, it indicates the presence of the ceratosaurid lineage in South America earlier than recognized, the only ceratosaurid previously identified being the Argentinean Genyodectes, of probably Aptian-Albian age. The identification of this Ceratosaurus-like ceratosaurid allows the establishment of new links with several Late Jurassic faunas.
4524094|A new platynotan lizard, Primaderma nessovi, gen. et sp. nov., from the Mussentuchit Local Fauna, Cedar Mountain Formation (Albian-Cenomanian) of Utah is unique in having a premaxillary process of the maxilla that forms a vertical flange and fine serrations on anterior and posterior edges of the maxillary teeth. Primaderma is the oldest-known terrestrial platynotan and phylogenetic analysis indicates that it is a member of Monstersauria, a clade of helodermatid-like platynotans. The teeth of Primaderma show several derived platynotan characteristics, but do not possess venom grooves. The distribution of this trait in fossil taxa is reassessed. Although a North American origin of helodermatid-like platynotans is likely, it is possible that Primaderma represents another example of an Asian influence on the North American Cretaceous fauna. As with similar taxa, Primaderma was likely highly predaceous, presumably taking vertebrate prey and it appears that helodermatid-like lizards have changed very little since the Albian-Cenomanian.
4523998|Postcranial remains of litopterns of Salla, Bolivia are described and discussed in terms of their functional morphology. These elements are not associated with dental remains, but can be confidently referred to the family Macraucheniidae or Proterotheriidae. The macraucheniids (cf. Coniopternium spp.) have transversely stable joints indicating their specialization for parasagittal movements at these articulations (e.g., the humeral-antebrachial, cruxastragalar, and astragalonavicular joints). A profound suprapatellar fossa ("patellar pit") of the femur is interpreted as having provided a place in which the patella could have become lodged, thus locking the knee-joint in the extended position. Facets on the cuboid and astragalus and their articulation in life position indicate that cuboastragular contact was present. This contact was slight, however, and may have occurred only during the loaded part of the locomotor cycle. A partial pes of a proterotheriid represents the first unambiguous evidence of this group at Salla and are the first Deseadan postcranial elements confidently referred to the Proterotheriinae. These elements indicate that the animal was tridactyl, but functionally monodactyl to the same degree as all Santacrucian proterotheriid genera except the "hypermonodactyl" Thoatherium. These litopterns and those to which they were compared record a great diversity of tarsal arrangements, such that simple characterizations of litoptern tarsals as being serial and "inadaptive" are unwarranted.
40864387|The protorosaur Tanystropheus longobardicus is well known from the Middle Triassic of alpine Europe. It has been described on the basis of a number of specimens that apparently range from juvenile to adult. The largest specimens have a total body length of approximately 3 m. Here we report on the first occurrence of a large tanystropheid from the Middle or early Late Triassic of southwestern China. The new specimen is indistinguishable from the largest specimens of T. longobardicus from Europe, although it lacks a skull. Both the Chinese specimen here described and the European specimens of T. longobardicus are characterized by 13 cervical vertebrae (not 12 as had previously been assumed). The new find, together with a recent specimen of Macrocnemus from Yunnan Province, highlight shared elements of the vertebrate fauna around the coastline of western and eastern Tethys during Middle to Late Triassic times.
4524569|More data are provided on the recently described temnospondyl Iberospondylus schultzei from the Upper Carboniferous (Stephanian C) of the Spanish Puertollano Basin. It represents the only known occurrence of a Paleozoic stegocephalian in a Spanish basin. This taxon appears to be more closely related to eryopoids and dissorophoids than to edopoids, as shown by four synapomorphies. However, decay index and bootstrap analyses show that the presented phylogeny, like other recently published phylogenies of temnospondyls, is not robust. Recently published phylogenetic data do not resolve the position of Dendrerpeton in temnospondyl phylogeny. Iberospondylus appears to have lived in the coastal marine environment in which it was preserved. The Spanish material supports the suggestion that the temnospondyls were sometimes coastal, near-marine animals. The widely held idea that many temnospondyls possessed a tympanum is poorly documented; the stapes of this group is always more massive than that of similarly-sized extant tetrapods that possess a tympanum. Other arguments presented to support the presence of a tympanum in temnospondyls appear to be invalid. Therefore, the widely held thesis that a tympanum was present in temnospondyls is questioned.
4523572|A diverse and well-preserved vertebrate fauna occurs in Early Devonian rocks of the Delorme Formation in the southern Mackenzie Mountains, Northwest Territories, Canada. The osteostracans of this fauna include the new cornuate species Waengsjoeaspis nahanniensis and Diademaspis? mackenziensis. Specimens of the latter species had been described in 1976 by Dineley and Loeffler as "Cephalaspis sp. indet." The cornuate originally described as "?Cephalaspis gabrielsei" Dineley and Loeffler, 1976 is here assigned to the new genus Superciliaspis and more fully described. Other taxa include a possible example of Parameteoraspis sp. and several other indeterminate cornuates. Only dermal bone has been preserved, but preservation of its external and internal surfaces is excellent. Conspecific osteostracan specimens demonstrate a wide variety of overall proportions, due to differing amounts and directions of compaction. Some preferential orientation of corpses on bedding planes has been seen and several examples of both single-species and multiple-species mass-death aggregations occur.
4523389|The Gryde Local Fauna, Frenchman Formation (Maastrichtian: Lancian) of southwestern Saskatchewan, contains 19 mammalian species, including new species Parectypodus foxi, Alphadon jasoni, and Turgidodon petiminis. The assemblage occurs in fine-grained siltstones deriving from floodplain depositional environments. The Gryde Local Fauna preserves a relatively unaltered record of a floodplain mammalian community that lived in homogeneous habitats. Turgidodon petiminis and Mesodma hensleighi may have been restricted to the floodplain, or nearly so. Species diversity, and standard indicators of diversity, were low but probably typical of late Cretaceous mammalian communities.
4522917|The microtine mouse Pitymys meadensis Hibbard, a species indicative of the late Irvingtonian mammal age in the United States, is present in a fauna of Rancholabrean age in the Valley of Mexico at El Tajo de Tequixquiac. It is closely related to the living Pitymys quasiater of Sierra Madre Oriental. Following the reasoning of Van der Meulen, the species group of Pitymys pinetorum is recognized as a distinct North American lineage and the North American species P. meadensis (fossil), P. quasiater, and P. nemoralis are considered more closely related to Old World species of Pitymys, some of which have been placed in the genus Neodon. Pitymys and its immediate ancestor Allophaiomys are known from Europe and Asia in early Irvingtonian time. Allophaiomys also dispersed southward from Beringia into North America in early Irvingtonian time, where the pinetorum species group developed from it in late Irvingtonian time. The pinetorum species group seems always to have been restricted to the dry steppes of the northern Great Plains and to the forests well east of the Mississippi River. The quasiater species group dispersed from Beringia into North America in late Irvingtonian time and now survives partly in geographic asylum in central Mexico and the southern United States, as well as in southern Asia and southern Europe. It also survives partly in ecologic asylum with Microtus, a more dominant microtine genus, in the more northerly parts of the United States and Europe. The genus is distinctly separate from Microtus and is here recognized as having full generic status.
25835844|A juvenile skull of the tyrannosaurid Tarbosaurus bataar found in the Bugin Tsav locality in the Mongolian Gobi Desert is described. With a total length of 290 mm, the present specimen represents one of the smallest skulls known for this species. Not surprisingly, it shows various characteristics common to juvenile tyrannosaurids, such as the rostral margin of the maxillary fenestra not reaching that of the external antorbital fenestra and the postorbital lacking the cornual process. The nasal bears a small lacrimal process, which disappears in adults. Lacking some of the morphological characteristics that are adapted for bearing great feeding forces in adult individuals, this juvenile specimen suggests that T. bataar would have changed its dietary niches during ontogeny. The numbers of alveoli in the maxilla (13) and dentary (14 and 15) are the same as those in adults, suggesting that they do not change ontogenetically in T. bataar and thus are not consistent with the hypothesis that the numbers of alveoli decreases ontogenetically in tyrannosaurids.
4524504| The semionotid Lepidotes piauhyensis Roxo and Lfgren, 1936, is redescribed on the basis of original and new material obtained from the Pastos Bons Formation, ?Upper Jurassic-Lower Cretaceous of the Parnaiba Basin, in northeastern Brazil. The species is a hump-backed semionotid reaching about 480 mm standard length. It exhibits, among other characters: dermal bones of the skull roof and circumorbital series densely ornamented with tubercles, suborbitals disposed in a single row, moderately developed crushing dentition, a bony lamina on the ventral portion of the anterior ceratohyal, a complete dorsal scale row, and smooth ganoid scales of lepisosteoid type. The analysis of well preserved specimens allows the description of anatomical structures previously unknown for the species, particularly of the hyoid arch and suspensorium. Some of these structures are comparable to those of the Jurassic species Lepidotes gloriae Thies, 1989 (Cuba), Lepidotes elvensis (Blainville, 1818) (Europe), and Lepidotes lennieri Sauvage, 1893 (Europe). 
20491045|The oldest described vombatid, Rhizophascolonus crowcrofti, is known from late Oligocene/early Miocene deposits in South Australia. It was described based on a single isolated tooth originally interpreted to be P3. It is also the only described vombatid known to have had tooth roots, all others being hypselodont. This paper describes two additional isolated teeth referable to this taxon from the same deposit and presents a re-interpretation of the type specimen as an M4. Possible function of the extensive, but asymmetrically distributed, molar enamel is discussed. Analysis of the structure and probable function of all three teeth leads to the hypothesis that R. crowcrofti was rhizophagous. (Parts of this abstract were presented at the London Evolutionary Research Network [LERN] 5th annual conference at the Natural History Museum in London on September 14, 2007.)
4524674|Six new occurrences of carnivorous mammals from Wadi Moghra, early Miocene, Egypt, are described, and the implications of these taxa for interpreting the biogeography of early Miocene mammals are discussed. The new taxa include two hyaenodontid creodonts (Buhakia moghraensis, gen. et sp. nov., and cf. Teratodon) and four carnivorans: an amphicyonid (Cynelos, sp. nov.), two viverrids s. 1. (Herpestides aegypticus, sp. nov., and Ketketictis solida, gen. et sp. nov.), and a stenoplesictid (Moghradictis nedjema, gen. et sp. nov.). Previously only two carnivorous mammals, both large creodonts (Hyainailouros fourtaui, Megistotherium osteothlastes), had been reported from Moghra. Together, the eight carnivorous taxa now known from Moghra include not only some representatives of widespread genera common to localities across Eurasia and Africa, but also a number of unique faunal elements, including three new genera and five new species. Evidence for two alternate hypotheses concerning the timing of carnivore migrations events are discussed: 1) an early Miocene (ca. MN 3) event followed by a slightly later (MN 4-5) one; or 2) an even earlier first migration in the late Oligocene-early Miocene (MN 1 or even MP 30), considered here to be the more likely scenario.
4523503|The southernmost Uintan (middle to late middle Eocene) vertebrate faunas in North America occur in Trans-Pecos Texas and in the Texas Gulf Coast province at Laredo. Small rodents, mainly represented by isolated teeth, are among the most abundant faunal elements. These rodent faunas show high endemism and a Uintan refugium in Texas for some forms which fail to persist in the better-known coeval faunas of the Northern Interior. Two new species of Pauromys (P. texensis, sp. nov. and P. simplex, sp. nov.) are described, as well as other small Sciuravidae, extending the known range of Pauromys southward to the Gulf Coast and late into the Uintan. Pauromys was the ecological equivalent of modern Peromyscus or Mus in being small, abundant, and with several syntopic species.
4524693| Few records of Late Jurassic fishes have been reported previously from Antarctica. They include an indeterminate teleost from the Ameghino (Nordenskjld) Formation at Longing Gap and two incomplete aspidorhyn- chiforms from James Ross Island, all of presumed Late Jurassic age. New fish material recently recovered in the Upper Jurassic of Longing Gap is described. The new material consists of one piece of body squamation, which, based on the structure of the scales, corresponds to a new genus and species (Ameghinichthys antarcticus gen. et sp. nov.) of an indeterminate actinopterygian family; one aspidorhynchiform identified as Vinctifer sp. due to the structure and distribution of the scales; and numerous specimens of a new ichthyodectiform, Antarctithrissops seymouri gen. et sp. nov. This new genus differs from European ichthyodectiforms in the shape of the preopercle, the presence of long sensory preopercular branches almost reaching the posterior margin of the bone, and the uncommon structure of the scales, with a fine layer of bone obscuring the circuli. The presence of Vinctifer in the Antarctic is consistent with its other Gondwanan records. The Ichthyodectiformes, previously known from four European genera, extends the distribution of the group to the southernmost part of the Southern Hemisphere during the Late Jurassic. In contrast to most non-teleostean fishes, the known Late Jurassic teleosts apparently are species endemic to restricted areas in the Southern Hemisphere. 
4524089|The articulated acanthodian Gyracanthides murrayi Woodward from the Lower Carboniferous of Mansfield, Victoria, Australia, is redescribed from original and newly aquired material. It includes the only known head region from a member of the Gyracanthidae. A new reconstruction and interpretation of the pectoral area are proposed, incorporating the elements from the original description as well as a new bone interpreted as a procoracoid attached to a prepectoral spine. The posterior free pectoral spine described by Woodward is reinterpreted as a scapulocoracoid. A subsequent reconstruction of the pectoral girdle which synonymised the anterior and posterior prepectoral spines is rejected. A clear difference in size and shape of the pectoral and pelvic fin spines is established. The morphology of the tubercular ornament of the paired fin spines is used to distinguish species of Gyracanthides. Gyracanthides murrayi had a covering of dermal polyodontodia with spinose crowns and a concave base with a central vascular canal opening. The systematic position of the Gyracanthidae remains unclear, with the family retained within the Climatiiformes only on the basis of the broad-based, fin spines with nodose ornament.
4524671|To develop a widely applicable method to estimate body size in theropods, the scaling relationship between skull length, body length, and body mass was investigated using 13 strictly carnivorous, non-avialan theropod taxa ranging in size from the 1-m Sinosauropteryx prima to the 12-m Tyrannosaurus rex. Body length was obtained from the literature for complete to nearly-complete specimens and body mass was obtained from three- dimensional mathematical slicing of those same specimens to ensure accurate body length-body mass associations. Least-square regressions reveal a tight correlation between skull length and body length (SK-BL) and skull length and body mass (SK-BM). The SK-BL regression is negatively allometric, which indicates that skulls become longer relative to body length with increasing body size. In contrast, the SK-BM regression is positively allometric, indicating that body mass increases faster than skull length with increasing body size. These conclusions confirm that the common practice of scaling isometrically smaller relatives of a given taxon to obtain body length and body mass estimates is not valid. Although predictive equations derived from the regressions fail to predict accurately body size in abelisaurids and juvenile theropods due to their different head/body proportions, they produce accurate body size estimates for theropods of known body size, thus validating their applicability. Body size estimates for Carcharodontosaurus and Giganotosaurus, approaching 13 m and 14 tons, suggest that they may have surpassed Tyrannosaurus in size. A revised body size estimate for a large Spinosaurus specimen suggests a much shorter and heavier animal than recently suggested.
4523019|The Manchar Formation, a middle and upper Miocene fluvial sequence of sandstones, silts, and conglomerates, is exposed in a narrow north-south belt in the Lower Indus Basin of Sind Province, Pakistan. The formation, as measured in geological sections near Lake Manchar, can be divided into three parts differing in the proportions of the sandstones and silts. The contact with the underlying marine Gaj Formation is gradational; when the base of the Manchar Formation is taken as the lowest thick sandstone of fluvial origin, it lies above the highest marine or estuarine beds. Fossil localities cluster into three stratigraphic groups which correspond to the three horizons previously recognized. New additions to the Manchar faunas include a large hominoid and another small primate, two creodonts, three amphicyonids, a shovel-tusked amebelodontine, a chalicothere, species of Orycteropus, Zygolophodon, Stegolophodon, and Brachyodus, a species comparable to Tetraconodon minor, two small species of Dorcatherium, and a palaeomerycid. Although stratigraphic ranges are incomplete, there is a clear pattern of faunal change from a rhinoceros-anthracothere dominated assemblage to one rich in proboscideans, suids, and ruminants. Hipparion (s.l.) appears only in the youngest levels. As defined here, both the basal and middle Manchar levels are probably older than the fauna from the Chinji Formation in its type area, and younger than the Dera Bugti fauna.
42568624|The first fossil specimen of the characiform genus Salminus is described here. The material, a threedimensionally articulated head, is very well preserved and allowed us to identify a new species. We could study both outer and inner bones. The specimen was found in the locality Toma Vieja, northeast of the city of Paran, central eastern Argentina. The bearing horizon is the so-called 'Conglomerado osifero,' which is putatively included in the lowermost beds of the fluvial Ituzaing Formation. The 'Conglomerado osfero' is early Tortonian (early late Miocene) in age. Recent species of Salminus are top-ranking pelagic predatory fishes in temperate to tropical lowland freshwaters of South America. The aquatic vertebrate fauna occurring in the bearing bed shows a similar composition to several northern South American units such as the Urumaco Formation (Venezuela, late Miocene) and La Venta Formation (Colombia, middle Miocene).
4524344|Fossilized Joffrichthys triangulpterus scales collected from an ancient lake site in the Paleocene Sentinel Butte Formation near Almont, North Dakota, provide an opportunity to estimate growth, natural mortality, and survival for this species. Based on 166 J. triangulpterus scales, fish ages ranged from zero through nine years old. Four scale- covered skeletons were also recovered and aged at zero, zero, one, and four years of life. Based on an age-frequency histogram, age groups zero, one, and two are clearly under- represented at the Almont site, suggesting they likely inhabited different areas of the lake system, perhaps due to habitat partitioning between juveniles and adults in the lake. Instantaneous natural mortality (M) determined from age-frequency data indicates the average annual mortality of age three and older J. triangulpterus was -0.456 (r
4523871| An incomplete, disarticulated skull (USNM 375733) is described and referred to Makaira sp., cf. M. nigricans, and a rostrum, Istiophorus calvertensis Berry, 1917 (USNM 9344, holotype), is re-identified as Istiophorus sp., cf. I. platypterus. Both specimens are from the Eastover Formation (early late Miocene, Virginia) and are the oldest records in deposits bordering the western North Atlantic Ocean. Istiophorus sp., cf. I. platypterus (= Istiophorus calvertensis) is the oldest record of the species. Based on ecological requirements of Recent species, the presence of Istiophorus sp., cf. I. platypterus and Makaira sp., cf. M. nigricans in the Eastover Formation indicates that deep, warm water probably existed at or near the collection sites for at least part of the year. 
20627162|The Quantou Formation of Jilin Province, People's Republic of China, has recently yielded an important new fauna of 'middle' Cretaceous vertebrates. This fauna includes the small-bodied cerapodan ornithischian dinosaur Changchunsaurus parvus, represented by excellent cranial and postcranial material. When initially described, Changchunsaurus was hypothesed to represent one of the most basal known ornithopods; however, similarities to ceratopsians were also noted, suggesting that Changchunsaurus may be crucial to elucidating the interrelationships of basal cerapodans, one of most problematic areas of ornithischian phylogeny. Here we present a detailed description of the craniodental anatomy of Changchunsaurus, rediagnose the taxon based upon three autapomorphies, and provide comparisons to other basal cerapodans, as a foundation for future studies of basal cerapodan relationships. Changchunsaurus shows strong similarities to the Chinese Early Cretaceous cerapodan Jeholosaurus, and it is likely that they are sister taxa.
4523632|A partial nodosaurid ankylosaur skeleton from Lower Cretaceous littoral deposits of Texas represents a new genus and species, Texasetes pleurohalio. It is distinguished by a prong-like scapular spine that is directed toward the innermost point of the glenoid, development of a small prespinous fossa, and retention of a splint-like fourth trochanter on the femur. Preservation in marginal marine deposits is not indicative of normal habitat preferences. T. pleurohalio is more advanced than Hoplitosaurus marshi, and the latter may be the most primitive nodosaurid for which a considerable part of the specimen is known. The proposed synonymy of Hoplitosaurus and Polacanthus is rejected.
41515274|An unusual fork-tailed coelacanth from the Lower Triassic Sulphur Mountain Formation of British Columbia, Canada, marks the first considerable departure in actinistian body form since the Mississippian Period. Rebellatrix divaricerca, gen. et sp. nov., is unique among coelacanths in its possession of a bifurcated caudal fin, reduced segmentation of fin rays, and fusion of caudal fin elements. Parsimony analysis of a character-taxon matrix of 109 characters and 29 taxa recovered R. divaricerca as sister taxon to Latimerioidei. The family Rebellatricidae is erected to include only R. divaricerca. This novel body shape of the new coelacanth raises questions about the idea that coelacanths were morphologically static following the Mississippian. Rebellatrix divaricera also emphasizes the morphological diversity of coelacanths during the Early Triassic, a time when species diversity of coelacanths was also highest. The slender, fork-tailed body form suggests fast swimming and an active lifestyle, unique among known fossil and extant coelacanths.
4523472|The stapes of the Paleocene multituberculate Lambdopsalis bulla, recovered from a unique intra-vestibuli circumstance, is small and columelliform. It has a slim shaft, a slit-like stapedial foramen, a distinct head, and a well-developed, nearly circular footplate. With new evidence of the stapes from Lambdopsalis bulla and those reported recently from Sinoconodon, Haldanodon, and Pachygenelus, stapedial characters are analyzed in a selected group consisting of Placentalia, Marsupialia, Monotremata, Multituberculata, Morganucodontidae, Sinoconodon, Haldanodon, and the tritheledontid Pachygenelus. Stapedial characters discussed include relative size of the stapes, shape of the stapes, development of stapedial footplate, shape of the stapedial footplate, the stapedial foramen, position of the stapedial artery, and orientation of the stapes. Conclusions are: 1) the relative size of the stapes does not differentiate multituberculates from morganucodontids; 2) stapes are divided into three basic types: rod-like, columelliform, and arched, and the latter two are derived for the selected group, characterized by a restricted distal end, and recorded only in a triossicular ear; 3) an imperforate stapes is not diagnostic of a group including multituberculates plus monotremes and therians; 4) a columelliform stapes and an extrastapedial course of the stapedial artery may represent shared and derived features for monotremes and multituberculates; 5) an arched stapes penetrated by a stapedial artery is probably primitive for the group that includes multituberculates, monotremes, and therians; 6) a well-defined footplate is a shared derived feature diagnostic of the selected group except for the tritheledontids; and 7) the stapes articulating anteriorly with the incus is probably an autapomorphy for multituberculates.
42568551|A new genus and species of true dolphin (Delphinidae), Septidelphis morii, is described on the basis of a partial fossil skeleton (almost complete skull, mandibles, teeth, hyoid bones, 17 vertebrae, several ribs, sternum and sternal ribs), originally belonging to an immature subadult animal, from the late Zanclean-early Piacenzian (Pliocene) marine sands of Piedmont (northern Italy). This new dolphin is characterized by an extreme posterior widening of the dorsal opening of the mesorostral canal and shares with Astadelphis, Etruridelphis, Sousa, and Steno the following combination of characters: (1) long and narrow rostrum; (2) wide premaxillae at the middle of rostrum; and (3) condylobasal length reaching at least 550 mm. A phylogenetic analysis using a molecular scaffold approach placed Septidelphis inside the delphinines in a more apical position than Sousa but basal to the clade formed by all other extant delphinines. Etruridelphis is positioned as the sister taxon of Septidelphis, and Astadelphis is positioned as the sister taxon of a larger grouping that includes this clade and all extant delphinines except Sousa. The phylogenetic position of Septidelphis inside Delphinidae and its stratigraphical age (3.81-3.19 Ma) are consistent with estimated divergence dates reported in a recent molecular study, whereas the first occurrence of Etruridelphis, dated to slightly before 3.98 Ma, could represent a minimal age for the origin of the delphinines and a potential calibration point for molecular clock studies. Septidelphis corroborates the explosive radiation and fast speciation-extinction rate of the delphinids during the Pliocene-Pleistocene.
4524608|The study of more than 100 skeletal remains of Hispanochampsa muelleri Kalin, 1936, from the Oligocene of El Talladell (Lleida Province, Catalonia, Spain), has been decisive in revealing misinterpretations about its anatomy and phylogenetic position. Hispanochampsa muelleri is shown to be a member of the clade Diplocynodontinae, and is here considered a junior synonym of Diplocynodon. This analysis provides strong evidence for this monophyletic grouping, which is made up of the species Baryphracta deponiae, Diplocynodon darwini, Diplocynodon muelleri, D. tormis, D. ratelii, and D. hantoniensis. All of these species bear ventral osteoderms with paired ossifications, and a deep posterior tip of the iliac blade, which are synapomorphies of Diplocynodontinae. However, the interrelationships of the Diplocynodontinae remain unresolved. D. muelleri shares with D. hantoniensis, D. tormis, and D. ratelii the presence of an enlarged jugal foramen, and the particular dentary occlusion in line with the maxillary tooth row. It is highly likely that the two Spanish species, Diplocynodon muelleri and Diplocynodon tormis, were close relatives.
4524603|The skull of the temnospondyl amphibian Saharastega moradiensis, from the Upper Permian Moradi Formation (Izegouandane Group, Izegouandane Basin) of northwestern Niger, is described in detail. Saharastega moradiensis is the most primitive known temnospondyl from Gondwana and possesses a combination of plesiomorphic and apomorphic character states, which suggest affinities with the Edopoidea, a clade of basal temnospondyls from the Upper Carboniferous and Lower Permian of Euramerica. These include the exclusion of the lacrimal from the orbital margin, the exclusion of the vomers and palatines from the interpterygoid vacuities, and the presence of an intertemporal ossification. Autapomorphies of the new taxon include the presence of narrow and elongated, transversely oriented nostrils; an extensive tongue-and-groove contact between the premaxillae and maxillae; tabulars that possess exceptionally large, laterally and ventrally directed 'horns'; and an extraordinary 'occipital plate' that may be formed, at least in part, by a supraoccipital ossification. A phylogenetic analysis of select Paleozoic temnospondyls indicates that S. moradiensis is the sister taxon to the edopoids, represented in this analysis by Chenoprosopus and Edops. This suggests that S. moradiensis represents a late-surviving member of a clade that is the sister group of the Edopoidea. Members of this clade may have been restricted to equatorial northwest Africa during the Late Carboniferous and Early Permian, an area that was not affected by the extensive glaciation that covered much of southern Pangea.
4523418|Fossil teleostean otoliths from the Mississippi River mudlumps are described for the first time. Analysis of the 446 otoliths obtained from the Late Pleistocene-Early Holocene sediment of a Mississippi River mudlump in the South Pass area of Louisiana revealed the presence of a varied teleostean fauna. The otoliths represent at least 25 families and 40 species of marine fishes. Bregmaceros, a small, cod-like fish that is common on the middle shelf of the present Gulf of Mexico, comprised 42 percent of the total number of otoliths recovered. The otoliths represented teleosts that are presently found in marine waters less than 200 meters in depth. Comparison of the otoliths to modem analogues indicated a depositional environment of middle to outer shelf with temperate to tropical conditions.
24523205|The southern Saskatchewan mid-Miocene Wood Mountain Formation has been the basis of studies describing its mammalian and herpetofaunas; here we present the description of the fish material from the formation. The fauna, of probable Barstovian age, would have been isolated from the western side of the continent, in an area draining towards the northeast. Sixteen taxa are recognized to specific orders or lower taxonomic levels, although this number is approximate because some identifications are tentative. The fauna includes a lepisosteid (Lepisosteus), an amiine, a probable hiodontiform osteoglossomorph, a hiodontid (Hiodon), at least two unidentified cypriniforms and a leuciscine, three ictalurids (Ameiurus, Ictalurus, and cf. Noturus), an esocid Esox sp. more closely related to pikes than to pikerels, a possible moronid perciform, a centrarchid (cf. Pomoxis), two percids (including Stizostedion sp.), and an unidentified teleost. This fauna includes the earliest North American percids, the last occurrence of lepisosteid and amiine fossils in Canada west of the Great Lakes, and may constitute the earliest evidence of North American moronids. The assemblage is typical of well-oxygenated, lowland fluvial environments, and indicates a wide variety of substrates and flow strengths, as well as the presence of aquatic vegetation in the vicinity. Additionally, the fauna implies the nearby presence of turbid and deeper environments, suggesting that the area was an environmentally varied floodplain during deposition. The paleoenvironmental implications of this ichthyofauna are compatible with those of the herpetofauna: warm temperate to subtropical, with temperatures similar to those of northern Mississippi or southern Tennessee.
4524609|The thalattosuchian crocodyliform Pelagosaurus typus Bronn, 1841 is fully documented and described from the Upper Lias (Toarcian, Lower Jurassic) of England. The material under study is part of a historical collection made by Charles Moore (1814-1881) at Strawberry Bank (Ilminster, Somerset, England) around 1848. Apomomorphic features of the genus include: sculpturing on almost the entire skull and mandible with extensive sculpturing on the prefrontal, lachrymal, frontal, parietal, temporal arcade and the posterior extent of the mandible; 30 piercing teeth on each side of the upper and lower jaws; small, shallow, egg-shaped antorbital fenestra present within the lachrymal and maxilla; supratemporal fenestrae short anteroposteriorly; paired frontal; anterior margin of internal choana tapers anteriorly between the paired palatines; and presence of a choanal septum on the palatine and pterygoid. Pelagosaurus was a small, exceedingly long- snouted, gracile crocodyliform whose diet probably consisted of small fishes, crustaceans and possibly insects. The small-bodied fish Leptolepis is confirmed as part of its diet as a specimen is found in the rib cage of a small juvenile Pelagosaurus. Laterally placed eyes suggest that this species actively pursued its prey rather than sitting and waiting at the water surface. The phylogenetic position of Pelagosaurus has been debated. Pelagosaurus possesses the majority of teleosaurid apomorphies, including: four premaxillary teeth; small prefrontal; lachrymal visible in dorsal aspect; presence of mandibular fenestrae; dermal armor; and a straight tail; however, these are all plesiomorphic for the Crocodyliformes in general. There also appear to be problems when defining the proposed metriorhynchid features of Pelagosaurus (i.e., broad nasal, large frontal, lateral orbit, sclerotic ring and arrangement of prefrontal-lachrymal). Moreover, characters that have been used in past cladistic analyses are either incorrect or too simplistic. Accordingly, Pelagosaurus is considered to belong to the Thalattosuchia incertae sedis until a more thorough phylogenetic investigation is conducted.
25835859|Test-pit excavations from 1989 in Room 2 of Cathedral Cave yielded a diverse faunal assemblage, but age estimates derived from radioisotopic dates and biochronological assessment were widely disparate. New excavations were undertaken in 2003 to increase faunal samples and clarify chronological resolution. Arvicoline rodents recovered from the 2003 excavation include Allophaiomys pliocaenicus, Microtus meadensis, M. paroperarius, Microtus sp., Mictomys meltoni or M. kansasensis, 4- and 5-triangle morphotypes of Lemmiscus curtatus, Ondatra zibethicus, and representatives of both ancient and recent lineages of Phenacomys. A maximum age for the fauna falls between 146.02  2.584 and 153.7  6.4 ka, as determined through uranium-series analyses of flowstones collected near the base of the excavation. Paleomagnetic analyses, and morphological data from recovered Ondatra, are consistent with that age interpretation. Cathedral Cave contains the youngest known Irvingtonian fauna, including the youngest records of Allophaiomys pliocaenicus, Microtus meadensis, and Microtus paroperarius. These records diminish the utility of those taxa for biochronologic refinement of fossil localities in western North America. Differences in biogeographic patterns of vertebrates in the Great Basin throughout the latest Pleistocene and Holocene are tied to topographic gradients and independent faunal histories. The Cathedral Cave biota provides a greater temporal depth for that dynamic, and provides important data demonstrating that higher-elevation fossil deposits yield diachronous biochronologic boundaries relative to lowland sites, and may require independent biochronologies. Recognition of the provincial nature of biochronologic boundaries is not new, but documented local-scale provincialism highlights conceptual challenges for broad-scale application of arvicoline biochronology in North America.
20061977|Most of South America's diverse avian fossil record is derived from terrestrial deposits. A Late Miocene to Early Pliocene marine avian assemblage is reported here from the Baha Iglesa Formation of north-central Chile. Sulidae, Phalacrocoracidae, Pelagornithidae, Diomedeidae, and Spheniscidae reported here are the earliest occurrences in Chile. The presence of the Chilean spheniscid penguin may prove significant in the taxonomy and radiation of the genus Spheniscus.
4523373|The inner-ear structure of four multituberculate petrosals from the Late Cretaceous and Early Paleocene of North America was examined with computerized tomography (CT). Transverse CT scan images of these petrosals were digitized to produce a three-dimensional reconstruction of the acousto-vestibular spaces of multituberculates. Our investigation shows that the acousto-vestibular spaces of multituberculates are characterized by a straight cochlear canal and an extraordinarily enlarged vestibular cavity. Comparison of multituberculate inner-ear structures with those in other major mammalian clades suggests that the cochlea of multituberculates, which is similar to that of Morganucodon, is more derived than the cochlea of non-mammalian therapsids but more primitive than the coiled cochlea of therian and monotreme mammals. The extraordinary inflation of the vestibule of multituberculates is a uniquely derived character of most Cretaceous and Tertiary multi, and it may be the synapomorphy of the order Multituberculata. Inflation of the vestibule may be correlated with low frequency hearing.
4523972| An unusual trace containing eggs of the 50 kg-plus theropod dinosaur, Troodon formosus, represents one of the best preserved dinosaur nests. This unique specimen (MOR 963) represents the actual nest structure and the direct product of Troodon behavior. The trace comes from the Campanian, Late Cretaceous Two Medicine Formation of Montana, and consists of a bowl-shaped depression with an internal area of ~ 1m surrounded by a distinct rim. A clutch of 24 tightly-placed eggs sat in the center and both nest and clutch show bilateral symmetry about a northsouth axis. The trace occurs within a moderately well-developed micritic paleosol. A physically and chemically distinct mudstone covered the nest and represents overbank deposition. The nest protected the eggs by creating a suitable micro-environment during the lengthy egg-laying and incubation periods. Clutch and nest size, shape, and symmetry and low organic carbon of the overlying mudstone suggests brooding rather than incubation with vegetative cover, although the latter cannot be ruled out. The nest probably played no role in the post-hatching care of precocial Troodon young. Reproductive traits indicated by MOR 963 show that Troodon possessed plesiomorphies shared with crocodilians (some burial of eggs and lack of egg rotation), apomorphies shared with birds (open nests, exposed eggs, and incubation by a brooding adult), but also at least one unusual feature (steeply-inclined eggs) not found in either extant archosaur group. Some reproductive features typically associated with living birds first evolved within non-avian coelurosaurian theropods like Troodon. 
4524619|Baguatherium jaureguii gen. et sp. nov. from the early Oligocene of northern Peru is the best known pre-Deseadan pyrothere. It has a relatively wider palate and less oblique lophs on the molariform teeth than Pyrotherium macfaddeni and Pyrotherium romeroi. A conspicuous lingual crest connects the anterior and posterior lophs of molariform teeth. Nares are retracted. Phylogenetic analysis places Baguatherium with Gryphodon and Pyrotherium in an unresolved polytomy. In Proticia and Colombitherium the wear facets of the molariform teeth indicate a mainly grinding masticatory apparatus. In Pyrotherium, Baguatherium, Gryphodon, and to a lesser degree, Propyrotherium, the oblique wear facets generate a cutting surface caused by a greater antero-posterior component to dorsoventral mastication. The cingulae function like stops or buttresses. Considering its brachydont condition, this specialization and the increase in the molariform surface in Baguatherium and Pyrotherium may have improved masticatory efficiency in response to the expansion of open environments during the Oligocene.
4524063|Protosuchus haughtoni from the Lower Jurassic Stormberg series of southern Africa is closely similar to the contemporaneous P. richardsoni from the Moenave Formation of North America. The taxon is based on two well preserved braincases; the rest of the skull is described here, based on an exceptionally well preserved and virtually complete skull.
4524060|Joffrichthys triangulpterus, sp. nov. is a new species of the family Osteoglossidae, and is described based on two nearly complete, and two partial, articulated specimens from the Sentinel Butte Formation in the Fort Union Group (Paleocene) of central North Dakota, USA. The familial placement is based on three diagnostic characters: uroneurals absent; six hypurals; and a kidney shaped opercle. The generic placement into Joffrichthys is based on two diagnostic characters and eight similar morphologies and meristics shared between the new species and previously described J. symmetropterus: two complete or partial neural spines present on preural 2; one spine or no spines present on ural 1; similar shapes of the maxillary, dentary, preopercle, opercle, and frontal; a similar body silhouette; and a similar vertebral and supraneural count. The specimens are identified as a new species by nine diagnostic characteristics distinguishing it from J. symmetropterus, the most closely related taxon: more posteriorly-placed pelvic fins; a greater dorsal fin ray count (30 total); a triangular dorsal and anal fin; asymmetrically positioned dorsal and anal fins (anterior pterygiophore insertions separated by 8 to 9 vertebrae); the third dorsal and fifth anal pterygiophores being the longest; and two complete spines on preural 2. The North Dakota fish is important because it represents a new species of Joffrichthys and represents the most southern occurrence of the genus to date.
4523344|Histological study of the ribs in two archaeocetes, Basilosaurus cetoides and Zygorhiza kochii, reveals conspicuous pachyostosis, with hyperostosis of periosteal cortices and absence of a free medullary cavity. In addition, abundant remains of calcified cartilage matrix, associated with extensive globular ossification, exist within the medulla. Among Cetacea, these features seem to be unique to the archaeocetes. Conversely, the structural peculiarities of bone in these animals are identical to those of the Sirenia and would arise from similar causes: inhibition of the chondroclastic and endosteal osteoclastic resorptions, and prolongation of subperiosteal osteogenesis during ontogeny, exemplifying morphological adaptation to aquatic life via heterochrony. The possible hormonal mechanisms of these features, as also their supposed adaptive consequences for the buoyancy of the archaeocetes, are discussed in relation to data already available for the Sirenia.
4523879|The distribution of clavicles (or furculae) within the Dinosauria has been poorly understood, and until recently many workers argued that they were not even present. It is now known that allosaurids, oviraptorids, Segisaurus, and troodontids possessed clavicles. Fused clavicles (furculae) recovered with several recently discovered tyrannosaurid skeletons are described in this paper. A rerun of Bryant and Russell's (1993) congruence test was conducted against a new and larger tree reflecting new ideas about theropod phylogeny. The results more consistently show that clavicles are primitively present in theropods.
4524144|Baugeichthys caeruelus gen. et sp. nov., a new albuliform from the Hauterivian of the Massif des Bauges (France), is described. This taxon is the oldest albuliform known to date. Most of the characters of Baugeichthys caeruleus are plesiomorphic and common to all the basal teleosts (e.g., very short supraoccipital crest, parietals meeting in the midline, caudal scutes, fringing fulcra, two ural centra, and three epurals). However, this fish exhibits elopomorph synapomorphies: a mass of cartilage above the first ural centrum and the presence of a pectoral splint. Albuliform synapomorphies are not visible because of poor preservation. Nevertheless, the entire morphology, especially the caudal skeleton, is quite similar to that of other albuliforms. This fish appears to be a basal albuliform, yet more primitive than albuloids, and is thus classified as a plesion incertae sedis within the Albuliformes.
4523691|Closure of neurocentral sutures in the crocodylian vertebral column follows a distinct caudal to cranial sequence during ontogeny. The sutures in most caudal vertebrae are fully closed at hatching, but closure of remaining sutures occurs later in ontogeny. Closure of cervical sutures is a consistent indicator of morphological maturity in Alligator mississippiensis, Alligator sinensis, Osteolaemus tetraspis, and Crocodylus acutus; the final transformation is the closure of the axial neurocentral suture, which occurs after the closure of the axis-odontoid suture. Because these transformations occur near the end of ontogeny in all three taxa, regardless of maximum size, closure of these sutures is a size-independant criterion of maturity; however, it is not certain if suture closure indicates the stoppage of growth. These transformations are readily identifiable in fossils, permitting the objective characterization of maturity in fossil crocodylians and possibly at least some of their closer extinct relatives.
20490988|Denticles and denticulate platelets belonging to internal structures of Phlebolepis elegans Pander, along with two new types of scales, are described for the first time. Large fragments taken from seven articulated specimens of P. elegans were dissolved in acetic acid. The denticles were picked from the resulting residues where they were found adhering to the visceral surfaces of scales in samples taken from the anterior part of the body. The overall shapes of the tiny denticles vary from rhombic to elongate, and the sculpture on their surface consists of longitudinal ridges of different lengths and/or tubercles. Denticles are also covered with an ultrasculpture of longitudinal striations. The shape of each denticle varies depending on where it was situated in the body. Rhombic or roundish denticles were found together with rostral and short cephalo-pectoral scales, the latter often pierced by pore canals of the lateral line system; strongly elongate denticles were associated with long lateral scales. These newly described denticles covered the buccopharyngo-branchial region of P. elegans. Denticulate platelets also came from the branchial region. Two sets of scales in a slightly crescent-shaped arrangement are bordered on one side by very narrow and high scales. These crescent-shaped sets bordered openings, which are here interpreted as branchial openings. The openings were situated between long lateral scales, and each successive opening was placed slightly ventral to its more anterior neighbor. These internal denticles reinforce the idea that such structures are general features of thelodonts, and not specializations of restricted groups of thelodonts.
20490991|The tetrapodomorph fish Spodichthys buetleri from the Upper Devonian of East Greenland is redescribed from computed tomography scans of material originally studied by Erik Jarvik. A wealth of new anatomical data was revealed by scanning the nearly perfectly three-dimensional specimens, including detailed information on the shape of the brain cavity and the internal structure of the lower jaws. Spodichthys displays an interesting mix of generalized "osteolepidid," or primitive tetrapodomorph, and tristichopterid features. Derived characters shared by Spodichthys, tristichopterids and (Panderichthys + Tetrapoda) include the loss of cosmine, and the presence of a long commissural lamina of the entopterygoid. The presence of an extratemporal lateral to the tabular and a single fang position on the posterior coronoid and ectopterygoid are examples of basal tetrapodomorph characters retained in Spodichthys. Spodichthys is unique in having coronoid fangs positioned lateral to the corresponding replacement pit rather than having an anterior-posterior alternation between developed fang and replacement pit, which is the normal tetrapodomorph condition. Jarvik's original conclusion that Spodichthys is closely related to the tristichopterids is confirmed by a phylogenetic analysis, which places Spodichthys as the sister taxon of the Tristichopteridae.
20627164|Four species of rodents (two heteromyids and two cricetids) and one lagomorph are identified from the late Tertiary Sevier River Formation of Utah. The heteromyids include a new genus and species of heteromyine, Metaliomys sevierensis, which is intermediate in morphology between the Clarendonian and early Hemphillian Diprionomys Kellogg and the extant genera Liomys and Heteromys. A single specimen is referred to Diprionomys sp., cf. D. minimus (Kellogg). The cricetid Paronychomys lemredfieldi Jacobs is known from the Hemphillian of Arizona. The second cricetid is referred to a new genus Basirepomys. Peromyscus pliocenicus Wilson from the Hemphillian of California is designated as the type species of the new genus, to which the new species B. robertsi from Utah is referred. Basirepomys is viewed as intermediate between Peromyscus and the basal neotomyine Repomys May from the late Hemphillian and Blancan. The only lagomorph in the fauna is Hypolagus vetus (Kellogg). Four of the taxa recognized from the Sevier River Formation (Diprionomys, Paronychomys lemredfieldi, Basirepomys, and Hypolagus vetus) are elsewhere known from the Hemphillian of North America. However, it is not possible at this time to determine whether the fauna is early or late Hemphillian.
4523442|Dental materials in the Peabody Museum of Yale University recently recognized as Nothocyon geismarianus Cope, 1878, emphasize that the holotype is markedly different from what is commonly regarded as "Nothocyon geismarianus" based on materials referred to that taxon by E. D. Cope. Despite its basined talonid, teeth of Nothocyon geismarianus differ from those of primitive borophagine canids in having a highly compressed trigonid, a reduced paraconid in m2, and a quadrate M1. The form of the m2 in N. geismarianus is uniquely shared with Parictis although the M1 is markedly different between the two. The family level relationship of Parictis, as well as that of N. geismarianus, remains uncertain for lack of knowledge of their basicrania. The history of the genus Nothocyon is reviewed and a new genus and species is proposed for the taxon represented by the material referred to "N. geismarianus."
23361078|As one of the earliest-known beaked ornithuromorph birds, Archaeorhynchus spathula is important for understanding the early evolution of this derived avian clade. Recently, two new complete and articulated specimens of Archaeohyrnchus spathula were collected from Lower Cretaceous deposits of Jianchang, Liaoning, northeastern China. These specimens preserve new anatomical information, particularly in regards to the morphology of the skull (including the inner structure of the occiput), forelimbs, hind limbs, and sternum. The sternum is similar to that of an unnamed ornithuromorph from the Xiagou Formation, Gansu Province. These new specimens are subadult: together with the holotype of Archaeorhynchus, they constitute the entire Early Cretaceous record of subadult ornithuromorphs and reveal important information regarding the ontogeny of this group. The caudal vertebrae are complete in the two referred specimens and provide information about the development of the pygostyle in basal ornithuromorphs. At least four vertebrae form the pygostyle of Archaeorhynchus and fusion progresses distoproximally. The preservation of gastroliths in all known specimens of Archaeorhynchus signifies that it was likely herbivorous.
4523099|A spalacotheriid symmetrodont from the Late Cretaceous (?early Campanian) Wahweap Formation of southcentral Utah is described on the basis of isolated molars. This is the first record of non-tribosphenic Theria from the southwestern United States. In several respects, Symmetrodontoides foxi, n.sp. is more primitive than its close relative, S. canadensis from the upper Milk River Formation (early Campanian, Aquilan) of Alberta, Canada. The orientation of wear striations indicates that jaw movement in this advanced symmetrodont included a significant transverse component. Although shearing was obviously important in spalacothere dental function, the lack of well-developed, polished wear facets and the presence of heavy apical wear indicate that puncture crushing was also significant.
41515064|The White River Formation at Flagstaff Rim in central Wyoming is a key sequence for understanding the biochronology and chronostratigraphy of the Chadronian North American Land Mammal Age. The lower part of this section represents early Chadronian time, an interval whose fauna has not been well known. From these early Chadronian levels 15 species of rodents are discussed and/or described. Of these, three are new species, all belonging to the Eomyidae: Namatomys erythrus, Metanoiamys paradoxus, Cristadjidaumo skinneri. These rodent assemblages add substantially to our knowledge of early Chadronian faunas, and show successional changes in the rodent taxa from the earliest Chadronian through middle Chadronian.
20491041|A new nodosaurid specimen from the Upper Cretaceous Naashoibito Member of the Ojo Alamo Formation in the San Juan Basin, New Mexico is assigned to Glyptodontopelta mimus Ford, 2000 based on characters of internal (histological) and external osteoderm morphology. This specimen is from the same stratigraphic horizon as the holotype (USNM 8610), and because it displays a wide range of osteoderm morphotypes, it can be used as a basis for comparison of osteoderm shape and sculpturing among different ankylosaur taxa. Its unique surface texture differentiates it from other Upper Cretaceous ankylosaurids and nodosaurids (Ankylosaurus, Nodocephalosaurus, Edmontonia, Euoplocephalus, and Panoplosaurus) and demonstrates that G. mimus is a valid taxon. The nodosaurid Edmontonia australis Ford, 2000 is considered a subjective junior synonym of G. mimus based on having the same surface texture and shape of the medial cervical osteoderms. Ankylosaur osteoderms are distinctive to at least the genus level and are commonly found in Upper Cretaceous strata, thus they have great biostratigraphic utility.
20061957|The Australopithecus-bearing sites of Koro Toro in central Chad yielded at least 9 species of bovids (Ruminantia: Bovidae). They all belong to genera found in North and/or East Africa, but three new species are named. Kobus korotorensis, sp. nov. is quite distinct from East African species, and is probably an early offshoot from primitive Reduncines. Kobus tchadensis, sp. nov. is more like some East African forms. Parmularius pachyceras, sp. nov. should rather be compared with a North African species. This relative endemism hinders precise biochronological correlation, but the best fit is in the range 2.7-3.4 Ma. The lack of Tragelaphines, and an abundance of Reduncines, Alcelaphines and Antilopines definitely points towards an open environment, that was drier than most East African sites of this age.
4523613|Seven species of artiodactyls from the Udunga locality in the Selenga basin, Trans-Baikal, Russia, are described: Capreolus constantini, sp. nov., Axis shansius, Orchonoceros gromovi, Alcinae gen. indet., Gazella sinensis, Antilospira zdanskyi, and Ovis sp. Capreolus constantini, the oldest known roe deer, is a possible descendant of Procapreolus wenzensis, which existed at the end of the early Pliocene (zone MN 15). The Udunga fauna is correlated with lower Villafranchian faunas (zone MN 16). The fauna existed on the southern border of the boreal forest at the boundary between the European-Siberian and Central Asian paleozoogeographic sub-areas after 3.5 million years ago.
4523071|The first known well preserved skull of the fossil anguid lizard Glyptosaurus sylvestris demonstrates the distinct nature of this monotypic genus. This specimen (UCMP 126000) is from the middle Eocene Bridger Formation (Bridgerian) of Wyoming and consists of an articulated skull and lower jaws and disarticulated anterior postcranial skeletal elements. Glyptosaurus differs from Paraglyptosaurus by the presence of pterygoid teeth in the form of a narrow band. This character permits designation of this specimen as the plesiotype of G. sylvestris and the diagnosis of the species is revised accordingly. Glyptosaurus sylvestris had fused frontals in the adult, a character plesiomorphic for the subfamily Glyptosaurinae (sensu Sullivan, 1979, 1982). Some specimens previously referred to Paraglyptosaurus are re-assigned to the hypodigm of Glyptosaurus sylvestris. G. (Paraglyptosaurus) rugosus and G. (Paraglyptosaurus) princeps are returned to Glyptosaurus and are junior synonyms of G. sylvestris. Paraglyptosaurus is known only by its type species P. hillsi from the Wasatchian strata of the Huerfano Park basin of Colorado. P.? yatkolai is from the Wasatchian of the San Juan basin, New Mexico and is questionably referred to the genus Paraglyptosaurus. Eocene glyptosaurine lizards, while widespread on a worldwide scale, tended to form endemic populations within restricted basinal regions of the Rocky Mountain orogenic belt. Melanosaurinids are confined principally to the northern basins (Bighorn, Wind River, Green River/Bridger) and are more common in the previous two while the glyptosaurinids appear to be restricted to the more southerly basins (Wind River, Green River/Bridger, San Juan, Carthage-La Joya and Huerfano Park) being rare in the former. Overlapping of melanosaurinids and glyptosaurinids occurs in the Wind River and Green River/Bridger basins during Eocene time. Glyptosaurus may have had a rather widespread occurrence along the western edge of the Rocky Mountain uplift, Eoglyptosaurus donohoei had a widely separate occurrence in Huerfano Park and Wind River basins, whereas Paraglyptosaurus hillsi was restricted to the Huerfano Park basin.
4524098|We report the well preserved skeleton of a small theropod dinosaur, Nqwebasaurus thwazi, gen. et sp. nov., from the Lower Cretaceous Kirkwood Formation of South Africa. Nqwebasaurus has an elongate three-digit manus with a partially opposable first digit, a long and slender pes with a highly reduced metatarsal IV, and preserves gastroliths (stomach stones) in its abdominal region. As a basal coelurosaurian, Nqwebasaurus pushes back the Gondwanan record of this derived group of tetanuran theropods approximately 50 million years. This confirms that coelurosaurians were present on the Gondwana supercontinent well before its main phase of fragmentation and supports the hypothesis that this clade could have achieved a global distribution early in their evolution. Nqwebasaurus is one of the most complete and best preserved Cretaceous theropods described thus far from Africa.
30126363|Basal (cladistically) neoceratopsians are relatively small, gracile members of Ceratopsia (horned dinosaurs), which also includes larger forms such as Triceratops and Centrosaurus. The Asian basal neoceratopsians share some very important traits not found in any North American group until now, including a fenestrated frill and premaxillary teeth. Likewise, the North American basal taxa have some traits not found in the Asian forms, the most important of which is a very specialized tooth wear pattern. Cerasinops hodgskissi, a new basal neoceratopsian from the Lower Two Medicine River Formation of Montana, exhibits all of the above characters along with others previously found on only one of the two continents. The new species is a sister group to Leptoceratopsidae in a cladistic analysis, and is a link between the taxa on the two continents. Cerasinops also exhibits extremely interesting anatomical and histological features that indicate the possibility of bipedality in this taxon, a locomotor pattern not found previously in basal neoceratopsians (it has been suggested in some, but with little evidence).
41515058|Evolutionary changes in lifestyle (e.g., terrestrial vs. aquatic habits) influence tetrapod limb morphology. Similar evolutionary trends in osteogenetic sequences (order of bone ossification) and bone microstructure are often shared in extant tetrapods with similar habit preferences: such data are sometimes available from extinct taxa. The pachypleurosaurids from Monte San Giorgio (Switzerland, Italy) are Triassic marin reptiles with high quality, complete ontogenetic series. We studied osteogenesis and bone histology in the four species from this locality, comparing these with data from Recent terrestrial lizards and secondarily aquatic reptiles in order to determine if the osteogenetic sequences of pachypleurosaurids were similar to either the hypothesized plesiomorphic condition for terrestrial eureptilians or those of Recent aquatic reptiles. Pachypleurosaurian limb osteogenesis occurs in two steps: (1) developmental sequences of ossification during embryology and/or in early neonates, (2a) additional primary periosteal compaction processes, and (2b) additional primary and secondary endosteal compaction processes during neonate ontogeny. Taphonomic patterns reveal information on the order of the initiation and termination of these steps, which are (A) onset of ossification, (B) onset of additional compaction processes (early phase), and (C) termination of additional compaction processes (final phase). An event pairing analysis found that ossification of forelimb elements in pachypleurosaurids precedes that of the hind limb elements in all osteogenetic stages except for initiation of ossification (A). The order of their early phase compaction processes is similar to the hypothesized plesiomorphic eureptilian condition, whereas their final phase compaction processes varies among pachypleurosaurids, with S. mirigiolensis showing minor heterochronic shifts and N. edwardsii showing many heterochronic shifts relative to the hypothesized ancestral condition. Pachypleurosaurids from Monte San Giorgio increase the number of heterochronic shifts with decreasing stratigraphic age, showing a transition from more 'terrestrial' to more 'aquatic' osteogenetic sequences in comparison to data on ossification sequences of Recent aquatic reptiles.
4524072|A new genus and species (Antilohyrax pectidens) of gazelle-sized hyracoid from the late Eocene, Jebel Qatrani Formation, Fayum Province, Egypt, exhibits dental, cranial and postcranial specializations unique among hyracoids. The lower incisors are broad, hyper-pectinate teeth similar to those of the extant dermopteran genus Cynocephalus. Upper incisors are apparently absent, and the shape of the premaxilla suggests that the lower incisors occluded against an upper fibrous pad, as in Cynocephalus and ruminants. The cheek teeth are dominated by sharp-edged, crescentic shearing blades, suggesting a folivorous diet. The articulation between the astragalus and navicular is furrowed and condylar in shape, allowing notable midtarsal flexion and extension but limited lateral movement. The tibia and fibula are fused together throughout most of their length. In size and proportions, limb elements resemble those of the extant springbok (Antidorcas marsupialis, Bovidae). Functional inferences derived from these features suggest a cursorial browser, a Paleogene analog to the bovids that do not appear in Africa until the Miocene. The new genus and species adds another adaptive dimension to what was already an extremely diverse record of Tertiary hyracoids, and further underscores that hyracoids were the dominant terrestrial ungulates of the African Paleogene.
4524421|Numerous megaloolithid eggs of Early Campanian age have been found in Auca Mahuevo in Argentina (Patagonia, Neuquen Province) with diagnostic skeletal embryonic remains in ovo allowing the identification of these eggs as those of titanosaurid dinosaurs. Although fossilization favors the preservation of the eggshell, organic compounds that are often destroyed are commonly recovered in these eggs. A detailed description is provided of the 79.5-83.5 Ma-old membrana testacea found in great abundance and in situ in titanosaurid eggs. The fossilized membrana testacea is uniquely preserved and appears in two distinct morphs, each composed of two identifiable layers as observed in extant reptiles and birds. This membrane also shares great similarities with those previously reported occurrences in post-Jurassic dinosaurs. One morph displays a solid calcium carbonate layer with fine preservation of the negative imprints of shell unit nucleation centers each surrounded by coloration reminiscent of stratified microbial communities. The other still displays the mesh-like texture similar to the morphology protein membranes of extant reptiles. Taphonomic factors that have affected the eggshell structures and the membrana testacea are here interpreted as microbial in origin. This interpretation is further supported by the presence within the voids of the membrane layer of micron-sized, rod-like calcium carbonate structures identical to those precipitated by bacteria in the formation of ooids, while calcium carbonate precipitation outside this membrane consists of characteristic abiotic rhombohedric crystals. The periodic pulse of sedimentation (obrution and stagnation) from overbanking paleorivers in Auca Mahuevo coupled with the presence of organic compounds inside the buried eggs may have produced conditions similar to those observed in conservation Lagerstatten, thus invoking a Lagerstatte status for Auca Mahuevo. Furthermore, the patterns resulting from biomediation observed at this site might serve as a template for investigating other soft-tissue preservation in the fossil record.
40666157|Several specimens of a fossil fish recently collected from Cretaceous deposits near Changma, Gansu Province, China, are here described as a new genus and species of osteoglossomorph, Shuleichthys brachypteryx. This fish is a stem osteoglossomorph that cannot be included in either the Hiodontiformes or Osteoglossiformes without making either order polyphyletic. The fossils from the Changma locality are exceptionally well preserved, and allow many details of the anatomy of the new fish to be described, including the presence of a postpelvic bone, which was previously only known to be present in the living Hiodon. The relationships of the osteoglossomorph fishes are still not well resolved, and the addition of the new species to previous phylogenetic analyses causes even less resolution to be found. However, the new species appears to be more derived than Lycoptera and Paralycoptera, two other well-known stem osteoglossomorphs.
4522913|Hardistiella montanensis n. gen. et sp. from the Lower Carboniferous (Namurian) Bear Gulch Limestone Member of the Heath Formation, Montana, is the only lamprey known to retain a clearly hypocercal tail and an anal fin provided with rays. These two characters are plesiomorphous and are also met with in "anaspids" and "thelodonts." An analysis of the relationships of the petromyzontids indicates that they are the sister group of some of the "anaspids."
30117454|Significant new material of the Early Carboniferous stem tetrapod Ossinodus pueri has been found in the Ducabrook Formation, Queensland, Australia. An articulated partial skull (including skull roof and palate) as well as isolated jugal, surangular, postsplenial, intercentra, and haemal arch elements are described for the first time. New features of the cranial material include a preopercular bone, and an entirely enclosed quadratojugal sensory canal. This canal exits from the accessory paraquadrate foramen on the inner face of the quadratojugal, suggesting that the foramen was not an opening for nerves or blood vessels to enter the skull. It is argued that enclosed sensory canals may be present but undetected in other early tetrapods. A new reconstruction of the skull and the first full body reconstruction of O. pueri show a tetrapod that appears to be quite different from the whatcheeriids, Whatcheeria and Pederpes. Two phylogenetic analyses, one in which the taxon has an intertemporal, and one in which that bone is absent, place Ossinodus differently. In the first, Ossinodus remains in the Whatcheeriidae, while in the second (in which the intertemporal is absent) it is stemward of the Whatcheeriidae, adding credence to previous suggestions that the Whatcheeriidae may be a grade rather than a clade.
20627115|Partial crania of two fossil species of koala (family Phascolarctidae) from Oligo-Miocene deposits in the Riversleigh World Heritage Area, one referable to Litokoala kutjamarpensis and another to Nimiokoala greystanesi, are described. Comparison with the extant koala Phascolarctos cinereus and other diprotodontian marsupials reveals a high degree of similarity in basicranial morphology between fossil and modern phascolarctids but substantial differences in the architecture of the masticatory system. Key specialisations present in Phascolarctos but absent in both Litokoala and Nimiokoala include forward displacement of the palate, enlargement of the occlusal surface of the molar teeth, thickening of the maxillae above the toothrow with resultant lowering of the occlusal plane of the cheekteeth relative to the glenoid fossa, and a decrease in the size of the pterygoid fossae. These extreme aspects of the cranial morphology of Phacolarctos probably reflect its dependence on eucalypt leaves, a nutrient-poor food resource that became increasingly abundant in the Australian environment through the Neogene. Derived similarities in basicranial structure, notably the large size of the auditory bulla, between the fossil and modern phascolarctids raises the possibility that two distinctive behavioural characteristics of the modern koala, sedentism and vociferousness, may have developed relatively early during phascolarctid evolution.
20627089|Colepiocephale lambei from the Foremost Formation of Alberta is a problematic pachycephalosaurid that has recently been hypothesized as (1) synonymous with Stegoceras validum, (2) a distinct species within the Stegoceras clade, and (3) an unusual taxon more derived than Stegoceras. Conflict among these hypotheses arises from different interpretations of the parietosquamosal region of the dome. Re-evaluation of the morphology of C. lambei based on all known material from Alberta indicates that the posteromedial extension of the parietal is broken off at its base in every specimen, and what was interpreted as the posterior margin of the dome actually is the anterior margins of large supratemporal fenestrae. The squamosals are not preserved in any specimen, but the form of the parietal suggests that they were present in the typical pachycephalosaurid configuration. Colepiocephale lambei is considered to be a distinct taxon based on several autapomorphies and stratigraphic segregation from S. validum. Phylogenetic analyses that include new anatomical data confirm that C. lambei occupies a basal position within domed pachycephalosaurids, but its precise systematic position with respect to S. validum remains equivocal. This general interpretation is more consistent with its stratigraphic position as one of the oldest known members of Pachycephalosauridae. Additionally, this study results in the recognition of the first material referable to this taxon from the Judith River Formation of Montana, which results in a geographic range extension for this taxon and extends its stratigraphic range into the equivalent of the lower Oldman Formation in Alberta.
4523955|A three-cusped, mammalian upper molar was recovered from the type locality of Shuotherium dongi Chow and Rich, 1982 in the Late Jurassic, Upper Shaximiao Formation Sichuan, China. This tooth is too large to be referable to S. dongi, which is known only from a fragment of a left mandible with teeth. Shared, derived (possibly autapomorphic), functionally related characters of the reconstructed dentition and occurrence at the same locality suggest that the new specimen probably is an upper molar of a closely related species, here named Shuotherium shilongi, sp. nov. Crown morphology and development of wear facets on the new specimen accord with the reconstruction of occlusal relationships of pseudo-tribosphenic molars proposed by Chow and Rich (1982). An alternative, less probable, interpretation is that the new specimen is an upper molar of a tribosphenic mammal and indicates a greater antiquity and diversity of the Tribosphenida than previously thought. This uncertainty highlights the problems in identification of isolated, primitive tribosphenic-like teeth, particularly isolated upper molars. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that Yinotheria Chow and Rich, 1982, including Shuotherium dongi and, probably, S. shilongi, sp. nov., most likely is not a member of the symmetrodont clade but is a sister group to Cladotheria McKenna, 1975 (and see McKenna and Bell, 1997), consisting of the Dryolestidae, Paurodontidae, Amphitheriidae, Peramuridae, and Tribosphenida.
4523720|The octodontoid Caviocricetus lucasi gen. et sp. nov. from the lower Miocene (upper levels of the Trelew Member, Sarmiento Formation) of Chubut Province (Argentina), is described. It represents the first recognized case of a caviomorph rodent with terraced cheek teeth. Such morphology suggests that small invertebrates could have been an important part of the diet of this species. Such a diet is not known within the Caviomorpha. This terraced design is understood as a primitive feature, but the upper molars of this species have a derived tetralophodont pattern with the posteroloph (or the metaloph?) absent or highly reduced. This pattern represents a type of occlusal design apparently different from those previously known, and could explain the molar structure of some controversial genera, such as Platypittamys. Caviocricetus lucasi may be related to a group of genera previously assigned to the Echimyidae, but such assignment is not accepted until a revision of the Octodontoidea is undertaken.
4524723|Kerberosaurus manakini, gen. et sp. nov. (Dinosauria, Hadrosauridae) is described on the basis of disarticulated skull elements from the Maastrichtian Tsagayan Formation of Blagoveschensk, Far Eastern Russia. This flat-headed hadrosaur is characterized by a unique morphology of the lateral wall of the braincase, a particularly narrow frontal, a depressed rostral margin of the parietal, a strong, wide and flattened crest around the circumnarial depression, and a very prominent hook-like palatine process on the maxilla. A phylogenetic analysis, based on 21 cranial characters, indicates that, among hadrosaurines, Kerberosaurus is the sister taxon of a monophyletic group formed by Prosaurolophus and Saurolophus. Several independent hadrosaurid lineages migrated from western North America to eastern Asia, probably by late Campanian to early Maastrichtian time. At the end of the Maastrichtian, completely different dinosaur faunas developed in both regions, indicating some kind of geographical or paleoecological barrier.
30126302|Thaumastosaurus gezei, sp. nov., is described based on the incomplete, holotype skull and an isolated, referred squamosal, both from the so-called "old collections" (late middle or late Eocene in age) from the Phosphorites du Quercy, France. A suite of cranial features, mainly involving sculpture patterns and details of the maxilla and squamosal, differentiates T. gezei from the other three species of Thaumastosaurus. T. gezei appears to be unique among known species of Thaumastosaurus and is unusual among other anurans in having an anteriorly elongate process of the squamosal that extends along the entire dorsal edge of the maxilla, thereby preventing the maxilla from contacting the nasal and contributing to the orbital margin. This derived squamosal configuration, and some other cranial features, suggest a possible relationship between Thaumastosaurus and the South American ceratophryids. If such a relationship proves correct, Thaumastosaurus would be one of the few vertebrate taxa from the Eocene of Europe with South American affinities.
4522996|The phylogenetic relationships of two monophyletic groups of fossil jawless craniates, the Osteostraci and Galeaspida, are discussed on the basis of new observations. Maximum congruence of derived character distribution implies that the Galeaspida are the sister-group of the Osteostraci + Gnathostomata. This implies that the dorsal naso-hypophysial opening is not a synapomorphy of the Cephalaspidomorphi (Osteostraci + Anaspida + Petromyzontida), but is likely to have appeared independently, at least in lampreys and osteostracans. An outline of the phylogeny of the Galeaspida is proposed on the basis of the published material.
4524225|The skull of the traversodontid cynodont Exaeretodon riograndensis, sp. nov. from the Santa Maria Formation, Rio Grande do Sul State, Brazil is described. The excellent preservation of one specimen reveals new cranial information about the genus. The presence of prootic crests in the extensive lateral flange, anterior to the fenestra ovalis, is a noteworthy basicranial trait, unique to this new taxon among non-mammalian cynodonts. These crests are interpreted as related to the origin of the posterior pterygoid muscle representing the first evidence, among non-mammalian cynodonts to mammals transition, of the attachment of this muscle onto the prootic bone. The new species is most similar to Exaeretodon frenguellii from the Ischigualasto Formation of Argentina. Small differences in the posterior projections of the jugal onto the squamosal and in the shape of prefrontals distinguish the two species. Additionally, the number of postcanines seems to be ontogenetically less variable in the Brazilian species. The postcanine number decreases from six plus one erupting in a small individual (preorbital length: 82.9 mm) to five plus one erupting in the largest specimen (pi. 121.5 mm).
41407678|Although teeth are considered one of the most important steps in vertebrate evolution, details of their origins are obscure. Two prominent and opposing theories for the evolution of the vertebrate dentition are current: the 'outside-in' hypothesis and the' inside-out' hypothesis. One of the main arguments against the 'outside-in' hypothesis is that, although similarities between teeth and scales have been observed, there is little fossil evidence of transitional forms between the two structures. Specimens of ischnacanthid acanthodians from the Man On The Hill (MOTH) locality in the Mackenzie Mountains of Canada provide the first unequivocal example of such transitional forms in an Early Devonian (Lochkovian) vertebrate assemblage. The head scales of these specimens are modified with proximity to the mouth to be extremely tooth-like. Three distinct morphotypes of modified cheek and lip scales are described. Their detailed similarity to teeth suggests that they are a result of the same developmental processes, and also suggests the existence of a field of gene expression near the mouth margin in which scales could be transformed into teeth. These transitional forms remove one of the chief objections to the 'outside-in' hypothesis for the origins of teeth in vertebrates.
4524347|Lungfish of the tooth-plated lineage, both fossil and living, may be affected by alterations in the permanent tooth plates and associated jaw bones as they grow. In a few taxa, the unusual structures may be so common that they must be considered as normal for those species, or as a variation of the normal condition. In others the condition is rare, affecting only a few individuals. Variations, or anomalies, may appear in the growing tissues of the lungfish tooth plate at any time in the life cycle, although they usually appear early in development. Once the changes appear, they persist in the dentition. The altered structures include divided or intercalated ridges, short ridge anomaly, changes in the shape, number and position of cusps, pattern loss, and fused ridges or cusps. Criteria used to distinguish alteration from normal conditions are the incidence of the character in the population, the associated changes in the jaw bone, and the position of the altered structure in the tooth plate. The occurrence of similar changes across a wide range of different species suggests that they may have a genetic cause, especially when they are a rare occurrence in most taxa, but common enough to be a part of the normal variation in others. Prevalence of related anomalies throughout the history of the group suggests that dipnoans of the tooth-plated lineage are closely related, despite significant differences in morphology, microstructure, and function of the dentitions.
20627138|An extraordinarily well-preserved skull of the Uintan brontothere genus Metarhinus, supplemented by a second, less complete specimen, permits a detailed description of the cranial anatomy, including aspects that have never before been described. Of particular interest is the structure of the nasal cavity and internal nares, which may be virtually unique among mammals. The normal air passageway, connecting the nasal cavity to the internal nares, is effectively blocked except for tiny apertures and the functional air passageway re-directed over the top of the vomer, which, itself, has an unusual morphology. The functional significance of so unusual a feature is uncertain, but may have to do with the supposed amphibious habits of this genus, or perhaps, was an adaptation enhancing olfaction. The brain of Metarhinus is found to be typical of early brontotheres, being of small size and consisting of a rectilinear succession of parts: forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain. The cerebrum is small in size and the cerebellum proportionately large.
4523535|New evidence from Elphidotarsius and Carpodaptes indicates that the primitive dental formula for Carpolestidae is I3/3, C1/1, P4/3, M3/3, not I2/2, C1/1, P3/3, M3/3, the formula long thought to be primitive for carpolestids and all other plesiadapiforms except Purgatorius; the revised formula differs from that of primitive Tertiary eutherians generally only in the loss of p1. Hence, if Carpolestidae and Plesiadapidae are sister groups, as has traditionally been believed, primitive carpolestids are more primitive than known plesiadapids in the number of incisors and retention of two upper teeth (C and P1) between I3 and P2. Nothing of the dentition or other known parts of the anatomy supports the recent suggestion that carpolestids are dermopterans.
23251306|In this paper are described the arvicolines from El Chaparral site (Villaluenga del Rosario, Cdiz, Southwestern Spain). Due to their wide geographical distributions and rapid evolutionary rates, arvicolines are especially useful for biostratigraphical purposes. The stratigraphic layers of El Chaparral have yielded arvicolines remains of the genera Allophaiomys, Iberomys, Pliomys, and Terricola. The presence of these rodents together the other vertebrates recovered allows to determinate the age of the El Chaparral site and compare our data with other Iberian Pleistocene sites, such as of the Sierra de Atapuerca. El Chaparral site ranges between the Jaramillo Subchron (1.07-0.99 Ma) and shortly after the Brunhes-Matuyama transition at 0.78 Ma covering a important time span for the knowledge of the earliest humans occupations in western Europe.
4523104|Sciurion campestre, a new genus and species of "flying squirrel", from the Cypress Hills Formation of southwestern Saskatchewan, is distinct from known North American and European Petauristinae. The fauna with which it is associated indicates a Hemingfordian age. This "flying squirrel" is the oldest known from the Great Plains of North America.
4523404|Seismosaurus halli, gen. et sp. nov. (Sauropoda, Diplodocidae) is a new large sauropod from the Brushy Basin Member of the Morrison Formation (Upper Jurassic/Lower Cretaceous) of central New Mexico. The holotype is a partially articulated skeleton consisting to date of approximately 20 caudal vertebrae, five sacral vertebrae, eight dorsal vertebrae, partial pelvis, five chevrons, and ribs. Distinguishing features include the structure of the caudal vertebrae, pelvis, and chevrons. The extraordinary dimensions of these bones indicate an axial length of 39-52 meters.
4524294|Two new mastodonsaurid temnospondyls are described from the Early to Middle Triassic Cynognathus Assemblage Zone of the Upper Beaufort Group (Karoo Basin) of South Africa. Paracyclotosaurus morganorum, sp. nov. is based on a partial skull from the uppermost part of the Cynognathus Assemblage Zone (Subzone C; late Anisian) in the southern Karoo Basin, and is the first occurrence of the genus Paracyclotosaurus outside of India and Australia. Jammerbergia formops, gen. et sp. nov. is based on a partial skull, presumably from Subzone B (early Anisian) of the Cynognathus Assemblage Zone, and is distinctive in its unique suite of primitive and derived characters. Although the intrarelationships of mastodonsaurids remain largely unresolved, the two most recent analyses are similar in the identification of an 'advanced' mastodonsaurid clade whose members are characterized by laterally directed tabular horns. Jammerbergia probably belongs within this clade, albeit within a basal position. Jammerbergia and Paracyclotosaurus share the synapomorphy of large, antero-posteriorly expanded tabulars, and may represent sister taxa. The Cynognathus Assemblage Zone is characterized by three subzones of differing ages and faunas, with no overlap in the temnospondyls between the subzones.
30126298|A new genus of 'actinolepid' arthrodire placoderm, Erikaspis, is named to contain "Kujdanowiaspis" zychi Stensi, 1945, from the Lochkovian-Pragian deposits (Lower Devonian) of Podolia (Ukraine). This new genus occurs together with the genus Kujdanowiaspis Stensi, 1942, to which its type species was previously assigned. Distinctive ornamentation and pattern of dermal plates justify this new assignment. A phylogenetic analysis places Erikaspis, gen. nov., as a close relative of Kujdanowiaspis and of the contemporaneous species Sigaspis lepidophora Goujet, 1973, from Spitsbergen, all of them belonging to the family Kujdanowiaspididae Berg, 1955.
4523268|A new genus and two new species of Dercetidae, Rhynchodercetis gracilis, sp. nov. and Dercetoides venator, gen. and sp. nov., from Lower Cenomanian (Upper Cretaceous) beds of Israel are described. The caudal endoskeletons of these new species are the first of the family Dercetidae to be described in detail. Rhynchodercetis gracilis is distinguished mainly by having the relatively longest upper jaw of all species, the presence of an interoperculum, a relatively long caudal vertebra in advance of the caudal endoskeleton, and a convoluted suture between the second and third hypurals. Dercetoides venator represents a Dercetis-like fish with upper and lower jaws that terminate anteriorly at the same level. It is distinguished, mainly, by an unroofed post-temporal fossa, the presence of an interoperculum, two pairs of transverse processes on each precaudal vertebra, and a convoluted suture between the second and third hypurals. An analysis of phylogenetic relationships in the family Dercetidae suggests that Dercetidae is a monophyletic group, that Dercetis is the primitive sister-group of all other dercetids, and that the newly described genus Dercetoides is closely related to Rhynchodercetis.
4524355|We present new data on the tooth attachment histology of the Late Cretaceous marine lizard Platecarpus (Mosasauridae). Examination of thin sections of a right dentary reveals the presence of a woven-fiber bone matrix that forms the margins and floor of the tooth alveolus; this bony matrix is traditionally identified as bone of attachment. We identify it as alveolar bone based on its histologic and topologic similarities to archosaurian and mammalian alveolar bone. We also identify a cribiform plate, a structure usually associated with the periodontal ligament. Parallel fibers present in multiple, non-resorbed generations of alveolar bone are tentatively identified as remnants of mineralized portions of collagen fiber bundles, or Sharpey's fibers. Along the sides of the dentine root we identify a thin layer of acellular cementum. The acellular cementum is surrounded by an enormous mass of cellular cementum tissue that fills the alveolus. This cementum mass is composed of two histologically distinct forms: (1) a loosely organized cellular cementum ground matrix; (2) a laminar form surrounding the vascularization (cementeons) that we term osteocementum. Mosasaurs possess the attachment tissues that are used to diagnose thecodont ankylosis. Mosasaur thecodonty is derived within the Mosasauroidea (aigialosaurs + mosasaurs).
4523149| The first reported cranium (and associated mandible) of Equus insulatus is described from the middle Pleistocene (Enseadan) Tarija Formation of southern Bolivia. This specimen reveals that E. insulatus, previously only known from fragmentary material, is morphologically and phylogenetically intermediate within the genus Equus and closely related to the common South American species E. andium. It also confirms that the subgenus Amerhippus, which includes all South American species within the genus Equus, is a valid, monophyletic taxon. 
4524381| A revised diagnosis and expanded description are presented for the amphiumid salamander Proamphiuma cretacea based on the original topotypic collection of vertebrae and on new atlantes, trunk vertebrae, and caudal vertebrae from the holotype locality. P. cretacea is the type and only species in the genus and is reliably known only from the Bug Creek Anthills (late Maastrichtian or early Paleocene in age), in the Hell Creek Formation, Montana, USA. A referred dentary originally believed to be from the same locality is shown to have come from the upper part (late Paleocene in age) of the Ravenscrag Formation of Saskatchewan, Canada, and is re-interpreted as belonging to an indeterminate amphiumid genus and species. Contrary to a recent claim, P. cretacea is a diagnosable amphiumid taxon and stands as the geologically oldest member of the family. Proamphiuma differs from the type and only other unequivocal amphiumid genus, Amphiuma (four species: late Paleocene-Recent, USA), in primitively retaining weaker vertebral crests and processes. Proamphiuma differs further from the three extant Amphiuma species (conditions unknown for the late Paleocene A. jepseni) in three character states that are potentially autapomorphic within the family indistinct postzygapophyseal process on atlas, vertebrarterial canal closed posteriorly in trunk vertebrae, and spinal foramen present in anterior caudalsuplus vertebral plesiomorphies and one vertebral character state of uncertain po- larity. The following relationships are hypothesized within the Amphiumidae: Proamphiuma (A. jepseni (A. pholeter (A. means + A. tridactylum))). This phylogeny and fossil occurrences imply that the characteristic atlanto-cranial joint and elongate trunk and the unique vertebromuscular complex of amphiumids were established by the Cretaceous- Tertiary boundary, while elongation of the snout and associated cranial modifications seen in living amphiumids appeared after the late Paleocene. In terms of its morphology and provenance, Proamphiuma remains a good structural ancestor for, if not directly ancestral to, Amphiuma. 
30126335|Newly prepared material of Keichousaurus hui demonstrates that the nasals are very reduced and do not contribute to the margins of external nares, the quadrate lacks a posterior condylar process, the premaxilla and anterior dentary teeth are enlarged and procumbent, the maxilla has a pair of 'canines,' the vomers are co-ossified, the suborbital fenestrae are very reduced or lost, a distinct coronoid process is present, and both the mandibular symphysis and retroarticular process are elongated. The presence of an ectopterygoid could not be confirmed. The shape of the prefrontal, length of the quadrate ramus of the squamosal, and length of the quadrate and quadratojugal all indicate that the skull profile of Keichousaurus is much lower than previously thought. A new reconstruction attributes a distinctly eusauropterygian gestalt to the skull. A phylogenetic analysis, although equivocal, suggests that Keichousaurus is more appropriately considered a basal nothosauroid rather than a pachypleurosauroid, and that the Eusauropterygia is paraphyletic.
42568632|Polar dinosaurs provide unique insights for testing hypotheses regarding paleobiology, paleoecology, and paleobiogeography. Critical for such testing is a comprehensive understanding of the taxonomic diversity of contemporaneous polar and lower-latitude paleofaunas. Here we determine the taxonomic identity of a theropod metatarsal that was discovered in the Upper Cretaceous Prince Creek Formation on the North Slope of Alaska. Its morphology and size are most consistent with a metatarsal IV of an ornithomimosaurian or a juvenile tyrannosaurid. Long bone histological analysis reveals a bone tissue composed of fibrolamellar matrix with a mosaic of laminar, longitudinal, sub-plexiform, radiating, and reticular vascularization patterns. The spacing between two outer growth lines diminishes near the periosteal surface, suggesting that the individual was near somatic maturity at the time of death. This finding suggests that its adult body size was comparable to contemporaneous North American ornithomimids, such as Ornithomimus, and much smaller than those of known tyrannosaurids. Thus, we ascribe the Alaskan specimen to Ornithomimosauria, providing new evidence on the known taxonomic diversity of the Prince Creek fauna. Interestingly, the Alaskan specimen primarily shows annuli, which is inconsistent with the pronounced lines of arrested growth (LAGs) reported in the purported southern high-latitude ornithomimosaurian Timimus and observed variably in contemporaneous lower-latitude ornithomimids. Due to this inconsistency, additional dinosaurian specimens are needed to comprehensively examine the relevance of particular histological features to polar climate habitation.
4523045|A new species, Saurorhamphus judeaensis from the Cretaceous quarries of Ein-Yabrud (20 km north of Jerusalem), is based on eleven nearly complete fishes. The species is characterized mainly by its long head, long and constricted mandibular symphysis, small pelvic fin located in an abdominal position, and supraoccipital with a dorsal crest. The fish-bearing beds are included in the Amminadav Formation, which was deposited during the upper part of the Lower Cenomanian in a shallow gulf with unique ecological conditions.
4523425| A partial cranium with upper dentition and an isolated rib of the extinct short-faced bear, Arctodus simus, were associated with a nearly complete skeleton of the columbian mammoth, Mammuthus columbi, at a high elevation site in Huntington Canyon in the Wasatch Mountains of central Utah. This large A. simus was a decidedly short-faced individual. Radiometric dates for the mammoth cluster around the interval  11,220-11,400 BP; dates for spruce wood in stratigraphic position above and below the mammoth skeleton cluster around 9,400 BP. Assuming direct association with the mammoth, the occurrence of Arctodus simus at 11,400 BP is a new terminal date for the species. The mammoth and bear may have been associated with humans in the Huntington Canyon vicinity. The late Quaternary high elevation fauna of Utah includes 30 genera from sites above 1,950 meters above mean sea level. Late Quaternary high elevation faunas of the central and southern Rocky Mountains included the short-faced bear, and may have persisted as relict populations until 10,000 BP or later. 
4523355|Fusion of caudal vertebrae in the sauropod dinosaurs Apatosaurus, Diplodocus, and Camarasaurus is explained as the result of ossification of ligaments spanning consecutive centra. The ossification does not involve the intervertebral space or the annulus fibrosus of the disc and therefore represents true bridging. This is verified by not only the gross external appearance, but also by the use of CAT scans and longitudinal section of a fused pair of Diplodocus caudal vertebrae. Fusion of caudal vertebrae in Camarasaurus is reported here for the first time. It is concluded that the fusion is the result of the physiological phenomenon called diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) and therefore is not a pathological response or due to a physical injury. Various proposed hypotheses to explain the function of the fused caudals, such as defense and postural support, are considered untenable. Fusion of caudal vertebrae probably aided in keeping the tail elevated and undoubtedly served a functional role, though the specific nature of that function is presently unknown. Survey of North American specimens indicates that fusion of caudal vertebrae occurs in 50% of the individuals of Apatosaurus and Diplodocus in which the requisite portion of the tail is preserved, whereas this figure for Camarasaurus is about 25%. For this reason it is suggested that fusion of caudal vertebrae may be a sexually dimorphic feature.
20627135|A new specimen of a sparassocynid didelphoid, consisting of a single skull, is described and analyzed. The specimen comes from the middle section of the Aisol Formation cropping out in Mendoza Province (Argentina) and constitutes the first marsupial hitherto described for the unit. The entire Aisol Formation was originally regarded as middle Miocene based on the fossil content. The discovery of new specimens, however, suggests that the stratigraphic level where the marsupial was found may have been deposited during the late Miocene (not older than Huayquerian times). The specimen studied here is identified as belonging to a new genus, Hesperocynus, of the family Sparassocynidae, Didelphoidea. A new combination is proposed for the already known species, H. dolgopolae (Reig 1958), previously recognized as a species of Thylatheridium Reig 1952. The new specimen from the Aisol Formation is assigned to the hypodigm of this taxon. The genus Hesperocynus encompasses small-sized carnivorous feeders as evidenced by their dental specializations and palate morphology; however, this taxon is more generalized than species of Sparassocynus, the other genus of the family. Sparassocynids have traditionally been considered the closest relatives of living didelphids. If this hypothesis is correct, then the sparassocynid clade has a long ghost lineage that covers at least 10 million years (as evidenced by the oldest known sparassocynid and didelphid remains). Sparassocynids and other didelphoids probably radiated after the global cooling event that occurred after the Eocene-Oligocene boundary.
20491030|Examining morphological patterns is key to understanding mechanics and function in biological systems. In extinct taxa, there is a lack of observational or behavioral data to use to understand function, and groups without descendants limit the use of modern homologues. The only available evidence for function is the morphological characteristics of the preserved fossils. The purpose of this research is to analyze the functional consequences of variation in the lower jaw morphology in Late Devonian arthrodire placoderms. Landmark-based morphometric data were collected for 94 isolated arthrodire inferognathals (lower jaws) from the Gogo Formation in Western Australia and the Cleveland Shale in Ohio. These data were used to define the morphological differences and variation between two phylogenetically distinct morphotypes. Statistical results indicate fundamental shape differences between the two arthrodire morphotypes (coccosteomorphs and pachyosteomorphs). Differences in the shape of the blade portion of the jaws imply that the extreme coccosteomorph form (determined by Canonical Variate Analysis, CVA) had stiffer jaws with occlusion patterns similar to modern mammalian carnivores, while the extreme pachyosteomorphs (also determined by CVA) had higher mechanical advantage (force transfer) with occlusion patterns similar to modern herbivorous mammals and bamboo sharks. Arthrodires possibly filled a number of diverse feeding niches. Based on morphological disparity analyses, the mostly open basin pachyosteomorphs had greater overall morphological diversity than the reef-dwelling coccosteomorphs. Lower disparity in reef dwelling arthrodires may be due to sampling bias, environmental factors, or competition from other fish groups present in Devonian reef faunas.
40864395|Recent field efforts in the Mahajanga Basin of northwestern Madagascar have recovered a diverse Late Cretaceous terrestrial and freshwater vertebrate fauna, including a growing diversity of avialans. Previous work on associated bird skeletons resulted in the description of two named avialans (Rahonavis, Vorona). Other materials, including two synsacra and numerous appendicular elements, represent at least five additional taxa of basal (non-neornithine) birds. Among the materials described herein are two humeri tentatively referred to Rahonavis and numerous elements (e.g., humeri, ulnae, tibiotarsi, tarsometatarsi) assigned to Vorona. A near-complete carpometacarpus exhibits a minor metacarpal that exceeds the major metacarpal in length, documenting an enantiornithine in the fauna. Moreover, two additional, small humeri, an ulna, a femur, and a tarsometatarsus also compare favorably with enantiornithines. Finally, two other isolated humeri and a synsacrum are referable to Ornithurae. The latter specimen is notable in the presence of distinct, transversely oriented lumbosacral canals along the inner surface of the bony neural canal. This reveals for the first time a hard-tissue correlate of an anatomical specialization related to increased sensorimotor integration, one likely related to the unique form of avialan bipedal locomotion. Bird fossils recovered from the Maevarano Formation document one of the most size-and phylogenetically diverse Cretaceous-age Gondwanan avifaunas, including representative (1) basal pygostylian, (2) enantiornithine, (3) nonenantiornithine, ornithothoracine, and (4) ornithurine taxa. This Maastrichtian avifauna is notable in that it demonstrates the co-existence of multiple clades of basal (non-neornithine) birds until at least the end of the Mesozoic. Ireo fikarohana natao tao amin'ny Debok' i Mahajanga tany amin'ny faritra avaratra andrefan'i Madagasikara dia nahita karazam-biby an-tanety sy trondron-dranomamy misy taolan-damosina tamin'ny vanim-potoanan'ny Crtaces Aoriana ka anisan'ireny ny fisian'ny ireo vorona (avialans) mbola eo an-dalampisandrahana. Ny asa fikarohana teo aloha natao tamin'ireo taolam-borona natambatra dia nafahana nanadihady ireo vorona roa (Rahonavis, Vorona). Ireo taolana hafa ka anisan'ireny  synsacra  roa sy fivontosana maro isan-karazany, izay milaza ny fisihan'ireo karazam-borona dimy tena hafa tanteraka ka tsy ao amin'ny fianakavian'ny Neornithinae. Anisan'ireo vokampikarohana hita ka nanaovana fanadihadiana dia nahita taolana lavan'ny tnana misy ahitana fitovizana amin'i Rahonavis sy hafa maro koa (ohatra: taolan-tanana toy ny hita amin'ny sandry (humrus), lanton-tsandry (ulnae), sy tongotra toy ny talondranjo sy vodi-tongota (tibiotarse, tarsometatarse) izay iraisany amin'ny Vorona. Nahitana koa taolam-pela-tanana efa saika feno tanteraka dia ny  carpometacarpe  mampiseho tsy fitoviana eo amin'ny halavan'ny taolana kely (minor) amin'io kanefa lehibe noho an'ny major, mampahantatra ny fisian'ny  enantiornithine  eo amin'ny biby. Ankoatr'izay dia misy taolana roa fanampiny toy ny taolan-tanana dia ny sandry sy lanton-tsandry sy taolan-tongotra iray dia ny taolam-pe (femur) ary taolampelan-tongotra  tarsometatarsi  koa ahahana nampitaha tsara amin'ny  enantiornithines  . Farany dia nahitana taolantsandry mitokana roa sy  synsacrum  maneho fitoviana amin'ny Ornithurae. Ny vokatra hita taorina dia nahitana mazava ny fisian'ny fivelaran'ny fantsona "lumbosacral" manaraka ny lalan'ny fantson'ny taolana mitondra ny ritsika. Io tranga io dia mampatsiahy ny fahitana voalohany ny fisian'ny rary matevina maneho ny firafitry ny vatana maana asa voatokana eo amin'ny fampitomboana fiasan'ny ritsika, izay endrika mampiavaka ny vondron'ireo vorona mamindra amin'ny tongotra roa rehefa mihetsika. Ireo vorona fahagola hita tao amin'ny Forona Maevarano dia nahitana ny iray amin'ny goavana indrindra sy maro fisandrahana ara-pivoarana (phylogenetique) ny biby vorona avy tamin'ny Gondwana tamin'ny vanim-potoanan'ny Crtaces, ka anisan'izany (1) pygostylian fototra, (2) enantiornithines, (3) tsy enantiornithine, ornithothoracine, ary (4) vondrona ornithurine. Io biby vorona Maastichtian io dia mampiseho mazava ny fisian'ny ireo karazam-borona isan-karazany (tsy neornithine) hatramin'ny faran'ny Mesozoique farafaharatsiny.
20627094|The upper Omingonde Formation of Namibia contains a diverse vertebrate fauna represented by amphibians, dicynodonts, archosaurs, therocephalians, and cynodonts, which is generally considered to be of Anisian age. Four cynodont taxa (Cynognathus, Diademodon, Trirachodon, and Titanogomphodon) are currently known from this fauna. Here we document four additional cynodonts, all of which were recovered from the highest levels of the formation: Luangwa, an indeterminate traversodontid, Aleodon, and Chiniquodon. These discoveries allow us to recognize the Omingonde Formation as preserving the most diverse fauna of Middle Triassic cynodonts in the world. Furthermore, we recognize that the formation is a biostratigraphic link among Middle Triassic faunas from South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia, Argentina, Brazil, and Antarctica. Aleodon is recorded here for the first time in Anisian faunas of southern Africa, and the unexpected record of Chiniquodon poses a biostratigraphic enigma because this taxon is known only from LadinianCarnian faunas of South America. We explore some possible scenarios related to the radiation of traversodontid cynodonts in Gondwana during the Anisian.
4524516|Superbly preserved skeletal elements of the new taxon Oromycter dolesorum from the Lower Permian deposits in the Dolese Quarry, near Richards Spur, Oklahoma, record the earliest known evidence of a member of Caseidae. Although found as isolated elements, there is strong circumstantial evidence that the maxillae, premaxillae, lacrimal, and dentary belonged to a single individual. Isolated axial and appendicular elements from this locality are also tentatively attributed to this new form. Caseasaur autapomorphies of Oromycter include the presence of the premaxillary rostral process, indirect evidence for an external shelf on the nasal, and lateroventrally tilted external maxillary surface. Caseid autapomorphies include the anterodorsally oriented maxillary process, the short, tall lacrimal, typical caseid ornamentation on the lacrimal, procumbent anterior dentition, largest teeth located anteriorly on each bone, and spatulate, lingually curved marginal dentition. However, the available evidence indicates that Oromycter is a sister taxon to all other caseids because it lacks the leafy serrations on the teeth, has a relatively long lacrimal bone, has a larger number of marginal teeth than most other caseids, lacks an external narial shelf on the maxilla while one is poorly developed on the lacrimal. The presence of this early, basal member of the Caseidae at the Dolese Quarry is consistent with the hypothesis that the initial evolutionary history of this group of herbivores occurred away from the typical deltaic, floodplain depositional environments that preserve the majority of the known Permo-Carboniferous terrestrial vertebrate communities.
4523370|New materials of Lesothosaurus diagnosticus permit a detailed understanding of one of the earliest and most primitive ornithischians. Skull proportions and sutural relations can be discerned from several articulated and disarticulated skulls. The snout is proportionately long with a vascularized, horn-covered tip. The premaxillary palate is broad and vomers are long and fused anteriorly. Unlike many later ornithischians, the postpalatine vacuities are broadly open. The basal tubera are short and gently depressed, and the epiotic contributes to the sidewall of the braincase. The mandibular symphysis is spout-shaped, and the dentition is marked by oblique wear facets, in contrast to earlier reports. The tooth-to-tooth wear facets and form of the predentary-dentary articulation suggest long-axis rotation of the mandibular rami during mastication. The forelimb is proportionately very short, with a partially opposable pollex. The ischium lacks an obturator process. The reduced hallux is held well above the substrate during locomotion. L. diagnosticus is diagnosed below on the basis of apomorphic features. Other "fabrosaurids" constitute a heterogeneous assemblage of poorly known ornithischians and hatchling prosauropods that do not share any apomorphic features with L. diagnosticus. Fabrosaurus australis is a nomen dubium, and, as a consequence, the family Fabrosauridae is invalid. Echinodon becklesii may represent a primitive heterodontosaur, and Tawasaurus, Fulengia, and portions of the holotype of Technosaurus represent hatchling prosauropods. Pisanosaurus mertii may be the most primitive ornithischian, as indicated by the form of the distal crus and astragalus, but a more precise phylogenetic assessment will require additional remains.
20627123|An articulated skeleton of a hadrosauroid dinosaur, Tethyshadros insularis n. gen., n. sp., was recovered from the Liburnian Formation (uppermost Cretaceous) of Villaggio del Pescatore in the Trieste Province of northeastern Italy. One of the most complete dinosaur fossil ever found, it shows for the first time the entire morphology of a hadrosauroid phylogenetically close to, but outside the North American and Asiatic hadrosaurids. It lived on an island developed on a carbonate platform in the Tethys Ocean and the small size of the specimens suggests that it may be an insular dwarf. The skeleton has many peculiarities including cursorial adaptations, and a mix of derived and primitive features. European hadrosauroids probably did not evolve by vicariance nor did they colonize the European Archipelago from North America, but rather came from Asia by island hopping.
4524613|New discoveries in the latest Eocene-aged Florissant Formation in Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument, Colorado more than double the known diversity of fossil mammals from this rock unit, and provide a window into a diverse micromammal fauna that lived near Lake Florissant. Taxa first recorded here from the Florissant Formation include the lipotyphlans Centetodon magnus and Domnina cf. D. thompsoni, the lagomorph Megalagus brachyodon, and rodents Pelycomys, Eutypomys parvus, Ischyromys cf. / typus, I. cf. /. douglassi, and Adjidaumo minimus, all represented by dental material. We also describe isolated teeth of the artiodactyl Leptomeryx and the brontothere Megacerops. The mammalian fauna corroborates the Chadronian (latest Eocene) age of the Florissant Formation determined by others; Megalagus brachyodon suggests an age no older than Middle Chadronian. Several taxa reported here represent geographic range extensions. Eutypomys parvus is extended southeastward from southwestern Montana; ranges of Domnina thompsoni, Megalagus brachyodon, and Ischyromys douglassi are extended southwestward from western Nebraska; and ranges of Pelycomys, Ischyromys typus, and Adjidaumo minimus are extended slightly southwest from northeastern Colorado. Compared to other coeval North American faunas, the Florissant mammalian fauna is most similar to more northern faunas (including those of Montana, Nebraska, Wyoming, Saskatchewan, and NE Colorado). Geographically and faunally, the Florissant fauna appears to straddle the border between the Rocky Mountain and Great Plains Provinces defined by others, and appears consistent with weakened faunal provinciality during the Chadronian.
30126299|Three specimens of a fossil catfish, collected from the Upper Miocene of Toros-Menalla (Western Djurab, Chad), are identified as members of Auchenoglanis (Claroteidae, Auchenoglanidinae) based on the shape and the ornamentation of the bones of the skull, including a markedly developed parieto-supraoccipital broadly connected with the first nuchal plate. The description is based on a comparison with living specimens of the two valid species of the genus, providing details on their bony anatomy. The fossil fish is a new species, Auchenoglanis soye sp. nov. Original features include supraoccipital process more than twice as wide as long, straight posterolateral border of the sphenotic, parurohyal with a median anterior process, and lateral articular surfaces of the second dorsal spine lateral to the foramen. Auchenoglanis fish are known since the Late Miocene and are endemic to the Nilo-Sudanese province. The fossil record was previously limited to a few isolated spines identified as Auchenoglanis sp., and A. soye sp. nov. is the first fossil species described for the genus. On the basis of preliminary observations of the ichthyofauna from Toros-Menalla, the scarcity of Auchenoglanis in the fossil record might be due to the low abundance of a fish with a rather high ecological valence.
4524474|Numerous fossil pipoid frogs recovered from Late Cretaceous deposits of a closed crater-lake of Late Cretaceous age in the Marydale District of South Africa are described and referred to a new genus and species of pipoid anuran. The fossils include larvae and adult frogs that are thought to have been killed en masse following breakdown of the thermal stratification or possibly by C02 degassing from the underlying magma. A cladistic analysis of fossil and extant pipoid frogs based on 49 osteological characters reveals the new taxon to be a member of the pipinomorph clade, which includes the Late Cretaceous Eoxenopoides reuningi also from South Africa, fossil and Recent hymenochirines from Africa, and living Pipa from South America. The new taxon is distinctly larger than Eoxenopoides and further differs from this contemporaneous taxon in having an antorbital process on the maxilla and seven presacral vertebrae, with the first presacral being formed by fusion of Presacrals I and II. The curved shape of the ventral part of the braincase distinguishes this frog from hymenochirines, Palaeobatrachus, and Eoxenopoides. The new anuran is distinguished from the Israeli fossil Thoraciliacus of about the same age by the possession of a conch-shaped tympanosquamosal bone, a short jaw, and fusion of the sacrum and urostyle.
4524235|New studies based on enamel microstructure, as well as morphometric and morphologic comparative analyses have led to the revision of the Siwalik leporids described to date. A dp3 has been placed in Pliosiwalagus whitei, and a p3 previously assigned to Pliosiwalagus whitei has been placed in Pliosiwalagus sp. A specimen with p3p4, previously assigned to Caprolagus sivalensis has been reassigned to the genus Pliosiwalagus. A generalized phylogeny of Old World leporids has been suggested. Enamel microstructure studies of various leporid genera reveal difference in distribution of radial and irregular enamel within the thin and thick enamel of p3s and p4s. Morphological differences among the p3s of fossil and extant leporid genera of Asia, Europe and Africa have been quantified using "Thin Plate Spline" program. Results from this analysis support the interpretations based on morphological similarities.
41407681|A new specimen of the protorosaur Macrocnemus fuyuanensis, from the Zhuganpo Member of the Falang Formation at Fuyuan (Yunnan Province, southwestern China), is described and compared with Macrocnemus bassanii. The new specimen is the first in the genus Macrocnemus that clearly shows details of the preorbital region of the skull. A large, plate-like lacrimal is located in front of the tall, columnar prefrontal that defines the anterior margin of the orbit. A longitudinally oriented nasal groove extends along the anterior two-thirds of the snout, accommodating the external naris at its anterior part. A similar preorbital depression has previously been described for Dinocephalosaurus and it is also reported here for the first time in Tanystropheus. The new specimen confirms the status of Macrocnemus fuyuanensis as a species distinct from Macrocnemus bassanii on the basis of a humrus that significantly exceeds the radius in length. The occurrence of both Macrocnemus and Tanystropheus in southwestern China further underscores the close faunal affinities of the eastern and western Tethyan realms during the Middle and early Late Triassic.
25835839|The Machairodontinae fossil record in South America is not very diverse. Until now, only the genus Smilodon (Smilodontini) has been reported, with likely a single species, S. populator. A second taxon of Machairodontinae was referred to Homotheriini and to the genus Xenosmilus, but the age to which it was assigned, early to middle Pleistocene, is uncertain, because it was recovered out of stratigraphic context. At present, the Venezuelan saber-toothed cat record is limited to the late Pleistocene, and consists of fossils found in Mene de Inciarte (state of Zulia), and from Zumbador cave deposit in the state of Falcn. Here we report a new species of Machairodontinae Homotherium venezuelensis, nov. sp., as well as the first record of Smilodon gracilis in South America. Both were found in El Breal de Orocual, a tar seep in the state of Monagas, northeastern Venezuela. The age of the deposit has been interpreted as early to middle Pleistocene by thermoluminescence dating. We have been able to identify 30 vertebrate taxa, suggesting a paleoenvironment similar to the Venezuelan Ilanos today: an extensive savanna with rivers and patches of gallery forest. The saber-toothed cats described here demonstrate that the biogeography of Neotropical felids is more complex than previously thought, and allow us to identify new invasions and delimit the times during which they occurred. The fossils from Orocual represent the first record of Homotherium for South America, indicating that scimitar-toothed cats invaded this continent as early as the earlymiddle Pleistocene.
30126308|The anatomy of a new, enormous phorusrhacid (Aves: Cariamae) from the Middle Miocene Colln Cur Formation of northwestern Patagonia (Ro Negro province, Argentina) is described. The new phorusrhacid is known by a single specimen that consists of a nearly complete skull associated with a tarsometatarsus and a pedal phalanx. The new fossil is the largest known phorusrhacid and its morphology resembles more that of taxa traditionally grouped within phorusrhacines. Its skull-by far the best preserved among large phorusrhacids-provides a great deal of previously unknown anatomical information and indicates that reconstructions of the skull of gigantic phorusrhacids based on their smaller relatives are unwarranted.
4524579|Discoveries of three species of Eocene sirenians in District Kachchh, State of Gujarat, India, are reported. A species of the protosirenid Protosiren is represented by cranial and postcranial material, and the halitheriine dugongid Eosiren is represented by a poorly preserved mandible. Neither of these can be identified at the specific level. A new species of haltheriine dugongids is described: Eotheroides babiae, n. sp. The species is based on a lower jaw with teeth. Another new fossil sirenian is reported from the Oligocene (Chattian) Maniyara Fort Formation. The new species, Bharatisiren indica, n. sp., is based on a well-preserved skull, mandibles, and several postcranial specimens. Bharatisiren is a basal dugongine dugongid, close to previously described Bharatisiren kachchhensis and possibly near the origin of the modern genus Dugong.
4523484|In extant turtles and lepidosaurs, the astragalus forms from a single ossification center in a tarsale proximale resulting from fusion of originally separate chondrogenic condensations in the proximal tarsus. In crocodiles, the astragalus also ossifies from a single center although the cartilaginous precursors of astragalus and calcaneum do not fuse to form a tarsale proximale. Developmental stages of the parareptilian Mesosaurus document a similar ossification pattern, as do ontogenic series of a number of fossil diapsid reptiles. There is no consistent evidence of ontogenetic fusion of a "tibiale," intermedium, and centrale to form the astragalus of Captorhinus. The development of the amniote astragalus contrasts with variable patterns of fusion of originally separate proximal tarsal ossifications in anthracosaurian amphibians and in Diadectes. It is concluded that the reptilian (and probably also the mammalian) astragalus is a neomorph, which resulted from ontogenetic repatterning and is diagnostic of the Amniota (or Reptilia, respectively). Instances of incongruence in the formation of the astragalus from a single ossification center include microsaurs of problematical status.
4523701| The early middle Miocene (MN 6; ca. 15 Ma) locality of Paalar in western Anatolia (Turkey) has produced a large and well studied collection of land mammals, including hominoid primates. We confirm the cooccurrence of two species of listriodont suids at this locality, and describe one of them as Bunolistriodon meidamon sp. nov. The other species is referred to Listriodon splendens. B. meidamon is characterised by extreme widening of the central incisors, large size of the male upper canines, labiolingually compressed ("meidamonic") lower male canines, and narrow cheek teeth. These synapomorphies define a clade comprising at least B. latidens and B. meidamon, which are thus separated from the plesiomorphic species complex of listriodonts lacking lophed molars (Listriodon, Lopholistriodon) or cranial appendages (the "horned" kubanochoeres). 
4524128|For many years the primitive extinct toothed whale genus Patriocetus has been known only from the holotype partial skull of P. ehrlichi (van Beneden, 1865), and a more nearly complete paratype skull, both from uppermost Oligocene sands near Linz, Austria, in the western Paratethys region. A virtually complete skull found in Late Oligocene beds on the Mangyshlak Peninsula of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the 1960s is the first specimen of Patriocetus known from the eastern Paratethys region, extending the range of this genus approximately 4,000 km eastward from the type locality of the genus at Linz. Herein named Patriocetus kazakhstanicus, this new species of Patriocetus differs from P. ehrlichi in size, morphology, and dental count. Direct comparison of the holotype skull of P. kazakhstanicus to that of P. ehrlichi has provided a more accurate definition of the arrangement of the bones in the skull roof of P. ehrlichi, long a source of uncertainty because sediment cemented to the surface of both the holotype and the paratype of the latter species partially obscures the sutures, making it difficult to determine the boundaries of the frontals, parietals, and supraoccipital. The skull of P. kazakhstanicus also shares well-defined generic characters with the partial skull of an undescribed species of Patriocetus from Germany (Rothausen and Sanders, in preparation), for which there are casts of the complete skull. The rostra of those two specimens are more nearly complete than those of the holotype and the paratype of P. ehrlichi, each of which is missing the anterior end of the rostrum. All four specimens share similarities in dentition and rostral characters that now confirm Rothausen's (1968) conclusions that members of the genus Patriocetus were longirostrine forms.
4524194| A nearly complete, well-preserved maxilla of an abelisaurid theropod from the early Late Cretaceous (middle Cenomanian-Turonian) Lower Member of the Bajo Barreal Formation of Chubut, Argentina represents the first definitive member of the abelisaurid clade from pre-Senonian (Coniacian- Maastrichtian) deposits. The new maxilla shares derived characters with the maxillae of Carnotaurus and Majungatholus, and with AMNH 1955, a maxilla previously referred to Indosuchus, suggesting that it pertains to the abelisaurid subclade Carnotaurinae. Abelisaurus shares apomorphic characters with Carnotaurinae, but many of these characters are also found in the carcharodontosaurid allosauroid Giganotosaurus. As it is known only from cranial material lacking carnotaurine synapomorphies, Abelisaurus may represent a late-surviving carcharodontosaurid derivative. The presence of the Bajo Barreal predator in the early Late Cretaceous indicates that the origin of Abelisauridae had occurred by then. The occurrence of the new maxilla is nearly concurrent with the accepted interval of tectonic divergence between South America and Africa. Its discovery thus weakens support for the recent hypothesis that the abelisaurid clade could not have penetrated Africa. The known occurrence of Abelisauridae may reflect a former pan-Gondwanan distribution, and is thus of limited utility in the support of Late Cretaceous paleogeographic hypotheses. /// Un maxilar casi completo y bien preservado de un terpodo abelisurido del Cretcico Tardo temprano (Cenomaniano rnedio-Turoniano), proveniente del Miembro Inferior de la Formacin Bajo Barreal de Chubut, Argentina representa el primer miembro definitivo del clado abelisurido de depsitos pre-Senonianos (Coniaciano-Maastrichtiano). El nuevo maxilar comparte caracteres derivados con 10s maxilares de Carnotaurus y Majungatholus, y con AMNH 1955, un maxilar referido previamente a Indosuchus, sugiriendo que Bste pertenece a1 subclado abelisiurido Carnotaurinae. Abelisaurus comparte caracteres apomrficos con Carnotaurinae, pero muchos de estos caracteres se encuentran tambiCn en el carcharodontosurido allosauroide Giganorosaurus. Como es conocido solo por material craneano, careciendo de sinapomorfas carnotaurinas, Abelisaurus puede representar un sobreviviente tardo de un carcharodontosurido derivado. La presencia del predador de Bajo Barreal en el Cretcico Tardo temprano indica que el origen de Abelisauridae ha ocurrido en ese momento. La aparicin del nuevo maxilar es casi concurrente con el interval0 aceptado de divergencia tectbnica entre Sudamrica y frica. De este modo este descubrimiento debilita el sostn de la reciente hiptesis de que el clado abelisurido no habria penetrado frica. La conocida presencia de Abelisauridae puede reflejar una antigua distribucin pan- Gondwinica, siendo as de limitada utilidad en el sostn de las hiptesis paleogeogrficas para el Crticico Tardo. 
4523536|Anatomical comparisons suggest that the medial element of the proximal carpal row of Eremotherium and Megatherium is a scaphoid, homologous with that of other Tardigrada, and not a scapho-trapezium. The medial process of the scaphoid overhangs the distal carpal row in all sloths. The metacarpal-carpal complex (MCC) is composed of fused elements present medially in the manus of many Tardigrada. In most genera the MCC is a small nodular element incorporating the trapezium and metacarpal I (Mc I). Comparisons of the MCCs of Megatherium and Eremotherium with other sloths suggest that the MCC of Megatherium comprises the trapezium and Mc I, and that of Eremotherium the reduced Mc II, Mc I, trapezium, and trapezoid. The morphological similarity of the MCC in the three large size Eremotherium species (E. laurillardi, E. mirabile, and E. rusconii) currently recognized in the literature is evidence that species are conspecific.
4524455|The mandible of Asfaltomylos patagonicus from the late Middle Jurassic (Callovian) of Cerro Condor (Chubut, Argentina) combines a derived dentition (?i, ?c, ?5p, 3m) with tribosphenic molars together with plesiomorphic mandibular characters such as the presence of a postdentary trough and a mandibular foramen in a very anterior position. Talonids on m2 and m3 are wider than long which represents an important synapomorphy with Gondwanan australosphenidans. Talonids have an inflated hypoconid and bulging hypoconulid. As in other australosphenidans and toothed monotremes, talonid wear in Asfaltomylos is apical and no wear facets occur within the talonid basin. On m3, a common wear facet covers the apices of hypoconid and hypconulid, and the hypocristid. Crompton's (1971) standard wear facets 5 and 6 of tribosphenic boreosphenidans are not developed; therefore, it is uncertain whether a functional protocone, with its facets 5 and 6, would be present in the upper molars. The highly specialized apical wear on the hypoconid, hypoconulid, and the hypocristid in Asfaltomylos and other australosphenidans may correspond to some upper molar structures, such as crests extending from the metacone to grind against hypoconid and hypoconulid. In contrast to other australosphenidans, in Asfaltomylos the trigonid of the ultimate premolar is not triangulated, a plesiomorphic character. A PAUP 4.0 analysis based on 277 cranial and postcranial characters has corroborated the position of Asfaltomylos as the most basal member of the Australosphenida, and suggests that australosphenidans are independent from boreosphenidans.
4523736|The ornithopod dinosaur Gasparinisaura cincosaltensis gen. et sp. nov. is described. This new taxon from the Upper Cretaceous of northwest Patagonia (Argentina) represents the first report of basal iguanodontian ornithopods from South America. Gasparinisaura shares with the Dryomorpha the out-turned jugal-postorbital articulation, prominent lateral primary ridge in maxillary teeth, well-developed brevis shelf and metatarsal I reduced or absent. It retains a well-developed quadratojugal, low maxillary crowns, and a laterally compressed ischial shaft. The new taxon Euiguanodontia is erected to include Gasparinisaura cincosaltensis and the Dryomorpha (=Dryosauridae + Ankylopollexia).
4524568|Remains from the Upper Devonian (Famennian) of Belgium attributed to an early 'amphibian' during the nineteenth century are reviewed. This putative tetrapod material is identified here as a rhynchodipterid lungfish, possibly Soederberghia, a genus previously known from the Upper Devonian of East Greenland, Pennsylvania, and Australia. Newly discovered material from Belgium is also attributed to this large, cosmopolitan lungfish genus. Remains attributed to Uarvikia, another long-snouted dipnoan from East Greenland, have also been recovered from Famennian strata in Belgium. These occurrences provide additional evidence for paleobiogeographical links between Greenland and the central southern coast of the Euramerican continent during the Late Devonian.
25790795|Ilia of anurans (frogs) and urodeles (salamanders) are commonly recovered from microvertebrate fossil localities. Ilia in these clades are distinctive when complete and articulated with the rest of the pelvic girdle, but when preserved as isolated and broken fossils they may appear superficially similar. Reliable identification of urodele ilia is further hampered by limited information about the basic structure and contacts of the bone and its variation within the clade. Here we demonstrate that the ilium is more variable among urodeles than previously realized and provide the first detailed inventory of features that are potentially useful for differentiating ilia of anurans and urodeles. Many of these features relate to differences between the two clades in the orientation of the ilium and its contacts with other bones and with soft tissues. Based on the results of our survey, we re-interpret the holotype and two referred ilia of Nezpercius dodsoni (Late Cretaceous; Montana, U.S.A.) as being from an indeterminate urodele, not an anuran as originally described. Additional examples of Late Cretaceous urodele ilia are documented to highlight some of the variation seen in fossil urodele ilia and to aid in the proper identification of such specimens.
4523475|Leptaucheniine oreodonts (Merycoidodontidae, Leptaucheniinae) have extremely well-inflated auditory bullae-apparently the largest, relative to body size, among artiodactyls. Leptaucheniines have middle ear volumes (ranging from about 4.0 to 8.5 cc) several times those of extant bovids and cervids of comparable body size. A well-developed, smooth-walled, and laterally-elongate epitympanic sinus, underlies the leptaucheniine mastoid region and comprises 14-21% of total middle ear volume; it is a uniquely derived condition that parallels the enlarged epitympanic sinus seen in some members of other mammalian orders (e.g., Carnivora). Several other features characterize the cranium of leptaucheniines, including: low, flattened skull, rod-like basioccipital and basisphenoid, and prominent petrosal-squamosal contact. In a comparison of several extant and fossil artiodactyls, clear patterns emerge in the relationship of middle ear volume to basicranial axis length (used here as an estimator of overall skull size): the regression line expressing this relationship for leptaucheniines has a slope of 7.86, compared to slopes of 1.57 for antilocaprids and 0.77 for cervids. A sample of bovids is best fit by the quadratic regression equation y=0.86x2-7.02x+14.31. It is likely that the leptaucheniine ear was an adaptation to the development of open, dry environments in North America during the late Oligocene.
4524316|Almost all phylogenetic studies utilizing fossils are faced with the problem of missing data. With the development of methods allowing total evidence phylogenies where fossils are combined with extant taxa, and molecular evidence is available, this problem is compounded. Standard methods ignore missing data and often result in poorly resolved trees, and procedures such as culling of taxa or partitioning data have been proposed to improve resolution. Here, we take a different tack, one grounded in the fact that because we do not know what the behavior of missing data would be, it is worthwhile to examine the universe of possible outcomes. The MERDA value is the frequency with which a particular clade is recovered in replicated analyses where missing observations are replaced randomly with observable states. A technique to de-resolve missing data-dependent clades is also proposed. We also show that, in published data sets, there is little obvious relationship between MERDA performance and standard measures of clade support such as Bremer and Jacknife indices.
41407710|A lower jaw and associated postcranial remains from the Late Cretaceous-early Paleocene Hornerstown Formation of New Jersey form the basis of a new crocodyliform species, Borealosuchus threeensis. Although one of the oldest known species of Borealosuchus, phylogenetic analysis supports a closer relationship to Borealosuchus from the early Eocene than with other Late Cretaceous or early Paleocene forms. This is based on the shared presence of a short mandibular symphysis excluding the splenial, a small external mandibular fenestra, and ventral osteoderms composed of two sutured ossifications It is also similar to Borealosuchus material from the Paleocene of western Texas, though conspecificity cannot be demonstrated at present. A close relationship with the basal alligatoroids Leidyosuchus or Diplocynodontinae is not supported. The distribution of lower jaws with very small slit-like external mandibular fenestrae, or no fenestrae at all, among basal crocodylian lineages (including Borealosuchus) and close crocodylian relatives suggests the fenestrae may have been ancestrally absent in Crocodylia and regained two or more times. Current phylogenetic hypotheses are consistent with dispersal of more-derived species of Borealosuchus to the Western Interior during the Paleocene, and they indicate the presence of several unsampled lineages crossing the Cretaceous-Paleogene boundary.
20627119|The Lifua Member of the Manda Beds of Tanzania (Middle Triassic: ?latest Anisian) has yielded an exceptionally important assemblage of early archosaurs, including numerous well-preserved specimens. However, the majority of this material has not been described formally, frustrating attempts to incorporate it into studies on early archosaur diversity and evolution. We describe an anterior dorsal vertebra from the Lifua Member as the holotype of a new taxon, Hypselorhachis mirabilis. Hypselorhachis is characterised by the possession of an elongate neural spine that is at least 5.5 times the height of the centrum, and can be diagnosed on the basis of a single autapomorphy relating to the morphology of the prezygapophysis. Hypselorhachis is similar to other early Middle Triassic archosaurs with elongate neural spines, including Arizonasaurus, Ctenosauriscus, and Lotosaurus. It is possible that these taxa form a clade, Ctenosauriscidae, but further anatomical and phylogenetic work is required before this can be confirmed.
42568650|The fossil amphibians and squamate reptiles from the late Miocene (Vallesian) of Guefat-1 are described for the first time. The herpetofaunal assemblage is composed of Discoglossinae indet., Lacertidae indet., Dopasia sp. (Anguidae), Colubridae s. l. indet., and Naja cf. antiqua (Elapidae). This herpetofaunal assemblage is less diverse than the Moroccan herpetofauna from the middle and early late Miocene mainly because of the absence of Afro-tropical taxa, probably due to increasing aridity; likewise, it is less diverse than the Plio-Pleistocene herpetofauna, which was enriched by the entry of some European taxa during the Messinian Crisis. The presence of a discoglossine frog, different from all existing European and North African genera, in the late Miocene of Guefat-1 suggests that the diversity of this group in the Miocene of North Africa may have been greater than previously thought. The occurrence of an anguid lizard of the genus Dopasia in the Miocene of Morocco is confirmed and may constitute the earliest record of the genus for Africa. The range of the cobra Naja antiqua, until now only known from the middle Miocene (Mellalesian) of Beni Mellal, Morocco, is extended; this constitutes the latest record of the species.
20627134|Our understanding of South American megatheriine ground sloths was traditionally based largely on abundant material from Brazil and Argentina, mainly because megatheriine remains from elsewhere in South America were scant and poorly preserved. In recent years, however, the recovery and description of remains from northwestern South America has led to the recognition of several new taxa and the validation of species originally based on sparse remains. Falling in the latter group is Megatherium (Pseudomegatherium) tarijense Gervais and Ameghino, 1880, which is based on a complete but eroded calcaneum from Pleistocene deposits of the Tarija Valley of southern Bolivia. Most authors of the past century viewed this species as poorly defined and probably synonymous with Megatherium (Megatherium) americanum. This uncertainty is attributable to both the poor nature of the remains of M. (P.) tarijense and the presence of M. (M.) americanum in the Bolivian Pleistocene. Well preserved and nearly complete remains of several individuals indicate that M. (P.) tarijense is indeed valid. This material includes abundant remains from the Tarija Basin (Bolivia) housed in the Field Museum of Natural History (USA) and the Museo Nacional de Paleontologa y Arqueologa de Tarija (Bolivia) and also from the Peruvian Andes (Yantac), housed in the Universidad Nacional de Ingeniera de Lima. M. (P.) tarijense differs from M. (M.) americanum mainly in its smaller size; shorter, less robust premaxillae; shallower mandibular ramus; reduced size of the humeral deltopectoral crest; less torsion of the femoral diaphysis; unreduced patellar trochlea; and relatively shorter, stockier calcaneum.
4524481|Development and metaplasia of ossified tendons in two hadrosaurine dinosaurs (Maiasaura peeblesorum and Brachylophosaurus canadensis) are described by comparison with the known developmental processes of ossified tendons in turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo). Mineralized primary tendon tissue and replacement patterns suggest that ossified tendons in hadrosaurs grew initially in a manner similar to those in turkeys. That is, biomineralization begins with apatite deposition and is followed by resorption of mineralized primary tissue and subsequent bone formation. Earlier ontogenetic onset of tendon ossification and later offset among ossified tendons of hadrosaurs differentiates them from tendons of turkeys. In addition, an external fundamental system (EFS) in hadrosaurian tendons indicates that they grew radially beyond the original tendon boundary, a process unknown among avian tendons. Tendon histology indicates that hadrosaurian ossified tendons developed in step with the skeletal system and that ossification was not induced by biomechanical stresses.
4524512|Acrocanthosaurus atokensis, a large carcharodontosaurid theropod, is known from several specimens collected in the 1990s, as well as the two original specimens collected in the 1940s. The holotype, OMNH 10146, contains a well-preserved and complete braincase that was scanned at the High Resolution X-ray Computed Tomography (CT) Facility at The University of Texas at Austin. The resulting images were manipulated using graphics and volume rendering programs to produce a complete digital endocast of the endocranial cavity. The images reveal all of the cranial nerves except for the vestibulocochlear nerve. Also visible are: (1) the pituitary fossa; (2) the fenestra ovalis; (3) the entrance of the internal carotid arteries; (4) all three semicircular canals; and (5) several smaller arteries and veins. This complete endocast allows for: (1) the description of the previously undescribed endocranial cavity of Acrocanthosaurus; (2) determination of skull orientation using the semicircular canals; and (3) comparisons with closely related taxa such as Carcharodontosaurus, Giganotosaurus, Allosaurus, and Sinraptor. The comparisons can consist not only of characters that can be seen in the braincase and endocast, but also of quantitative, volumetric measurements that are available through the volume rendering program used to create the endocast. These comparisons uphold the proposed relationships of Acrocanthosaurus being within the clade Carcharodontosauridae and the sister taxon to Carcharodontosaurus, and allow for new characters to be applied to the data matrices used to determine the relationships.
23361049|Additional information about one of the oldest known gecko-like lizards, Hoburogekko suchanovi from the Early Cretaceous of Mongolia, is provided in light of recent advances in the understanding of gekkotan osteology. The phylogenetic affinities of this taxon were assessed by adding it into an existing morphological data set of 224 taxa coded for 364 characters. The effects of character ordering and scoring on tree topology and the composition of Gekkonomorpha were also explored. The results of the analysis indicate that Gekkonomorpha is highly unstable and additional revision of stem gekkotans (e.g., Parviraptor, Gobekko) is required to refine the basal relationships of this clade. Like modern gekkotans, Hoburogekko possess a tubular frontal bone. In contrast to extant gekkotans, the Meckelian canal is only partially fused and may represent an incipient form of the gekkotan condition. The posterior shelf of the maxilla is wider than in modern gekkotans, perhaps related to a plesiomorphically large jugal. The short, rounded snout may indicate a lifestyle as found in some modern gekkotans found in equivalent xeric environments to the inferred paleoenviroment of the Hvor (Mongolia) locality during the Early Cretaceous.
42568636|Increased field collecting over the last few years, combined with the examination of historical collections in Uruguay, has resulted in the discovery of a great number of specimens of the Scelidotheriinae, indicating that this subfamily is better represented in Uruguay's Pleistocene fauna than previously thought. Because much of this new material is diagnostic, in this work we provide a fuller description of some specimens (a skull with associated mandible and the manus, another almost-complete skull, and two partial dentaries) from the late Pleistocene of Uruguay for which only preliminary descriptions have been previously made, with tentatively assignments to Catonyx. A discriminant analysis was performed using 48 adult specimens including Scelidotheriwn, Catonyx, and Proscelidodon and supports the contention that Catonyx is a valid genus and the inclusion of these new specimens within this genus. This analysis also allows us to identify those cranial characters that better differentiate the genera. The variables involved in the discriminant analysis are those related to the length of the skull, whereas variables related to the width have been excluded from the models or when included have had little significance to the analysis. We provide new optically stimulated luminescence (OSL) dates in the range of 16-32 ka that confirms the late Pleistocene age of the Dolores Formation, the source of these specimens. The described remains represent the first record of Catonyx cuvieri in Uruguay and the first evidence for the presence of the species outside Brazil.
4523173|Old World Miocene proviverrine creodonts include Dissopsalis carnifex from Pakistan and Dissopsalis pyroclasticus from Kenya. D. carnifex is a common predator in the middle and late Miocene Siwalik faunas and is known from a skull, numerous teeth and jaws, and a few isolated postcranial remains. Its chronostratigraphic range is from 16.1 to 8.8 Ma. D. pyroclasticus is much rarer. It is known for certain from only the type mandible and one fragmentary upper molar recently found in the Ngorora Formation in Kenya, although other specimens have been reported from various East African early and middle Miocene sites. The Ngorora molar is the only well-dated specimen of D. pyroclasticus and is 11.6 Ma. Dissopsalis has a hypercarnassial dentition similar to that of the hyaenodontines, but a cladistic analysis of these and other hyaenodontids indicates that Dissopsalis is only distantly related to the hyaenodontines. Instead, it is most closely related to Anasinopa leakeyi, an early Miocene species also from Kenya, and Metasinopa fraasi, a North African Oligocene species. The higher-level phylogenetic relations of these three genera are with a complex of advanced European proviverrines that includes species of Prodissopsalis, Allopterodon, Cynohyaenodon, Paracynohyaenodon, and Proviverra. Paratritemnodon indicus, a middle Eocene species from India, and Masrasector aegypticum, a North African Oligocene species, may also be members of this assemblage. Other European and North American proviverrines are only distantly related. Both species of Dissopsalis are among the youngest known hyaenodontids and in both Asia and Africa they were contemporaneous with diverse assemblages of advanced ruminants, proboscideans, muroids, and modern aeluroid carnivores. Dissopsalis probably had an African origin, but an Asian origin cannot be completely excluded.
4522956|A remarkably complete trunk vertebra representing a new species of Texasophis, a genus previously known only from the Miocene of North America and France, moves the appearance of the family Colubridae and the subfamily Colubrinae in the New World from the late early Miocene (Harrison Formation: Arikareean) back into the middle Oligocene (Brule Formation: Orellan). The fossil was found in the Scenic Member of the Brule Formation in northeastern Colorado. This snake is much more similar to an undescribed species of Texasophis from the French Miocene than it is to the North American Texasophis fossilis. It now appears that the Colubridae had spread from its center of origin in Asia to France by about 32 million years ago, and to North America by about 30 to 31 million years ago. Based on its vertebral structure it appears that Texasophis galbreathi was a quite small, secretive or semifossorial species.
4523084|An investigation of the kinematics and mechanics of the manus of extant Equus and Tapirus is used as the basis for interpreting the functional morphology of the manus in the extinct tridactyl equids Mesohippus and Merychippus. The shape of the articular surfaces of each joint in the manus of the extant forms is related to the kinematics of the limb, and the probable soft-tissue anatomy and locomotory kinematics of the two fossils are reconstructed by comparing joint shapes among the four genera. The results support the conclusion of Camp and Smith (1942) that Mesohippus had a padded subunguligrade manus, similar to that of Tapirus, while Merychippus was fully unguligrade like Equus. However, all three equids have similar cursorial adaptations, not shared with Tapirus, which include the structure of the carpus and elongation of the distal segments of the limb. The differences in foot structure between Mesohippus and the unguligrade equids may be related to size. Only two, relatively minor, anatomical changes were necessary for the descendents of Mesohippus to become unguligrade: (1) loss of the digital pad, and (2) increase in the curvature of the metacarpophalangeal joints to allow more rotation of the digits. The eventual reduction in digital number, and the specialization in soft-tissue elements seen in Equus, were apparently unnecessary for the transition in function, and may also have been size dependent.
4523438|We describe a recently discovered upper postcanine tooth of a large traversodont cynodont from the Wolfville Formation (Upper Triassic; Fundy Group, Newark Supergroup) of Nova Scotia, Canada. The specimen is referable to ?Scalenodontoides plemmyridon Hopson, 1984, which was founded on a large dentary, edentulous but for two incisors, from the same formation. The new tooth and an isolated lower postcanine of a smaller individual indicate that the traversodont material from the Wolfville Formation represents a distinctive new genus, Arctotraversodon.
4523068|The study of more than 250 articulated specimens of the thelodont Phlebolepis elegans (Upper Silurian, Estonia) has shown how the morphology and sculpture pattern of scales depend upon their position on the body. Five morphological scale varieties are distinguished for several Silurian thelodonts. Phlebolepis ornata n.sp. from the Estonian Upper Silurian (lower Ludlow) is described.
4522893| Orohippus proteros n. sp. is the earliest and most primitive species of Orohippus known. It was collected from the Lost Cabin Member of the Wind River Formation, along with a fauna which is clearly of early Eocene age. Known only from the type specimen, O. proteros is distinguished from all contemporary hyracotheriines by the presence of a small hypocone on P. Orohippus proteros is more primitive than all other members of the genus and later hyracotheres in the small size of the P hypocone relative to the protocone and in the subtriangular shape of P. Orohippus is viewed as a monophyletic taxon with O. proteros as the ancestral species. 
4524692|A new specimen of the rhizodontid sarcopterygian, Sauripterus taylori (Sarcopterygii, Osteichthyes), from the Late Devonian (Famennian) Catskill Formation of Pennsylvania consists of a well-preserved right pectoral fin, girdle, and associated scales. Rhizodontid affinity is supported by the unique pattern of overlap between the clavicle and cleithrum, the robustness of the pectoral girdle, the presence of elongate and unjointed lepidotrichia in the pectoral fin, and the pattern of connectivity between the endochondral bones of the pectoral fin. The new specimen of Sauripterus provides a three-dimensional and articulated view of basal rhizodontid pectoral girdle and fin anatomy and preserves the first known scapulocoracoid for a Devonian rhizodontid. The glenoid fossa faces posteroventrally, in contrast to the more posterolaterally facing glenoids of other tetrapodomorph fish. The humerus is short proximodistally and possesses an expansive ventral flange for the attachment of the adductor, flexor, and rotatory musculature of the fin. Together, these data suggest that the pectoral fins of Sauripterus were optimized for adduction and flexion against the water column or a solid substrate. To maximize the propulsive force of these motions the distal fin was stiffened by the presence of eight radials, similar in position to the autopodials of tetrapods. However, unlike the digits of tetrapods, the unit that interacts with the environment in rhizodontids is a combined structure consisting of both dermal and endochondral fin skeletons. As recent phylogenetic hypotheses do not support a sister-group relationship between rhizodontids and tetrapods, the similarities between the endoskeletal radials of Sauripterus and the autopodium of tetrapods are independently derived.
30117464|A new skeleton of Pseudotomus eugenei is described and compared to extant large bodied rodents and those fossil manitshines represented by postcranial material (Pseudotomus robustus, Pseudotomus petersoni, and Manitsha tanka). The postcranial skeleton of P. eugenei is unspecialized in terms of individual joint function as well as in overall proportions. The forelimb is heavily muscled with a generalized shoulder but with some distinctive features of the elbow and manus. These include an extremely broad distal humerus, long olecranon process, short proximal and middle phalanges and long, uncompressed ungual phalanges. The hind limb of P. eugenei is also generalized, but departs from those of earlier manitshines in the deeper patellar groove and femoral condyles, and in the size reduction of the peripheral metatarsals, suggesting a stronger commitment to terrestrial life. A quantitative analysis of limb proportions indicates that P. eugenei and the other manitshines generally resemble terrestrial rather than arboreal rodents. This is especially evident in the shape of the radial head, and in the shape and relatively greater lengths of the olecranon process, phalanges and metapodials. These features of the forelimb together with the long and uncompressed ungual phalanges of the manus suggest that when P. eugenei diverges from other manitshines, it is in a semi-fossorial direction. Here it is reconstructed as a generalized terrestrial rodent with fossorial tendencies.
20062016|Several hypotheses supporting monophyly of the Teleostei on the basis of synapomorphies have been produced over the last 30 years. The concept of Teleostei sensu Patterson (1977) and Patterson and Rosen (1977), with halecomorphs as the sister-group and Pachycormiformes and Aspidorhynchiformes at the base, has been questioned recently. A new hypothesis has been suggested (Arratia, 1999, 2000a) with Pholidophorus as the basal taxon. Whereas the monophyly of Teleostei has been supported by numerous investigations based on morphological evidence of fossil and living forms and on molecular data, the sister-group of Teleostei is still unresolved. Possible sister-groups are the Amiiformes, Lepisosteiformes, Dapedium, Pycnodontiformes, Pachycormiformes, and Aspidorhynchiformes. Their relative positions in the cladogram changes when different outgroups are used. The large actinopterygian clade comprising the stem-groups of teleosts and the Teleostei (including fossil and extant members) and excluding the Halecomorphi (Amia and relatives) and the Ginglymodi (Lepisosteus and relatives) is formally named Teleosteomorpha. The name Teleostei is reserved here for the apomorphy-based taxon Teleostei that includes the fossil basal teleosts and the Teleocephala (crown-group). The monophyly of Teleostei is supported by one uniquely derived character and numerous homoplasious derived characters. The available information reveals that there is no correlation between the age of the probable sister-groups of Teleostei and their primitiveness. All of them appeared at the same time as the Teleostei (e.g., Pycnodontiformes) or are younger (e.g., Amiiformes, Lepisosteiformes, Dapedium, Pachycormiformes, and Aspidorhynchiformes). The closest living (Amia or Lepisosteus) and the closest fossil sister-group of teleosts remains unknown.
4523205|The Uintan Leptotomus mytonensis Wood is transferred to the genus Mytonomys Wood, and the Duchesnean Leptotomus kayi Burke is synonymized with M. robustus (Peterson). Thus, two species of Mytonomys are recognized here from the Uinta Formation, Utah. Comparison of Mytonomys and European ailuravines with the problematical Eocene genus Eohaplomys Stock from California suggests that the latter may be included within the Ailuravinae based on dental characters.
4524167|Traumatic injury to the dentition of dipnoans, indirectly as a result of jaw fracture, or directly from damage to the tooth tissues, is present throughout the history of this group, in fossil and in Recent material. Bones heal, but traces of the injury are retained in the tooth tissues, permanently if the proliferative regions of the tooth plate are injured, or until the damaged dentines are removed by wear if the growing regions are left intact. Lack of resorption and repair of damaged dental hard tissues in dipnoans has implications for some models of tooth plate growth in lungfish with a permanent dentition, because this indicates that lungfish tooth plates may not have the capacity to form reparative dentine as part of the normal growth processes.
4524126|The recently discovered Cretaceous asioryctithere Ukhaatherium nessovi, represented by three individuals with virtually complete postcrania, shows basal character states for Eutheria, that were previously only partially known from the fragmentary postcranium of Asioryctes nemegetensis. A new suite of ankle characters is revealed. This suite renders characters previously considered as present in the hypothetical common ancestor of eutherians, as diagnostic of a more nested group in the mammalian tree. Some possible primitive retentions preserved in one or both asioryctitheres are the absence of a pulley-shaped astragalar trochlea, fibula only slightly encasing the astragalus laterally, absence of an anterior plantar tubercle on the calcaneum, and presence of a ventrally curved tuber calcis (straight in most other eutherians). A set of characters in the ankle joints were plotted on a phylogenetic tree of basal therian taxa, including among others, the mentioned asioryctitheres, Vincelestes neuquenianus, Deltatheridium pretrituberculare, Mayulestes ferox, and Pucadelphys andinus. The states in the hypothetical ancestors of Theria, Metatheria, and Eutheria were inferred with the maximum parsimony algorithm. Derived states of the ankle of Eutheria are fewer, and the hypothetical ancestors of Metatheria and Eutheria turn out to be more similar to each other than previously suspected.
4523808|Limb osteology and ontogenetic patterns of limb ossification are described for the plesiosaur Cryptoclidus eurymerus (Upper Jurassic: Callovian), and compared to those of other sauropterygians. Major features of limb ossification in Cryptoclidus are identified: 1) delayed mesopodial ossification; 2) alterations to the ossification sequence of the radius/ulna, tibia/fibula, and some metacarpals and metatarsals; 3) the loss of perichondral bone from the margins of the radius/ulna, tibia/fibula, and some metacarpals and metatarsals; 4) altered bone morphology is correlated with loss of perichondral bone. Recognition of some of these features in basal sauropterygians, and their application to the study of limb elements in derived sauropterygians such as Cryptoclidus, alters traditional identifications of several bones. The conventional intermedium is re-identified as a centrale. The 'true' intermedium is found to be a small bone that is variably free, ossifies to the base of the radius forming a distinct process, or ossifies to the base of the ulna. Additional endochondral ossifications are found along the preaxial and postaxial margins of the limb. These bones have perichondral bone on some margins, articulate with distinct facets on other limb elements, and therefore cannot be dismissed as sesamoid ossifications. Bones conventionally identified as the 4th distal carpal, 4th distal tarsal, and calcaneum, are re-identified as the 4th metacarpal, and the 4th and 5th metatarsals, respectively.
23251309|In this study we describe an isolated petrosal from the middle Eocene of northwestern Argentina assigned to Dasypodinae (Mammalia, Xenarthra, Cingulata). The specimen was recovered from the Geste Formation, Antofagasta de la Sierra, Catamarca, Argentina. The material is an incomplete right petrosal preserving the pars cochlearis and the anterior third of the pars canalicularis. It is described in detail and compared with extant and fossil cingulates. Additionally, we performed a cladistic analysis in order to define its phylogenetic position. The most remarkable traits of this petrosal include an anteromedially-posterolaterally elongated promontorium, open cavum supracochleare, wide and smooth crista interfenestralis, roof of the post-promontorial tympanic sinus triangular, reduced, and well separated from the stapedius fossa, and poorly developed epitympanic wing and crista petrosa. The phylogenetic analysis reveals affinities with Dasypus and Stegotherium that are supported by the weakly developed crista petrosa and the reduced dorsal and ventral extension of the cerebellar surface of the pars cochlearis in relation to the size of the internal acoustic meatus. The information provided by this element indicates the existence of several characters that were already present in the Eocene, such as an elongated promontorium, and a step between the stapedius fossa and the roof of the post-promontorial tympanic sinus. We propose hypotheses of evolutionary change in the auditory region of cingulates, including the medial expansion of the roof of the post-promontorial tympanic sinus and the emergence of a conspicuous crista petrosa.
4523436| A quadrupedal ornithopod trackway has been discovered at Cabezn de Cameros (La Rioja, Spain). The strata at the Valdemayor site is Early Cretaceous in age (probably Hauterivian). The trackway is formed by five footprints and four manus impressions. Size and footprint structure suggest that it has been produced by an iguanodontid dinosaur using a quadrupedal gait. The estimated speed is 4 km/h. The lesser depth of manus prints suggests that the center of gravity is located near the hindlimbs. Ornithopod dinosaurs used a similar type of locomotion in both bipedal and quadrupedal gaits, showing inward rotation of pes prints. This fact suggests that the use of such an optional locomotion does not modify significantly the role of the tail during progression. The structure of the manus prints indicates that there is probably not an unique soft-tissue structure enclosing the digits II, III, and IV. 
4524358|A new species of the diminutive ceratomorph similar to Dilophodon is reported from the latest early Eocene at Desertion Point in the Little Muddy area, Green River Basin, Wyoming. The Little Muddy specimens are assigned to cf. Dilophodon on the basis of their small size, simple premolars, absence of a first lower premolar resulting in a long post-canine diastema, and absence of a hypoconulid on the m3. Cf. Dilophodon destitutes, sp. nov. is the only helaletid known from the latest Early Eocene of the southwestern Green River Basin. It is considerably smaller than other species of Dilophodon. Its premolars are longer and narrower than in Dilophodon leotanus. The lophids on the lower molars are simpler and less posteriorly deflected than in either D. leotanus or Dilophodon minusculus. Dilophodon was previously known only from the middle Eocene ("Bridger C," Bridgerian zone Br3) of southwestern Wyoming, and the late Eocene (Uintan, zone Ui3) of Wyoming, northern Utah, Montana, and possibly California. The specimens described here extend the chronologic range of Dilophodon to include the latest early Eocene (lower "Bridger A"; Bridgerian zone Brlb) of the Green River Basin, southwestern Wyoming.
4523331| Corystosiren varguezi, gen. et sp. nov. (Dugongidae: Rytiodontinae), is described on the basis of a skull from Yucatan, Mexico, and skull and tusk fragments from the Bone Valley district, Florida, USA. The age of this form is most probably early Pliocene, but it appears to be the sister taxon of the early Miocene Rytiodus Lartet, 1866, from France and Libya. Both had strongly deflected rostra and very large, flattened, self-sharpening tusks. Corystosiren is additionally distinguished by a broad and extremely thick skull roof. An unnamed Miocene taxon from South Carolina may be phylogenetically intermediate between C. varguezi and other rytiodontines. /// Corystosiren varguezi, gen. et sp. nov. (Dugongidae: Rytiodontinae), se describe en base a un crneo de Yucatn, Mxico, y fragmentos de crneo e incisivo encontrados en la zona de Bone Valley, Florida, EE.UU. La edad de esta especie es probablemente Plioceno inferior, pero pareceria ser el pariente mas cercano a Rytiodus Lartet, 1866, del Mioceno inferior de Francia y Libia. Ambos tenian hocicos muy inclinados hacia abajo e incisivos muy grandes y aplanados, que el constante crecimiento y uso mantena afilados. Corystosiren se distingue adicionalmente por la calota que es muy ancha y extremadamente gruesa. Una especie no nominada de South Carolina puede ser la especie intermedia entre C. varguezi y otros rytiodontines. 
4523952|Variability of body temperature within fossil vertebrates can be measured by the oxygen isotopic composition of bone phosphate (
40666192|A small skull collected from the base of the Katberg Formation of South Africa represents a new Early Triassic procolophonid parareptile. Phonodus dutoitorum, gen. et sp. nov., is diagnosed by a roughly straight ventral temporal margin, prefrontals that contact each other along the dorsal midline, presence of a large posterior maxillary tooth, an edentulous pterygoid, a reduced transverse flange of the pterygoid, and other autapomorphies. A cladistic analysis identifies P. dutoitorum as a basal member of the procolophonid clade Leptopleuroninae. The presence of large maxillary teeth, their positioning ventral to strongly developed antorbital buttresses, and the loss of the ventral temporal emargination are suggestive of a durophagous diet. Phonodus dutoitorum is recognized as the oldest known leptopleuronine. Optimization of geographic distributions onto procolophonid phylogeny indicates that the presence of P. dutoitorum in the Karoo Basin of South Africa is explained most parsimoniously as the result of migration from Laurasia. Phonodus dutoitorum is the fifth procolophonoid species to be described from the Induan of the Karoo Basin, providing further support for the hypothesis that procolophonoid evolution was not greatly perturbed by the end-Permian extinction event.
40864352|A new species of Enchodus (Aulopiformes: Enchodontidae) is described from a quarry exposure of the La Negra facis of the El Doctor Formation (Cretaceous: Albian to Cenomanian) in the state of Hidalgo, central Mxico. It is an elongate fish with many generic and familial characters, including dermal ornamentation of tubercles atop rows of ridges; a palatine with a single, large tooth; and a triangular preopercle. It has a number of unique characters that include the presence of an orbitosphenoid, absence of dorsal scutes, and dorsal fin rays that share common pterygiophores. A phylogenetic analysis places the new species as the sister to Enchodus gladiolus. The new species of Enchodus is the most abundant fish species at the locality. Using mandible length as an indicator of overall size, the range in lengths suggests that this species lived at or near the locality. This is further supported by other species that have individuals of large and small sizes.
4524639|Two juvenile specimens of the pterodactyloid pterosaur Germanodactylus cristatus are identified from the Solnhofen Limestone of southern Germany. The specimens had been referred to the nominal species Pterodactylus kochi and P. micronyx. They have edentulous tips on the upper and lower jaws; their skulls are taller and less elongate and have fewer teeth than similarly sized specimens assigned to P. antiquus and P. micronyx; and they have tall neural spines on their cervical vertebrae. In addition, they exhibit a distinctive suite of skeletal proportions that distinguishes them from similarly sized specimens assigned to P. antiquus and P. micronyx. The specimens do not exhibit any trace of a cranial crest, which supports the interpretation that the cranial crest developed late in ontogeny, probably as the individual approached skeletal and/or sexual maturity. The taxonomy of Germanodactylus is reviewed and revised diagnoses are presented.
4523390|Until now there have been no definitive reports of eomyid rodents in the Tertiary of Asia, although their discovery there has long been expected. Four forms of eomyid rodents (Eomys orientalis, sp. nov., Eomyodon sp., Pseudotheridomys asiaticus, sp. nov., and ?Pseudotheridomys sp.) are now recognized in the Oligocene of Nei Mongol, China. These occurrences support the hypothesis of exchange between the European and North American eomyids via Asia. The beds bearing Pseudotheridomys asiaticus and ?Pseudotheridomys sp. at Loc. 77048 appear to be slightly younger than the classic localities at Saint Jacques. The Tertiary deposits at Saint Jacques appear to include at least two horizons: late middle Oligocene and late Oligocene or latest middle Oligocene.
42568675|A new avian species from the late early Eocene Fossil Butte Member of the Green River Formation is described based on a nearly complete postcranial skeleton. The new species, Vadaravis brownae, gen. et sp. nov., can be diagnosed by a unique combination of characters, including the following autapomorphies, which are unique among Aves: two (cranial and caudal) small and discrete pneumatopores on the lateral sides of the caudal-most thoracic centra; and a caudoventrally located pisiform process of the carpometacarpus that projects only weakly cranially. Phylogenetic analyses recover Vadaravis as a member of the waterbird assemblage (including, e.g., penguins, storks, pelicans), closely related to taxa traditionally placed within the avian order Ciconiiformes (storks, flamingos, herons, the hamerkop, ibises, and spoonbills). Additional morphological features and a phylogenetic analysis constrained by a recently recovered waterbird topology suggest close affinities between Vadaravis and Threskiornithidae. This new species represents the first proposed part of Ciconiiformes (and possibly stem-Threskiornithidae) in the Green River Formation of North America. Its discovery increases the known taxonomic and ecological diversity of this diverse fossil avifauna. Vadaravis also represents one of the oldest members of Ciconiiformes (and possibly stem-Threskiornithidae), and implies that additional lineages within the waterbird assemblage had diverged by the late early Eocene.
23361068|Data, whether images, measurements, counts, occurrences, or character codings, are a cornerstone of vertebrate paleontology. Every published paper, master's thesis, and doctoral dissertation relies on these data to document patterns and processes in evolution, ecology, taphonomy, geography, geologic time, and functional morphology, to name just a few. In turn, the vertebrate paleontology community relies on published data in order to reproduce and verify others' work, as well as to expand upon published analyses in new ways without having to reconstitute data sets that have been used by earlier authors and to accurately preserve data for future generations of researchers. Here, we review several databases that are of interest to vertebrate paleontologists and strongly advocate for more deposition of basic research data in publicly accessible databases by vertebrate paleontologists.
4524632|Chimaeroid (Chondrichthyes: Holocephali) mandibular toothplates of Edaphodon kawai, sp. nov., are described from the Cretaceous-Paleogene Takatika Grit of Chatham Islands, New Zealand. This is the first description of a chimaeroid from the Chatham Islands-New Zealand region, extending the geographical and temporal range of this genus globally. The new species is defined by a straight toothplate and long robust beak, which is armed with a long laminated symphyseal tritor and has an elongate anterior outer tritor and a pronounced asymmetric ridge positioned mesially on the oral surface. This unique arrangement may reflect a feeding strategy of cutting and crushing, which differs from most previously identified callorhynchids that possess crushing surfaces only.
4524757|The mesocarnivorous procyonine genera Bassariscus and Probassariscus first appear in the early Barstovian, when they are represented by four species. Bassariscus antiquus is known from the Olcott Formation of Nebraska, B. ci. parvus from the Skull Ridge Member of the Tesuque Formation of New Mexico, and B. minimus, sp. nov., from the Olcott Formation and Observation Quarry in Nebraska. Probassariscus is restricted to the single species P. matthewi from the Virgin Valley Formation of Nevada, Observation Quarry of Nebraska, and possibly the Flemming Formation of Texas. The subfamily Procyoninae is divided into two tribes, Potosini and Procyonini. The procyonin Probassariscus is more closely related to Procyon and Nasua than to Bassariscus. Based on dental characteristics, Bassariscus is the most primitive genus of the Procyonini.
4524586|A partial skull from the early Eocene London Clay of the Isle of Sheppey, England, is referable to the gavialoid clade Eosuchus, otherwise known from the late Paleocene of continental Europe and North America. It differs slightly from Paleocene forms, but there is insufficient material on which to base a new species. This extends the range of Eosuchus beyond the Paleocene and represents the first unambiguous occurrence of a gavialoid in the early Eocene.
4523270|Five new petalodonts are described from the Bear Gulch Limestone (Namurian) of Montana. Belantsea montana and Netsepoye hawesi (Family Belantseidae, nov.) are holomorphs with complete heterodont dentitions and a body form never seen before among chondrichthyans. Siksika ottae (Family Pristodontidae) consists of a braincase and associated teeth, Petalorhynchus beargulchensis (Family Pristodontidae) is a very small anterior part of a fish with one well preserved tooth and parts of several others, and Janassa clarki (Family Janassidae) is known from an isolated tooth. Heterodonty prevents attribution of most isolated petalodont tooth taxa to a classification scheme, but permits determination of the apomorphous characters of the order and exclusion of several taxa previously considered to be petalodonts. The dental morphology and histology of the clade containing Tanaodus, Harpacodus, and Lisgodus support a hypothesis of sister group relationships with the Petalodontiformes as restricted. The evolution of differential dental developmental pathways is seen as a driving mechanism of evolution both within the Petalodontiformes and in the proposed sister clade.
4522882|Fourteen taxa are described from Hemingfordian (early Miocene) to Hemphillian (early Pliocene) deposits of western North America and Florida. New taxa include Edaphocyon lautus, new species; Arctonasua floridana, new genus and species; Arctonasua gracilis, new species; Arctonasua minima, new species; Arctonasua eurybates, new species; Arctonasua fricki, new species; Lichnocyon phoenicus, new genus and species; and Paranasua biradica, new genus and species. The earliest known occurrences (Hemphillian) of Nasua and Procyon are documented. Cladistic analysis demonstrates that Paranasua is the primitive sister taxon of Procyon and Nasua; that Arctonasua is probably most closely related to the late Tertiary Cyonasua group of South American procyonines; and that the primitive sister group of the Procyoninae discussed in this paper includes Bassariscus and the European Agenian and Orleanian (early Miocene) genus Broiliana.
4523279|Previously undescribed material of Macrocnemus bassanii (Reptilia, Diapsida, Prolacertiformes) adds considerable detail to the knowledge of the anatomy of the postcranial skeleton. The ontogeny of the tarsus and the homologies of its constituent elements are discussed. The reptilian calcaneum corresponds to the amphibian fibulare, while the reptilian astragalus incorporates the amphibian intermedium together with additional ossification centers; the presence of a tibiale in reptiles is controversial. The tarsus of Macrocnemus incorporates the astragalus (intermedium), calcaneum (fibulare), a centrale, and the distal tarsals 4, 3, and 1. A functional analysis of the appendicular skeleton suggests predominantly terrestrial habits, perhaps even facultative bipedalism during rapid locomotion.
42568654|A rostrum fragment from the marginal marine upper Lunz Formation of Austria (early Late Triassic: late Carnian) was previously identified as a new species of phytosaurian archosauriform, 'Francosuchus' trauthi. 'Francosuchus' trauthi was subsequently synonymized with the non-phytosaurid phytosaur Paleorhinus, and this synonymy was used as evidence to correlate the 'Paleorhinus biochron' and the Otischalkian land-vertebrate faunachron to the marine timescale. Here, I provide a redescription of 'Francosuchus' trauthi and document anatomical features that differ substantially from all known species of non-phytosaurid phytosaur. There is no evidence to support synonymy of 'Francosuchus' trauthi with Paleorhinus, and no unambiguous features to support a phytosaurian identification. However, 'Francosuchus' trauthi possesses a unique combination of characters that distinguish it from all other Triassic tetrapods, and necessitates referral of the species to a new genus, Dolerosaurus, gen. nov. Rejection of the proposed synonymy between 'Francosuchus' trauthi and Paleorhinus means that the 'Paleorhinus biochron' cannot be tied to the marine late Carnian as previously suggested, and provides further evidence of the problems inherent in attempting to correlate the terrestrial Triassic to the marine timescale.
4524150|Diademodon and Cynognathus were contemporary cynodonts that lived during the Early to Middle Triassic. Their fossilized remains are found in the same deposits and, in the absence of diagnostic cranial material, the postcranial skeletons of these animals are considered indistinguishable from one another. In this study the bone histology of Diademodon and Cynognathus was examined, using thin sections of several long bone elements. Distinctive histological patterns were recognized for each genus: the cortex of Diademodon is zonal, consisting of alternating bands of fibro-lamellar and lamellar bone tissue, whereas that of Cynognathus consists of uninterrupted fibro-lamellar bone tissue. The bone histology indicates that Diademodon had a cyclical growth strategy whereas Cynognathus grew continually, at a constant, rapid rate throughout the year. Quantification of the vascularization of the compacta using image analysis, has shown that the bone tissue of Cynognathus is significantly more vascularized than that of Diademodon. The marked differences in their bone histology and vascularization, have permitted the generic identification and distinction of postcranial material (limb bones) previously categorized as either Cynognathus or Diademodon. This study of Diademodon and Cynognathus is the first detailed examination of the bone histology of representatives of the Triassic Cynodontia. The characteristic patterns of bone histology in Diademodon and Cynognathus have directly revealed information about their growth strategies and has demonstrated the use of bone histology to distinguish between the genera when associated cranial material is absent.
20627157|Redescription of the Upper Cretaceous marine squamate Acteosaurus tommasinii von Meyer, 1860, notes at least 10 cervical vertebrae, 27 dorsal vertebrae, an absence of pachyostosis on the vertebrae and ribs, overall limb reduction where the forelimbs are smaller than the hind limbs, a flattened pubic bone with a square pubic process and subrectangular descending ramus, small postzygapophyses on the trunk vertebrae, long and narrow neural spines on the caudal vertebrae, and posteroventrally positioned, unfused haemal arches on the caudals. Cladistic analysis of Acteosaurus and other marine squamates, including mosasauroids, dolichosaurs, pontosaurs, Adriosaurus, and Aphanizocnemus, and living and fossil snakes (Dinilysia, Yurlunggur, Eupodophis, Haasiophis, Pachyrhachis, Scolecophidia, Macrostomata, and Anilioidea) resulted in three most-parsimonious trees of 280 steps (C.I. = 0.59, R.I. = 0.81, R.C. = 0.48). All recovered tree topologies found support for the monophyly of the clade Ophidiomorpha, inclusive of Dolichosauridae (Dolichosaurus, Coniasaurus), Pontosaurus, Aphanizocnemus, Adriosaurus, Acteosaurus, and Ophidia. Acteosaurus is found to be a basal ophidiomorph and the sister taxon to the Ophidia.
4524414|A new actinopterygian, Roslerichthys riomafrensis gen. et sp. nov., is described from the Rio do Sul Formation (Early Permian) of Mafra, State of Santa Catarina, Brazil. This fusiform ray-finned fish is the smallest so far described for the "Lontras Shales." R. riomafrensis, gen. et sp nov., is placed into the Amblypterus Group of Gardiner and Schaeffer. Discussion is also offered about the taphonomic processes that led to the exceptional preservation of the fossils of these shales.
4524428| The Burgersdorp Formation in the Beaufort Group of the South African Karoo Basin records a diverse and rich vertebrate fauna that is referred biostratigraphically to the Cynognathus Assemblage Zone. Recent collecting efforts, and taxonomic and biostratigraphic studies on this formation, resulted in a proposed subdivision of the Cynognathus Assemblage Zone into three subzones informally known as A, B, and C. Cynodont fossils constitute an important component of the fauna of the uppermost subzone C of the Cynognathus Assemblage Zone. As in the middle subzone B, cynognathids, diademodontids, and trirachodontids are represented in subzone C, although the latter group-instead of Diademodonis the dominant taxon. The presence of Cynognathus in the faunas of the three subzones confirms that this genus is the correct choice as the index taxon of the assemblage zone. The large size attained by trirachodontid specimens from subzone C represents an unusual characteristic. One complete skull measured 160 mm in length, although fragmentary remains of other specimens indicate even larger sizes. These skull lengths are well above the 100 mm that characterize trirachodontids recovered from the older subzones A and B. The large size, and particularly the ovoid overall pattern of the upper gomphodont postcanines allows the assignment of the trirachodontid specimens from subzone C to Cricodon metabolus, previously known from the Manda Formation in Tanzania. The Cynognathus Assemblage Zone of South Africa is shown to be the most temporally complete Early-Middle Triassic nonmarine sequence in southern Gondwana, and is the template against which other sequences of similar age may be compared. 
4522906| New fossils from the Burdigalian locality of Port-la-Nouvelle (southern France) add to our knowledge of the Hipposideridae. Four species of this family are represented, including a new species of the subgenus Brachipposideros Sig (Hipposideros aguilari n.sp.). H. vetus (Lavocat) from Beni Mellal (Miocene of Morocco) and H. cf. vetus from Ste (late Pliocene of France), formerly attributed to Asellia, are placed in the subgenus Syndesmotis Peters, which includes the Recent East African species H. (S.) megalotis. The following genera and subgenera are recognized in this study: genus Hipposideros including the subgenera Hipposideros, Brachipposideros, Syndesmotis and Pseudorhinolophus, and the genus Asellia. Anatomy of teeth and jaws suggests new phyletic interpretations: Pseudorhinolophus could be ancestral to Asellia, and Brachipposideros to Syndesmotis; Pseudorhinolophus and Brachipposideros may both be represented in the Recent fauna by large and small Hipposideros, respectively; on the other hand, Brachipposideros is unlikely to have originated from Pseudorhinolophus, and neither of these genera can be derived from the Paleogene European genus Palaeophyllophora Revilliod. 
23251283|A fragmentary coracoid as well as isolated ulnae, carpometacarpi, and tarsometatarsi from the Varswater Formation at Langebaanweg, South Africa (early Pliocene), can be assigned to a new genus and species of true woodpecker (Picidae, Picinae), Australopicus nelsonmandelai, gen. et sp. nov. The new taxon is the first documented pre-Pleistocene record of woodpeckers from the entire African continent and it is clearly distinct from the three extant lineages of Picinae that are endemic to sub-Saharan Africa, i.e., Campethera-Geocolaptes, Dendropicos, and Dendrocopos obsoletus. Our phylogenetic analysis shows that the new taxon forms a clade with the extant woodpecker genera Celeus and Dryocopus, which do not occur in Africa, but in the Americas and Eurasia. The new taxon represents a previously unknown fourth lineage of African woodpeckers of Eurasian origin that probably became isolated on the African continent as a result of environmental changes during the Miocene. Evidence for an arboreal true woodpecker in the fossil record strongly supports previous hypotheses regarding the presence of riverine forests at Langebaanweg during the early Pliocene.
20491072|Batrachotomus kupferzellensis is an upper Middle Triassic (Late Ladinian) rauisuchian archosaur. The postcranial skeleton of this species is well-represented by fossil material, including the holotype, from the localities of Kupferzell, Crailsheim and Vellberg-Eschenau in southern Germany, and is described here in detail for the first time. All postcranial elements are known except the interclavicle and parts of the carpus, manus, tarsus, pes and some osteoderm and axial elements. B. kupferzellensis is now one of the best-known rauisuchians and will be important in advancing understanding of the group's biology. A period of new anatomical and taxonomic work since 2000 has improved understanding of rauisuchians. Renewed effort in rauisuchian phylogenetics will benefit from these new data, but will also require a careful and detailed approach to character formulation.
4522970| An extensive growth series of Smilodon skulls and mandibles from Rancho La Brea is divided into ontogenetic stages based on tooth-eruption pattern and occlusal wear. Eruption sequence is compared between Smilodon and Felis leo and an attempt is made to assess behavioral implications. A full description of all deciduous upper incisors and the DI is given. Skull growth and suture fusion are influenced by the formation and eruption of the dentition, and perhaps by the developing masticatory and neck musculature. Compared with Felis leo, the distinctive tooth-eruption sequence of Smilodon reflects differences in function. The lack of specimens with erupting deciduous dentitions indicates that Rancho La Brea was not preferred for denning by Smilodon. 
4523783|Hundreds of bone elements and teeth were recovered between 1990 and 1993 from the late MiocenePliocene site of Lothagam, in northern Kenya. One of the fossils found in deposits dated slightly younger than 4 my was the occluded upper and lower jaw of Sindacharax, an extinct characid. Sindacharax had previously primarily been known from isolated teeth, and this recovery provides much-needed information on the morphology of the dentaries, premaxillae, and position of teeth. The jaws have been referred to a new species, Sindacharax greenwoodi. Sindacharax greenwoodi differs primarily from the other two species of Sindacharax by clearly distinguishable tooth shape and cusp patterns. While cusped ridges on the teeth are the dominant character of the genus Sindacharax, the "discovery" of cusped ridges on teeth of a little-known modern species, Alestes stuhlmanni, suggests that either Sindacharax be subsumed under Alestes, or, more likely, that A. stuhimanni be transferred to Sindacharax.
4523210|A small herpetofauna from the Point "A" Dam Site, early middle Eocene Age (Bridgerian, or the European Stage, Lutetian) of Covington County, Alabama, contains the remains of a trionychid turtle, an emydid turtle, a new genus and species of boid snake, a palaeopheid snake, a crocodilian, and an object that appears to represent the fossil remains of a charred pine knot used as a "stomach stone" by a crocodilian. The fauna appears to be one that could have lived in or near a tidal riverine habitat.
4523298|A well-preserved pelvis of a large pterodactyloid pterosaur from the Santana Formation (Aptian) of Brazil is described. The pelvis is the first in which the orientation of the acetabulum is unambiguous. The acetabulum is directed laterally and posteriorly, and indicates that the femur could be brought under the body. This would allow bipedal locomotion, and a new model of bipedal locomotion for pterodactyloid pterosaurs is presented.
4523134| Examination of more than 2000 specimens of the early Cenozoic pantodont Coryphodon revealed only five pathological specimens: 1. A partial skull with a triangular puncture probably inflicted by the canine of another Coryphodon. 2. A left M with two supernumerary teeth, one probably the result of gemination and the other a possible case of true concrescence. 3. Two patellae of the same individual with exostoses on their distal processes, cause uncertain. 4. A patella and tibia of the same individual in which the patellar ligament is ossified to the distal process of the patella, and the tubercle of the tibia is consequently deformed. 5. The holotype pes of C. singularis Osborn, 1898, which has exostoses and other abnormalities suggestive of pathology, thus rendering C. singularis a nomen dubium. The relatively low frequency of pathologies in Coryphodon and other early Cenozoic pantodonts may indicate that there was less skeletal disease in the early Cenozoic than at present, but more thorough surveys of the frequency of pathologies of extinct and extant mammals are needed before a definite conclusion can be drawn. 
4523794|Five taxa of fossil birds comprising at least 17 individuals have been discovered in a Cenomanian (early Late Cretaceous) nearshore marine deposit along the Carrot River, near the Pasquia Hills of Saskatchewan, Canada. More than a hundred fossils, all from a single locality, constitute the oldest and most diverse avifauna from the Cretaceous of North America. Four species represent the earliest known North American Ornithurae, two of them new species of the baptornithid Pasquiaornis, n. gen. (Hesperornithiformes), and the other two referred to the ichthyornithid Ichthyornis (Ichthyornithiformes). Pasquiaornis is more primitive than Baptornis, and its humerus and femur show resemblances to those of flying birds. A presumed enantiornithine is also present.
4524506|A fossil turtle skull (ZISP PH 1/17) from the Late Cretaceous (upper Turonian, Bissekty Formation) of Dzharakuduk (Uzbekistan. Asia) was used to score the skull characters for the genus Lindholmemys (a stem testudinoid) in a recent phylogenetic analysis. A description of ZISP PH 1/17 and a new cladistic analysis reveals no characters to support its referral to Lindholmemys elegans or to the stem-testudinoid lineage. ZISP PH 1/17 is very similar to North American Adocus, differing mainly in characters of the upper jaw. Therefore, we hypothesize that ZISP PH 1/17 is the skull of either Shachemys ancestralis or "Adocus" aksary, adocid shell taxa from Dzharakuduk. Pending additional discoveries and description of turtles from Dzharakuduk. we refer ZISP PH 1/17 to Adocidae, gen. et sp. indet.
20491032|A full description and diagnosis are given of Lawrenciella schaefferi Poplin 1984, from the Pennsylvanian (Late Carboniferous) of Kansas, U.S.A. This taxon is only known by braincases and associated parasphenoids, which are exceptionally well preserved as phosphatic nodules. The external and internal morphology of the endocrania were studied from serial sectionings which allowed detailed three-dimensional reconstructions. The study shows that, besides synapomorphies inherent to basal actinopterans, L. schaefferi displays a set of very peculiar features such as prespiracular fossae, intracranial ossicles, and paired anterior myodomes for nonocular eye muscles. Another conspicuous feature, the notochordal canal ending blindly anteriorly, has been observed until now only in more advanced Triassic actinopterans. The anatomical characters of L. schaefferi indicate, in the light of recent cladistic analyses, that this Carboniferous taxon is a relatively advanced actinopteran compared to basal forms such as Kentuckia, Mimia, or Moythomasia.
41407689|A species of the dugongine dugongid genus Rytiodus from the Miocene (Burdigalian-Langhian; 19-14 Ma) deposits of Jabal Zaltan (= Gebel Zelten), Libya, is re-described, considered a valid species differing from Rytiodus capgrandi from the lower Miocene (Aquitanian) of the Aquitaine Basin (SW France), and named Rytiodus heali. R. heali, together with R. capgrandi and Corystosiren varguezi appear to constitute a taxon of dugongines characterized by broad, mediolaterally compressed, blade-like tusks with enamel mainly on the medial side, and a modified nasal process of the premaxilla. They are regarded as specialized seagrass feeders, using their tusks in excavation of seagrass rhizomes. Rytiodus lived sympatrically with the generalist small-tusked halitheriine dugongid genus Metaxytherium.
4523452|The Late Triassic gliding fishes of the genus Thoracopterus (Actinopterygii, Peltopleuriformes) are reviewed, and Thoracopterus martinisi, sp. nov. is described. We consider the family Thoracopteridae a valid taxon, but place it closer to Peltopleurus, rather than to Perleidus or Luganoia, especially on the basis of the pattern of skull roofing bones, shape of the preopercular, scale similarities, and caudal fin structure. Morphological characters of three species of Thoracopterus, such as length of paired fins, proportion of caudal fin lobes, and position of dorsal and anal fins, are compared with corresponding characters in extant monoplane and biplane gliding fishes. On the basis of this comparison, Thoracopterus is viewed as a biplane gliding fish, so far the only one known outside the extant "flying fishes" of the family Exocoetidae.
4523965|In the past several years the analysis of ancient DNA has become widely used in paleontology and archeology. DNA has been reported to have been isolated from a variety of organisms up to a hundred million years old. The analysis of these DNA molecules has been used to draw conclusions about phylogenetic relationships, migration of populations, and the emergence of pathogens. It has become apparent, however, that many experimental artifacts are associated with the study of ancient DNA and in several cases the DNA purported to have been of ancient origin has been shown to be due to contamination. This review will summarize the sources of ancient DNA, the information contained within it, the methods of analysis, and the limitations of these techniques.
4523110|Study of cranial-artery ontogeny reveals that three adult character states of the extracranial portion of the single mammalian internal carotid artery should be recognized: (1) transpromontorial-on the ventral surface of the promontorium of the petrosal bone, within the middle-ear cavity; (2) perbullar-within a canal in the medial wall of the auditory bulla; and (3) extrabullar- medial to the auditory bulla and middle-ear cavity. The phylogenetic transformation of these three character states is assessed via five criteria of testing morphocline polarity: (1) ontogenetic transformations; (2) commonality; (3) out group comparisons; (4) relative geochronologic age; and (5) "Form-function complexes." Each of these "tests" supports the (laterally-placed) transpromontorial character state as primitive for Mammalia and Eutheria and the (medially-placed) perbullar and extrabullar states as derived conditions. This character-state polarity, the reverse of that generally accepted at present, supports one superordinal grouping within Mammalia-a perissodactyl-hyracoid clade-and subordinal and lower taxonomic groupings within Carnivora, Lagomorpha, Chiroptera, and Primates.
20627043|High-resolution computed tomography (CT) scans through two fossilized lesions in hadrosaur bone guided paleohistological and stable-isotopic sampling to examine the stages and structures of bone repair in hadrosaurs. Two hadrosaur caudal neural spines from late Cretaceous bonebeds in Alberta, Canada, exhibit calluses produced during healing of traumatic fractures. In both CT scans and paleohistologic sections, these specimens display a combination of reptilian and non-reptilian characteristics in dinosaurian skeletal repairs. In one specimen the callus is dominated by a trabecular lattice that lacks signs of remodeling. Trabeculae in this callus are distinctively textured by clusters of densely packed, randomly oriented lacunae, two orders of magnitude larger than typical osteocyte lacunae and reminiscent of hypertrophic chondrocytes in cartilage of reptiles. The lattice represents early mineralization of callus tissue, and it preserves a O value in mineral phosphate 0.6 lower than adjacent non-pathologic cortex, suggesting that the repair site was 2.5C warmer than uninjured tissue. The elevated temperature results from locally enhanced cellular activity around the fracture, a common consequence of bone injury in vertebrates. In the second specimen, the callus has been extensively remodeled, with several areas transformed to dense secondary Haversian bone typical of modern birds. Stable oxygen isotopes in bone phosphate of this callus show no isotopic offset, indicating that this injury had progressed further through the healing process before the animal's death. High-resolution CT scans reveal tissue density and structure differences between the two lesions, suggesting that this technology could eventually be used to gauge relative healing without altering unique fossil specimens.
4524195|An isolated but three-dimensionally preserved pectoral girdle from the Rock Point Formation (Rhaetian) of New Mexico represents the youngest known drepanosaurid. The specimen preserves, in articulation, both scapulae, coracoids, clavicles, and sternal plates; clavicles and sternal plates were previously poorly documented or unknown in the Drepanosauridae. The elongate, thin, dorsally-oriented scapular blades are distinctive autapomorphies of the clade and strongly support the drepanosaurid origin of the specimen. The paired clavicles resemble the furculae of some theropod dinosaurs and basal birds, but the morphology of the remainder of the girdle demonstrates that it cannot belong to either group. The specimen's three dimensional preservation provides new information concerning the pectoral morphology of drepanosaurids.
4523387|Lomasuchus palpebrosus nov. gen. et sp., from the Upper Cretaceous of northwestern Patagonia (Argentina), is described. Lomasuchus is a "mesosuchian" crocodile with a relatively narrow snout and serrated teeth, two large supraorbital bones fused over the orbit, and a deeply downturned lateral margin of the squamosal. The skull of Lomasuchus displays some apomorphic conditions as a wedge-like anterior process of the maxilla and a very short premaxillary contribution in the palate, which are only shared by Peirosaurus. The cladistic analysis performed shows the family Peirosauridae (Peirosaurus and Lomasuchus) as a natural group. A synopsis of all described species of Cretaceous crocodiles of South America is presented. Peirosaurids, sebecosuchians, Uruguaysuchus, and the eusuchian dolichochampsids are endemic of South America. Both notosuchids and Araripesuchus occur in Africa and South America and represent examples of vicariance. The monophyly of trematochampsids is weakly supported and their vicariant distribution is questionable. The Dyrosauridae and Pholidosauridae have a wider distribution, being present in South America and Africa and on the northern continents. Unlike in the northern continents, eusuchians played a minor role in the Late Cretaceous crocodilian assemblages of South America, where "mesosuchians" were the principal components. This remarkable difference is another indication of the great influence that the geographic isolation of South America had on its terrestrial faunas during the Cretaceous.
4523686|A new Early Devonian (Lochkovian) yunnanolepiform-like antiarch Minicrania lirouyii gen. et sp. nov. is described from Qujing, Yunnan, southeastern China. This tiny antiarch possesses both a preorbital depression and a preorbital recess. It is characterized by a long and narrow skull-roof, short obstantic margin, large orbital fenestra, fairly short dorsal wall of the trunk-shield and a close fusion of the dermal plates. It shows some neurocranial structures, observed here for the first time in an antiarch. A growth series of the skull-roof shows a slight allometric growth. The phylogeny of antiarchs is discussed on the basis of new character combinations observed in this new form. It is suggested that Minicrania is the sister-group of euantiarchs plus sinolepids, sharing with them the preorbital recess. The Yunnanolepidae would be the sister-group of the Chuchinolepidae (i.e., "procondylolepids"), and the Yunnanolepiformes are re-defined here to include only these two groups.
4523628|A new fossil teiid lizard from the Upper Cretaceous Marshalltown Formation (Campanian) of Monmouth County, New Jersey is described as Prototeius stageri, gen. et sp. nov. Based on the holotypic dentary and referred specimens, the genus is diagnosed by a strongly differentiated heterodont dentition, five premaxillary teeth, paired frontals with well developed crista cranii, and a broad, low sagittal crest on the parietal. Prototeius appears most closely related to Chamops segnis and Leptochamops denticulatus from the Late Cretaceous of western North America. In a preliminary phylogenetic revision of the Teiidae, Chamops is removed from the Tupinambinae, and Leptochamops and Meniscognathus are removed from the Teiinae. These genera are placed together into a new subfamily, Chamopsiinae, defined as Chamops, Prototeius, Leptochamops, Meniscognathus, their most recent common ancestor and its descendants. The revised phylogeny does not support the placement of Chamops within the Tupinambinae or Leptochamops and Meniscognathus within the Teiinae. Therefore the origin or presence of the two extant teiid subfamilies cannot be traced to the Late Cretaceous of North America based on known fossil genera.
4523732|Utatsusaurus hataii is represented by exceptionally well preserved material for an Early Triassic ichthyosaur, but the preparation was incomplete at the time of the original description. Preparation of the holotype reveals new information concerning dental features. A principal diagnostic character of U. hataii is its isodont dentition, originally described as comprising very slender, needle-sharp teeth set in distinct alveoli. That description was based largely on an equivocal radiograph of a poorly prepared referred specimen, whose specific assignation to U. hataii is not well established. The teeth of the holotype are shown to be robust, with blunt points, and are set in a dental groove, not as previously described.
25835808|Modern archosaurs have extensive pneumatic diverticula originating from paranasal and tympanic sinuses. This complex anatomy is present in many fossil archosaurs, but few descriptions of the complete cranial pneumatic system exist. The cranial pneumatic morphology of birds and non-avian theropods are the best studied, but complete description of this anatomy for an ornithomimid was lacking. We describe the cranial pneumaticity of a well-preserved ornithomimid theropod dinosaur, Ornithomimus edmontonicus (RTMP 95.110.1), from computed tomography (CT) scan data and computer-aided reconstruction with quantitative measurements. New details for ornithomimids include an internal promaxillary recess, an internal palatine recess, pneumatic communications between the supraoccipital recess and posterior tympanic recess, and a complex basioccipital recess that connects to the anterior tympanic recess and median pharyngeal system. The pneumatic morphology of the quadrate is similar to modern birds, which have a complete siphoneal duct. We interpret the jugal diverticulum of non-avian theropods to be homologous or at least morphologically related to the avian suborbital diverticulum. Cranial pneumatic morphologies present in Ornithomimus and tyrannosaurids include an extensive internal palatine recesses and a pneumatic articular that is likely derived from a separate siphoneal diverticulum similar to modern birds. Recent phylogenetic hypotheses of theropods imply two equally most parsimonious solutions: that these shared morphologies are either independently derived in each taxon or diagnose Coelurosauria.
4523948| A well-preserved primitive amphiumid skeleton from the Eocene Green River Formation in Wyoming is described as Paleoamphiuma tetradactylum, gen. et sp. nov. This species differs from extant and known fossil amphiumids by the retention of a number of plesiomorphic features: separate ossification of the first hypobranchial and first ceratobranchial; no more than 35 presacral vertebrae; rib-bearers that are directed posterolaterally, taper to a blunt tip, and lack a posteroventral flange; and the presence of four digits in the manus (and probably in pes). Characterized so far only by the absence of derived characters, this new fossil amphiumid is currently a metaspecies. 
40864363|Ceratopsians, or horned dinosaurs, display a spectrum of variation in the system of depressions or sinuses on the dorsum of the skull. Derived non-ceratopsoid neoceratopsians such as Protoceratops and Zuniceratops variably possess a frontoparietal depression rostral to the dorsotemporal fenestrae. In ceratopsids, such as Triceratops, the depression is roofed secondarily by bone to form a supracranial sinus. The sinuses vary in their lateral extent, with the most restricted condition found in Centrosaurus and Styracosaurus. The sinuses are suggested to be pneumatic structures, although it cannot be determined if they are paranasal, paratympanic, or pharyngeal in origin. The inferred pneumatic diverticula that supplied the sinus extended from the dorsotemporal fenestrae into the sinus via a pair of channels on the dorsum of the skull. Ontogenetically, the sinus began as a shallow depression on the roof of the skull that was enclosed by excavation into the cranial bone and overgrowth of bone. Sinus morphology in bovid mammals, frequently invoked analogues for ceratopsids, is not correlated with behaviors such as head butting, but differences in sinus placement and anatomy between the groups temper the use of bovid sinuses as an analogy for ceratopsid sinuses. The development of a closed sinus in ceratopsids from an open depression was probably associated with an increase in skull size and the accompanying relatively greater loads applied to the horns (in order to maintain the structural integrity of the skull), as well as an anatomical reorganization of the ceratopsian skull.
4523608|Histological changes through ontogeny in Dryosaurus lettowvorbecki are reported. Thin sections of femora are examined using light microscopy (ordinary and polarized light). The results suggests that Dryosaurus grew rapidly throughout ontogeny without any pauses in its bone deposition rate. This pattern differs uniquely from the histological descriptions of prior studies of growth series of other dinosaur taxa. This study provides support to the hypothesis that dinosaurs probably exhibited a range of physiologies and growth patterns.
4524485|Haborophocoena toyoshimai (family Phocoenidae), from the early Pliocene Mochikubetsu Formation in northwestern Hokkaido, Japan, is a new genus and species of porpoise. The holotype is an incomplete skull, tympanoperiotic, mandible, and several teeth. Its features include: a robust and asymmetrical skull; a premaxilla with a less atrophied posterior extremity; a low but wide premaxillary eminence; a conspicuous knob-like frontal boss; narrow palatines posteriorly separating the pterygoids; a thin lateral lamina of the palatine that extends posteriorly; well- excavated air sinus fossae on the basicranium; a relatively small temporal fossa; an abruptly sloping supraoccipital shield; a periotic with massive anterior process; and tiny teeth with blunt tips. Some features of living phocoenids may be paedomorphic; examples include the relatively short rostrum, the rounded cranium, and the small body size. "Precocious" reproduction and a short interval of the reproductive cycle, compared to other delphinoid dolphins, suggest that paedomorphic characters of living phocoenids are progenetic. Progenetic evolution possibly occurred in harsh environments caused by glacial oscillations of the Pleistocene; molecular divergence times for porpoises are compatible with this idea.
4524773|Patches of spherulitic calcified cartilage are described inside the paired fins of the osteostracan Escuminaspis laticeps from the Upper Devonian of Miguasha, Canada, thereby confirming Belles-Isles interpretation of these patches as evidence for paired fin endoskeleton. The distribution of these calcified cartilage patches suggests that the osteostracan paired fin endoskeleton was a single cartilaginous plate located in the lateral half of the fin, and was thus not made up of separate radials. This morphology resembles that of the endoskeletal disc of the embryonic and larval pectoral fin of piscine gnathostomes, prior to its decomposition into radials, and may mirror the general condition for the clade that includes osteostracans and gnathostomes.
40666167|More than any other sauropod dinosaur group, the long-necked herbivores belonging to Diplodocoidea have been defined by their skulls. Their unique skull shape, which is extremely elongate antorbitally, with a transversely broad, square snout packed at its anterior extreme with narrow-crowned, pencil-like teeth, has served as a touchstone for describing the biology of these animals ever since the discovery of the first skull in the late 19th century. In particular, the unusual diplodocoid skull has been discussed frequently in the context of examining feeding behavior, spawning hypotheses ranging from branch stripping, propalinal shearing, and aquatic plant ' grazing.' Here, we describe a juvenile skull of Diplodocus (Carnegie Museum 11255) that does not share the unusually blunted snout and anteriorly sequestered teeth seen in adult specimens, suggesting that adults and juveniles may have differed greatly in their feeding behavior, an ontogenetic distinction that may be unique among sauropodomorphs.
4523490|Analysis of a recently discovered partial skeleton of Prolimnocyon atavus, an early Eocene creodont (Hyaenodontidae, Limnocyoninae), from the Willwood Formation of the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming, demonstrates that its postcranial skeletal anatomy was most similar to that of extant scansorial procyonid, viverrid, and mustelid Carnivora. Its anatomical traits (including reduced greater tuberosity, prominent and sharp deltopectoral crest, well-developed entepicondyle and brachial flange, ovoid radial head and gently concave, laterally oriented radial notch, moderately deep, laterally compressed ungual phalanges, medially projecting lesser trochanter, flattened talar trochlea with high lateral rim, helical proximal cuboid facet) are commonly associated with joint mobility and abducted limb posture which, in extant mammals, are characteristic of scansorial and ambulatory locomotion. These features resemble those of some early Eocene proviverrine hyaenodontids and, to a lesser extent, miacid Carnivora, but contrast with those of more terrestrially adapted oxyaenids, certain other hyaenodontids, and viverravid Carnivora.
4524583|The first North American mammals of definite Santonian age are described from the John Henry Member of the Straight Cliffs Formation of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument of southern Utah. The fauna includes the oldest documented record of the multituberculates Mesodma (Mesodma sp., cf. M. minor and Mesodma sp.), the Cimolomyidae (?Cimolomys sp.), the tribotheres Potamotelses sp., Picopsis sp., and the marsupial Varalphadon sp. Also present in the fauna is the multituberculate Cimolodon foxi (formerly only known from the Judithian), other cimolodontids (Cimolodon spp., ?Cimolodon sp.), Cedaromys sp., cf. C. hutchisoni, Cedaromys sp., the symmetrodont Spalacotheridium sp., and the marsupials Alphadon sp., cf. A. halleyi, and a stagodontid(?). The fauna has close affinities with the fauna of the Milk River Formation of Alberta, Canada, and may indicate that the Milk River fauna is of latest Santonian age rather than early Campanian.
30126332|A collection of fossil material from Eocene deposits of Pakistan includes remains belonging to various taxa of actinopterygian fishes. The material comes from predominantly freshwater deposits, as well as a few marine deposits, in the Kuldana Formation in the Kala Chitta Hills, and from the Chorgali Formation near Gali Jaghir, in Attock District of Punjab Province. The Kuldana and Chorgali formations are early to middle Eocene in age. Isolated bones and teeth are identified as belonging to Eotrigonodontidae, Pycnodontiformes, Amiidae, Osteoglossidae, Siluriformes (cf. Bagridae), and Perciformes, as well as unidentified Teleostei. Some of the fossils are skulls of a channiform fish, which is here described as a new genus and species, Anchichanna kuldanensis. The faunal affinities of the Indo-Pakistan area during the Eocene are not clear, with previous studies suggesting it is faunally more similar to other parts of modern Asia, others as it representing a region of endemism, or even as being similar to northern Africa. The fish material reported here indicates a relationship between the Pakistan fauna in the Eocene with that of northern Africa.
4524752|A new tritylodontid cynodont, Bienotheroides ultimus sp. nov., is described from the Upper Jurassic Shishugou Formation of Jiangjunmiao in the northeastern Junggar Basin of Xinjiang (NW China). The type consists of a partial skeleton, including teeth, a partial skull, and a considerable portion of the postcranium. It is identifiable as Bienotheroides because of the structure of the upper molars and the characteristically deep zygomatic arch. It is distinguished from Bienotheroides zigongensis from the Middle Jurassic of the Junggar Basin particularly by characters of the forelimb, including a humerus that shows little torsion of the proximal and distal ends. Bienotheroides ultimus is the last of the Chinese tritylodontids known so far, and apart from Xenocretosuchus from the Lower Cretaceous of Russia and an unnamed form from the Lower Cretaceous of Japan, it is the last non-mammalian therapsid known in the entire fossil record.
20627161|Three clutches and eight additional eggs are described from the Upper Cretaceous Chichengshan Formation in the Lishui Basin of Zhejiang Province, China. The three clutches contain 6-18 partial or complete spherical eggs, 14-18 cm in diameter. The eggshell thickness and reticulate pore system are identical to Dictyoolithus hongpoensis Zhao, 1994. However, the eggshell lacks superimposed shell units previously reported in this oospecies. The difference in microstructure most likely results from the reliance on thin section analysis in the original study; furthermore, superimposed shell units are inadequately documented in all Dictyoolithus oospecies due to the absence of scanning electron microscopy (SEM) or low (45) magnification of SEM imaging. Cladistic analysis and the presence of the following characters support a theropod affinity of Dictyoolithus hongpoensis: relatively narrow spacing of nucleation sites, mammillary cones with blocky calcite cleavage, prismatic columns, and parallel laminae within the shell units. We reevaluate previous assignment of Dictyoolithus eggs to the Dinosauroid-spherulitic Basic Type and advocate discontinuation of Basic Type and Morphotype in fossil egg classification.
30117449|Three cingulates from the early Miocene Chucal Fauna of northern Chile (ca. 17.0-19 Ma; Santacrucian SALMA) are described. A dasypodid, represented by isolated osteoderms, a partial rostrum, and postcranial bones, resembles Stenotatus patagonicus (Eutatini), but is ca. 20% smaller (similar in size to Prozaedyus) and may represent a new Stenotatus species. Two isolated peltephilid osteoderms are referred to cf. Peltephilus sp. A new glyptodontid, Parapropalaehoplophorus septentrionalis, is represented by a mandible, ca. 25% of the carapace, a femur, and other postcrania. This new species differs from other glyptodontids in its dentition (triangular n1-3 and distobuccally elongate n2-3), mandible (unexpanded angle, vertical coronoid process), osteoderms (absent/poorly defined peripheral figures, large principal figure positioned along posterior edge), and femur (highly elevated greater trochanter). A second specimen may represent P. septentrionalis or a closely related species. No sloths have yet been collected at Chucal. A preliminary phylogenetic analysis of glyptodontids-the first for the group-suggests that Glyptatelinae and Propalaehoplophorinae are paraphyletic and that Parapropalaehoplophorus is an early diverging glyptodontid, not closely related to other Santacrucian species. The revised faunal list for Chucal, which includes 18 mammals and one frog, is depauperate compared to coeval Patagonian faunas. This fauna probably occupied a relatively open, seasonal habitat. Endemism in the Chucal xenarthrans parallels that in other mammal groups, indicating significant latitudinal provinciality in South America during the early Miocene. Furthermore, the record of a glyptodontid basal to a radiation matches patterns observed in other Chucal groups (e.g., chinchilline rodents, mesotheriine notoungulates).
4523131|The herpetofaunas of the Egelhoff site (Miocene: Barstovian) of north-central Nebraska are revised; they include at least two salamanders, 11 anurans, five turtles, five lizards, and 11 snakes. 15.4% of 26 genera in the herpetofauna and 88% of 16 genera in the mammalian fauna are extinct. Among the herptiles, snakes have much the highest generic extinction (40% of 10). The herpetofauna has extralimital eastern, southern, and western forms, perhaps reflecting less continental zonation of rainfall than at present. Extralimital southern forms, such as Geochelone, suggest mainly frost-free winters. The ecological setting appears to have been a quiet pool of water surrounded by marshy grasses, a gallery woodland, and finally a prairie community.
4523101|Screen washing of matrix from a site in the lower part of the White River Formation in the Flagstaff Rim area of central Wyoming has yielded a sample of lagomorph teeth described as Palaeolagus primus, new species. The teeth are lower crowned than those of the geologically younger P. temnodon and higher crowned than those of the geologically older Mytonolagus wyomingensis. They are intermediate also in size and in some morphological characters. The temporal and morphologic series Mytonolagus petersoni, M. wyomingensis, P. primus, and P. temnodon can be interpreted as a phylogenetic series.
4524416|New rhizodontid pectoral girdle and fin material from Queensland, Australia (Middle Paddock site, Ducabrook Formation, Lower Carboniferous) includes cleithra, clavicles, anocleithra, scapulocoracoids, a humerus, an ulna, and a probable ulnare. The morphology of the humerus, including an enlarged pectoral process and a ball-shaped caput humeri, is comparable to humeri assigned to Strepsodus. This confirms the previous assignment of cleithra and clavicles from Middle Paddock to this genus and thus the presence of Strepsodus in eastern Gondwana. Based on examination of the new pectoral elements from the Ducabrook Formation, we provide new characters for an emended diagnosis of Strepsodus.
20490960|Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) is prevalent among extant vertebrates and presumably was as common among fossil archosaurs. Here, we test the hypothesis that femur shape is a reliable indicator of sex among archosaurs using linear and geometric morphometric analyses on a large sample of sexed Alligator mississippiensis femora. Linear regression of femoral dimensions onto femur length in alligators shows that male femora are the largest and stoutest in midshaft and articular dimensions, whereas females show more variation in their midshaft dimensions. Using thin-plate splines analyses, regression of partial warps onto alligator femur length revealed that with increasing size the midshaft expands whereas shaft torsion diminishes, that femur shape differs according to sex, and that females show the maximum amount of shape variation at a size 72% that of the largest males. However, sexual dimorphism accounts for only 3% of the total femur shape variation in the sample. Differences in reproductive physiology (e.g, shelling eggs in females) may account for some of the fine morphological differences between males and females. However, size and individual variation appear to effect femur shape the most. These results have significant implications for inferring fossil archosaur sex from femoral dimensions and shape.
25835813|The first cranial and upper dental remains of a proterotheriid referred to Neolicaphrium cf. N. recens Frenguelli, 1921, are described from the late Pleistocene of northern Uruguay (Sopas Formation). An isolated molariform from the Pleistocene of northeastern Pampean Argentina is considered as Neolicaphrium sp. It is the last surviving Pleistocene Proterotheriidae. An expanded diagnosis of this genusbased until now only on mandibular charactersis provided. The following combination of characters distinguish it from other genera of proterotheriids for which characters of the skull have been described: dorsal surface of skull almost parallel to the occlusal surface of the cheek teeth series; relatively large orbits and diastema; very large caniniform upper incisors; upper premolars and molars relatively low crowned; P2 nearly quadrangular; molariforms (at least P4 and M13) with anterolingual cingulae; anteroposteriorly short upper molar series; M13 with metaconule reduced to a small transverse crest connecting the hypocone to the metacone; hypocone reduced (or nearly absent), particularly in M3; M3 located below the orbit. A principal component analysis places it near the smallest species of proterotheriids, which were separated very well along the second component, usually related to shape.
4524544|The dental attachment site histology and gross morphology of Dinilysia patagonica, a Cretaceous terrestrial snake, is examined in a thin section through the tissue-filled mesial-distal region between tooth positions of a left maxilla, and other partial tooth-bearing bones with teeth. We observed compact zonal bone and cancellous bone forming the maxilla, and alveolar bone (a woven-fibered bone) lining the tooth socket and filling the region between tooth positions. The discovery of alveolar bone in D. patagonica is significant because alveolar bone was found previously in only one other group of squamates, mosasaurs (extinct large marine lizards), and other amniotes with a thecodont tooth-attachment anatomy (archosaurs, mammals). The presence of alveolar bone in D. patagonica, associated with the recent finding of alveolar bone and other tissues associated with thecodonty (alveolar bone, cement, periodontal ligament) in mosasaurs, suggest that these tissues might be broadly distributed among squamates. Dinilysia atagonica is inferred to have a hinged tooth-attachment type, based on the tooth socket morphology and relationship between preserved teeth and the tooth-bearing bone.
4523805|New placoderm fishes are described from a black shale lens in the Famennian Witpoort Formation, near Grahamstown, South Africa. Arthrodires include a new species of Groenlandaspis, G. riniensis sp. nov., a new genus of groenlandaspidid, Africanaspis doryssa gen. et sp. nov., and a new species of the antiarch Bothriolepis, B. africana sp. nov. This is the first record of the ubiquitous genera Bothriolepis and Groenlandaspis from the African continent. The South African placoderm fauna has demonstrable links with the eastern Gondwana faunas in the close affinity of the Bothriolepis africana with B. barreti of Antarctica, and the high diversity of groenlandaspid species, especially the presence of a very high crested form having affinities to Tiaraspis.
4523903| A new genus and species of sphenodontian lepidosaur, Zapatadon ejidoensis, is described, based upon a nearly complete skull of a posthatchling specimen from the late Early Jurassic La Boca Formation, Tamaulipas, Mxico. It is diagnosed by its extremely small size, the presence of a depression around the hatchling tooth series on the dentary, an expanded prefrontal that surrounds most of the dorsal process of the maxilla, and a broad jugal that nearly excludes the maxilla from the orbit. A phylogenetic analysis of its relationships supports the hypothesis that it is among the closest relatives of the only extant sphenodontian, Sphenodon. However, the relationships of Z. ejidoensis could not be resolved with respect to Eilenodontinae, Opisthias, and a Cynosphenodon-Sphenodon clade. The most significant character diagnosing the clade composed of these five taxa is wear facets indicative of propalinal mandibular movement. /// Un nuevo gnero y especie de esfenodonte, Zapatadon ejidoensis, de la Formacin La Boca (parte tarda del Jursico Temprano), Tamaulipas, Mxico, es descrito con base en un crneo casi completo de un especimen posteclosionado. Difiere de otros esfenodontes en su extremo reducido tamao, la presencia de una depresin en el rea de la dentadura de eclosin, un prefrontal que cubre la mayora del proceso dorsal de la maxila, y un yugal ancho que casi excluye a la maxila del margen orbital. Un anlisis filogentico sugiere que el nuevo gnero est entre los parientes ms cercanos de Sphenodon, nico gnero sobreviviente. Sin embargo, las relaciones de Z. ejidoensis no pueden ser resueltas con respecto a Eilenodontinae, Opisthias, y el clado Cynosphenodon-Sphenodon. Entre los caracteres diagnsticos ms significantivos del clado compuesto por estos cinco taxa es la presencia de modificaciones relacionados a los movimientos mandibulares propalneos. 
25835804|Wumengosaurus delicatomandibularis Jiang et al., 2008, is restudied on the basis of three new specimens. Many elements of the skeleton that were either briefly or not described at all in the original study are detailed. With the additional information derived from the new specimens, we have revised the diagnosis of W. delicatomandibularis. A phylogenetic analysis further demonstrates that the Pachypleurosauria is not a monophyletic group and questions that W. delicatomandibularis is closely related to the Pachypleurosauria. W. delicatomandibularis might represent the basal-most member of a monophyletic clade that includes the Nothosauroidea and those taxa assigned to the 'Pachypleurosauria.' The five known specimens show morphological variation in W. delicatomandibularis, as in Keichousaurus and in pachypleurosaurs such as Neusticosaurus and Serpianosaurus.
41407655|The Manning Canyon Shale Formation (upper Mississippian/lower Pennsylvanian) of Central Utah is well known for its diverse flora, but not its vertebrate fauna. The previously described vertebrates from the Manning Canyon Shale are a tooth from a cladodont shark, an acanthodian, and a microsaur. Here, the known vertebrate diversity is expanded with the description of early actinopterygian fishes. The actinopterygian ichthyofauna consists of two new species of 'palaeoniscoid' fishes, Spinofacia pectinatus and Guntherichthys lehiensis, and a new aeduellid species, Bourbonnella jocelynae. Spinofacia pectinatus is characterized by the presence of extra lateral gulars (the only documented case outside the Bear Gulch Limestone of Montana) and extra-oral denticles on various dermal bones of the skull, whereas Guntherichthys lehiensis is distinguished by scales with slightly rounded posterior margins. The new aeduellid, Bourbonnella jocelynae, is now the earliest known aeduellid and the second occurrence of this genus and family in North America. Its discovery supports biogeographical and paleoecological findings of a marine connection between North America and Europe. The previously proposed freshwater paleoenvironment of the Manning Canyon Shale Formation is called into question, especially when the ichthyofauna of the site is considered. It is also important to note that although not many actinopterygian specimens have been collected from the Manning Canyon Shale, those that have reveal a previously unknown diversity.
40864368|Among the archaic 'ungulates,' pleuraspidotheriids are well documented by skulls and postcranial elements of Pleuraspidotherium from Berru and Cernay-ls-Reims (late Paleocene, Paris Basin, France). Nevertheless, the relationships of pleuraspidotheriids (i.e., Pleuraspidotherium, Orthaspidotherium, and Hilalia) to other ' condylarths' have not been conclusively settled. They have been related to the typically North American Meniscotheriidae, Phenacodontidae, and Mioclaenidae, and even to the modern ungulates Perissodactyla and Artiodactyla. We here provide additional data, especially from the first complete skull of Orthaspidotherium, and highlight a mosaic of plesiomorphic and derived characters that distinguish Pleuraspidotheriidae from all other 'ungulates.' Their basicranial morphology approximates the ancestral morphotype of artiodactyls, but this results from symplesiomorphies. Pleuraspidotheriids exhibit the following synapomorphies: strong processes on the petrosal and enclosure of the facial nerve by the tympanic process and tympanohyal. Although their dentition resembles that of perissodactyls, meniscotheriids, and phenacodontids, the development of a pseudohypocone from the metaconule unambiguously shows that these similarities arose by convergence. Other evolutionary tendencies are the strong reduction of the hypoconulid, molarization of last premolars, development of lingual cingulum on M2, lengthening of the snout, and presence of diastemata. The pleuraspidotheriid tarsal morphology is primitive and not uncommon among ' condylarths' but presents some synapomorphies such as a calcaneum with a transverse cuboid facet and an astragalus with a squatting facet, cotylar fossa, and sustentacular hinge. Our study does not indicate a close relationship of Pleuraspidotheriidae with any of the archaic or modern 'ungulates' mentioned above. Instead, primitive arctocyonids could represent a possible ancestral morphotype for pleuraspidotheriids.
20627049|A newly discovered, small lepospondyl from the Early Permian of Oklahoma is demonstrated to be a new genus and species of ostodolepid 'microsaur' and is given the name Nannaroter mckinziei. The holotype and only known specimen comes from the Permian-aged fissure fill deposits in the Ordovician limestone from the Dolese Brothers Limestone Quarry, the richest, most diverse Paleozoic assemblage of exclusively terrestrial vertebrates. The superbly preserved skull is identified as the smallest known ostodolepid for its characteristic cranial architecture. Like all ostodolepids, it has a wedge-shaped skull with a high posterior profile and broad occipital surface, and a lower temporal emargination. Like ostodolepids, gymnarthrids, pantylids, and Rhynchonkos, the anterior rostrum is overturned, producing a recumbent snout. Despite its small size, Nannaroter has a massively ossified skull with deeply interlocking sutures designed to tightly resist anteroposteriorly directed forces. Medial laminae are present on all circumorbital bones producing thick orbital walls, and there is a well-developed ventral process of the frontal that is suturally attached to the sphenethmoid portion of the braincase anterodorsally. In addition, a massive, triangular pterygoid-epipterygoid complex reinforces the posterolateral wall of the braincase and contacts the tabular and parietal portion of the dermatocranium. This description is the first part of a revision of the ostodolepids, which will explore adaptations in amphibians to a fossorial lifestyle.
23251273|A full description of a complete and articulated, three-dimensionally preserved, placoderm fish, Materpiscis attenboroughi (Ptyctodontida), from the Late Devonian Gogo Formation is presented. The jaw articulation is unique in being preserved in situ, providing new morphological information on the articulation of the quadrate, metapterygoid, and labial skeleton. In addition, separate hyoid and opercular cartilages are identified, thus confirming their presence for the first time within placoderms. Preserved orbital ossifications indicate an anteriomesial orientation of this braincase region. The complete scapulocoracoid provides additional morphological information on the pectoral fin articulation. A new specimen of Austroptyctodus gardineri preserving the anterior portion of the head and jaws allows for revised descriptions of the endocranium and visceral skeleton, including the most complete endocranial ossifications recovered to date. As well, elements of the labial skeleton not known previously in ptyctodonts are preserved. Small amounts of soft tissues are recovered from Materpiscis, and extensive postcranial body muscle from Austroptyctodus. This new material resolves several questions regarding cranial and postcranial morphology of the Ptyctodontida. Moreover, similarities in placoderm and chondrichthyan pelvic fins and reproductive structures (claspers) suggest early parallel expression of HoxD and sonic hedgehog genes (shh), potentially representing the first evidence for expression of these genes in placoderms.
30117460|The teeth of six dinosaur taxa (Carcharodontosauridae indet., Dromaeosauridae indet., Troodontidae indet., Brachiosauridae indet., Iguanodontoidea indet., and Nodosauridae indet.) are identified and described from the early Cenomanian of the Charentes region, western France. The composition and paleoecology of this coastal, insular fauna is discussed. The Charentes dinosaur assemblage shares affinities with Asiamerican and Gondwanan faunas. This clarifies and highlights the role of the European islands in the paleobiogeography of Cretaceous dinosaurs.
4523912|A new genus and species of hipposiderid is described from the Bitesantennary Site, Riversleigh, north-western Queensland, Australia. Xenorhinos halli, gen. et sp. nov., differs from all other hipposiderids in, among other features, its broad rostrum and interorbital region, exceptionally short palate, constricted sphenoidal bridge, and pronounced rotation of the rostrum. Its precise phylogenetic relationships remain obscure, but it appears to be part of an early hipposiderid radiation that includes species of Coelops, Cloeotis, Triaenops, and Rhinonycteris, and that is widely distributed throughout the Old World tropics. From analogy with living hipposiderids, the peculiar rostral and palatal morphology of X. halli is probably correlated with ultrasound production and emission, and, less certainly, with size and structure of the noseleaf.
4524393|Synaptomys morgani, sp. nov. is described from the early Pleistocene (ca. 1.0-1.6 Ma) of Florida. It is more primitive in certain features than Synaptomys cooperi and Synaptomys australis, and in one evolutionary scenario may be ancestral to both, assuming S. australis is distinct from S. cooperi. The schmelzmuster, or microscopic enamel prism banding pattern, is described for samples of extinct and extant bog lemmings from North America. Two hypotheses for the origin of Synaptomys are considered. The first, a revision of the Repenning and Grady concept of a rapid origin of Synaptomys from Mictomys, holds that the Cheetah Room population of Synaptomys from Hamilton Cave, West Virginia, evolved from Mictomys landesi or a related species, probably between 1.3 and 1.6 Ma. The second proposes that Synaptomys originated from a North American species similar to Plioctomys rinkeri. Based on current information, neither hypothesis can be rejected. Mictomys kansasensis from the Java l.f. of South Dakota appears more primitive than populations of this species from other early Pleistocene Great Plains localities, as the trailing edges of triangles in upper and lower molars in the Java sample retain thicker layers of lemming enamel. The "long" condition of the lower incisor (growing end of the incisor posterior to m3), previously assumed to be primitive, appears to be derived for Synaptomys.
20490990|A recent analysis of the vascularization of the pectoral fin in antiarchs indicated that they resembled jawless osteostracans rather than other jawed vertebrates, thereby challenging the monophyly of the class Placodermi. Examination of the evidence proposed to support this new hypothesis shows misinterpretation of well-established morphology in a range of antiarchs, with incorrect homologies being applied to conclude that the subclavian artery and vein originated in the back of the branchial chamber. The interpretation is rejected and evidence is summarized showing that pectoral fin vascularization in antiarchs conforms with that of other jawed fishes. The position of the antiarchs as a major subgroup of the placoderm fishes is confirmed, with four antiarch characters (external endolymphatic openings; palatoquadrate-suborbital plate complex; Meckel's cartilage-infragnathal connection; extensive postorbital endocranial processes) providing additional support for placoderm monophyly.
4524042|The East African Rift separates the northwestern and southeastern Ethiopian high plateaus, which are capped by massive Cenozoic volcanics overlying thick deposits of marine and nonmarine Mesozoic sediments. During geological mapping projects of the 1920s-1930s, a few Mesozoic vertebrate fossils were found on the southeastern plateau. In contrast, beginning in 1976, and then from 1993 to the present, paleontological field work in the Abay (Blue Nile) River gorge along the eastern edge of the northwestern plateau resulted in the discovery of fossil chondrichthyans (Priohybodus, Hybodus, Rhinobatos), osteichthyans (Lepidotes, cf. Pycnodus), dipnoans (Asiatoceratodus), chelonians (Pelomedusidae, Plesiochelyidae, Pleurosternidae), crocodylians (Goniopholis), dinosaurs, (cf. Acrocanthosaurus, Hypsilophodontidae), pollen and other microfossils documenting a coastal biota in part, if not entirely, of latest Jurassic (Tithonian) age. These fossils include new biogeographic records for Africa and document biostratigraphic range extensions. The Ethiopian Mesozoic fauna adds to the growing evidence of limited interchange of vertebrates between Africa and Western Europe during the transition from the Jurassic into the Cretaceous.
4524328|The rodents (Baluchimyinae and Fallomus) from the Bugti, Sulaiman, and Ladakh deposits (Indian subcontinent) were originally considered a distinct early Miocene group that arose via local evolution from the Eocene Chapattimyidae in the Indo-Pakistan province. The Bugti Member, the lowermost continental beds of the previously ascribed Miocene Chitarwata Formation, is now considered to be Oligocene. A new continental vertebrate locality from the basal part of the Bugti Member (Paali nala C2) has yielded an important early Oligocene small mammal fauna including a well-diversified rodent assemblage that allows revision of the age attributed to the classic Bugti rodent fauna. Additional specimens (mainly isolated teeth) allow a systematic review of Fallomus (Diatomyidae) and Hodsahibia ("Baluchimyinae"), and two new species are described for each genus (F. ginsburgi, sp. nov.; F. quraishyi, sp. nov.; H. gracilis, sp. nov.; and H. beamshaiensis, sp. nov.). The presence of several higher rodent taxa at Paali nala C2 suggest that there was not an extended period of mid-Tertiary faunal isolation on the Indian subcontinent, nor an abrupt turnover between Chitarwata and Lower Siwalik rodent faunas. "Baluchimyines," here considered Hystricognathi incertae sedis, are part of a diverse assemblage of hystricognathous rodents in South Asia at the end of the Paleogene. A close phylogenetic relationship between "baluchimyines" and earliest Asian hystricid rodents is plausible.
4524614|Two new species of tapiroid perissodactyls referred to Hesperaletes gen. nov. are described from the Uintan of southern California. Hesperaletes has a deeply retracted narial incision, which is an indicator of prehensile proboscis development. This feature also characterizes early Oligocene Protapirus from North America and has been used to diagnose Tapiridae. All late Uintan samples from San Diego County, California, are referred to H, borineyi sp. nov., but anomalous patterns of variability and morphological variation prohibit referral of much smaller early Uintan samples to a single species. Most of the early Uintan samples are referred to H. walshi sp. nov. with the exception of one sample, which is referred to cf. Hesperaletes. North American Protapirus and Hesperaletes show many cranial similarities, and phylogenetic analysis resolves them as members of an unnamed clade, implying that Hesperaletes is a tapirid.
42568546|Two nearly complete skeletons of the filter-feeding pterodactyloid Pterodaustro guinazui from the Lower Cretaceous of Argentina exhibit clusters of poorly sorted coarse sand to fine gravel inside the abdominal cavity. These stones are interpreted as ingested gastroliths (geogastroliths), which are commonly found in a variety of archosaurs (including birds) but have never before been reported in a pterosaur. The geogastroliths found in these Pterodaustro specimens are interpreted as having assisted in the digestion of hard food items such as 'shelled' crustaceans that are abundant in the fossil beds of this pterosaur. One of these specimens with geogastroliths has anterior mandibular teeth that are notably thicker than the posterior teeth and are somewhat procumbent. We suggest that these teeth might have facilitated the apprehension of fine gravel.
4523120|The Lower Miocene (MN 4) locality of Dolnice (West Czechoslovakia) has yielded remains of about 12 ophidian taxa: Scolecophidia indet., Bransateryx septentrionalis, n.sp., cf. Gongylophis sp. (Boidae), Palaeonatrix lehmani, Neonatrix nova, n.sp., Texasophis bohemiacus, n.sp., Coluber dolnicensis, n.sp., three different unidentified colubrine snakes (Colubridae), Vipera platyspondyla, n.sp., and Vipera antiqua, n.sp. (Viperidae). Several of the above snake genera are well known from other Miocene sites in West Europe and North America (Bransateryx, Neonatrix, Texasophis), while others represent recent genera of more isolated occurrence (Gongylophis, Vipera of the "Oriental vipers" group).
30126307|Almost 70 years after their discovery, more than 450 isolated avian bones from the Paleocene fissure filling of Walbeck are described. Fissuravis weigelti gen. et sp. nov. is represented by a coracoid with a very large cotyla scapularis and short processus acrocoracoideus and tentatively assigned to the palaeognathous Lithornithidae. Another coracoid of a large flightless bird, misidentified as a mammalian scapula before, is assigned to the Gastornithidae and is the earliest fossil record of this taxon. Most other bird bones from Walbeck belong to Walbeckornis creber gen. et sp. nov., which is represented by all major limb elements; this species resembles charadriiform birds and the 'gruiform' Messelornithidae, but its plesiomorphic morphology in combination with the poorly resolved higher level phylogeny of extant birds does not allow a definitive phylogenetic assignment. Several coracoids, humeri, and tarsometatarsi are assigned to Gradiornis walbeckensis gen. et sp. nov., which resembles some species of the Cariamae in overall morphology. A tarsometatarsus and a tentatively referred praemaxilla of the strigiform Berruornis are described as a new species, B. halbedeli. A few other unnamed taxa are represented by fragmentary remains. All of the sufficiently well-preserved avian taxa belong to terrestrial forms, and by its species poorness the Walbeck avifauna sharply contrasts with the very diverse avifaunas known from the earliest Eocene of Europe.
4524781|Whether the extinct crocodylians given the name Allognathosuchus represent a monophyletic assemblage remains controversial, and some have argued that Wannaganosuchus brachymanus Erickson, 1982 is a form of Allognathosuchus. A revised phylogenetic analysis supports a set of relationships in which the type species of Allognathosuchus (A. polyodon) is closer to Alligator than it is to European "Allognathosuchus" or "Allognathosuchus" from the North American Paleocene, and a close relationship between Allognathosuchus and Wannaganosuchus is not supported. One European fossil assigned to Allognathosuchus, A. woutersi, is similar (and possibly referable) to Diplocynodon. Chrysochampsa mlynarskii can be distinguished from all other Early Tertiary alligatoroids, but its relationships to other members of the clade (and whether it should be placed within Allognathosuchus) are unclear. These results support multiple dispersal events of alligatorines from North America to Eurasia, and suggest that the cranial anatomy thought to distinguish forms such as Allognathosuchus is plesiomorphic at the level of Alligatoridae. The name Allognathosuchus should be applied in a restricted sense to Allognathosuchus polyodon and its closest relatives, with alternative generic names applied to distantly related "Allognathosuchus."
41515289|In the early 20th century, human skeletal remains were excavated from the Vero Beach site in southeastern Florida in direct stratigraphie association with extinct late Pleistocene mammals, including giant ground sloths, armadillos, carnivores, camels, tapirs, and horses. Despite the demonstrable stratigraphie context, prominent scientists during the early 20th century, such as the anthropologist Ales Hrdlicka, dismissed these human remains from the Vero Beach site as younger, intrusive burials. Although several other important late Pleistocene/early Holocene sites have been found elsewhere in North America with human and extinct faunal association, the Vero Beach site remains significant because of the quality of preservation of the human skeletal remains, and its geographic location in the southeast. More recent attempts to provide age control at Vero, e.g., using direct C dating of associated fossil bones, have so far been unsuccessful, including in this study, almost certainly resulting from diagenesis. Here we establish the relative ages of the fossils from Vero Beach by comparing the relative uptake of REEs (rare earth elements) during fossilization. The human and late Pleistocene mammal specimens found in situ from the same stratigraphie levels (stratum 2 and the base of stratum 3) at Vero Beach have similarly high REE concentrations and patterns; the concentrations are significantly greater than those from a control group of modern mammals from the same area. We therefore interpret these data to indicate that the humans are contemporaneous with late Pleistocene mammals from the Vero Beach site in Florida.
4523512|Two jaw fragments of small tetrapods from the Turkey Branch Formation of the Richmond basin (Newark Supergroup; Upper Triassic: lower to middle Carnian) of Virginia have highly distinctive dentitions. The robust, transversely broadened, and bicuspid teeth of Gomphiosauridion baileyae, gen. et sp. nov. support its placement in the Procolophonidae. The two cusps are linked by a pronounced transverse ridge, which divides the occlusal surface of the crown into two deep fossettes. The cusps have strongly fluted enamel. The heterodont dentition of Xenodiphyodon petraios, gen. et sp. nov. comprises transversely broadened, tricuspid posterior teeth and transversely compressed anterior teeth with distinct apical ridges. The posterior teeth of Xenodiphyodon closely resemble those of the alleged trilophosaurid taxa Tricuspisaurus thomasi and Variodens inopinatus from Upper Triassic fissure-fillings in southwestern England and ?Trilophosaurus jacobsi from the Upper Triassic Chinle Formation of Arizona. The latter is clearly distinct from the archosauromorph Trilophosaurus buettneri and is made the type species of the new genus, Chinleogomphius. All four genera may prove referable to the Procolophonia.
4523969|Coahomasuchus kahleorum, gen. et sp. nov. is a small (<1 m long) aetosaur from the Upper Triassic Colorado City Member of the Dockum Formation in West Texas. The holotype consists of a nearly complete articulated skeleton, including a well-preserved dorsal and ventral carapace. Several postcranial features diagnose Coahomasuchus, including: dorsal paramedian plates considerably (3.25:1) wider than long, unflexed, lack keels or horns, and bear faint sub-parallel to radial ornamentation, and lateral scutes that are also unflexed, flat, and bear a faint radial pattern of pits and grooves. Coahomasuchus co-occurs with the aetosaur Longosuchus and the phytosaurs Angistorhinus and Paleorhinus, indicating that it is of Otischalkian (early late Carnian) age. Detailed phylogenetic analysis reveals that several North American aetosaur taxa are junior subjective synonyms of previously named taxa. Lucasuchus was named from material from the type locality of Longosuchus and is a junior subjective synonym of that taxon. Acaenasuchus is known only from localities that also produce Desmatosuchus and probably represents juvenile individuals of Desmatosuchus. Stegomus, from various localities in the Newark Supergroup, is a junior subjective synonym of Aetosaurus, known previously from the German Keuper and Upper Triassic strata in Italy and Greenland. Paratypothorax andressi is properly called P. andressorum and is known from strata of Adamanian (latest Carnian) to Apachean (Rhaetian) age.
4524690|Two new brachythoracids are described from the Emsian limestones of the Lake Burrinjuck area, both based on skull remains. They are the largest and most advanced arthrodires so far known from the fauna, and amongst the largest fishes recorded anywhere from the Early Devonian. Dhanguura johnstoni gen. et sp. nov. is based on a single incomplete skull with an estimated length of at least 40 cm, which possesses the derived character of a strongly T-shaped rostral plate, not recorded in any other arthrodire from the fauna. Cathiesichthys weejasperensis gen. et sp. nov. was of similar size, and shows a derived dunkleosteid type of development of the posterior skull margin. In both forms the paranuchal plates have narrow anterior margins, suggesting affinities with the family Homostiidae. Some new material of the genus Taemasosteus is illustrated for comparison. Skull characters used in phylogenetic analyses of brachythoracid arthrodires are reviewed; in Dhanguura johnstoni the similar overlap of the nuchal plate onto centrals, central plates onto preorbitals, and preorbital plates onto the rostral plate may reflect a single developmental pattern. The preorbital plates completely separated by the pineal and rostral plates are interpreted as a homoplasy with coccosteomorphs, and instead of a preorbital embayment of the centrals, as seen in that group, this bone has a posterolateral process, as in Arenipiscis. Cathlesichthys is derived in the massive transverse nuchal ridge, one of three defining characters of the Eubrachythoraci, but shows no evidence of an anterior nuchal thickening.
4524324| An analysis of 80 thin-sections of the long bones of a relatively large and presumably adult specimen of Confuciusornis sanctus, a basal bird from the Early Cretaceous of China, reveals osteohistological patterns similar in some ways to those of extant birds of approximate size, but different in other ways. The fibrolamellar tissue typical of its cortex is commonly laid down by adult birds at standard estimates of 10 m or more radial growth per day. If this rate were characteristic of its ontogeny, Confuciusornis could have reached maturity in 20 weeks or less. These tissue patterns, read straight, suggest lower growth rates than in the larger immediate relatives of Confuciusornis, the coelurosaurian dinosaurs, as well as in large extant birds, taxa that reached their large adult size relatively quickly. However, tissues of the inner cortex, as well as new analyses of rates in living variants of the fibro-lamellar tissue complex, suggest far faster growth and an estimated time to maturation as short as 8- 13 weeks, longer than in most small living birds but commensurate with larger birds or relatively slowly growing birds such as tinami. 
4523923|Late Triassic strata of the Wolfville Formation in Nova Scotia, Canada, have yielded numerous craniodental remains referable to three new taxa of Procolophonidae: Acadiella psalidodon, Haligonia bolodon, and Scoloparia glyphanodon. Each taxon is diagnosed by distinctive features of its dentition. Contrary to recent claims, the Procolophonidae are polymorphic with regard to the presence or absence of dermal armor. An adult specimen of Scoloparia has a large nuchal "shield" composed of interdigitating osteoderms. A previous report of Leptopleuron from the Wolfville Formation is based on a juvenile individual of Scoloparia. Scoloparia is closely related to, but less derived than, Hypsognathus from the Norian of eastern North America and Leptopleuron from the Carnian of Scotland. The new procolophonid taxa from the Wolfville Formation greatly increase the recorded diversity of this group during the Late Triassic.
4523531|New specimens of Herrerasaurus ischigualastensis shed light on the structure and function of the pectoral girdle and forelimb in early theropod dinosaurs. As in tetanurian theropods, the scapulocoracoid has a broadly expanded acromion and strap-shaped scapular blade. The forelimb is less than one-half the length of the hind-limb and is specialized for prey capture and manipulation. The short proximal segments of the forelimb provide mechanical advantage and are marked by prominent tuberosities. The well-ossified carpus is divided into two functional units, one composed of the radiale and ulnare and the other composed of a centrale and distal carpals, and is designed functionally for dorsoventral extension and flexion of the manus against the forearm. The manus is longer than the humerus, radius, or ulna and is specialized for grasping and raking, as shown by the marked metacarpal extensor depressions, long penultimate phalanges, and trenchant unguals in digits I-III. Upon flexion or extension, the unguals of digits I-III converge. Manual digits IV and V are very reduced, and the phalangeal formula is 2-3-4-1-0. Increase in the length of the deltopectoral crest and decrease in the length of manual digit IV and loss of its terminal ungual constitute the only dinosaurian synapomorphies in the pectoral girdle and forelimb. Many previously cited dinosaurian synapomorphies in the pectoral girdle and forelimb cannot be substantiated. Several synapomorphies in the scapula and manus unite Herrerasaurus ischigualastensis with other theropods.
4523629|A new species of Varanus is described from the early Miocene (17.8 Ma) of Rusinga Island, Kenya. This is the earliest described appearance of the Varanidae in Africa and the oldest certain occurrence of the genus Varanus in the fossil record. Varanus rusingensis was a one to two meter-long lizard that probably favored riparian habitats in the lowland evergreen forest that covered much of western Kenya during the early Miocene. Tooth structure suggests that the Rusinga monitor fed extensively on molluscs as do several living species of Varanus.
4523529| We describe the holotype and referred material of the unusual Middle Triassic dinosaur precursor, Lagerpeton chanarensis. The autapomorphies of Lagerpeton chanarensis include the convex and fluted puboischial flange, hook-shaped femoral head, elongate femoral fourth trochanter, fused astragalocalcaneum, tall posterior ascending process on the astragalus, and functionally didactyl pes. Among ornithodirans, Lagerpeton chanarensis is more closely related to dinosaurs than are pterosaurs. We list tarsal and pedal synapomorphies shared by Lagerpeton chanarensis and other dinosauromorphs that are absent in pterosaurs and crurotarsal archosaurs. These include an increase in the relative size of the central metatarsals and subparallel orientation of pedal digit V. There is no evidence that Lagerpeton and other small-bodied dinosauromorphs in the Los Chaares fauna, namely "Lagosuchus" lilloensis, comprise a monophyletic group. The digitigrade pes and the elongate and erect hind-limbs of basal pterosaurs and dinosauromorphs suggest that an obligatory bipedal posture had evolved in early ornithodirans. In extant vertebrates, obligatory bipedal posture is often associated with either cursorial or saltatory locomotor habits. Although these two locomotor patterns are difficult to distinguish on skeletal traits alone, the anteriorly inclined dorsal neural spines, small pelvic girdle, fused proximal tarsals, and very narrow didactyl pes in Lagerpeton chanarensis suggest that it may have been a saltator. 
4524667|One of the most enigmatic species of North American mosasaur, Platecarpus planifrons (Upper Coniacian-Lower Santonian), is re-diagnosed based on reference to the holotype, a new and very well-preserved skull (UALVP 24240), and several other less complete specimens. P. planifrons, once considered a nomen vanum, is diagnosed by a number of characters: separation of prefrontal and postorbitofrontal on ventral surface of frontal; dorsal surface of frontal planar with no mid-sagittal keel; width of preorbital region of frontal greater than interorbital width; frontal with paired posteromedian flanges; anterodorsal border of quadrate with distinct notch; stapedial pit narrow and keyhole shaped. The unexpected preservation of paired septomaxillae and the presence of a clear and well- defined vomerpterygoid contact in UALVP 24240 are reported. These new osteological data for P. planifrons permit re-evaluation of the species composition of the genus. Arguments are presented for the synonymy of P. coryphaeus with P. ictericus, while retaining the latter as distinct from the generic type, P. tympaniticus. Platecarpus cf. P. somenensis is tentatively retained. Thus, four species of Platecarpus from the Western Interior Seaway of North America are recognized.
4524734| The common pyrothere of Salla, Bolivia (Deseadan, late Oligocene) is described as a new species, Pyrotherium macfaddeni. It is distinguished by its small size (linear dimensions but two-thirds those of Pyrotherium romeroi) and pi-shaped upper premolars. Recovery at Salla of the first known calcaneum of Pyrotherium permits the description and analysis of the proximal tarsus. It is distinctive by the pronounced dorsoventral compression of the calcaneal tuber and similar flattening of the astragalar trochlea, concavity of the ectal facet of the calcaneum, and extreme reduction of contact between the calcaneum and the cuboid. These derived characters were not seen in any other mammal examined except the embrithopod Arsinoitherium from the Tertiary of Africa. Whether this is due to common ancestry or the unusual mode of locomotion used by these animals (graviportal and plantigrade) remains to be seen. This more complete study of the tarsus of Pyrotherium fails to support the proposed relationship of pyrotheres with the Xenungulata. /// Se describe una nueva especie del piroterio ms comn de Salla, Bolivia (Deseadense, Oligoceno Tardo), Pyrotherium macfaddeni. Se lo puede reconocer por su tamao mas pequeo (dos tercios lineares de 10s de Pyrotherium romeroi) y por 10s premolares superiores en forma de letra pi (). Se describe el primer calcneo conocido de 10s pirotridos y se comenta sobre su morfologa funcional y anatoma comparada. Su tarso proximal es muy distintivo por la compresin dorsoventral, por su concavidad de la faceta externa del calcneo y por la reduccin profunda del 'ea de contacto entre el calcneo y cuboideo. Estas caractersticas no han sido observadas en ningun otro mamfero, salvo en el embritpodo Arsinotherium, del Tercerio de Africa. No podemos asegurar si esto significa un ancestro comun o que tuvieron un modo inusual de locomocin (graviportal y plantgrade). Este estudio, el mas completo de los tarsales de pirotridos, no apoya la proposicin sobre una relacin entre los pirotridos y Xenungulata. 
41515280|A new phytosaur taxon from Petrified Forest National Park, Arizona, is here described based on cranial material from a single individual. This specimen previously was included in an extensive phylogenetic analysis, and it was found to possess a combination of character states that differs from all known phytosaur taxa in addition to two autapomorphies within the braincase and an autapomorphy of the mandible. The new taxon adds to the taxonomic diversity recognized from the Sonsela Member of the Chinle Formation. The continued increase in phytosaur diversity emphasizes the need to more accurately characterize and identify taxa within a phylogenetic systematic context in order to produce a more refined signal for biostratigraphic correlations, biochronologic inferences, and faunal dynamics during the Late Triassic.
4524015|The earliest representatives of Theridomyidae (belonging to the subfamilies Issiodoromyinae, Theridomyinae, Sciuroidinae, Pseudosciurinae, and Remyinae) from the Middle to Late Eocene (MP 13-17) have a plesiomorphic pauciserial incisor schmelzmuster. Within Issiodoromyinae at least since the Early Oligocene (MP 22) a fully uniserial schmelzmuster is developed. Pseudoltinomys phosphoricus (Issiodoromyinae, MP 17) exhibits a schmelzmuster with irregular decussation of prisms most probably derived from pauciserial Hunter-Schreger bands (HSB). Within Theridomyinae, the genus Theridomys retains the primitive pauciserial schmelzmuster with somewhat thinned HSB. In the genera Blainvillimys and Archaeomys, convergent to Hystricognathi and derived Ctenodactyloidea, a schmelzmuster with pseudo-multiserial HSB was developed (MP 23-30). This condition includes a number of clear differences to the schmelzmuster with multiserial HSB found in the incisors of hystricognath rodents: lower HSB thickness, lower angle of interprismatic matrix (IPM) in the portio interna (PI), and a much thicker portio externa (PE). As in this pseudo-multiserial enamel, the uniserial schmelzmuster in the Theridomyidae remains comparatively primitive, and in its HSB only a stage with acute angular IPM is achieved. Patriotheridomys (Theridomyinae) and Ectropomys (Oltinomyinae) have vertically oriented HSB. There exists a close correspondence between the grade of hypsodonty of the cheek teeth and the development of uniserial and pseudo-multiserial HSB in the incisor enamel from the plesiomorphic pauciserial condition. Theridomyidae split off from basal rodent clades (Ischyromyoidea or Ctenodactyloidea).
40864393|Although they have been considered distinct genera for over a century, ontogenetic analyses reveal that Triceratops and "Torosaurus" actually represent growth stages of a single genus. Major changes in cranial morphologyincluding the opening of parietal fenestrae and the elongation of the squamosalsoccur rapidly, very late in Triceratops ontogeny and result in the characteristic 'Torosaurus' morphology. This report presents the results of a 10-year field study of the dinosaurs of the Hell Creek Formation in Montana and is based on a collection of over 50 specimens of Triceratops, including over 30 skulls, which have been amassed in that time, in addition to specimens from numerous other North American museums. This large sample of individuals reveals the full ontogenetic spectrum of Triceratops. The synonymy of Triceratops and 'Torosaurus' contributes to an unfolding view of extremely reduced dinosaur diversity just before the end of the Mesozoic Era.
4524546|An internal mandibular fenestra and chamber are found in many fossil hyracoids. The internal mandibular fenestra is located on the lingual surface of the mandibular corpus and opens into a chamber within the mandible. The mandibular chamber is maximally developed in late Eocene Thyrohyrax meyeri and early Oligocene Thyrohyrax domorictus from the Fayum Province of Egypt. The function of this chamber is unknown as it is not found in extant hyraxes, nor is it known to occur in any other mammal. In Thyrohyrax, this feature appears to be sexually dimorphic because it is confined to roughly one half of the specimens that otherwise cannot be separated by dental characteristics or measurements. It has been suggested that the chamber is found in females based on the presumed distribution of this character in other fossil hyracoids. Fossils from Fayum Quarry L-41, preserving the sexually dimorphic anterior dentition, show that, in Thyrohyrax meyeri and Thyrohyrax domorictus, the internal mandibular chamber is found in males. In Thyrohyrax litholagus, an internal mandibular fenestra and inflated mandibular chamber occurs in males whereas females show the variable presence of an internal mandibular fossa or fenestra but lack an expanded chamber. Other genera show differing patterns of sexual variation in which some Fayum hyracoids have an internal mandibular fenestra in both sexes but with the greatest development of the mandibular chamber occurring in males. We review functions proposed for the internal mandibular chamber and suggest that it housed a laryngeal air sac that may have had a vocal function by acting as a resonating chamber.
4524317|Vertebrate skeletons, particularly fossils, commonly have damaged, distorted, or missing structures. Because multivariate morphometric methods require complete data matrices, there are two possible solutions: to omit the specimens or characters having missing values, or to estimate missing values from the remainder of the data. Omission of specimens or characters reduces the data available for analysis, and thus the power to detect patterns or differences. Univariate and bivariate-regression methods are known to reduce the total variance of the data, and thus are not considered here. We compared the two most common multivariate methods: expectation- maximization (EM), which uses the covariance matrix directly, and principal- component (PC) estimation, based on regression of characters on principal components. Performance was evaluated by computer simulation of randomly introduced missing data in constructed data sets of known structure, and in several complete fossil (Pterodactylus skeleton) and recent {Alligator skeleton, Canis skull) data sets. The EM and PC methods displayed consistent and similar patterns of behavior for varying combinations of specimens and characters and across a broad range of amounts of missing data. Reliability was greatest for moderate numbers of characters (6-12) and larger sample sizes. For fewer characters the maximum amount of missing data that can be predicted increases substantially, but with a decrease in reliability. Both methods produce accurate estimates of missing values, but EM estimates are more precise. EM also outperforms the PC method in the maximum proportion of missing values that can be reliably estimated (almost 50% for small numbers of characters").
42568630|Recent discoveries have shown that non-dinosaurian dinosauromorphs were morphologically diverse, globally distributed, and have a stratigraphic range extending into the Upper Triassic. Silesauridae, the sister group to Dinosauria, contains at least seven species. Here we describe Lutungutali sitwensis, gen. et sp. nov., the first silesaurid from the upper portion of the Ntawere Formation of the Luangwa Basin, Zambia. The upper Ntawere Formation has been correlated with subzone C of the Cynognathus Assemblage Zone of the Karoo Basin in South Africa and the Lifua Member of the Manda beds in the Ruhuhu Basin in Tanzania, both of which are considered Anisian in age and the latter has yielded the silesaurid Asilisaurus kongwe. The results of our phylogenetic analysis, including a new pelvic character, allies Lutungutali with Upper Triassic silesaurids such as Silesaurus, Sacisaurus, and Eucoelophysis rather than with the possibly coeval Asilisaurus. The Zambian silesaurid shares a laterally oriented brevis fossa on the ilium and a transversely thin ischium in cross-section with Upper Triassic forms. Silesaurids were more diverse during their early evolution in the Anisian than previously suspected. Lutungutali and Asilisaurus are the two oldest known members of the bird-line archosaurs represented by body fossils. Together they show that a subclade of bird-line archosaurs was diversifying soon after its origin, building further support for the rapid diversification of Archosauria in the wake of the Permo-Triassic extinction.
4523563| A new genus and species of Late Cretaceous (Coniancian-Santonian) birds, Neuquenornis volans, is described. This new taxon is known from a fairly complete, articulated specimen from the Ro Colorado Formation of northwestern Patagonia. Synapomorphies of the humerus, radius, ulna, coracoid, femur, tibiotarsus, tarsometatarsus, and thoracic vertebrae, support its allocation to the Enantiornithes. The tarsometatarsal structure of Neuquenornis refers it to the Late Cretaceous family Avisauridae. The structure of the wing and pectoral girdle of Neuquenornis indicates that it was an active flyer, an aptitude also inferred for the El Brete enantiornithines from the Upper Cretaceous Lecho Formation of northwestern Argentina. The pedal structure of Neuquenornis and Soroavisaurus from El Brete, indicates that avisaurids were capable of perching in trees. 
4524672|The dicynodont species " Cryptocynodon" parringtoni von Huene, 1942 was described from a single poorly preserved specimen collected from the Upper Permian Kawinga Formation, Ruhuhu Basin, Tanzania. No additional specimens have been referred to the species since its erection. Two new specimens of "C." parringtoni, which were collected from the Kawinga Formation in 1933, are described. The holotype and new specimens share tusks, the absence of postcanine teeth, a shortened snout, relatively large palatines that contact the premaxillary secondary palate, a blade-like mid-ventral vomerine plate, and an intertuberal ridge between the basisphenoid-basioccipital tubera. The new specimens also allow the description of many previously unknown characters of the species, including an intertemporal region in which the postorbitals extensively overlap the parietals but are relatively horizontally oriented for most of their width; the presence of paired anterior palatal ridges; the absence of a labial fossa; the presence of palatine pads that are rugose posteriorly, but smoother where they contact the secondary palate; the presence of a dorsal process on the anterior end of the epipterygoid footplate; markedly shortened dentary tables; the presence of a posterior dentary sulcus; and the presence of a slit-like mandibular fenestra. Size and proportional differences between the holotype and new specimens suggest that the former is a juvenile. The morphology of the new specimens demonstrates that "C." parringtoni is not part of Cryptocynodon, Pristerodon, or Diictodon, and the species is referred to a new taxon, Katumbia, gen. nov. A phylogenetic analysis suggests that Katumbia is a member of the large clade that includes Tropidostoma and Kannemeyeria, although its exact position within the clade is uncertain. Confirmation that Katumbia parringtoni, comb, nov., is a distinct, valid dicynodont species that is endemic to Tanzania reinforces the uniqueness of the Ruhuhu fauna and provides further evidence of provinciality among Late Permian terrestrial vertebrates.
4523236|The two syntypes of Alectrosaurus olseni Gilmore, 1933, are redescribed and found to belong to two theropod families. One syntype, which includes a virtually complete hind limb, was correctly diagnosed by Gilmore as a tyrannosaur and is recognized here as the lectotype of the species. Catalogued under the same number are two small manual unguals that were associated with the lectotype in the field and originally presumed to belong to the same individual. These are probably not the unguals of a tyrannosaur, however, and are only provisionally retained among the lectotype materials. The second syntype of Alectrosaurus olseni consists of three associated forelimb elements that were found approximately 30 m away from the lectotype and may, or may not, pertain to a single individual. None of these materials is tyrannosaurid as originally thought, and they are all tentatively referred to the Segnosauridae Perle, 1979. Four small vertebrae were associated with the forelimb elements in the field and are described for the first time. These vertebrae are tentatively regarded as belonging to a single individual that is distinct from the individual or individuals represented by the forelimb elements. We provisionally identify them as the caudal vertebrae of a small theropod dinosaur that is not referable to either the Tyrannosauridae or Segnosauridae. They bear some resemblance to the proximal caudal vertebrae of Deinonychus, but also to the middle caudal vertebrae of the sauropodomorph Plateosaurus.
4524229|Clarkforkian late Paleocene freshwater limestone from the Clarks Fork Basin, Wyoming, has yielded four specimens of the plesiadapiform paromomyid, Acidomomys hebeticus gen. et sp. nov. A. hebeticus has a strong metaconid on p4, a small double-rooted p3, and a very diminutive i2. Presence of p3 and i2 is primitive, and their retention in A. hebeticus suggests that this taxon is part of a previously unknown lineage that diverged from other paromomyids by the early or middle Paleocene. Acidomomys hebeticus is represented by virtually complete upper and lower dentitions, all from less than fully mature individuals, with teeth at one of three stages of development. The dental eruption sequence differs from that of other plesiadapiforms in having p3 erupt before p4 (p3 erupts after p4 in microsyopids, and p3 and p4 erupt simultaneously in plesiadapids). A. hebeticus differs from Plesiadapis and primitive primates, in which the premolars erupt after m3 is in place, in having p3/P3 erupt before or at the same time as that of m3/M3. It is similar to Plesiadapis in having p4 erupt after the molars are in place, a condition considered primitive in primates. While these differences in dental eruption sequence between representatives of Paromomyidae, Microsyopidae, and Plesiadapidae could be phylogenetically significant, they may instead reflect adaptive differences in dental morphology, facial architecture, or life history.
40666191|A new genus and species of captorhinid reptile from the Lower Permian Waggoner Ranch formation of northcentral Texas, Reiszorhinus olsoni, is described on the basis of well-preserved cranial material. The holotypic specimen, consisting of a partial skull and mandible, was misidentified by S. W. Williston in 1917 as Labidosaurus hamatus. Autapomorphies of the new taxon include recurved teeth and the possession of an extremely large Meckelian foramen on the medial surface of the lower jaw. The new taxon retains the primitive condition of a single row of dentary and maxillary marginal teeth. It is distinguished from other single-tooth-rowed captorhinids, with the exception of Labidosaurus hamatus, by its large size, and it lacks the marked cheek expansion found in other large captorhinids. PAUP and Bayesian analyses suggest the new genus is the most basal of described captorhinid genera with the exceptions of Romera, Concordia, and Protocaptorhinus. The description of a new, large, single-tooth-rowed form suggests that, in addition to multiple tooth rows, relatively larger size evolved more than once in the basal reptilian family Captorhinidae.
40666196|Body masses for 14 species of pterosaur spanning four orders of magnitude were estimated using three-dimensional, digital models. The modeled taxa comprised seven paraphyletic 'rhamphorhynchoids': Anurognathus ammoni, Dimorphodon macronyx, Eudimorphodon ranzii, Jeholopterus ningchengensis, Preondactylus buffarinii, Rhamphorhynchus muensteri, and Sordes pilosus; and seven pterodactyloids: Anhanguera santanae, Dsungaripterus weii, Pteranodon longiceps, Pterodaustro guinazui, Pterodactylus sp., Quetz alcoatlus northropi, Tupuxuara longicristatus. The reliability of the mass estimation methods were tested with equivalent models of six extant species of bird with masses that spanned three orders of magnitude. The close agreement between model bird mass estimates and those of the living forms provides a level of confidence in the results obtained for the extinct pterosaurs. The masses of the axial body regions (tail, trunk, neck, head), limbs, and patagia of the pterosaurs were individually estimated and distinct differences in relative body proportions were found between species. Allometric relationships between body length and wingspan and body mass were derived for ' rhamphorhynchoids' and pterodactyloids to facilitate the estimation of body masses for other pterosaurs known from incomplete material, and these relationships also highlight differences in phyletic shape change between the two groups. The estimated mass for the largest pterosaur known, Quetz alcoatlus northropi, exceeds the previous highest estimates by more than 100%, and it is argued that this extremely large pterosaur is better interpreted as a secondarily flightless form.
4524743|The fish described here is from the Madongshan Formation, Liupanshan group (Early Cretaceous), Tongxin County, Ningxia Autonomous Region, China. It is assigned to Osteoglossomorpha because it has the following synapomorphies of the superorder: a full neural spine on the first preural centrum, a primary bite between parasphenoid and basihyal, and absence of a supraorbital. This fish differs from other osteoglossomorphs in having a very short premaxilla with only three teeth, of which one is exceptionally large, and an unusual caudal skeletal in which hypural 1 is fused to the first ural centrum and hypural 2 remains autogenous. A new name is proposed, Xixiaichthys tongxinensis gen. et sp. nov., based on the unique characters and a combination of other characters. The results of the phylogenetic analysis show that Xixiaichthys is the sister group of the Osteoglossiformes ([[Notopterus + Osteoglosswn] + [Huashia + Kuntulunia]]). Therefore, the new genus is referred to Osteoglossiformes.
42568648|Representative fossils of three extant lanternfish (Myctophidae) genera (Bolinichthys, Lampanyctus, and Myctophum) from the collections of Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County were identified, based on a combination of osteological and photophore characters. These specimens come from the upper Miocene Modelo Formation (Mohnian-Delmontian) of California, and represent the first skeletal records of Bolinichthys (otherwise identified as otoliths from the Late Miocene of Italy) and Myctophum body fossils in North America, and confirm that both modern myctophid subfamilies exhibited a cosmopolitan distribution by the late Miocene.
20491011|The paleoecology and palaeoethology of the Eurasian species of the extinct genus Cervalces are inferred by morpho-functional comparison with its living relative Alces alces. Most of the characters that differentiate A. alces from all other deer are shared by Cervalces: the peculiar morphology of the cheek teeth; the shape of the premaxillary tips; the long legs; the peculiar morphology of the femur; the extreme fusion of the tarsal elements; the peculiar articular surface of the third phalanx. The most important morpho-skeletal differences between the two genera are: the long nasal bones contiguous with the short premaxillary bones in Cervalces (whereas Alces has very short nasal bones not contiguous with the extremely long premaxillary bones); the stronger and more backward inclined ascending ramus of the mandible in Cervalces; the much wider span of antlers in Cervalces because of its longer beams; the different shape of the antler palmation; the stronger proximal ulna/radius connection in Cervalces. The close similarity between the morphological features of the dentition and postcranial skeleton of Alces and Cervalces suggests that they could have chewed the same kind of food and moved in the same way. However, their quite different facial skeleton and antler shape, should have played some ecological role, even if interpretation of such a role is difficult. Such wide antlers may possibly have served as display organs in open ground. Nevertheless, the common idea that Cervalces should have lived in more open environments than living moose is probably an oversimplification.
4523739|Although the great size and procumbency of the incisor teeth of many saber-toothed carnivorans have long been recognized, the potential functional significance of carnivoran incisor size and shape remains largely unexplored. Here, we explore upper incisor design and incisor arcade shape in living felids, canids, and hyaenids. In addition, we compare upper incisors of saber-toothed carnivorans with those of modern carnivorans and use these data to infer aspects of saber-tooth killing and feeding behaviors. Results demonstrate that the shape of individual upper incisors of extant carnivorans is intricately related to the dental arcade in which the teeth are rooted. Canids and hyaenids have robust incisors in parabolic arcades, whereas felid incisors are weaker, particularly in mediolateral bending, and are located in transversely linear arcades. It is proposed that the strength of the medial incisors is in part a consequence of arcade shape. Incisors in linear arcades can be weaker because they are better buttressed by adjacent incisors than is the case for incisors in curved arcades. Incisor strength in anteroposterior bending is better explained by differences in killing and feeding behavior. Arcade procumbency and incisor robusticity also appear to be common features of the upper incisors of saber-toothed carnivorans, although these features are variably developed. The upper incisors of saber-toothed felids tend to equal or exceed those of living (conical-toothed) felids in strength and are located in moderately parabolic arcades. By contrast, nimravids have massively constructed incisors in arcades that are markedly curved comparable to those of canids. We hypothesize that saber-tooths may have relied on their incisors more intensively than do living felids for prey stabilization during killing bites and for the ingestion of flesh during feeding.
4524147|A new species of dipnoan, Chirodipterus potteri, is described, based on a series of juvenile tooth plates with attached bone from two localities in New South Wales, Australia. Most of the material comes from the Upper Devonian (Fammenian) Coffee Hill Member of the Catombal Range, west of Orange, and some from the Upper Devonian (Frasnian) Paling Yard Formation, at Gap Creek. The new taxon provides additional insights into the fine structure and the development of chirodipterid tooth plates, and includes some anomalous specimens. Tooth plates are based on a form of interdenteonal dentine with irregular denteons containing circumpulpar dentine, surrounded by mantle dentine and enamel, and ankylosed to the underlying jaw bones. Analysis of the material indicates that the tooth plates of chirodipterid lungfish are not members of the dentine plated clade, but have tooth plates that are based, as in most other dipnoan species, on the fusion of radiating rows of initially separate cusps in the young juvenile to form a crushing or grinding structure in the adult.
4523284|Eight arvicolid species are present in the Java local fauna, Walworth County, South Dakota. They include Pliophenacomys, cf. P. osborni, cf. Hibbardomys marthae, Hibbardomys zakrzewskii, sp. nov., Mimomys dakotaensis, sp. nov., Ondatra annectens, Synaptomys (Mictomys) kansasensis, Guildayomys, cf. G. hibbardi, and Microtus (Phaiomys) pliocaenicus. This aggregation is unique and is part of one of the earliest local faunas on the continent with Microtus. A comparison of the Java insectivores, lagomorphs, and rodents with those from the late Blancan White Rock and middle Irvingtonian Cudahy local faunas of Kansas suggests that the Java fauna is of early Pleistocene age.
4523088|A fossa on the posterolateral side of the synapophysis of the sacral vertebra, a proximal condyle on the ilium, and the smooth fit of those two surfaces in articulation in a specimen of the mosasaur Clidastes, represent a unique sacroiliac contact. The mobility of this sacral arrangement may have enabled the pelvic girdle to be adducted to streamline the body and the hypothetical birth canal to be expanded. This configuration appears to support Williston's (1904) belief that mosasaurs were ovoviviparous.
41515282|For the first time an association of adult and juvenile rebbachisaurid sauropods is described. The material comes from the Early Cretaceous locality of Agrio del Medio (Neuqun, Argentina). The three specimens apparently formed a single group, and their death seems to have been almost simultaneous. The two juvenile specimens are represented by axial and appendicular bones. They show a close relationship with Zapalasaurus bonapartei, which comes from a different sector of the same basin, but which is approximately the same age. The discovery at Agrio del Medio suggests that rebbachisaurid sauropods displayed gregarious behavior. The paleoenvironments in which rebbachisaurids are normally recorded implies a greater tolerance toward extremely arid environments than that shown by macronarian sauropods.
30126310|The theory that the reduced postdentary bones and quadrate of non-mammalian cyndonts were not only the morphological homologues, but also the functional equivalents of the mammalian tympanic bone and ear ossicles is tested on the basis of detailed new information of a specimen of Chiniquodon. The anatomy is shown to be a compromise between the respective requirements for a persistent, though reduced, stress transmission function of a jaw articulation, and an acoustic transformation function of a middle ear. There was a sound pressure level transformer ratio of about 30, but the mass and compliances of the elements restricted sensitivity to low frequencies, up to perhaps 2 kHz. Neither an air-filled tympanic cavity, nor a dedicated tympanic membrane were present, and snakes and other modern reptiles lacking a tympanic cavity offer a better mechanical analogy than mammals for the ear function of a cynodont. The fully mammalian acoustic transformer system, with tympanic cavity and tympanic membrane, could only have evolved after the origin of the dentary-squamosal jaw articulation, and was correlated with miniaturisation in the lineage leading to basal mammaliaforms.
20061982|Nementchatherium senarhense, gen. et sp. nov. from the Middle-Late Eocene of Bir El Ater (Algeria) is described and assigned to the subfamily Herodotiinae (Macroscelidea). This genus and the other primitive elephantshrews are compared with the Louisininae (Hyopsodontidae, Condylarthra) from the Early Paleogene of Europe. These groups have been included in a phylogenetic analysis based on dental characters, in order to clarify the origin of Macroscelidea. Phylogenetic reconstruction suggests that Louisininae are belonging in the polyphyletic Hyopsodontidae except for Microhyus which is considered here as the sister-group the Macroscelidea. These results suggest a terrestrial interchange between Africa and Eurasia during the Early Eocene. The phylogenetic analysis suggests also that the Macroscelidea-Microhyus clade is closely related to the Proboscidea. Like molecular phylogenies, especially those concerning the African molecular clade (= Afrotheria), our results, provide evidence for a macroscelid-tethytherian relationship. However, if the Macroscelidea emerged from European "condylarth" at the Early Eocene as our data suggest, the Proboscidea are already differentiated in Africa during this period. Then, it seems that Macroscelidea and Proboscidea are paraphyletic. The assumption of a unique group of condylarthran type at the origin of Afrotheria (macroscelids, tethytherians, tubulidentates, tenrecid and chrysochlorid insectivores) cannot be excluded, but the current paleontological data do not fit with that hypothesis.
4523908|We report on the bone microstructure of a hypsilophodont and an ornithomimosaur from the Early Cretaceous, Otway Group of Dinosaur Cove in south-eastern Australia, which at the time lay well within the Antarctic Circle. Although subjected to the same environmental conditions, the dinosaurs exhibit different bone histology. The hypsilophodontid shows a continuous rate of bone deposition, while the ornithomimosaur has a cyclical pattern of bone formation. We interpret these varying patterns of bone microstructure as a reflection of different growth strategies of these dinosaurs.
40864350|Bony-toothed birds (Pelagornithidae) were among the largest volant birds, but their representatives from the upper size range have so far been known only from very fragmentary fossils. Here we report an exceptionally well-preserved giant species from the late Miocene of the Baha Inglesa Formation in northern Chile, in which most major limb bones are complete and uncrushed. The fossil has the longest wing skeleton of any bird, and its wingspan in life was at least 5.2 m. Mass estimates of 16-29 kg are, however, surprisingly low and within the range of large extant volant birds, or only moderately above. The fossil constitutes the most substantial record of the Pelagornithidae (bony-toothed birds), and is assigned to a new species, Pelagornis chilensis. It is one of the largest known pelagornithids and the three-dimensionally preserved bones allow recognition of many previously unknown osteological features, especially concerning the vertebrae, pectoral girdle, and limb elements. We revise the taxonomy of Neogene pelagornithids and propose classification of all Miocene and Pliocene species into a single genus, Pelagornis. Osteological features are highlighted in which giant Neogene Pelagornithidae differ from their smaller Palaeogene relatives.
4522869|Sixteen mammalian assemblages from the middle Paleocene (Torrejonian) to early Eocene (Wasatchian) of western North America have been studied to determine their species composition and diversity. Torrejonian and Tiffanian faunas are dominated by small mammals of archaic aspect, while larger forms predominate in Clarkforkian assemblages and remain common in the Wasatchian. Both Clarkforkian and Wasatchian faunas are characterized by immigrant taxa, including representatives of more modern groups of mammals. Torrejonian assemblages have many species, and species abundances are relatively equitably distributed. Early and middle Tiffanian samples reveal a significant drop in both species richness and evenness, with predominance of one or two species; but diversity may have increased in the late Tiffanian. Clarkforkian assemblages resemble early-middle Tiffanian ones in their low species richness and evenness. Wasatchian assemblages, however, are somewhat richer in species and show much greater equitability of species abundances, thus resembling Torrejonian samples. The hypothesis is proposed that the observed pattern of species diversity is in part related to climatic disturbances (specifically changes in temperature) in the northern Western Interior. Consistent with this interpretation is the record of Paleocene-Eocene megafloras, which shows similar changes in species diversity. Thus, high diversity in the Torrejonian and Wasatchian coincided with warm, equable conditions. Lower diversity in the intervening Tiffanian and Clarkforkian was probably related to cooler temperatures, although a slight warming trend seems indicated in the Clarkforkian. Species diversity in the Clarkforkian and Wasatchian was also influenced by competition and predation directly related to major faunal immigrations.
4523497|A new Late Cretaceous neosuchian crocodylomorph, Gilchristosuchus palatinus gen. et sp. nov., is described on the basis of a partial skull from the basal Campanian or uppermost Santonian Milk River Formation of southern Alberta. This species is diagnosed primarily by the posterior extension of the palatine well beyond the suborbital fenestra, leading to a posterior shift of the choana. The primitive entrance of the palatines into the choana excludes G. palatinus from the Eusuchia. The posteriorly positioned choana and the presence of the postorbital/parietal contact, however, indicate that the species is the most derived non-eusuchian crocodylomorph.
40666193|A comprehensive revision of Varanops brevirostris on the basis of a large, well-preserved specimen from a new Lower Permian locality in Texas provides valuable new anatomical information and additional autapomorphies for this varanopid synapsid taxon. These include the loss of the postorbital boss, the presence of a smooth transition between the dorsal and lateral surfaces of the postorbital, hypertrophied basipterygoid processes, the presence of deep, elongate lateral neural spine excavations, posterior dorsal vertebrae with dorsally tapered neural spines, and a deep groove proximal to the femoral fourth trochanter. Furthermore, this specimen is the first fully developed adult specimen of Varanops, and it preserves the most complete lower jaw of the taxon. A revised phylogenetic analysis places V. brevirostris as the sister taxon to the Varanodon-Watongia clade. A stratocladistic analysis assessing varanopid relationships by incorporating a stratigraphie character into the analysis recovers the same topology among varanodontines, but an alternate topology between mycterosaurines and Elliotsmithia longiceps.
4522878|The Early Cretaceous (Barremian-Aptian) lower vertebrate fauna from Galve, Spain, includes two hybodontid sharks, Hybodus parvidens and Lonchidion microselachos n. sp., as well as fragmentary remains of characteristic Mesozoic bony fishes. The salamander Albanerpeton cf. megacephalus (Prosirenidae) is most similar to Jurassic Portuguese specimens of this species. Galverpeton ibericum n. gen. et sp. (family incertae sedis) was probably a slim-bodied animal; it resembles the ambystomatoid-plethodontoid salamanders and is the earliest record of the more derived salamander groups. The first disarticulated specimens of the Upper Jurassic or Lower Cretaceous discoglossid frog Eodiscoglossus santonjae permit refinement of the diagnosis of this primitive frog. A variety of small reptiles is also present, including lizards, crocodilians and dinosaurs; the latter are notable in being represented by teeth of very small (young?) animals. The Galve assemblage includes primarily freshwater forms, and, based on a limited sample, shows broad similarities to other Early Cretaceous faunas in England and (to a slightly lesser degree) North America. It also seems to indicate the beginnings of endemism in the Iberian Peninsula and related areas at the beginning of the Cretaceous, a time when Laurasia was still a single unit.
4524253|Isolated cranial and postcranial elements represent a new genus and species of endemic crocodilian, Volia athollandersoni, from presumed Pleistocene cave deposits of Fiji. Preliminary phylogenetic assessment indicates that it is a mekosuchine crocodylid. This material sheds further light on the Pleistocene tetrapod fauna of the southwestern Pacific islands.
4523532|We describe the skull and neck of Herrerasaurus ischigualastensis from specimens discovered recently in the Upper Triassic Ischigualasto Formation of northwestern Argentina. The skull has a rectangular profile and a transversely narrow snout. Marked supratemporal depressions for jaw adductor musculature on the skull roof and a well-developed, sliding intra-mandibular joint suggest that Herrerasaurus ischigualastensis was an active predator. The neck is relatively slender with prominent epipophyses on all of the cervical vertebrae. Diagnostic features of the species include the semicircular shape of the antorbital fossa and the long, slender posterodorsal process of the dentary. Other features of the skull, such as the loss of the postfrontal and small post-temporal opening, constitute dinosaurian synapomorphies. These synapomorphies, however, remain equivocal at the level of Dinosauria because they cannot be evaluated in immediate dinosaurian outgroups for which cranial information is lacking. Comparisons of the skull and neck of Herrerasaurus ischigualastensis to other basal dinosaurs reveals several derived similarities with saurischians and, in particular, theropods. These synapomorphies include a subnarial foramen (between premaxilla and maxilla) shared with saurischians and an intra-mandibular joint shared with theropods. The cervical and cranial anatomy of Herrerasaurus ischigualastensis, however, is remarkably primitive compared to that in other basal dinosaurs.
42568679|A new species of bothriodontine anthracothere, Arretotherium meridionale, is described from the early Miocene (Arikareean North America Land Mammal Age) Las Cascadas fossil assemblage in Panama, Central America.Fossils of A. meridionale are the first record of an anthracothere from the New World Tropics. Among anthracotheres, A.meridionale is most similar to A. acridens from the middle Arikareean from Texas in having a relatively deep and robust jaw, high and sharp cusps on the lower molars, short c-pl diastema, and absence of a mesiolingual metacristid. A. meridionale differs from other species in being generally larger, two lower incisors (rather than three), prehypocristid never reaching the postprotocristid, more apical junction between postprotocristid and postmetacristid, mesiolingual entocristid transversely notching preentocrisitid, and transverse valley tapered lingually by prehypocristid. Although cladistic analysis of 28 anthracotheriids coded for 51 characters supports a relationship between A. meridionale and A. acridens, some presumably convergent dental characteristics are also similar to certain Oligocene-Miocene Eurasian bothriodontines. The presence of Arretotherium in the Las Cascadas Formation in Panama, and absence in the later Centenario Fauna, shows that primitive bothriodontines entered into Central America by the early Miocene before disappearing from the New World during the late early-middle Miocene.
4523416|The Ordovician Harding Sandstone has played an important role in studies of the environment of the earliest types of "ostracoderms" (armored jawless fish-like vertebrates). Such studies have concentrated on fossil collections from the type locality, a quarry near Canon City, Colorado, which contains a mixed fossil fauna of "ostracoderms" and marine invertebrates. This co-occurrence has been used in the past as evidence that the vertebrates from the Harding Sandstone were marine animals. Fossil associations alone, however, do not provide sufficient data for paleoenvironmental interpretations. It is also necessary to analyze depositional facies. A previously unpublished locality of the Harding Sandstone allows interpretations of depositional environments by sedimentary facies analysis. Vertebrate fossils of the Harding Sandstone are restricted mainly to supratidal and, to a lesser extent, intertidal deposits. They are most abundant in channelized, granular conglomerates, units devoid of marine invertebrate fossils. This suggests that the vertebrates lived in freshwater streams and rivers.
4524633|The evolutionary origin of the great white shark (Carcharodon carcharias) is unclear, with debate centering around two principal hypotheses. The first, based on similarity in tooth shape, claims that C. carcharias originated from a group of extinct mako sharks that includes Isurus hastalis. The second hypothesis, based mostly on cladistic evidence, claims that C. carcharias originated from the same lineage as the giant megatoothed sharks, sharing a close evolutionary ancestor with the extinct Carcharodon megalodon. To distinguish between the two hypotheses we performed several morphometric analyses. In the first analysis, we used Procrustes method and principal components analysis to quantify variation between C. carcharias, I. hastalis, and C. megalodon in four different positions within the dentition. The results indicate no significant difference in tooth shape between C. carcharias and I. hastalis. In the second analysis, correlating tooth size with age, we analyzed teeth from upper anterior and lower anterior positions. For both tooth positions, we show that the growth rate of C. carcharias is more congruent with the growth rate of I. hastalis than that of C. megalodon. Finally, we used scanning electron microscopy to show that the tooth serrations of C. carcharias are distinct from those of the megatooths and more similar in size to those of slightly serrated mako teeth. Taken together, these results indicate that C. carcharias originated from an extinct group of mako sharks and not from the megatoothed sharks.
42568657|We describe a new avian species, Qianshanornis rapax, gen. et sp. nov., from the middle Paleocene Wanghudun Formation of the Qianshan Basin in Anhui Province, China. The holotype consists of an incomplete articulated foot and a few associated bones, mainly of the leg, wing, and pectoral girdle. Qianshanornis rapax is characterized by a derived foot morphology and may have had a hyperextendible second toe, which has so far only been reported for some Mesozoic taxa. The new species is markedly different from all other known Cenozoic birds and is here classified in the new taxon Qianshanornithidae. The leg bones, especially the distal end of the tibiotarsus, most closely resemble those of Strigogyps (Ameghinornithidae) from the Eocene, and possibly Oligocene, of Europe, but unlike the latter, the much smaller Q. rapax appears to have had well-developed flight capabilities.
20627102|The great North American Pleistocene pantherine felid Panthera atrox has had a turbulent phylogenetic history, and has been claimed to show affinities to both the jaguar and the tiger; currently, it is most often regarded as a subspecies of the extant lion. The cranial, mandibular, and dental morphology of Panthera atrox was compared with those of extant lions, jaguars, and tigers using bivariate, multivariate, and shape analyses. Results indicate that the skull of Panthera atrox shows lion affinities, but also deviates from lions in numerous aspects. Mandibular morphology is more similar to jaguars and tigers and, as with cranial morphology, the mandible shows a number of traits not present among extant pantherines. Multivariate analyses grouped Panthera atrox separately from other pantherines. Panthera atrox was no lion, and cannot be assigned to any of the extant pantherines; it constituted a separate species. A possible scenario for evolution of P. atrox is that it formed part of a pantherine lineage that entered the Americas in the mid-Pleistocene and gave rise to the extant jaguar and Panthera atrox in the late Pleistocene of North America. These studies suggest that previous models of lion biogeography are incorrect, and although lions may have been present in Beringia, they did not penetrate into the American mainland.
23251307|Pterophocaena nishinoi, gen. et sp. nov. (Phocoenidae), from the upper Miocene Wakkanai Formation (9.29.3 Ma) in Hokkaido, northern Japan, is described. This is the oldest fossil phocoenid in the western North Pacific, thus extending the fossil record of Phocoenidae an additional approximately 4 million years in the region compared with the previous record. The holotype, composed of a partial skull, with right periotic and tympanic bulla and a postcranial skeleton, has the following apomorphic characters: absence of the premaxillary eminence; posterior half of the hamular process of the pterygoids not separated by palatines; prominent dorsolaterally projecting premaxilla in the facial area; supraorbital process of the maxilla steeply sloping ventrolaterally; posteriorly protruding temporal crest; anteroventrally narrowed and inverted teardrop-shaped temporal fossa; and several short ridges on the tympanosquamosal recess of the squamosal. A comprehensive cladistic analysis (66 ingroup taxa and 278 morphological characters) indicates that Pterophocaena is the most basal phocoenid yet discovered, and that Phocoenidae and Delphinidae are closely related. The discovery of Pterophocaena leads to a review of previous hypotheses for the origin of Phocoenidae, and indicates that phocoenids had already diversified in the Pacific Ocean by late Miocene.
4523989| The first holocentroid fish from South America, Pelotius hesselae gen. et sp. nov., is described from the Turonian of the Atlntida Formation, Pelotas Basin, southern Brazil. It is a small fish preserved in a dark gray neritic shale from a drill-core sample collected at a depth of around 4,000 m. The inclusion of P. hesselae in the Holocentroidei is supported by the presence of four spines in the anal fin, the penultimate one being the longer, and an expanded neural spine of the fourth preural centrum. Although preservation is insufficient to permit detailed morphological description of the skull and caudal skeleton, the high number of dorsal spines (10), the median suture in the posterior portion of the pelvic bone, and the presence of seven rays in the pelvic fin exclude Pelotius from the Trachichthyoidei, Stichocentridae and Pycnosteroididae and suggest its inclusion in the Holocentridae. On the other hand, it shares with the clade Erygocentrus + Tenuicentrinae + Myripristinae + Holocentrinae the apomorphic presence of two predorsals. Pelotius hesselae is distinguished from all other known holocentroids by having unusual coarse ornamentation in the anterior edge of preopercular and opercular, and lateral portion of the maxilla. 
4523301|The auditory ossicles and tympanic bulla of the Archaeoceti show little intergeneric morphological variation, and are similar to the ossicles of extant cetaceans in most respects. The attachment of the tympanic membrane is separated from its origin indicating that the Archaeoceti possessed an elongated, conical tympanic conus unique to cetaceans. The sigmoid process is an expansion of the anterior limb of the ancestral tympanic bone and is entirely ectotympanic in origin. Expansion of the sigmoid process is partially responsible for the elongation of the tympanic conus by spatially separating the manubrium of the malleus out of the plane of attachment of the tympanic membrane. Elongation is further augmented by the reduction of the manubrium of the malleus, and by the evolutionary rotation of the malleus-incus system about its physiologic axis of rotation. Evolutionary rotation, reduction of the manubrium, and an expanded sigmoid process all contributed to a system of angular amplification that is still present in extant cetaceans. The specific gravity of the ossicles is greater than that of any extant cetacean for which it is known. This could have resulted from the systemic increase in bone density experienced by archaeocetes in their adaptation to the marine environment. These adaptations appear in the earliest cetacean, Pakicetus inachus, and are well developed by the Late Eocene in the Basilosauridae. Such adaptations could have laid the foundation for the development of underwater echolocation by enabling the middle ear to transmit high-frequency sound.
4522928|A new species of barbet in the Miocene genus Capitonides is described from middle Miocene lake deposits in southern Germany. This was smaller than the type species, C. europeus, from Burdigalian deposits at Wintershof, Germany. Capitonides is shown to be closely related to the extant African genus Trachyphonus, which is considered to be the most primitive genus in the family. The presence of barbets indicates that winter temperatures in the middle Miocene of southern Germany were milder than at present.
20627155|The tetrapodomorph fish Marsdenichthys longioccipitus from the Givetian-Frasnian of Mt. Howitt, Victoria, Australia, occupies an uncertain phylogenetic position. Marsdenichthys has been linked to the base of the Tristichopteridae, as well as to the poorly known Northern Hemisphere form Rhizodopsis, based on the presence of rounded scales bearing a median boss on the internal surface. However, its affinities to these taxa are ambiguous, due to the incomplete preservation of the two Marsdenichthys specimens initially described. For the first time, we present significant information regarding the cheek and palate of Marsdenichthys, based on the descriptions of two new specimens from Mt. Howitt. New autapomorphies for Marsdenichthys are proposed, including the presence of a bar-like maxilla being approximately equal in depth to the dentary, and a rectangular anterior termination of the lacrimal. Several plesiomorphic features are described from the palate, including rounded vomer morphology lacking a posterior process, a relatively short, broad parasphenoid, and a dermopalatine approximately equal in length to the ectopterygoid. No synapomorphies are shared between Marsdenichthys and tristichopterids. Scale morphology is redescribed, and shown to exhibit concentric rings on the external surface, as in Rhizodopsis. However, differences in skull morphology, such as the lack of an external opening for the pineal foramen in Rhizodopsis, suggest that this scale morphology may have evolved independently.
4522999|A review of the evidence suggests that placoderms are more closely related to osteichthyans than chondrichthy. A new phylogeny of placoderms is proposed in which the ptyctodonts are considered the collateral descendants of all other placoderms. The short pectoral girdle with a single ring of bones is judged to be primitive and the sliding neck joint is presumed to be derived.
40864359|The best-known South American Early Triassic archosauriform belongs to a putative proterosuchid briefly reported by Jos Bonaparte in 1981, collected from the Quebrada de los Fsiles Formation (Puesto Viejo Group, Argentina). This specimen consists of well-preserved natural external molds of a partial postcranium that preserve dorsal vertebrae, osteoderms, a dorsal rib, a possible gastralium, a chevron, a humrus, an ilium, two metapodials, and an ungual. We re-describe this specimen and identify autapomorphies that allow us to recognize Koilamasuchus gonzalezdiazi, gen. et sp. nov. The presence of an iliac blade with a slightly convex dorsal margin and with a maximum length more than 3 times its maximum height places Koilamasuchus within Archosauriformes. A cladistic analysis of basal Archosauriformes positions Koilamasuchus more crownwards than Proterosuchus, Sarmatosuchus, Fugusuchus, and Osmolskina, as the sister taxon of the clade that includes Erythrosuchidae and Archosauria. Proterosuchidae is found to be paraphyletic. The presence of an iliac preacetabular process, a pubic peduncle that forms an angle lower than 45 to the longitudinal axis of the ilium, and dorsal body osteoderms positions Koilamasuchus in Archosauriformes more crownwards than proterosuchids. Koilamasuchus is more basal than erythrosuchids within Archosauriformes because of the presence of dorsal ribs with a poorly developed proximal end. Koilamasuchus importantly increases the diversity of Archosauriformes during the biotic recovery following the Permo-Triassic mass extinction.
42568668|Despite the fact that fossil crocodylians have been recovered from the Panama Canal Zone starting with initial excavations in 1912, detailed studies have been lacking. Recent excavations of the canal have resulted in new discoveries of many vertebrate fossils, including the first known Miocene crocodylian skulls from Central America. These fossil skulls from the early-middle Miocene represent two new taxa with distinct morphology that is shared with extinct and extant caimans (Caimaninae). A cladistic analysis of 32 alligatorid and three outgroup taxa, scored for 75 characters, resulted in 1210 equally most parsimonious cladograms, all of which suggest that Culebrasuchus mesoamericanus, gen. et sp. nov., is the sister taxon to all previously known Caimaninae. Additionally, the analysis suggests that Centenariosuchus gilmorei, gen. et sp. nov., is the sister taxon to a caimanine clade that includes Purussaurus from the Miocene of South America. In fact, teeth very similar to those of Purussaurus have also been recovered from the Panama Canal. Given these South American affinities, we suggest that these early caimanines dispersed across saltwater. This is a potentially surprising result, because all extant alligatorids lack the salt glands that would have been necessary for the marine dispersal required to reach Central America during the Miocene. Unlike Miocene mammals that all have North American affinities, the Miocene crocodylians of Panama represent a 'melting pot' with taxa of disparate origins living together at the southern extreme of Central America.
20491081|A new assemblage of ruminants from Paali in the lower Chitarwata Formation, Bugti Hills, Balochistan, central Pakistan, includes two lophiomerycids, Lophiomeryx, and Nalameryx gen. nov., allowing revision of ruminants previously reported from the Oligocene of the Indian Subcontinent. Two species are referred to Nalameryx: N. savagei (formerly Iberomeryx savagei), and N. sulaimani nov. sp. The middle Oligocene age previously assigned to the lower unit of the Chitarwata Formation in the Bugti area, mostly based on the rodent fauna from Paali, is supported by the composition of the ruminant fauna, which consists of taxa exclusively known in the Oligocene of Eurasia. The new ruminant fauna from Paali is clearly distinct from the early Miocene assemblages known in the Bugti hills, and suggests the existence of densely forested habitat probably mixed with more open areas in central Pakistan during the middle Oligocene.
4523354|In Rowe (1988), 158 characters of the skull and postcranial skeleton distributed among Placentalia, Marsupialia, Monotremata, Multituberculata, Morganucodontidae, Tritylodontidae, and Exaeretodon were analyzed with PAUP. Mammalia, defined by Rowe as comprising the most recent common ancestor of living monotremes, marsupials, and placentals, was distinguished from its nearest extinct relatives by 37 osteological synapomorphies, including 24 characters of the cranium and dentition. Within Mammalia, Multituberculata was identified as the sister taxon of Marsupialia plus Placentalia. The 91 craniodental characters employed by Rowe (1988) are reevaluated here and placed in one of five categories: characters needing no alteration (11); characters with a derived state occurring in an outgroup not considered by Rowe (8); characters for which the distribution given by Rowe is altered (16); characters for which the description given by Rowe is modified (30); and characters that are excluded from further analysis (26). The distributions of the characters in the first four categories are scored among the seven taxa considered by Rowe (1988) plus Cynognathus, Diademodon, Probainognathus, Tritheledontidae, Sinoconodon, Dinnetherium, Kuehneotherium, Haramiyidae, and Vincelestes. The ensuing taxon/character matrix for all (or subsets of) these 16 taxa are analyzed with several PAUP runs. The major difference between the most parsimonious trees produced here and by Rowe is the reversed position of Monotremata and Multituberculata-i.e., in this report Multituberculata is the first outgroup to Mammalia sensu Rowe. Moreover, the boundary between Mammalia and it nearest extinct relatives is not very distinct, because only five unequivocal craniodental synapomorphies of Mammalia are identified.
4523994|Body mass estimation is important for the study of relative brain size, biomechanics, and other physiological and ecological aspects of extinct vertebrates. Body mass of Edaphosaurus boanerges (ROM 7985), a mounted skeleton with a fibreglass model built around the left side was estimated by various methods: (1) Graphic Double Integration (GDI) on the fibreglass model divided into measurable components; (2) regression equations using total body length (TL), snout-vent length, and TL and tail-girth (TG); (3) three QBASIC programs which predict body mass from leg bone dimensions (humerus, ulna, femur and tibia) using regression equations from Recent amniotes; specifically: lengths and parasagittal diameters in mammals; lengths and mediolateral and anteroposterior diameters in alligators; and lengths and circumferences in alli and (4) prediction from an equation relating body mass to femur and humerus circumferences. GDI yielded 92.79 kg (including fin volume of 3.57 kg), within the body mass range of alligators on which legbone equations were based. The estimate from alligator-based TL and TG was 75.05 kg. Estimates from leg dimensions were 17.85 kg from lengths and diameters (mammal-based); 73.33 kg from lengths and diameters (alligatorbased), although estimates from humerus and femur, humerus alone and femur alone bracketed the GDI result; and 61.70 kg from lengths and circumferences (alligator-based). The fin added 66% to body surface area and only 4% to total mass.
4523190|A total of 166 fossil specimens, all of which have been assigned in the past to the anguid lizard subfamily Gerrhonotinae, were examined from the point of view of the derived features of the nested sets of monophyletic taxa including the subfamily and the evidence, or lack of it, for or against their inclusion in it is discussed. Of these fossils, strong evidence for the inclusion of only three was seen. It is concluded that identification of fossil specimens without sound phylogenetic information should be avoided.
25835798|Cretaceous marine hind-limbed snakes are considered to be key fossils for understanding the origin and evolution of snakes. In view of the rarity of such fossils, performing new analyses on described specimens using emerging, cutting-edge techniques should bring important new insights on these forms. We investigated the three-dimensional morphology and inner architecture of the pelvic girdle and hind-limb bones of the type specimen of Eupodophis descouensi Rage and Escuilli, 2000, one of the three taxa for which at least one hind-limb is known, using synchrotron-radiation computed laminography (SRCL), a recently developed non-destructive technique that overcomes some of the limitations of synchrotron microtomography for flat, laterally extended objects. This experiment allowed a virtual exhumation of the second, hidden leg of the specimen. The morphology and proportions of the regressed pelvic and hind-limb bones of Eupodophis resemble those of the hind-limbed snakes Pachyrhachis and Haasiophis. As in Haasiophis, four tarsals are observed in each limb, but there are no traces of metatarsals or phalanges. Moreover, despite the presence of osteosclerosis and pachyostosis in the vertebrae and the ribs of Eupodophis, the inner structure of its limb bones is devoid of these osseous specializations and displays a microanatomical organization similar to that of extant terrestrial lizards. This suggests that limb regression in Eupodophis was not due to a qualitative alteration of growth but, more likely, to a local decrease in growth rate or shortening of growth duration.
4522957|Klamelia zhaopengi gen. et sp. nov., a new triconodontan from the Middle or Late Jurassic of northwestern China, has close affinities with Gobiconodon borissiaki Trofimov, 1978, and Guchinodon hoburensis Trofimov, 1978, from the Early Cretaceous of Mongolia. All three species are characterised by a foreshortened anterior region of the mandible and a reduced number of antemolars as compared with all other amphilestid triconodontans. They are therefore here united as the new subfamily Gobiconodontinae. Another member of the Gobiconodontinae may be an undescribed amphilestid from the Early Cretaceous Cloverly Formation of Montana, U.S.A. If so, the presently known geographic and stratigraphic distribution of these forms suggests they were confined to the Middle or Late Jurassic and Early Cretaceous of eastern Asia and western North America.
4523789|A new protosuchian, Sichuanosuchus shuhanensis, sp. nov. from the ?Lower Cretaceous of Sichuan (China), is distinguished from other known basal crocodyliform archosaurs primarily by the subdivision of the small antorbital fenestra into anterior and posterior openings, the presence of a large, caniniform first maxillary tooth, followed by seven teeth with low, chisel-like crowns, and the posterior palpebral being larger than the anterior one. Phylogenetic analysis using 128 characters for 29 crocodyliform taxa supports the monophyly of Protosuchia. Sichuanosuchus is most closely related to Shantungosuchus from the Upper Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous of China. These two taxa, together with Gobiosuchus from the Upper Cretaceous of Mongolia, appear to form a clade of late Mesozoic basal crocodyliform reptiles.
4524424|The cranium of the hadrosaurid dinosaur Brachylophosaurus canadensis is redescribed on the basis of abundant and complete material from the Lower Campanian Judith River Formation of Malta, northeastern Montana. The diagnosis of this taxon is emended, and the species Brachylophosaurus goodwini is now considered to be a junior synonym of Brachylophosaurus canadensis. Autapomorphies of Brachylophosaurus are: nasal greatly developed into paddle-like solid crest extending caudodorsally, overhanging dorsal region of skull; nasal possessing anteroposteriorly oriented groove terminating in elongated foramen located medial to prefrontal; prefrontal projecting posteriorly and resting dorsomedially over anterior process of postorbital and, more posteriorly, extending ventromedially under nasal; only anterior sharp tip of lacrimal contacting maxilla; jugal with ventrally projecting semicircular flange; extremely elongated, rod-like anterodorsal process of maxilla projecting medial to narial cavity along most of anteroposterior length of external naris; anteroposteriorly short exoccipital-supraoccipital roof posterior and dorsal to foramen magnum. Most autapomorphies of the junior synonym species Brachylophosaurus goodwini originated from misplacement of a nasal fragment and individual variation of the jugal. The new osteological information supports Brachylophosaurus canadensis as the sister taxon to Maiasaura peeblesorum, and suggests that the two taxa form a robust and basal clade within the Hadrosaurinae. Two new characters are discussed as phylogenetically informative for hadrosaurids: the mediolateral and anteroposterior predentary proportions and the length of the prequadratic process of the squamosal.
20627100|On the basis of a partial odontocete (toothed whale) skeleton (complete skull with associated ear bones, mandible, teeth, hyoid bones, and cervical vertebrae) from the middle Miocene (ca. 14-12 Ma) levels of the Pisco Formation at Cerro los Quesos, Pisco-Ica desert, southern coast of Peru, a new genus and species of beaked whale (Ziphiidae), Nazcacetus urbinai, is described. This small ziphiid, the best documented fossil species to date, is characterized by a strong reduction of the upper and lower dentitions except for a pair of large apical mandibular teeth, a Tasmacetus-like vertex, a short mandibular symphysis, and the abrupt elevation of the dorsal margin of the mandible towards the coronoid process. A phylogenetic analysis indicates that Nazcacetus is a crown ziphiid, in a more crownward position than Berardiinae and Tasmacetus, but branching before the Hyperoodontinae and Ziphiinae lineages. Several morphological traits observed in Nazcacetus, including the reduction of teeth, the small temporal fossa, and the large hamular process, suggest that this taxon possessed the suction feeding capacities of Recent ziphiids, a specialization possibly related to the exploitation by the early ziphiids of a new ecological niche. The presence of large apical teeth on the mandible of Nazcacetus, a character highly dimorphic in recent ziphiids, might indicate that sexual dimorphism was already present as early in ziphiid evolutionary history as the middle Miocene, a hypothesis supported by the nested position of Nazcacetus in the ziphiid phylogenetic tree.
4522988| A review of the fossil record suggests that Calomys (Bensonomys) may be derived from Megacricetodon from the Miocene of Eurasia. If this is true, South American sigmodontine cricetids could be less closely related to North American peromyscines than to some Old World muroids. An origin of Calomys (Bensonomys) from megacricetodontine ancestors is consistent with some neontological approaches based on host-parasite distributions and penile morphology. /// Nos sugiere un repaso del registro de fsiles que Calomys (Bensonomys) puede derivarse de Megacricetodon del Mioceno de Eurasia. Siendo esto cierto, los Cricetidae sigmodontinos sudamericanos se podran relacionar menos estrechamente con los Peromyscini nortea que con algunos Muroidea del Viejo Mundo. El origen de los Calomys (Bensonomys) desde los antepasados megacricetodontinos concuerda con algunas proposiciones neontolgicas basadas en unas distribuciones huesped-parasito y la morfologa peneal. 
4524785|Abnormal, multilayered eggshells are frequently reported in fossil specimens. However, previous reports of this pathological condition pertain to taxonomically unidentified fossil eggs or eggshell fragments rather than in situ clutches. A survey of 393 in situ clutches, referable to titanosaur sauropod dinosaurs, from Upper Cretaceous rocks in northwestern Patagonia, Argentina, revealed that six of these clutches contain both normal eggs and abnormal, multilayered eggs within the same clutch. Excavation of one clutch exposed 30 eggs, distributed in three levels, including 27 normal eggs and 3 multilayered eggs. The three abnormal eggs occupied the highest level within the clutch and represent the last eggs laid by the female sauropod. The innermost eggshell layer in multilayered eggs from all six clutches exhibits typical megaloolithid calcite structure. The structure of the overlying, abnormal shell layer(s), however, varies among the clutches and within a single egg. Three types of abnormal eggshell morphology are documented. All previous studies that link abnormal eggshells to dinosaur physiology and the terminal Cretaceous extinction event are incomplete in terms of taphonomy, taxonomic identification, and lack rigorous statistical methods.
4522866|A nearly complete and partially articulated skeleton of Mesoscalops, a genus of fossorial insectivore hitherto known only by isolated teeth and some bones of the forelimb, is described and compared with other proscalopids, talpids, and chrysochlorids. The skeleton (UWBM 54708) is more complete than that of any proscalopid known to date, and provides a basis for description of the previously unknown vertebral column, ribs, articulated forelimb including the scapula, clavicle, manubrium, pelvis, femur, fibula, astragalus, and metatarsals. UWBM 54708, from the Hemingfordian or Barstovian Deep River Formation, Meagher County, Montana, represents a new species, M. montanensis. The skull of M. montanensis more closely resembles Whitneyan than late Arikareean proscalopids, suggesting that Mesoscalops was derived from a Whitneyan form of Pro. The morphology of proscalopids, as exemplified by Mesoscalops montanensis, reflects a unique digging stroke and differs from that of talpids to a greater degree than has been previously recognized. Functional analyses show that motions of the forelimb differed from those of any modern fossorial animal and that the head of M. montanensis, unlike that of talpids, was probably important in displacing soil. In view of the importance of the head in digging, chrysochlorids provide a closer living analogue than do talpids. The dissimilarities in morphology and digging techniques indicate that talpids probably represent a lineage distinct from that of the Proscalopidae. The specialized morphology that suggests divergence of the talpid and proscalopid lineages extends back to at least Chadronian time. Present samples of proscalopid humeri are morphologically distinct at the generic but not specific level, and the genera Mesoscalops andArctoryctes are probably synonymous. Successive, progressive changes in the skulls and humeri of proscalopids indicate that fossorially more efficient genera completely replaced earlier, less efficient genera through competition for the same fossorial niche. This evolutionary model is consistent with the restriction of Cryptoryctes kayi to Chadronian time, Oligoscalops galbreathi to the Orellan, Proscalops to the Whitneyan and Arikareean, and Mesoscalops to the Hemingfordian (and possibly Barstovian).
4523530|Herrerasauridae from the Ischigualasto Formation (San Juan Province, Argentina) included Herrerasaurus ischigualastensis Reig, 1963, Ischisaurus cattoi Reig, 1963, and Frenguellisaurus ischigualastensis Novas, 1986. Review of type and referred specimens of those taxa suggests that Ischisaurus and Frenguellisaurus are junior synonyms of Herrerasaurus. At present, Herrerasaurus is the only Herrerasauridae documented in the Ischigualasto Formation, and the record of a cf. Staurikosaurus in those beds is here dismissed. Cladistic analysis counters previous hypotheses supporting the outgroup position of Herrerasauridae with respect to the remaining dinosaurs. Instead, new evidence supports this group as saurischian dinosaurs: the posterior process of the jugal is forked, a hyposphenehypantrum articulation is present in dorsal vertebrae, the distal shaft of the ischium is rod-like, and six other saurischian synapomorphies are present. Moreover, herrerasaurids share with other theropods 11 synapomorphies including prong-shaped epipophyses on the cervical vertebrae, elongate prezygapophyses in distal caudals, humerus nearly 50% of femoral length, strongly reduced metacarpals IV and V, and distally enlarged pubis. In the context of the hypothesis accepted here, the presence of two sacral vertebrae and absence of a brevis fossa on the ilium in the Herrerasauridae are interpreted as apomorphic reversals within Dinosauria.
20627080|Apateodus Woodward (Teleostei: Aulopiformes) is a Late Cretaceous bony fish that is known by only a few cranial specimens. On the basis of a previously unreported partial skeleton of Apateodus from the Smoky Hill Chalk Member (lower Campanian portion) of the Niobrara Chalk in western Kansas, U.S.A., here, we emend the diagnosis for the genus and describe a new species, A. busseni. The specimen substantiates the presence of Apateodus in the North American Western Interior Seaway during the early Campanian and marks the fifty-fifth osteichthyan fish so far recognized from the Niobrara Chalk of Kansas. Like another species of Apateodus, A. striatus (Agassiz), Apateodus busseni sp. nov. was a medium-sized (ca. 40 cm TL), slender pelagic fish, that was likely capable of fast swimming.
4523423|The Erythrosuchidae are a late Early to early Middle Triassic lineage that represent the first radiation of large terrestrial carnivores within the Archosauriformes. Erythrosuchid monophyly can be established by their possession of a suite of seven shared derived characters. At least five valid genera of erythrosuchids can be recognized. The most plesimorphic of these is Fugusuchus from China, followed by Garjainia from Russia and Erythrosuchus from South Africa. Vjushkovia and Shansisuchus share a later common ancestry. Vjushkovia is represented by two species, V. triplicostata from Russia and V. sinensis from China. Shansisuchus, also from China, is the only erythrosuchid with two fenestrae in the antorbital region. Erythrosuchids had a nearly worldwide distribution, although individual species appear to have restricted geographical ranges. The greatest diversity is in Russia and China but this probably reflects the fact that the most complete continental sequences spanning the stratigraphic range of the erythrosuchids are known from those regions. Similarities between erythrosuchids and pseudosuchians such as Prestosuchus and Saurosuchus are the products of convergence, rather than a result of common descent.
4523932|Badjcinus turnbulli, gen. et sp. nov., is described from dental and incomplete skull material that includes the only pre-Pliocene dasyuromorphian basicranium described to date. Phylogenetic analysis places B. turnbulli basally within the Thylacinidae, but with autapomorphies. The relationship of B. turnbulli to other thylacines is assessed. The breadth of thylacinid diversity evident during the middle Tertiary argues for an earlier origin for the family than that suggested by molecular-based investigations. An amended diagnosis of the Thylacinidae is presented and thylacinid diversity and ecology is discussed.
4523607|Middle and late Hemphillian (late Miocene) snakes from Nebraska were identified and interpreted. The mid-Hemphillian (ca. 7 Ma) Lemoyne Quarry of Keith Co., SW Nebraska yielded at least two boid, thirteen colubrid and two viperid snakes. The late Hemphillian (ca. 5 Ma) Devils Nest (Knox Co.), Santee (Knox Co.), and Mailbox Prospect (Antelope Co.) sites of NE Nebraska together yielded at least nine colubrids and one viperid snake. Twenty-four percent of the 16 mid-Hemphillian snake genera and 67% of the 12 species are extinct. Of the 9 genera and 7 species of late Hemphillian snakes, only Paleoheterodon tiheni is extinct. A snake from Lemoyne Quarry is described as new (Arizona voorhiesi). With this new information, the fossil record of Arikareean through Blancan (Miocene through Pliocene) snake genera from midcontinental North America suggests erycinine boids became extinct across the region by late Hemphillian time, and colubrid snakes became generically modern by early Blancan time. These events likely occurred because of major environmental and vegetational changes that took place during the late Miocene.
4522973|Eleven species of vertebrates, including an extinct giant land tortoise (Geochelone crassiscutata) killed with a sharpened wooden stake 12,000 radiocarbon years ago, are identified and discussed. The bones were collected from a ledge (reentrant) 26 meters below the present water surface at Little Salt Spring, a water-filled solution feature in coastal southwestern Florida. 12,000 years ago the water level in this feature was at the elevation of the ledge, and the sinkhole acted as a natural trap. Vertebrate remains accumulated on the ledge and were preserved in the soft clay derived from erosion of the siltstone wall in which the ledge formed. Vertebrates found with the slain tortoise include a large mouth bass (Micropterus salmoides), two aquatic turtles (Pseudemys floridana and P. nelsoni), three smaller individuals of Geochelone crassiscutata, a gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus), an extinct box turtle (Terrapene carolina putnami), a diamondback rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus), a wood stork (cf. Mycteria), a rabbit (Sylvilagus sp.), a mastodon (Mammut americanum), and a ground sloth (Megalonyx sp.). The fauna is divisible into two groups: (1) animals that inhabited the pool in the deep cavity or lived above in the sloping depression in a mesophytic "oasis" supported by seep springs, and (2) animals of the dominant surrounding xerophytic community.
4524190|Dentary and maxillary fragments represent the first documented evidence of a bolosaurid reptile, Bolosaurus grandis, sp. nov., from the Lower Permian (Leonardian) fissure fills of the Dolese Quarry, near Richards Spur, Oklahoma. The discovery of bolosaurid remains at this unique site, characterized by the preservation of exclusively terrestrial tetrapods, is of particular interest because they bridge the temporal gap in the evolutionary history of bolosaurids between the Wolfcampian Bolosaurus striatus of Texas and the much younger, Upper Permian (Kazanian) Belebey of southern Russia. They also provide new information about the mandibular and dental anatomy of this enigmatic group of early amniotes.
4523807|In 1989 a crocodyliform having a mammal-like dentition was reported from the Early Cretaceous of Malawi, Africa. It shares with Notosuchus of South America the following derived features: jaw articulation that permitted longitudinal movement and the occipital condyle on the ventral surface of the braincase. The Malawi crocodyliform is distinct from Notosuchus in possessing multicusped posterior teeth, narrow and elongate prefrontals, no maxillo-palatal fenestrae, deeply overhung squamosal, and a longer, flat jaw articulation surface. The long, flat jaw articulation and tooth morphology suggest proal processing of food. The Malawi crocodyliform has cervical vertebrae with well developed hypapophyses and tall neural spines indicating strong neck muscles. The femur has a well developed medially directed head and posteriorly directed distal condyles. The crus projects from the tarsals vertically. These features suggest an erect posture and cursorial ability. The supracondylar ridges of the humerus are well developed for muscle attachment indicating strong rotation and retraction of the humerus. Articulated specimens suggest preservation in burrows.
4524062|The dentition of Nicrosaurus kapffi, a phytosaur from the Norian of central Europe, consists of three distinct dental sets in the upper jaw, and two in the mandible. Dental sets are defined by: (1) gradual, linear transformations of dental characters within an array that results in characteristic end members; and (2) the position of each array within the jaws. The tip-of-snout set in the upper jaw comprises mainly the large fang-like anteriormost teeth. In the premaxilla set, the teeth grade from a conical, unspecialized form anteriorly to high, D-shaped and bicarinate teeth posteriorly. In the maxilla set the teeth grade from stout, conical, unspecialized forms anteriorly to triangular forms with expanded flanges posteriorly. The tip-of-mandible and the dentary set correspond to the tip-of-snout, and to an elongated maxilla set, respectively, but were studied in less detail. The presence of tripartite and bipartite dentitions (three versus two dental sets in the upper jaw) is suggested as a criterion for defining the degree of heterodonty in phytosaurs. By taking into account positional variation, it is suggested that dental characters can be used to identify the relative position of some isolated teeth and can contribute valuable information to the diagnosis of a phytosaur taxon, although the application of the latter is still limited due to incomplete knowledge. The tooth morphology suggests that the more derived, tripartite phytosaur dentition is differentiated functionally into greatly enlarged anterior teeth probably used to kill smaller prey instantly by stabbing, strong posterior premaxillary teeth to seize and subdue large-sized prey, and trenchant posterior maxillary teeth to effectively dismember larger prey items.
4524565|For the first time, systematic treatment of the ultrasculpture on the exoskeleton of Palaeozoic Agnatha (Thelodonti, Heterostraci, and Osteostraci) is given, supplemented with a discussion of the main published sources on Gnathostomata, such as Acanthodii, Chondrichthyes, and Osteichthyes. Seven main types of ultrasculpture have been determined: (1) fine longitudinal striation; (2) transverse lamellae; (3) short V-shaped slits and branching grooves; (4) polygons separated by walls; (5) polygons separated by intercellular grooves; (6) micronodules; and (7) microtubercles. Five of these types occur on the scales of thelodonts. No ultrasculpture has been found on sandiviiform and loganelliiform thelodonts, anaspids, some Ordovician taxa, and placoderms. A smooth surface might be the most primitive condition for the scale surface. Fine longitudinal striation, transverse lamellae, and polygons separated by walls are the features connected with enameloid tissue. Polygons separated by intercellular grooves may characterize both enameloid and enamel. Microtubercles (as has been shown earlier) characterize true enamel. All ultrasculpture types with certain different features occur in more than one higher taxonomic group. Among Thelodonti these types mirror the classification of the subclass into four higher-rank taxonomic groups. Relationships between thelodonts and chondrichthyans based on ultrasculpture characteristics are much more complicated than previously discussed. Four types of ultrasculpture, found among thelodonts, occur also on the scales of chondrichthyans and/or putative chondrichthyans. Different ultrasculpture types might also point to the polyphyletic nature of the Thelodonti.
20627152|Shark teeth are the most common vertebrate fossils found along the western shore of Chesapeake Bay at Calvert Cliffs in Maryland. The stratigraphic distribution of teeth within the cliffs has not yet been documented. We utilized museum collections of in situ teeth to access their distribution within stratigraphic beds and a large selection of float teeth retrieved from Calvert County beaches as a proxy for the distribution of teeth within stratigraphic beds and across underlying beaches. Museum collections provide 1,866 teeth recorded in situ; float collections yield a total of 24,409 teeth. These data sets offer different, but complementary, results. Miocene sediments along Calvert Cliffs comprise the Calvert, Choptank, and St. Marys formations. Over 96% of all teeth in the in situ data set derive from the Calvert Formation, likely due to favorable paleoenvironmental conditions for sharks. The non-uniform stratigraphic distribution of teeth is further supported by an uneven distribution of teeth collected on beaches below the cliffs. Samples from northern localities contained more float specimens; cliffs in this area are composed almost entirely of the Calvert Formation. Fifteen genera are represented in the in situ and float collections. The main constituents are Carcharhinus spp., Hemipristis serra, Galeocerdo spp., Isurus spp., and Carcharias spp. Most of these genera exhibit significant unidirectional trends in the proportional abundance of teeth across Calvert Cliffs beaches. Factors influencing these variations remain unclear, but the overall dominance of carcharhiniforms over lamniform and other sharks observed for the Miocene persists in modern nearshore environments.
4523327|Marsupial mammals are herein described from the Kaiparowits Formation of south-central Utah, of probable Judithian (Campanian, Late Cretaceous) age. New materials of Iqualadelphis lactea, previously described from the upper Milk River Formation of Alberta, support the hypothesis that the species is the most primitive known marsupial. A new species, intermediate in morphology between the Aquilan "Alphadon" creber and the Judithian to Lancian "A." lulli, is described, and the three are removed to a new genus, Protalphadon. Two new species closely similar to Judithian "Alphadon'" russelli and "A." praesagus, respectively, are described; these, together with the Lancian "A." rhaister share derived morphology not found in other North American Cretaceous peradectids, and are placed in the new genus Turgidodon. New materials of the Judithian Alphadon halleyi and A. sahnii support the distinction of these closely similar species. Knowledge of the diminutive Alphadon attaragos, described on the basis of an isolated lower molar, is improved by molars representing several upper and lower loci. Marsupials of the Kaiparowits Formation are most closely similar to those previously reported from the Judithian, although the relative primitiveness of several Utah species and the presence of a taxon otherwise restricted to the Aquilan suggests that assemblages from the lower Kaiparowits Formation, at least, may be somewhat older than typical Judithian faunas. It is also likely that the distinctiveness of the Kaiparowits taxa from those represented in more northerly faunas is, in part, due to zoogeographic differentiation among North American Cretaceous terrestrial vertebrates. Pediomyid and stagodontid marsupials, for instance, are important elements of most known assemblages from the north-central Rocky Mountain region; these are rare or absent in the Kaiparowits Formation.
4524010|Reexamination of the holotype of Colobomycter pholeter and description of a new specimen, from a Lower Permian fissure fill near Richards Spur, Oklahoma, reveals that this small enigmatic reptile is not the youngest known protorothyridid, but instead is one of the earliest parareptiles. Parareptilian apomorphies that are present include an anterior lateral maxillary foramen, a transversely broad antorbital buttress formed by the prefrontal and lacrimal, and a single median posterior emargination of the skull roof. The last feature is recognized for the first time as a parareptilian synapomorphy. The anterior lateral maxillary foramen of parareptiles is confirmed to be the lateral egress of a canal that opens into the nasal chamber. Colobomycter is the sister taxon of the parareptile Acleistorhinus pteroticus, known from the Lower Permian South Grandfield locality of Oklahoma. Together these two taxa comprise Acleistorhinidae, the oldest known parareptilian clade. The group is diagnosed by two synapomorphies: (1) the largest tooth is positioned far anteriorly on the maxilla; and (2) cranial ornamentation comprises sparse, shallow circular dimples.
41407716|We revise here the entire collection of Bovidae from the Pliocene Hadar Formation collected at Hadar and Ledi-Geraru, Lower Awash, Ethiopia. Some additions are provided to previously published descriptions, and other forms are described. The complete list includes 28 species, but is dominated by a new species of impala, Aepyceros datoadeni, a kob that we assign to Kobus oricornus, although it belongs to a type distinct from the Omo one, a lineage of alcelaphins that is poorly known elsewhere, Damalborea, and the bovin Ugandax. We also describe a new gazelle, Gazella harmonae, with very peculiar features, including long spiraled horn cores. Changes in the bovid fauna can be detected both within individual lineages, and in the composition of the assemblage. Impala and bovins far outnumber the reduncins in the lower part of the sequence (Basal and Sidi Hakoma members, from ca. 3.8 to 3.2 Ma), but relative abundances become more equal higher up. Biometrie changes do occur in the Ugandax and Aepyceros lineages, but are not significant in other lineages. The major evolutionary events occur in the KH1 or KH1/KH2 transition, ca 3.1 3.0 Ma, with appearance of a third tragelaphin species, of a very small alcelaphin and of a large Aepyceros, and the likely disappearance of K. oricornus.
30126366|A new species, Trogosus gazini, is represented by eleven upper teeth (I2, P3-M3), eleven lower teeth (i2, i3, c1, and p3-m3), and some fragmentary postcrania of a single individual (USNM 364762), from the Blacks Fork Member of the Bridger Formation, Green River Basin, Wyoming, U.S.A. The new species has unique dental characters with a diminutive parastyle on the P3 and the asymmetrical pattern of the P4 lingual crests (reduced preprotocrista and expanded postprotocrista), in addition to having brachydont molars with dominant shearing wear facets. A phylogenetic analysis based on dental morphology places T. gazini as the sister taxon to either Trogosus latidens or Tillodon fodiens. The result also produces a solution for previously unresolved phylogenetic relationships among Kuanchuanius, Trogosus, and Tillodon. Although the result requires more morphological data to enhance the credibility of relationships among trogosine tillodont species, Trogosus gazini may represents a transitional form to Tillodon fodiens, which is most likely a descendant from a paraphyletic Trogosus with some autapomorphies. On the contrary, Kuanchuanius is allocated as a sister taxon to the Trogosus + Tillodon clade.
42568621|Long bones of the temnospondyl Metoposaurus diagnosticus krasiejowensis from the Late Triassic of Krasiejw, Poland, were studied using histological analysis. Six femora, three humeri, a radius, and an ulna were prepared for thin-sectioning. In all bones, the dominant type of primary bone matrix is parallel-fibered bone with secondary, or rarely primary, deposition of lamellar bone inside vascular canals. Two small humeri and the smallest femur showed incipient fibrolamellar bone, which may be a character typical for juvenile individuals. The medullary region is filled with well-developed trabecular bone. The growth marks in all bones are organized as thick layers of highly vascularized zones and thick compact annuli with numerous rest lines, which may correspond with favorably wet and long, unfavorably dry seasons. The thickness of the annuli is similar to the thickness of zones for reasons still unknown. Based on the highest estimated number of growth cycles in the femora, the long bones from Krasiejw all belong to juvenile animals. High amounts of Sharpey's fibers are very characteristic in all described bones. A new interpretation of mode of life is proposed based on these findings: the extremely flat skull, the relatively short and wide humerus, large manus, and limbs with strong muscles suggest that this species might have been able to burrow underground during the long unfavorable part of the year.
20491028|The plagiosaurine Gerrothorax pulcherrimus, a ubiquitous faunal component of the Fleming Fjord Formation, is recognized by tubercular ornamentation, contact between the postfrontal and supratemporal, at least two tooth rows on the posterior coronoid, and a posttemporal fenestra that is small or absent. Gerrothorax pulcherrimus also possesses a derived pectoral morphology that includes an interlocking calviculocleithral complex and an interclavicle with paired posterolateral projections and a transversely truncated posterior margin. Gerrothorax pustuloglomeratus is a junior synonym of G. pulcherrimus; other Gerrothorax species cannot be differentiated from G. pulcherrimus. Flat-headed temnospondyls have been interpreted as having achieved a large gape by raising the skull rather than by lowering the jaw. No detailed, corroborating anatomical evidence from the atlanto-occipital joint, however, has ever been adduced. In G. pulcherrimus the widths of the atlantal and condylar facets are comparable, but dorsoventrally the condylar facets are 45% longer than the comparable dimension of the atlantal facets. Elevation of the skull occurred by atlanto-occipital rotation, and was facilitated by a radius of curvature of the dorsal part of the condylar facets that is shorter than that of the inferior part. From a resting, closed mouth position, G. pulcherrimus was capable of elevating the skull through an excursion of approximately 50, a movement that rotated the quadrate forward and protruded the lower jaw. An elongate, broadly open neural canal in the atlanto-occipital region, and dorsal displacement of the occipital condyles, are related to relieving the spinal medulla of the sharp angular deformation that head lifting might entail.
20491079|The magpie goose Anseranas semipalmata (Aves: Anseranatidae), the sole modern representative of the family, is endemic to Australia. The fossil record of Anseranatidae in Australia was until now restricted to Pliocene and younger sediments. Here we describe an anseranatid from the Oligo-Miocene Carl Creek Limestone in the Riversleigh World Heritage Property, Boodjamulla (Lawn Hill) National Park, in northwestern Queensland, as a new species and genus, based on a coracoid and two scapulae. These fossils extend the known age of the Anseranatidae lineage in Australia to about 25 million years ago. The fossil distribution of Anseranatidae now includes the Paleocene in North America, Eocene and Late Oligocene of Europe, and the Late Oligocene to earliest Miocene in Australia, indicating a globally widespread distribution of the family during the early-mid Tertiary.
20061989|Few fossils have been described from the very rich localities of Kalimantsi in southwestern Bulgaria, and none from Hadjidimovo, in the same area. These deposits have produced one of the best collections of Chalicotheriidae from the late Miocene of Europe, increasing the diversity of the family, and providing the first definite evidence of the co-occurrence of both subfamilies, Chalicotheriinae and Schizotheriinae. The milk dentition of Ancylotherium is described for the first time; it confirms that this genus is close to, but different from, the American Tylocephalonyx. A chalicotheriine skull from Kalimantsi, with a characteristic tooth morphology, is referred to a new genus and species, Kalimantsia bulgarica. A revision of the taxonomy and systematics of European Chalicotheriinae leads us to discard "Macrotherium," which is a junior synonym of Chalicotherium, to revive Anisodon Lartet for middle Miocene forms, and to suggest the extension of Kalimantsia into the latest Miocene of the Balkans.
4522868|Kyptoceras amatorum n.g. et sp. is described from the Upper Bone Valley Formation, late Hemphillian (early Pliocene) of Polk County, Florida. In the male skull the forked rostral horn lacks a shaft and the frontal horns are nearly twice as long as those of any other Protoceratidae. Both the rostral and the frontal horns are tilted forward in distinctive fashion. This genus represents a new tribe, Kyptoceratini, which may have originated in subtropical savannas south of the range of the more familiar tribe Synthetoceratini.
4523671|Two new small-sized bovid species are described from the Miocene of Pakistan (Kamlial and Vihowa formations, about 18 Ma), based on associated dentitions and horn cores. Eotragus noyei, sp. nov. is probably ancestral to all younger Eotragus and the modern Boselaphini. E. noyei has a horn core which does not have a pronounced anterior concavity and posterior convexity seen in younger Eotragus species and it has primitive teeth with inclined buccal walls. The indeterminate genus and species from the Vihowa Formation has compressed, keeled horn cores and more advanced teeth with vertical buccal walls. The morphology of the horn cores suggests that this taxon could represent the earliest known member of the keeled Boselaphini. If this hypothesis is correct, we are witnessing the presence in Pakistan of the first split within the Boselaphini (keeled Miocene species versus Eotragus and modern taxa).
4523267|The appendicular skeleton of the Early Permian captorhinid reptile Labidosaurus hamatus is described and figured. The pectoral girdle is heavily constructed, with a glenoid fossa that limited the humerus to an excursion arc of approximately 50 degrees. The humerus has a small but distinct supinator process and an extremely large entepicondyle. The lengths between proximal and distal articular surfaces of the radius and ulna measured only 50 percent the length of the humerus. The manus is wide, with a massive radiale and a hook-shaped pisiform; both of these bones appear to have acted to increase the mechanical efficiency of elements of the antebrachial musculature. The pelvic girdle is also stoutly built, but the acetabulum does not appear to have limited femoral movement. The femur has a sharp, well-defined adductor ridge. The tibia and fibula are approximately equal in length to elements of the antebrachium. Indications of a system of cruciate ligaments are present in well preserved femora and tibiae. The pes is widely splayed. No mesotarsal joint is evident. Reconstruction of the hind limb musculature is indicative of a powerful propulsive musculature, including a well developed M. caudifemoralis that most likely acted as a primary femoral retractor. Despite the apparently short humeral and femoral excursion arcs, Labidosaurus demonstrates a variety of adaptations that functioned to increase stride length. Although it does not appear to have been fast-moving, Labidosaurus was clearly a terrestrial reptile.
20490956|Aspects of the cranial and postcranial anatomy are presented for a new specimen of the Upper Cretaceous Gondwanan snake, Dinilysia patagonica Woodward, 1901, collected near Paso Cordoba, Rio Negro Province, Argentina, during the field season of 2001. The specimen preserves important features of the dentary and postdentary bones (in particular the coronoid and compound bone), the quadrate, and the ventral surface of the basicranium, as well as the axis, atlas, and anteriormost cervical vertebrae. The third and fourth cervicals are preserved with unfused and articulating intercentra on large, ovate, concave hypapophyses (typical of dolichosaurs, mosasaurs, adriosaurs, etc.), while the intercentrum of the fifth appears to be fused to a long, narrow hypapophysis (this latter condition is typical of modern snakes). These new data influence the construction of primary homology statements used in cladistic analyses of squamate phylogeny generally and ophidian phylogeny specifically. Comparison of the cranial anatomy of Dinilysia to that available for the recently described Argentine Gondwanan snake, Najash rionegrina Apestegua and Zaher, 2006, indicates important similarities in the two species to the exclusion of scolecophidian snakes.
42568538|Fossil elements belonging to fishes were recovered from the Pliocene Chiwondo Beds in the Malawi Rift. This is our first knowledge of fishes from Lake Malawi. The Chiwondo Bed fishes can be assigned to living taxa including lungfish (Protopterus), catfishes (Bagridae, Claroteidae and Clariidae), cichlids, and a single tooth referred to tigerfish (Hydrocynus). Although small and taphonomically biased, the assemblage shows several taxonomic differences compared with the modern Lake Malawi fauna. Most of the geographic and taxonomic affinities of the assemblage are with fishes from the African East Coast Province rivers, whereas the modern lake fauna primarily has affinities to the Zambezi River system. The Chiwondo fish assemblage contributes new information on Plio-Pleistocene eastern/southern African biogeography and waterways, and how these may have influenced faunal movements between eastern and southern Africa.
4523299|Freshwater/estuarine organic deposits at Cudmore Grove, Mersea Island, Essex, England, palynologically dated to the Hoxnian Interglacial Substage Ho IIIb, have yielded by far the richest fossil herpetofauna known from the British Pleistocene. Caudates are represented by Triturus cristatus and T. vulgaris; anurans by Hyla sp., Bufo bufo, Rana arvalis, R. "esculenta" or R. ridibunda, and R. lessonae; testudines by Emys orbicularis; saurians by Anguis fragilis and Lacerta sp.; and snakes by Elaphe longissima, Natrix maura or N. tessellata, N. natrix, and Vipera berus. Of these 14 taxa, seven do not occur in Britain today, but are found in continental Europe. The fossil assemblage reflects the former connection of Britain to continental Europe and is consistent with a climate of milder winters and warmer summers than today during the later part of the Hoxnian Interglacial (Substage Ho IIIb).
25835821|A new Early Carboniferous (Mississippian, mid-Visan) chondrichthyan, Reginaselache morrisi, n. g., n. sp., from non- or marginal marine sandy mudstones of the Tetrapod Unit of the mid-Visan (330 Ma = top Holkerian/basal Asbian) Ducabrook Formation, northwest of Springsure, central Queensland, is referred to the order Xenacanthiformes. The taxon is represented by robust diplodont teeth with multicristate cusps, a prominent rounded coronal button, and a horseshoe-shaped labial boss. Rare spine fragments from the type locality, and a partial lower jaw from a site close by are also tentatively referred to the taxon. Reginaselache morrisi was a medium-sized, ca. 1 m long shark with numerous teeth, probably feeding on smaller paleoniscoid and other fishes and/or invertebrates. Analysis of the teeth and comparison with those of other Carboniferous and later Paleozoic xenacanthiforms shows that the tooth cusp morphology is closest to those of Triodus Hampe and Bohemiacanthus Schneider. A restricted cladistic analysis of the xenacanthiforms with outgroups Leonodus Mader, Phoebodus St John and Worthen, and Antarctilamna Young supports the family Diplodoselachidae Hampe as a clade comprising just two genera, Diplodoselache and Reginaselache.
40666200|The facial and neurocranial anatomy of AMNH 5350, containing the most complete braincase available for Gryposaurus, is described in detail. The specimen, collected from Late Campanian outcrops of the Dinosaur Park Formation of southern Canada, is referred to G. notabilis because of the combination of a preorbital nasal protuberance positioned above the level of the frontals, narrow U-shaped posterior margin of the narial fenestra, dorsal margin of the infratemporal fenestra being wider than that of the orbit, and posterodorsal margin of the squamosal located dorsal to the skull roof. The flat nasal protuberance of AMNH 5350 differs from the arcuate lateral profile displayed in other specimens of G. notabilis, indicating that substantial intraspecific variation existed in this feature. The taxonomy of Gryposaurus is revised in light of the newly garnered anatomical data. Thus, G. incurvimanus is regarded as a junior synonym of G. notabilis, composed of subadult specimens of the latter. Characters thought to be diagnostic of G. incurvimanus are either present in G. notabilis (e.g., slightly excavated ventral surface of the nasal protuberance) or probably indicative of sub-adulthood (e. g., less developed and more anteriorly positioned nasal protuberance correlated with smaller skull size). A number of characters previously used to distinguish among Gryposaurus sepecies are shown to be intraspecifically variable (e. g., curvature of the lateroventral margin of the maxilla or ventral deflection of the dentary symphyseal process).
25835812|Specimens that give new information on the tooth eruption sequence in European Hyaenodon are described. These specimens show a marked difference from the tooth eruption sequence established for North American Hyaenodon. The eruption of p4 after p3 and m3 and the earlier eruption of the permanent canine in European specimens versus the eruption of p4 before p3 and m3 and the eruption of the permanent canine as the last tooth in North American specimens indicate divergent evolutionary pathways for New and Old World lineages. In conjunction with other skeletal differences, described in the literature, our findings support the need for a reanalysis of the taxonomy of Hyaenodon.
4524293|A new species of Lepidotes is described on the basis of two nearly complete specimens from the ?Albian Romualdo Member of the Santana Formation, in the Araripe Basin, northeast Brazil. The new species differs from the other species of Lepidotes previously recorded in western Gondwanaland by the apomorphic presence of an axe-shaped hyomandibula, and by a unique combination of other characters. This is the first record of an articulated Lepidotes from the Santana Formation of the Araripe Basin.
23361043|Paleontology provides information about the history of morphological transformations, whereas developmental biology provides information about how such transformations happen at a mechanistic level. As such, developmental evidence enriches paleontology in formulating and assessing hypotheses of homology, character definition, and character independence, as well as providing insights into patterns of heterochrony, evolvability of features, and explanations for differential rates of evolution. The focus of this article is to review a series of case studies that illustrate how our understanding of paleontology is enriched by data generated by developmental biologists. The integration of paleontological and developmental data leads to a greater understanding of evolution than either of these sciences could have reached alone. Our case studies range from fish to mammals and involve somite and vertebral formation, limb loss, hand and foot patterning, and tooth formation.
23361080|The oldest record of Cricetodon (Cricetidae, Rodentia, Mammalia) from the Aragonian type area (Calatayud-Daroca Basin, Zaragoza, Spain) is described. The remains from Las Umbras (LUM) and Las Planas (LP) sections are attributed to Cricetodon soriae, described in the locality Somosaguas N (SOMN) from the Madrid Basin (biozone E, MN5). The studied material (including 52 jugal teeth) belongs to eight localities spanning a time interval from 14.06 to 13.80 Ma, covering the entire biozone E. A morphometric analysis of the Calatayud-Daroca material provides the most specific and detailed descriptions of C. soriae until now. New complete descriptions of the type material from SOMN and an emended diagnosis of C. soriae are presented. Comparisons with all the species of Cricetodon described to date have been made. Differences between Cricetodon aureus and Cricetodon meini are discussed; the results yielded by the study of more than 100 upper third molars from Vieux-Collonges make it possible, for the first time, to distinguish between those of C. aureus and C. meini, and to compare them both with C. soriae. The presence of common characteristics indicates a closer relationship of C. soriae with the species of Cricetodon from Asia Minor than with the first representatives of Cricetodon in central and eastern Europe. The distribution of C. soriae in the Iberian Peninsula is coincident with the global cooling event and the increasing in aridity in southwestern Europe, and the faunal dispersion event called Conohyus/Pliopitechus that took place during the local biozone E.
4523639|Analysis of postcranial skeletons of three species of the wolf- to bear-sized mesonychid Pachyaena from the early Eocene Willwood Formation, Bighorn Basin, Wyoming, indicates that it was a derived cursor combining specializations typical of modern Artiodactyla, Perissodactyla, and Carnivora. Skeletal anatomy supports the hypothesis, based on the dentition, that mesonychids evolved from Arctocyonidae. Numerous characters in the limb skeleton of Pachyaena are derived relative to Arctocyon, however, and resulted in restricted rotatory and mediolateral mobility at most joints, promoting predominantly sagittal movement. These characters, present in ungulates and cursorial carnivores, include a broad, caudally displaced humeral head; high greater tuberosity; proximal deltoid tuberosity; narrow, proximodistally elongate distal humeral articulation with moderately constricted capitulum; reduced epicondyles; deep olecranon fossa; anteriorly shifted radioulnar joint; posteriorly concave ulnar shaft; high greater trochanter; deep distal femur; elongate distal tibiofibular syndesmosis; moderately grooved astragalar head; and mediolaterally compressed manus and pes with vestigial pollex and hallux. Some of these characters in Pachyaena are more carnivore-like in grade of cursorial modification. Distinctly ungulate-like specializations of Pachyaena include a wide and unevenly excavated radial head, a double-faceted radiocarpal articulation, an astragalar head with distinct cuboid and navicular facets, and hoofs. Pachyaena had relatively robust limbs and somewhat elongate distal limb segments like modern tapirs, but was functionally paraxonic like cursorial Carnivora and Artiodactyla. These features indicate that Pachyaena was a cursor adapted more for endurance than speed. Cursorial specializations in mesonychids probably arose independently from those in modern ungulates and cursorial carnivores.
4523919| A new species of fossil catfish, Nematogenys cuivi (Siluriformes: Nematogenyidae) is described from the Miocene, continental fluviolacustrine deposits of the upper Cura-Malln Formation (37-39S), Chile. Nematogenys cuivi is the first fossil record of the monogeneric family Nematogenyidae, which is considered the plesiomorphic sister group of the large loricarioid clade. The new species differs from the extant N. inermis in having a combination of characters: cleithrum with some weak interdigitations in the anterolateral margin, rectangular Weberian capsules wider than long, and shorter distance between the coronoid process and distal tip of the lower jaw. Nematogenys cuivi was found together with teeth of Serrasalminae, an association that is presently unknown. It is suggested that N. cuivi occurred in lowlands before the uplift of the Cordillera de los Andes. If it is correct, the differentiation of the genus occurred before the major uplift of the Andes. 
30126347|Until now, the pre-Pleistocene record of the bovid tribe Hippotragini was rather poor. Two new taxa are described from the late Miocene of Toros-Menalla in northern Chad, which yielded the earliest known hominid, Sahelanthropus tchadensis. Tchadotragus sudrei n.gen. n.sp. is known by complete skulls and numerous horn-cores. It has typical hippotragine features such as long slender, curved horn-cores, weak cranial flexure, large frontal sinus, and hippotragine-like dentition, and is here taken as a basal member of the tribe, branching before the divergence between Oryx-Praedamalis and Hippotragus s.l. Saheloryx solidus n.gen. n.sp. is less well-known; it differs mainly by the lack of sinus in the frontal and horn-cores, shorter horn-cores, and rounded brain-case, but it shares with Tchadotragus a large number of features that prompt us to classify it also at the base of the hippotragine tree, perhaps as the sister-taxon of Tchadotragus. No other African taxon looks like Saheloryx, and the only one similar to Tchadotragus is from Sahabi, Libya. The abundance of hippotragines sharply distinguishes Toros-Menalla from the East African late Miocene bovid faunas.
42568656|Liang Bua, a limestone cave on the Indonesian island of Flores, has a depositional sequence that spans the last 95,000 years and includes well-preserved faunal remains. Birds are well represented throughout the stratigraphic sequence at Liang Bua. Here, we present the results of the first comprehensive study of avian remains retrieved from Sector XI, a 2 m by 2 m archaeological excavation along the east wall of the cave. A total of 579 specimens were identified as avian, with 244 belonging to at least 26 non-passerine taxa in 13 families. The late Pleistocene assemblage (23 taxa) includes the first recorded occurrence of vultures in Wallacea, as well as kingfishers, snipes, plovers, parrots, pigeons, and swiftlets. Together, these taxa suggest that during this time the surrounding environment was floristically diverse and included several habitat types. Two of these taxa, the giant marabou Leptoptilos robustus and the vulture Trigonoceps sp., are extinct. Eight taxa were identified in the Holocene assemblage, and five of these were also present in the late Pleistocene. Imperial pigeons Ducula sp. and the Island Collared Dove Streptopelia cf. bitorquata appear only in the Holocene assemblage. The differences in faunal composition between the late Pleistocene and Holocene assemblages may reflect a change in avifaunal composition due to climatic and environmental changes near the Pleistocene-Holocene transition, possibly amplified by impacts associated with the arrival of modern humans; however, the small Holocene sample prevents a firm conclusion about faunal turnover from being made.
4523791|The earliest record of titanosaurids anywhere in the world was established in India in 1877. Further collections from fossiliferous pockets near Jabalpur were made by C. F. Matley during 1917-1919. This material formed the basis of a number of taxa from the Indian Late Cretaceous, even though most of the bones were isolated and fragmented. New titanosaurid skeletal material (collected during 1984-1986) described here represents part of an individual in associated and mostly articulated condition, though skull, hind limb and foot bones are missing. Paucity of associated skeletal remains of titanosaurids anywhere in the world makes the present find valuable in understanding these specialized sauropods. A new taxon, Titanosaurus colberti, is erected for the reception of the new material. The genus Titanosaurus is diagnosed and three species are identified from India: T. indicus, T. blanfordi, and T. madagascariensis.
25835828|Current knowledge of plesiosaurs of clade Cryptoclidia is constrained by a lack of fossils from outside the Oxford Clay deposits of England. Recent fieldwork in the Sundance Formation of the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming, has resulted in the recovery of significant new fossils of cryptoclidid plesiosaurs, including the small-bodied form Tatenectes laramiensis. A new partial skeleton of this taxon is reported here; it is the most complete and best-preserved example of the taxon found to date, comprising a complete dorsal vertebral series, many ribs and gastralia, and a complete pelvic girdle. This skeleton illuminates several unique features of the taxon, including a novel pattern of midline pachyostosis in the gastralia. In addition, a range of both axial and appendicular morphological features reveals that Tatenectes had a body shape unique among known plesiosaurs, characterized by extreme dorsoventral compression, and modest anteroposterior reduction. The combination of the new skeleton with information from previous finds allows the first reconstruction of the taxon. Tatenectes had a dorsoventrally compressed, oblate spheroid body shape, with a high skeletal mass concentration in the ventral elements. We hypothesize that these features were adaptations for increased near-surface stability, perhaps allowing access to above normal wave base, inshore environments in the shallow Sundance Seaway.
4524245| Study of a growth series of twenty-seven specimens from the Upper Devonian of Escuminac Bay, Qubec documents a complex pattern of vertebral development in the osteolepiform fish Eusthenopteron foordi. Ossification begins with elements associated with the caudal, anal, and second dorsal fins. Development of the haemal arches, caudal radials, and caudal neural arches continues anteriorly and posteriorly from near the level of the anterior margin of the caudal fin. Trunk neural arches ossify later than the caudal neural arches and as a separate sequence. Trunk intercentra most likely begin ossification posteriorly and continue forward after the ossification of haemal arches is complete. Comparisons of many different patterns of vertebral development within the modern actinopterygians demonstrates that the sequence of development in Eusthenopteron foordi is unique. The diverse patterns of vertebral development observed in fossil and modern fish presumably result from an interplay between the inherent anterior to posterior sequence of development controlled by the Hox genes, and varying selective forces imposed by the physical and biological environment in which the fish develop. Initiation of vertebral development in the caudal region of Eusthenopteron foordi can be attributed to selection for early function of the tail in propulsion. In contrast, vertebral development in Carboniferous amphibians typically proceeds from anterior to posterior. This may reflect development in the still water of ponds and lakes in contrast with the coastal environment inhabited by the hatchlings of Eusthenopteron foordi. The sequences of vertebral development seen in Carboniferous labyrinthodonts and lepospondyls are divergently derived from that observed in Eusthenopteron foordi. 
4524745|Microposaurus casei, a poorly known temnospondyl from Subzone B of the Cynognathus Assemblage Zone (Middle Triassic) of the Karoo of South Africa, is redescribed in detail following additional preparation of the holotype skull. New and previously misinterpreted aspects of the skull roof, palate, and occiput are described, revealing an unusual skull morphology and a suite of autapomorphies. Contrary to some previous interpretations, M. casei is unequivocally shown to be a member of the stereospondyl group Trematosauroidea, as it shares a number of synapomorphies of that group. Within the Trematosauroidea, M. casei most closely resembles the slightly older, Laurasian platystegids Inflectosaurus and Platystega.
4523392|Giraffa nebrascensis Matthew and Barbour, 1925 is a junior synonym of Cervalces scotti (Lydekker, 1898) on the characters of the permanent lower fourth premolar. The metaconid-hypoconid area on p4 in Giraffa is mesiodistally narrower than in Cervalces or Alces, and the hypoconid is transversely lenticular in Giraffa, but club-like in Cervalces and Alces, and more inflated in Cervalces. Twenty-three occurrences of Cervalces scotti from Illinois, Iowa, Michigan, Nebraska, Ohio and the Atlantic Coastal Shelf off New Jersey are listed, in addition to those reported by Churcher and Pinsof (1987).
42568631|The transition from basal sauropodomorphs to sauropods is one of the most dramatic evolutionary transformations in the history of dinosaurs. Constituent taxa of this transition were recorded mainly in South Africa and South America, and to a lesser extent in North America. We describe here the postcranial anatomy of four specimens of basal sauropodomorphs from the Late Triassic of Patagonia, Argentina, and identify them as adult individuals of Mussaurus patagonicus. The material is composed of one subadult and three adult specimens and was originally identified as Plateosaurus. The completeness of the material provides more complete knowledge of this taxon and allows us to introduce aspects of basal sauropodomorph anatomy that were poorly understood until now, such as the configuration and arrangement of the distal carpal elements. The phylogenetic relationships of Mussaurus patagonicus are tested through a cladistic analysis of basal sauropodomorphs based on the anatomy of these specimens rather than on the post-hatchling and juvenile specimens previously known for this taxon. Mussaurus is recovered as a non-sauropod anchisaurian, being the sister group of Aardonyx plus more derived sauropodomorphs and is depicted outside the 'quadrupedal clade,' given the presence of plesiomorphic features such as a humerus/femur ratio <0.8, a curved femoral shaft in lateral view, and a nearly circular femoral midshaft cross-section. Mussaurus patagonicus adds new and valuable information that helps to clarify the core of the basal sauropodomorph-sauropod transition.
4523605| A newly discovered specimen of the oldest known microsaur, Utaherpeton, shows evidence that its caudal vertebrae may have developed via paired pleurocentral elements. Comparison of other aspects of the vertebrae of other lepospondyls demonstrates that few derived features are shared by all the major groups. Vertebral structure does not provide strong support for the monophyly of lepospondyls. Both structural and functional relationships of the articulation between the skull and the atlas distinguish astopods sharply from other lepospondyls. There is little evidence to support sister-group relationships between any of the lepospondyl orders and any of the known labyrinthodont groups. All of the lepospondyl orders may have diverged prior to the appearance of any of the Carboniferous labyrinthodont lineages. Many of the similar derived features of lepospondyls may be attributed to small size, rather than common ancestry. 
4523161| Heterocoryphodon (type species = Coryphodon flerowi Chow, 1957) is a new, monotypic genus of coryphodontid pantodonts from the early-middle Eocene of China. It includes specimens previously referred to C. flerowi, C. ninchiashanensis, Manteodon flerowi, Asiocoryphodon lophodontus, and A. ninchiashanensis. Heterocoryphodon is distinguished from other coryphodontids by its size, long and shallow P ectolophs, relatively large M, large parastyles on M and postero-lingual ridges on M lingual cingula, massive M metaconids and relatively narrow skull roof. In some features, Heterocoryphodon is morphologically intermediate between Coryphodon and Hypercoryphodon, and it is the sister taxon of the higher coryphodontids Eudinoceras and Hypercoryphodon. The distribution of H. flerowi and A. conicus in China supports broad correlation of the Yuhuangding Formation (Henan), Lingcha Formation (Henan), Shisanjiangfang Formation (Xinjiang), Ningjiashan Member of the Xinyu Formation (Jiangxi) and Guanzhuang Formation (Shandong). 
4523186| A fossil catfish skull from the upper Miocene Urumaco Formation of Falcon State, Venezuela is identified as Phractocephalus hemiliopterus (Pimelodidae), a living species of the large, lowland rivers east of the Andes. This fossil provides another example, in a growing list of cases, of a long and conservative evolutionary history for an advanced South American riverine fish. The phylogenetic position of Phractocephalus implies that other higher level lineages of Pimelodidae had originated before six Ma. This discovery corroborates geological and other biogeographic evidence for a connection of the ancient Orinoco system to the Caribbean coast river systems of Venezuela. The fossil catfish and other large aquatic vertebrates from the same area suggest former, freshwater communities on the north coast that were much richer than modern faunas. Increasing aridity and loss of large permanent rivers in post-Miocene times has presumably caused local extinction of these communities. /// Un crneo muy grande perteneciente a un bagre del Mioceno Tardio de la Formacin Urumaco del Estado Falcn, Venezuela, es identificado como Phractocephalus hemiliopterus (Pimelodidae), una especie viviente en los grandes ros al Este de los Andes. Este fsil sugiere un caso adicional de una larga y conservadora historia evolutiva para un pez suramericano de aguadulce. La posicin filogentica de Phractocephalus implica que otros linajes de niveles superiores de Pimelodidae se han originado antes de seis millones de aos. Este descubrimiento corrobora evidencias geolgicas y biogeogrficas para la conexin del antiguo sistema del Ro Orinoco y la costa del Caribe de Venezuela. El bagre fsil y otros grandes Vertebrados acuticos del mismo yacimiento indican una comunidad de agua dulce en la costa Norte que fu mucho ms rica que la fauna moderna. Las causas posibles de extincin local de estas comunidades fueron presumiblemente el incremento en la aridez y el desaparecimiento de los grandes ros permanentes en pocas posmiocnicas. 
42568539|'Microsaurs' (Lepospondyli) were a group of tetrapods whose fossil record spanned the Mississippian-Early Permian, and have sometimes been implicated in the origins of lissamphibians (especially the fossorial caecilians). Although common in the well-sampled Permian deposits of Texas and Oklahoma, little is known of conservative recumbirostran 'microsaurs' from more northerly localities (Kansas/Nebraska). Data on a new, well-preserved recumbirostran, Huskerpeton englehorni, gen. et sp. nov., from the Eskridge Formation, Nebraska, reveal affinities to the purported gymnarthrid 'Euryodus' bonneri (here moved to a new genus, Proxilodon) from the Speiser Formation, Kansas. High resolution micro-computed tomography reveals important endocranial data, including an ossified 'supraoccipital' that is usually absent in gymnarthrids, a dorsal sinus separating the synotic tectum from the dermal skull roof as in ostodolepids, ventral flanges of the frontals articulating directly with the ascending lamina of the sphenethmoid, and tall, ossified 'pleurosphenoids,' thereby providing useful comparison with morphologically derived recumbirostrans. A cladistic analysis of 60 taxa and 227 characters recovered a monophyletic clade of Huskerpeton, Proxilodon, and the recently described Tambaroter within a more inclusive clade that includes gymnarthrids and ostodolepids (both nested members of the Recumbirostra and putative outgroups to caecilians). Whereas other lepospondyls (i.e., lysorophians) are abundant in the region, the records of Huskerpeton and Proxilodon reveal that only two 'microsaur' genera are adequately known from the lowermost Permian of Kansas/Nebraska and demonstrate similarities between the Eskridge and Speiser faunas. Moreover, these forms may represent the ground plan from which more specialized fossorial forms (gymnarthrids and ostodolepids) evolved.
4523655|In the transition from early synapsids to mammals, the phalangeal formula was reduced from 2-3-4-5-3 (manus) and 2-3-4-5-4 (pes) to 2-3-3-3-3. The standard view is that certain phalanges in digits III and IV were reduced in length to form disc-like elements which were ultimately lost within each non-biarmosuchian therapsid group. This implies at least five separate origins of the mammalian phalangeal pattern. Rowe and van den Heever (1986) argue for a simpler interpretation in which the mammalian formula originated once within therapsids directly from the unreduced sphenacodont condition, with disc-like elements in gorgonopsians and cynodonts being partial reversals or neomorphs. New evidence on the structure and phylogenetic distribution of disc-like phalangeal elements supports the view that they are homologous with unmodified phalanges and that they were reduced in size in the common ancestry of all therapsids. The phylogenetic distribution of discs in early cynodonts suggests that the hypothesis of Rowe and van den Heever must be modified to include reacquisition of these elements in ancestral cynodonts and subsequent re-loss in advanced cynodonts. Their hypothesis, as revised here, has six transformations as opposed to nine for the standard view, but it is less simple in that it requires reversals and re-reversals whereas the standard hypothesis is consonant with a single evolutionary trend toward a more symmetrical hand and foot. Patterns of equalization of metacarpal lengths (contributing to a more symmetrical manus) and loss of a separate fifth distal carpal/tarsal also show large amounts of parallelism. Extensive homoplasy in the manus and pes of therapsids, and in other parts of the appendicular skeleton, appears related to the acquisition of a more upright, parasagittal, stance and gait.
4523112|The Devil's Graveyard Formation, Agua Fria-Green Valley area of Brewster and Presidio counties, Texas, has produced the early Uintan Whistler Squat local fauna from the basal conglomerate and the lower member, the late Uintan Serendipity local fauna from the middle member, the early Duchesnean Skyline local fauna from the base of the Bandera Mesa Member, an early Chadronian unnamed local fauna from the Cotter channels, and the early Chadronian Coffee Cup local fauna from the middle part of the Bandera Mesa Member. Stratigraphic positions for and composition of the local faunas are given. Faunas from the Cotter channels and Montgomery bonebed are correlated with the Porvenir local fauna of the Vieja area. The Coffee Cup local fauna is correlated with the Airstrip local fauna of the Vieja area. K-Ar dates associated with each of the local faunas extend from 49.7 and 46.9 to 32.2 m.y. The Skyline local fauna lies above a date of 42.7 m.y. and beneath the Cotter channels and Montgomery bonebed. The stratigraphic ranges of 98 genera recovered from West Texas are given in chart form and correlations with Southern California and the Northern Interior are made by faunas and K-Ar dates. The appearance of entelodonts and rhinocerotoids in the Porvenir local fauna suggests that it may be correlative with western European faunas that follow the Grand Coupure.
42568625|The holotype of the large temnospondyl Calamops paludosus is the oldest known tetrapod fossil from the Triassic of the Newark basin in Pennsylvania. Although it is usually placed in Metoposauridae, its affinities have remained unknown since its original description because the unique specimen had never been prepared. Preparation and casting of the specimen, which comprises three pieces of a left mandibular ramus, now permits detailed anatomical description of the jaw and assessment of its affinities. Calamops paludosus is a valid taxon of trematosauroid temnospondyls that can be diagnosed by several autapomorphies. It represents one of the geologically youngest known records of long-snouted trematosaurs and the first record of these temnospondyls from the Late Triassic of North America.
25835880|In this paper, the rodents from the composite section of Torrent de Vallparads (Terrassa, northeastern Spain) are described, with particular emphasis on the arvicolines. Due to their wide geographical distributions and rapid evolutionary rates, arvicolines are especially useful for biostratigraphical purposes. Eight stratigraphic layers have yielded rodent remains, including representatives of the genera Mimomys, Allophaiomys, Stenocranius, Iberomys, Microtus, Arvicola, Apodemus, Eliomys, and Hystrix. The presence of different rodent species, together with the available magnetostratigraphic data, allows a precise determination of the age of each layer and a detailed correlation with other Spanish Pleistocene sites, particularly those of the Sierra de Atapuerca. The complete studied sequence ranges from the pre-Jaramillo Biharian (1.41.2 Ma) to the early Toringian (less than 0.6 Ma.), constituting one of the most complete sequences of the Spanish Pleistocene and covering a time span of especial relevance in relation to the earliest human dispersal into western Europe.
4524758|Promephitis is a widespread late Tertiary Eurasian skunk in the family Mephitidae (Carnivora, Musteloidea), but many of the currently-recognized nine species were established on isolated dental material. Recent discoveries of Promephitis comprised of numerous nearly perfectly preserved skulls and jaws from Gansu Province, China, together with material from other Chinese localities plus unpublished material in the Frick Collection, make the Chinese record of Promephitis unrivaled in terms of quality, quantity, and species diversity. Four species of Promephitis are present in the Baodean land mammal age of East Asia: Promephitis parvus, sp. nov., from Hezheng region of Gansu Province; Promephitis qinensis, sp nov., from Fugu area of Shaanxi Province; Promephitis hootoni, the most common Chinese species; and Promephitis alexejewi from the terminal Miocene locality of Ertemte, which is still poorly known. Promephitis parvus represents the smallest known species of the genus and is also the most primitive in cranial and dental morphologies. Promephitis qinensis is a transitional form that may have given rise to P. hootoni. If so, the Turkish occurrence of P. hootoni must be the result of westward expansion of its range.
4524013|The Middle Eocene caprimulgiform birds of Messel (Hessen, Germany) are described. The three known species belong to two higher taxa within the Caprimulgiformes. The new genus and species Masillapodargus longipes is the earliest and most substantial fossil record of the Podargidae, a family which is today confined to Australasia. Masillapodargus longipes mainly differs from the two recent genera in the narrower beak, the wider pars symphysialis of the mandible, and in having longer legs. The Preficinae Olson, 1987 (so far only comprising the Lower Eocene species Prefica nivea) are represented by two species belonging to the new genus Paraprefica (Paraprefica kelleri, sp. nov. and Paraprefica major, sp. nov.). The phylogenetic affinities of the Preficinae need further investigation as at present their classification into the Steatornithidae (Olson, 1987) can only be supported with the extremely abbreviated tarsometatarsus which however differs trenchantly in details of its morphology between the two taxa. The assignment of a second specimen to Prefica nivea in the original description of this species is shown to be incorrect.
4523359|The braincase of the Early Cretaceous bird Enaliornis is indicative of a primitive avian brain with a relatively large medulla oblongata, a small cerebellum, small cerebral hemispheres broadly separated from the labyrinth, and a strong basilordotic bend of the whole brain, the latter being characteristic of an airencephalic skull. The reduction of the dorsal pneumatic recess, the large size of the auricular fossa, and possibly the lack of interfoliar ridges on the roof of the cerebellar fossa suggest diving habits and thus support the association of the braincases with the type tarsometatarsus of Enaliornis. The braincase of Enaliornis is most similar to those of Hesperornis, Phaethon, Diomedeidae and Fregata. Most of the similarities to these taxa are primitive for birds.
4524390|Thalassocnus antiquus, sp. nov., is a marine nothrothere from the late Miocene Aguada de Lomas vertebrate horizon (ca. 7 to 8 Ma) of the Pisco Formation in the Sacaco area of the southern coast of Peru. It is similar to the slightly younger latest Miocene Thalassocnus natans, but smaller and distinctly more gracile. The sloping morphology of the lateral border of the nares in T antiquus differs from the probably plesiomorphic subvertical edge of the nares in T. natans. Parsimony analysis does not resolve the relative positions of T. antiquus and T. natans, and, therefore, does not fully confirm the possibility of a single Thalassocnus lineage, which spans over 4 Ma. However, Thalassocnus is an endemic genus and the stratigraphic distribution of its four species is well known. Furthermore, some characters indicate a continuous evolution from the oldest (T. antiquus) to the youngest species (T carolomartini). Therefore, we prefer the hypothesis of a single Thalassocnus lineage, although a more complex evolutionary scenario is not discarded.
25835849|The taxonomy and systematics of the earliest plesiosaurians is poorly resolved. This limits our understanding of the diversification of one of the most successful clades of secondarily aquatic tetrapods. Here we provide a robust diagnosis of Thalassiodracon hawkinsii from the Pre-planorbis Beds (TriassicJurassic boundary interval) of the United Kingdom, and suggest that at least two other, previously unrecognized plesiosaurians are present in the same deposits. Computed tomography of an exceptionally preserved skull, and examination of previously undescribed (or briefly described) specimens yields new anatomical data. Thalassiodracon has a dorsomedian ridge on the premaxilla, a squamosal bulb, four premaxillary teeth, and a heterodont maxillary dentition. Several features of Thalassiodracon, including the squmosal bulb, broad anterior termination of the pterygoids, heterodont dentition, and single foramen in the lateral surface of the exoccipital, are plesiomorphic or represent pliosauroid synapomorphies. Among pliosauroids, Thalassiodracon shares a parietal that extends far anteriorly, a broad, interdigitating posterior termination of the premaxilla, and a short posteroventral process of the postorbital with Hauffiosaurus and pliosaurids. Thus, we suggest pliosaurid affinities for Thalassiodracon, in contrast to most recent phylogenetic studies. The early stratigraphic position of Thalassiodracon coincides with the earliest occurrence of Rhomaleosauridae (the sister taxon of Pliosauridae). The relatively long neck and small skull of Thalassiodracon indicate that the robust skeleton and macropredaceous habits of rhomaleosaurids and pliosaurids were derived independently.
4523645|Bulk sampling of an Upper Jurassic (Kimmeridgian) section in front of the northern slope of the Harz mountains (northern Germany) has yielded a rich assemblage of elasmobranch placoid scales. Their study shows that l) the placoid scales can be assigned to five hybodontiform and 15 neoselachian morphotypes, 2) the specific or generic identification of Late Jurassic hybodontiform placoid scales is at present impossible because of the lack of comparative material, and 3) the neoselachian placoid scales can be partially identified by comparison to articulated skeletons ofneoses from the Tithonian of southern Germany. Among the neoselachians the scales of Palaeoscyllium sp., Synechodus sp. 1, Synechodus sp. 2, Asterodermus sp. 1, and Asterodermus sp. 2 were identified. The paleoecological and stratigraphical significance of the placoid scales from the Kimmeridgian section is discussed.
4523420|Four nearly complete eggs from the middle Eocene Bridger Formation (Wyoming) are assigned to the crocodiloid basic organizational group. Similarity in egg shape and size and in the histological structure of the eggshell with Crocodylus johnstoni and Crocodylus porosus justifies this classification. The biocrystalline layer of the crocodilian eggshell is composed of a zone of shell units formed of fairly coarse wedges of tabular crystalline structure rising from the inner zone of basal plate groups. Diagenetic features of the specimens include a secondary deposit of calcite on the surface, the infilling of the eggs with fine-grained sediment, and the precipitation of calcite and quartz crystals lining a geode-like cavity. Embryonic remains were not detected.
24523214|Sinophoneus yumenensis and Stenocybus acidentatus are the only dinocephalians from China, and the latter taxon has been proposed to be a junior synonym of the former. Here I confirm this synonymy on the grounds that the differences between the two putative taxa are due to ontogenetic variation. The osteology of Sinophoneus yumenensis is described in detail based on both previously described specimens and several new ones from the same locality. Sinophoneus yumenensis differs from all other anteosaurs in having premaxillary dorsal processes that are separated by relatively long nasal anteromedial processes, and vomers without raised, elongated edges; from all other anteosaurs except Archaeosyodon praeventor in having distinct frontal posterolateral processes, and a wide intertemporal region formed partly by long posterior processes of the postfrontals that approach the posterior edge of the skull roof; and from Archaeosyodon praeventor in having a well-developed midline ridge on skull roof. A revised phylogenetic analysis including the new material recovers Sinophoneus as the most basal known anteosaurid.
4523898|Gars (Lepisosteidae, Actinopterygii) are reported from Madagascar for the first time, from exposures of the Upper Cretaceous (?Campanian) Maevarano Formation in the Mahajanga Basin, northwestern Madagascar. The material includes relatively common isolated scales, and vertebral centra, teeth, fin rays, and dermal cranial elements, all assigned to Lepisosteus sp. This new record from Madagascar adds to previously documented Cretaceous Gondwanan gar occurrences in India, Africa, and South America, as well as in Laurasia. The overall pattern points to a Pangean distribution in the Cretaceous and a Jurassic or earlier origin for the gar clade. The extant endemic fishes of Madagascar are not phylogenetically close to gars or to other Late Cretaceous fishes known from the island, suggesting that the ichthyofauna now there likely evolved from post-Mesozoic colonizers.
4522835|The Mouth of McCann's Canyon Site represents an eastern extension of the Harrison Formation (early Miocene: Arikareean) in Cherry County, Nebraska. At least one anuran, one turtle, three lizards, and six snakes are present. The fauna provides the earliest North American records of the modern lizard genus Eumeces, and of the snake family Viperidae. Two new lizards are described: Harrisonsaurus fossilis gen. et sp. n., of uncertain familiar status, and Eumeces antiquus sp. n. of the family Scincidae. The teeth of Harrisonsaurus have bulbous tips separated from the remainder of the crowns by constricted necks. With the exception of a single viperid, the snake fauna is a typical early Miocene one, consisting of five small boids. A cervical vertebra of the extinct boid genus Geringophis is described and figured for the first time.
4523440| Vincelestes neuquenianus from the Early Cretaceous of Argentina is the earliest therian mammal known from nearly complete crania. Described here is the structure of the petrosal bone and other cranial elements inferred to be associated with the vascular system. From comparisons with Recent amniotes, the major basicranial arteries and veins that we reconstruct for Vincelestes represent a composite of the vascular patterns in monotremes and some placentals (e.g., lipotyphlan insectivorans). Vincelestes had a well-developed stapedial system that was supplied principally via the arteria diplotica magna, a transpromontorial internal carotid artery, and a well-developed lateral head vein that drained the prootic sinus via a prootic canal. As in monotremes and extinct "non-therian" mammals, Vincelestes had an enlarged anterior lamina of the petrosal (=lamina obturans), through the base of which (lateral flange) ran the ramus superior of the stapedial artery. Reconstruction of the major basicranial arteries and veins in Vincelestes facilitates identification of homologous channels in extinct "non-therian" mammals and non-mammalian cynodonts. We recognize a homologous system of vascular channels on the lateral braincase wall that we interpret as for the arteria diplotica magna and ramus superior that occur in Recent mammals. The gradual reduction of this system and the transformation of the channels from wholly extracranial to wholly intracranial positions are traced. Problematic are the courses of the major basicranial veins, the lateral head vein and prootic sinus, in non-mammalian cynodonts and the earliest mammals. We disagree with previous models that reconstruct the lateral head vein dorsal to the lateral flange of the prootic and we place that vessel ventral to the middle-ear roof. Complicating venous reconstruction is the discovery of a "prootic canal" in the non-mammalian cynodonts Probainognathus and Massetognathus, because some taxa appear to have had two vessels connecting the prootic sinus with the lateral head vein: one ran dorsal to the lateral flange and the other was enclosed in the prootic (petrosal). The venous and arterial patterns of Recent mammals are compared to those interpreted to have been present in ancestral mammals. Monotremes retain a primitive venous pattern, but the arterial system is modified in different ways in the platypus on the one hand and the echidna on the other. In marsupials, both the arterial and venous patterns have been markedly altered, with the reduction of the stapedial system, arteria diplotica magna, and lateral head vein. Primitive placentals retain all the major components of the arterial pattern of ancestral mammals, but their venous system is further modified. 
41515287|Shape variation in the vertebrate skull is often studied by considering this bony structure as a single discrete unit, but it can also be interpreted exploring covariation among functionally and developmentally distinct regions, or modules. In this paper, we explore the evolution of skull shape in extant and fossil carnivoran cats by looking at covariation between two distinct modules: the rostrum (splanchnocranium) and braincase (neurocranium). Previous work suggests that the evolution of extreme skull shapes in sabertoothed cats may occur along developmental axes similar to the allometric trajectory observed for extant conical-toothed cats. Here, we reassess this hypothesis by using geometric morphometric data to test for covariation between rostral and braincase modules in sabertoothed and conical-toothed cats. Using partial least squares analysis, we detect a correlated pattern of evolution between rostrum and braincase shape in both forms. However, when we compare within-module integration between conical and sabertoothed cats, we find significant differences in vector trajectories for the rostrum but not the braincase. Both skull modules of conical-toothed cats are more influenced by allometry. For sabertoothed taxa, relative canine height drives shape in the rostrum, but both size and canine length affect braincase shape. We suggest that sabertoothed skull morphology is the result of genetic and developmental processes that were affected by the growth rate of the upper canines. The striking convergence between independent sabertooth radiations indicates that elongation of the canines influenced interspecific skull shape variation in different lineages but in a similar way.
4523723|This study describes the petrosal (periotic) bone and the inner ear of a fossil pygmy sperm whale (Kogiinae, Physeteridae, Cetacea) from the Yorktown Formation (Pliocene) of the Lee Creek Mines of North Carolina. A cladistic analysis of 36 petrosal characters among 18 cetacean taxa shows that extant and fossil kogiines are diagnosed by a plate-like and posteriorly oriented posterior process of the petrosal. The Physeteridae is diagnosed by two petrosal apomorphies: presence of an incudal process for the articulation of the incus, and an enlarged accessory ossicle. Petrosal apomorphies suggest that physeterids and ziphiids are sister groups among the odontocetes, and that the Mysticeti and Odontoceti are both monophyletic. The cochlear spiral of the Pliocene kogiine petrosal has two full turns and a cochlear basal/height ratio of 0.6. Within the cochlear canal, the secondary bony lamina for the basilar membrane is present in one and one-quarter turns of the cochlea. The width of the basilar membrane, as inferred from the laminar gap, is much narrower in the fossil kogiine than in an Oligocene squalodontid-like whale. The primary bony lamina contains numerous foramina for the cochlear nerve. The spiral ganglion canal is well developed in one and three-quarter turns of the cochlea. These cochlear structures are associated with high-frequency hearing in modern toothed whales. Comparison of the inner ear between kogiines and other odontocetes suggests that the fossil kogiine could hear about the same frequency ranges as extant delphinoids, and much higher frequencies than the Oligocene squalodontoid. The vestibule of the kogiine petrosal is a small and curved tube; the semicircular canals are very reduced. These specialized features are the most unequivocal synapomorphies in the odontocete inner ears.
4524274|The present study of the genus Doryaspis (Heterostraci, Pteraspidiformes), based on new material from the Wood Bay Formation (Lower Devonian) of Vestspitsbergen, includes a morphological description of a new species, Doryaspis arctica, sp. nov., the revision of the type species of the genus, Doryaspis nathorsti, and the description of its first complete caudal fin. From these new data, some morpho-functional considerations are outlined. A phylogenetic analysis, based on 30 morphological characters and performed to answer the question of the position of Doryaspis within the Pteraspidiformes, suggests that Doryaspis is most closely related to Drepanaspis.
23361073|Teyumbaita sulcognathus is a peculiar endemic Brazilian rhynchosaur that remained somewhat obscure until recently, when its skull anatomy was described and a new generic name was assigned to this highly autapomorphic taxon. Here, the postcranial skeleton of Teyumbaita sulcognathus is for the first time fully described based on the holotype and the two more complete referred specimens. Rhynchosaur postcranial anatomy has usually been considered to be rather conservative, but T. sulcognathus shows unforeseen morphological variation. Autapomorphic traits were added to the diagnosis of T. sulcognathus and intraspecific variation was also identified. In addition, six new phylogeneticaly informative postcranial characters were recognized. Some of these represent apomorphies of clades such as Rhynchosauridae (axis with ventral keel, crest on the anteromedial surface of tibial shaft) and Hyperodapedontinae (postaxial cervical vertebrae with ventral keel, supinator process composed of a low supinator ridge and the ligament groove), revealing new support for their monophyly. The rhynchosaur diversity of the Otter Sandstone Formation (England) was also evaluated based on a phylogenetic analysis. The results suggest that the postcranium EXEMS 79/1992 is more likely related to Fodonyx spenceri than to Bentonyx sidensis.
4523884| Fossil mammals of the Shinzhaly fauna occur in the Kolpak Formation, a sequence of Paleogene red beds exposed along the Shinzhaly River in Eastern Kazakstan. Most of the fossils are concentrated in a single bed 0.3 m thick. Screen washing of sediment from this bed has yielded small mammals, including several species of rodents: a zapodid, Aksyiromys dalos; two cricetids, Pappocricetodon kazakstanicus, sp. nov. and Zhungaromys gromovi, gen. et sp. nov.; and a chapattimyid, Saykanomys sp., cf. S. bohlini. Temporal correlation indicated by the rodents is in agreement with the middle Eocene (Irdinmanhan) age indicated by perissodactyls previously described from the Shinzhaly fauna.        ,    ,       .        . ,      ,    ,    : - Aksyiromys dalos;   - Pappocricetodon kazakstanicus, sp. nov.  Zhungaromys gromovi, gen. et sp. nov;  - Saykanomys cf. S. bohlini.     ,        ,      .         . 
24523207|Although morphological evidence alone appears insufficient to resolve the problem of extant amphibian ancestry, comparison of developmental processes and functional correlates of ontogenetic change may provide a basis for evaluating relationships among extinct and extant tetrapods. In the first allometric study of cranial and postcranial growth in any lepospondyl, I investigate skeletal development in the microsaurs Microbrachis pelikani and Hyloplesion longicostatum using traditional measurement-based and geometric morphometric analyses. Regression analyses against both skull and centrum lengths for M. pelikani indicate positive allometric scaling of the interclavicle plate length, pubis, and ilium, and negative scaling of the diameter of the orbit. Preliminary data for H. longicostatum support negative scaling of neural arch height and posterior centrum height. Results from geometric morphometrics suggest slight widening of the cheek in M. pelikani, rather than marked elongation. Overall, cranial and postcranial growth in both microsaurs was primarily isometric and comparison with allometric data from other Paleozoic taxa suggests that isometric growth is an ancestral feature of development in early tetrapods. All regression analyses for M. pelikani and H. longicostatum had a constant linear slope, indicating that ontogenetic trajectories were continuous, with gradual skeletal growth and no shift in feeding or locomotor function during ontogeny. The lack of morphological change suggests that these microsaurs did not undergo an extant amphibian-like metamorphosis that included reorganization of the skeleton. These data support the hypothesis that metamorphosis is a derived mode of development present only in extant amphibians and their closest relatives.
4523391| A new Lower Miocene locality at Locherangan in northwestern Kenya has yielded over 300 specimens representing at least 13 mammalian species. The faunal assemblage includes at least two hominoid species and an array of ungulate taxa that suggest the existence of a mixed habitat. The strata at Locherangan are 49.1 m of lacustrine clays and mudstones. Two tuffaceous units near the middle of the sequence underlie the fossil bearing horizon. Anorthoclase from the upper tuff has yielded a potassium-argon date of 17.50.3 Ma. 
20491035|We present an anatomical redescription and reassessment of the phylogenetic relationships of Sclerosaurus armatus Meyer in Fischer, 1857, a parareptile from the Lower to lower Middle Triassic Buntsandstein of southern Germany and northern Switzerland. This taxon is distinguished from other known parareptiles by the possession of long, posterolaterally projecting spikes formed by supratemporals, posterior dentary teeth with mesiolingually aligned and slightly imbricating crowns, and a narrow band of dorsal dermal armor comprising two or three rows of sculptured osteoderms on either side of the midline. Phylogenetic analysis places Sclerosaurus in the Procolophonidae rather than as the sister taxon of Pareiasauria. Furthermore, certain apomorphic character states, particularly the presence of three spines on the quadratojugal, support its referral to the Leptopleuroninae. Sclerosaurus resembles pareiasaurs in the presence of an intercondylar canal on the distal end of the femur, the absence of gastralia, and having a short tail. It is possibly the largest procolophonid known to date.
20491008|The first castorid remains from the area of els Hostalets de Pierola (l'Anoia, Catalonia, Spain), in the Valls-Peneds Basin, are described in this article. These fossil remains from Abocador de Can Mata (ACM), including a nearly complete hemimandible, two maxillary fragments, and several isolated teeth from locality C4-C2 (Late Aragonian, MN7+8), as well as an almost complete femur from the similarly-aged locality C3-Ak, are attributed to the genus Chalicomys (= Palaeomys). Taxonomic and nomenclatural issues regarding this genus are discussed. An emended diagnosis of this genus is provided, and a new species, Chalicomys batalleri sp. nov., is described on the basis of the ACM/C4-C2 specimens. The femur from ACM/C3-Ak is also tentatively included within the hypodigm of the newly erected species. Paleobiological inferences on the locomotor repertoire of Chalicomys are made on the basis of femoral anatomy. It is concluded that, like living Castor, these extinct beavers were efficient swimmers, highly committed to aquatic locomotion, which propelled mainly by means of hind feet paddling. The presence of an extinct beaver with Castor-like aquatic adaptations in this area, together with the sedimentological evidence, suggests more humid conditions than previously thought, at least for a restricted to a short time interval, given the rarity of castorid remains elsewhere in the ACM stratigraphic series.
20491005|Utilizing the occurrence of plesiadapid mammals, we recognize both Tiffanian and Clarkforkian ages in the Fort Union Formation of the Piceance Creek Basin of Colorado. Five species of plesiadapids are described from eighteen fossil localities. The presence of Nannodectes gazini, Plesiadapis fodinatus and a new species Chiromyoides gigas indicate that at most eleven of the reported fossil localities are Tiffanian in age. The majority of the fossil specimens come from UCM locality 92177 (USGSD-2001) located 35.8 meters above the base of the Fort Union Formation, which we place in the Ti5 lineage zone. The occurrence of Plesiadapis dubius and Chiromyoides caesor in the Plateau Valley area suggests a younger Clarkforkian age for these stratigraphically higher localities. We are the first to recognize Tiffanian aged fossils in the Piceance Creek Basin, extending the mammalian record back to more than 58 million years ago.
4523118|Seven palaeonisciform species can be recognized in the Middle Pennsylvanian Mazon Creek fauna of Illinois, U.S.A. Two of the five "Elonichthys" species with denticulated scales are new, "E." wolffi, n.sp. and "E." remotus, n.sp.; "E." perpennatus Eastman, 1903, is a juvenile form and a synonym of "E." hypsilepis Hay 1900. Two new species with smooth scales are placed in new genera: Illiniichthys cozarti, n.g. et sp., and Nozamichthys contorta n.g. et sp. "E." peltigerus and "E." hypsilepis are by far the most common palaeonisciforms in the Mazon Creek fauna and specimens of different stages of juvenile development occur. Most may be assigned to a species based on fin ray count (except caudal fin) because these numbers do not change with "growth." Scales first appear on upper caudal lobe and/or along the lateral line. Head length and length of upper caudal lobe (except in "E." hypsilepis) decrease relative to standard length during "growth." Orbital length becomes shorter relative to head length in "E." hypsilepis, but not in "E." peltigerus, in which negative allometry of preorbital length, positive allometry of orbit, and isometry of postorbital length result in a forward movement of the orbit. The abdominal region lengthens in "E." hypsilepis relative to standard length, while it shortens in "E." peltigerus. Such differences between the two species and similar ones in other palaeonisciforms for which nominal "growth" series are known demonstrate that patterns of change in closely related species may differ.
23361056|The taxonomy and paleobiology of the Upper Permian dicynodont Cistecephalus have been much debated over the last century. Fossils of Cistecephalus have been identified as belonging either to one species or up to six species and hypotheses concerning their lifestyle range from aquatic to arboreal and fossorial. Earlier studies of Cistecephalus focused mainly on macroanatomical characteristics, whereas the current assessment examines a combination of anatomical features, as well as bone histology and microanatomy to unravel its biology. The allometries of a skull growth series that were examined in the present study imply that all Cistecephalus specimens belong to a single species. Furthermore, our data suggest that the variability in the occurrence of supraorbital ridges, which are raised in some specimens and leveled in others, is a feature of sexual dimorphism. Histological thin-sections of a humerus, an ulna, a femur, and ribs from two Cistecephalus specimens were studied to evaluate life history traits of this taxon. The comparison of ribs from a subadult and a fully grown specimen allows an estimation that sexual maturity was attained when the skull length was between 5.9 and 6.5 cm. The compact microstructure of the sampled Cistecephalus bones implies aquatic and/or fossorial adaptations, refuting an arboreal lifestyle. We propose that the high degree of binocular vision evident in Cistecephalus developed in response to predatory (insectivory) and/or nocturnal habits and that it is unrelated to a scansorial lifestyle.
4523933|Unique, caudally elongated frontal sinuses 2' (terminology of Paulli, 1900c) are present in the living hyaenine hyaenids (Crocuta crocuta, Parahyaena brunnea, Hyaena hyaena) and in at least four fossil hyaenids (Adcrocuta eximia, Hyaenotherium wongii, Palinhyaena reperta, and Ictitherium viverrinum). In Crocuta , Parahyaena brunnea, Hyaena hyaena, and Adcrocuta eximia, the elongated frontal sinuses completely overlie the brain cavity, a condition apparently unique in the history of the Carnivora. Elongated frontal sinuses are conspicuously absent in the extant aardwolf (Proteles cristatus), however. The cladogenetic distribution of these fossil and living hyaenid species is broad enough to indicate a persistent difference in skull architecture between proteline and hyaenine hyaenids through time. The elongated frontal sinuses in all hyaenids examined in this study except for Proteles is an impressive pattern, and its potential function is unlikely to be related to shock dissipation, brain cooling, olfaction, or maximization of muscle attachment area. With the application of basic structural engineering principles, however, the elongated frontal sinus can be modeled as a shell structure that provides better resistance to muscular load than the cantilever plate geometry of the typical plate-like mammalian sagittal crest.
25790798|Australian Cretaceous ichthyosaur material is amongst the most complete in the world. This study describes postcranial remains referred to the upper Albian species Platypterygius australis, including the first record of pelvic and hind limb elements for this taxon. A combination of phylogenetically significant traits such as lack of fusion between the atlas-axis complex and third cervical centrum, the presence of three distal facets on both the humerus/femur for accommodation of the anterior zeugopodial elements plus the radius/tibia and ulna/fibula, concave preaxial accessory facet surfaces on both the humerus and the femur, and complete fusion of the ischiopubis with closure of the obturator foramen, are considered diagnostic for the species and (in conjunction with other previously identified cranial/postcranial features) may serve to distinguish P. australis from the other paleogeographically disparate Platypterygius spp.
4524675|In this article, hypotheses about the origin, evolution and dispersal of Megantereon are reviewed using the fossil specimens included in previous comparative studies as well as the remains identified in the late Pliocene site of Fonelas (Spain) and the early Pleistocene localities of Lantian, Lingyi, Longdan, Renzidong (China), and Untermassfeld (Germany). The validity of the two species proposed by Martinez-Navarro and Palmqvist (1995), Megantereon cultridens and M. whitei, is evaluated using tooth measurements and multivariate statistical methods. The hypothesis of sexual dimorphism as an explanation for the morphological variability of Megantereon is tested with a large sample of sexed individuals of Panthera pardus and Panthera leo. Results obtained indicate similar or even smaller differences in tooth dimensions between M. cultridens and M. whitei than between sexes in both leopards and lions, except in the case of the lower fourth premolar. However, in spite of a substantial overlap between both Megantereon species in the size of the upper canine, this tooth reverses the differences found for other tooth measurements, because M. cultridens shows larger cheek teeth on average than M. whitei but smaller sabers. This is confirmed by principal components and discriminant analyses, which reveal that sexual dimorphism in leopards and lions is a matter of tooth size and not of relative proportions and argues against the interpretation of M. cultridens and M. whitei as the sexes (males and females, respectively) of a single species. These results indicate that M. cultridens and M. whitei are valid species, because the differences in tooth measurements exceed those expected from sexual dimorphism and do not reveal the effects of biased sampling. Finally, an analysis of jaw anatomy reveals biomechanical differences between both Megantereon species, related to the relative efficiency of the biting muscles at the level of the lower carnassial.
4522883|This paper presents the most diverse Pliocene lagomorph fauna yet reported from Mexico. Four genera and five species are herein recognized from several localities in the central state of Guanajuato. These presently discovered taxa were compared with previously described lagomorphs from North America; and three, one genus and two species, are considered new. Additionally, one other species could possibly be new. Taxa which have been reported elsewhere include Hypolagus, Pratilepus ?kansasensis and Notolagus cf. velox. Apparently no published record exists which describes Pliocene lagomorphs as far south in North America as those listed in this study.
4522862| A large slab of arenaceous siltstone was collected from strata of the Gething Formation (Aptian, Lower Cretaceous) in the Peace River Canyon of northeastern British Columbia, Canada. More than 200 footprints between 2.0 and 4.4 cm in length were found on a single bedding plane within the slab. These were made by a minimum of four individuals that apparently were feeding. The footprints have an average divarication of 113 and a correlated width to length ratio of 1.26, which fall within the range encountered in birds. Divarication between digits II and IV in even the smallest dinosaurs never exceeds 100 on an average per trackway. Other characteristics support the identification of these tracks from the Peace River Canyon as having been made by birds. The new genus and species, Aquatilavipes swiboldae, is the earliest known record of bird footprints, and probably represents a primitive taxon of marsh-dwelling bird. 
4524232|Continued excavation at the type locality of Ambulocetus natans led to the recovery of a majority of the axial skeleton of the holotype of this early Eocene cetacean, including both innominates, the sacrum, and most of the thoracic cage and thoracolumbar vertebral column. Additional appendicular, caudal, and cranial materials were also recovered, resulting in a specimen that is now approximately 80 percent complete. This new material allows refined interpretations of its functional morphology. Ambulocetus has a longer thoracolumbar column than that reported for later remingtonocetid and protocetid genera, suggesting that previous estimates of spinal length derived from models of mesonychid ancestry may be inaccurate. Ambulocetus also possesses a co-ossified ecto-mesocuneiform, a character found in some early and middle Eocene artiodactyls, but not mesonychids. New postcranial material provides further evidence of a systemic shift to aquatic locomotion.
4523082| Gobiates kermeentsavi, n. gen., n. sp., from the Cretaceous of the Gobi desert, Mongolian People's Republic, is characterized by a large fontanelle in the frontoparietal, a complete maxillary arch, sculptured cranial bones and probable amphicoelous vertebrae with ribs. It is referred to the Discoglossidae, near the Discoglossus-group, because it possesses prootics with an extensive lateral projection, and a sphenethmoid with only a short rostral process. "Eopelobates" leptocolaptus Borsuk-Biaynicka (1978), originally referred to the Pelobatidae, is referred here to Gobiates. The new genus has certain morphological features in common with Pelobatidae, although for the most part these characters appear to be correlated with the presence of a wide semicircular head and the presence of dermal skull sculpture. Gobiates may be related to such fossil discoglossids as Scotiophryne (Cretaceous, North America) and Latonia (Late Cretaceous-Middle Cenozoic, Eurasia). 
4524470|A nearly complete specimen of a new coelacanth is described from the Oxfordian of Burgundy, France. Wenzia latimerae, gen. et sp. nov., shares unique features with both the extant coelacanth Latimeria and the Mesozoic coelacanth Macropoma. It displays a unique combination of primitive characters (such as the presence of a spiracular bone and postparietal pit- lines), and derived characters (such as a postparietal shield with raised areas and very short relatively to the parietonasal shield; a consolidated snout bearing large tubercles; a deeply excavated postorbital with a long and tubular ventral expansion; a squamosal with an anterior expansion for the jugal sensory canal). A cladistic analysis suggests that the new species is the fossil sister taxon to Latimeria, but this close relationship is weakly supported. Nevertheless, Wenzia latimerae belongs with confidence to the Latimeriidae. The new specimen also provides information on the structure of the calcified plates of the ossified swim bladder, as well as on the structure of the muscle fibres. Part of the diet of this marine coelacanth is known thanks to the presence of a small crustacean in its stomach contents.
4524611|The incompletely known sauropod Tornieria africana from the Upper Jurassic (Tithonian) of Tendaguru, Tanzania, has for over 80 years been regarded to represent a Gondwanan species of the North American genus Barosaurus Marsh (Morrison Formation: Kimmeridgian-Tithonian), but this identification has recently been questioned. The holotype and referred specimens are redescribed here, and the characters present are reevaluated in light of current knowledge of sauropod phylogeny. Synapomorphies of the skull (prefrontal with triangular posterior process) and anterior caudal vertebrae (procoelous centra, presence of diapophyseal laminae, and presence of a pleurocoel) indicate that the Tendaguru material represents a member of the Diplodocinae (Diplodocoidea, Diplodocidae) and is therefore very closely related to Barosaurus and Diplodocus. It differs from all other diplodocine genera in several characters, such as robust anterior caudals with pleurocoels located in the upper third of the centrum and ventral excavations, and stout hind limb proportions similar to Apatosaurus (tibia:femur length ratio less than 0.64). In a phylogenetic analysis, the African form consistently emerges as the sister taxon to Barosaurus+Diplodocus. Therefore, previous suggestions that Tornieria africana is the available name for this taxon are supported by this analysis. The existence of this form in Gondwana contradicts the idea of Laurentian endemism of the diplodocid clade, and is best explained by a vicariance model of diplodocoid paleobiogeography. This implies an extensive ghost lineage of this group, extending back at least as far as the upper Middle Jurassic.
25790797|Chupacabrachelys complexus, n. gen. n. sp., is an unusual bothremydid pleurodire of the tribe Taphrosphyini found in the Campanian Aguja Formation in the Big Bend region of West Texas. The type example is one of the most complete bothremydid specimens known. Its skull and lower jaw are very narrow, triangular, and dorsoventrally compressed, with the coronoid process posterior to midlength of the jaw. The orbits are elongate anteroposteiorly with narrow extensions along the maxilla-prefrontal sutures, and rugose maxillary projections at the anterolateral corners of orbits. Its reduced temporal emargination, weak posteroventral flange on the squamosal, weak lateral extension of the squamosal along the quadrate suture, and posteroventral knob on opisthotic suggest affinity with Taphrosphyini. The shell has six neurals and a nuchal with sharp midline embayment, and is nearly identical to those of Chedighaii and Bothremys. Chupacabrachelys provides additional evidence for the dramatic evolutionary radiation of bothremydid turtles in tropical paralic environments during Late Cretaceous time.
42568672|Choristodera is a clade of freshwater aquatic reptiles with a strictly Laurasian distribution and a temporal record extending from at least Middle Jurassic to Miocene. The large Cretaceous-Eocene neochoristoderes Champsosaurus and Simoedosaurus are the most familiar taxa, but many smaller representatives have since been recognized. Neochoristoderes disappeared from the fossil record in the Eocene, but choristoderes survived into the European Neogene in the form of the small, superficially lizard-like Lazarussuchus. This taxon was originally described from the late Oligocene of France but has subsequently been recorded from the early Miocene of the Czech Republic and the late Oligocene of Germany. Despite its age, most phylogenetic analyses place Lazarussuchus at or close to the base of the choristoderan tree, implying a very long unrecorded history. A new specimen of Lazarussuchus from the late Paleocene locality of Menat, France, partly fills that hiatus. The genus was thus present in the waterways of western Europe for at least 30 Ma, and was probably considerably more widespread than current records suggest. A new phylogenetic analysis confirms its placement outside Neochoristodera, but the relationships of non-neochoristoderan taxa remain incompletely resolved.
4523204|The first early to middle Miocene terrestrial mammalian fauna from Thailand (the Nong Hen Local Fauna) was recovered at a depth between 887 and 894 meters in the Thai Shell Exploration and Production Company Ltd. Nong Hen-I(A) well located in the northern part of the country. More than 100 mammalian jaws and teeth were recovered. Most specimens were from a single new species of bat, Mormopterus (Hydromops) nonghenensis but two other bats were also present as well as a small rodent and some other, larger mammal. The preponderance of bats in this assemblage is concordant with its having been recovered from a karst deposit. The stage of evolution of M. (H.) nonghenensis suggests that the Nong Hen Local Fauna is late early to middle Miocene in age.
4524540|The discovery of the smallest Triceratops skull (UCMP 154452) provides a new ontogenetic end member for the earliest stage of ceratopsid (Centrosaurinae plus Chasmosaurinae) cranial development. The lack of co-ossification among the parietal, squamosals, postorbitals, quadratojugal arch, and the braincase preserves sutural contacts and bone surfaces that later become obscured in adults. The ability to document the early development and morphology of the horns and frill in Triceratops allows a reevaluation of their functional roles. UCMP 154452 shows that the cranial ornamentation of the frill and the postorbital horns were not restricted to adults, but began at an early age in this species. This evidence supports the hypothesis that the function of ceratopsid horns and frills was potentially important for visual communication and species recognition because in this young form it could not have functioned in sexual display. Although some features of UCMP 154452 anticipate or mimic the adult character states, some braincase characters recapitulate the juvenile and adult stages of more basal neoceratopsians.
30126312|The locality of Thermopigi in northern Greece has yielded a well-preserved skull of Ancylotherium pentelicum, among a rich collection of late Miocene mammals. It is the most complete Ancylotherium skull ever reported, and lack of crushing makes it especially valuable. Its most remarkable feature is the inflation of the frontal bone, which is strongly reminiscent of the dome of the North American Tylocephalonyx Coombs, 1979, although the degree of inflation is weaker than in that genus. An analysis of some characters found in the Miocene Schizotheriinae leads to the conclusion that Ancylotherium is more likely to be closely related to other Eurasian and African members of this subfamily than to Tylocephalonyx, and that the domes evolved in parallel.
20490992|A new temnospondyl, Kryostega collinsoni, gen. et sp. nov., is described on the basis of a large snout fragment from the Triassic upper Fremouw Formation of Antarctica. K. collinsoni is characterized by greatly enlarged teeth of the transvomerine and parachoanal tooth rows, a reduced transvomerine tooth row, as well as a distinct process on the palatal surface of the premaxilla. Although key palatal and tabular features are not preserved, the shape and position of the external naris, choana, and anterior palatal vacuity suggest that K. collinsoni may be allied to the Heylerosauridae or basal Mastodonsauridae. The discovery of K. collinsoni in the upper Fremouw is surprising, given that Triassic vertebrates from Antarctica are typically considered a subset of coeval taxa from the Karoo Basin of South Africa. Based on its unique occurrence in Antarctica, K. collinsoni suggests that high latitude Triassic tetrapods had a more restricted geographic distribution than previously considered. Biostratigraphically, the fauna of the upper Fremouw Formation is best correlated with the Cynognathus Assemblage Zone of South Africa's Beaufort Group, although the lack of species-level identifications for many of the Antarctic fossils precludes a more refined correlation. A review of the Triassic fossil record identifies several tetrapods that make their first appearance in the Fremouw, with a later appearance in the Karoo Basin, suggesting that the high latitude regions of Gondwana might have served as an important area for speciation.
41407682|The South African non-archosauriform archosauromorph Prolacerta and the archosauriforms Proterosuchus, Erythrosuchus, and Euparkeria were important constituents of the Early to early Middle Triassic Karoo ecosystem following the end-Permian mass extinction. We present new data on the osteohistology of these stem archosaurs and provide insight into their paleobiology. Bone tissues of the Early Triassic Prolacerta contain a poorly defined fibro-lamellar complex, with parallelfibered bone in some regions, whereas the contemporaneous Proterosuchus exhibits rapidly forming uninterrupted fibrolamellar bone early in its ontogeny, which becomes slow forming lamellar-zonal bone with increasing age. The early Middle Triassic Erythrosuchus deposited highly vascularized, uninterrupted fibro-lamellar bone throughout ontogeny, whereas the growth of the contemporaneous Euparkeria was relatively slow and cyclical. When our data are combined with those of previous studies, preliminary results reveal that Early and Middle Triassic non-crown group archosauromorphs generally exhibit faster growth rates than many of those of the Late Triassic. Early rapid growth and rapid attainment of sexual maturity are consistent with life history expectations for taxa living in the unpredictable conditions following the end-Permian mass extinction. Further research with larger sample sizes will be required to determine the nature of the environmental pressures on these basal archosaurs.
4524353|Sauropods have a unique digitigrade and semi-tubular manus whose shape has been used as a synapomorphy that unites most sauropod taxa. The vertical orientation and semi-tubular arrangement of the metacarpals suggest the sauropod manus improved the mechanical ability of the forelimb to support great weight. However, the evolutionary mechanism responsible for modifying the relatively flat metacarpus of basal saurischians into a semitubular arrangement has remained uninvestigated. Furthermore, trackway evidence shows that manus pronation was more developed in sauropods than other saurischians. However, because the radius and ulna do not cross completely in sauropods, reconciling manus print orientation with forelimb osteology has been difficult. Restudy of North American neosauropod appendicular osteology and anatomy suggests that the unique manus shape of sauropods is linked temporally with reversion to a quadrupedal posture and the necessity of manus pronation. Articulation and manipulation of neosauropod forelimbs and casts, as well as a scale model of Apatosaurus louisae, suggest that, as the sauropod forelimb resumed a weight-bearing role, the primitively anterolateral position of the radius shifted to assume a more internal (anteromedial) orientation in relation to the ulna proximally and distally. The internal shift of the radius may have subsequently pronated the manus while simultaneously altering the shape of the digital arch, transforming a flat dinosaurian manus into a digitigrade, semi-tubular structure. Morphological evidence presented here suggests a semitubular manus was an exaptation that ultimately functioned as a weight-distributing structure, and that this unique morphology may have been present in basal sauropods.
4523145|A new genus and species of trematopid amphibian, Anconastes vesperus, is based on partial skeletons from the Cutler Formation of El Cobre Canyon, north-central New Mexico. Lithostratigraphic evidence is presented to demonstrate that the exposed section of the Cutler Formation in El Cobre Canyon spans the Permo-Pennsylvanian boundary, extending from at least Upper Pennsylvanian Virgilian to Lower Permian Wolfcampian. Indirect evidence indicates that the A. vesperus specimens were collected from what is believed to be a Virgilian horizon. This is the first trematopid to be reported from New Mexico and only the second from the Pennsylvanian. Many of the features that have been previously considered derived for the Trematopidae are reinterpreted as advanced states of trends within the family. Although this reduces the number of derived features that separates the trematopids from the dissorophids, it also reinforces the concept of a close relationship between the two families. In terms of the morphological trends within the family, A. vesperus appears to be considerably more primitive than the Early Permian forms. Well-ossified vertebrae, and very small, well-developed, sculptured osteoderms that formed a dense, non-overlapping, armor-like covering of at least the trunk region, indicate that A. vesperus was like the Early Permian trematopids in being adapted to a terrestrial existence.
4524776| A new species is described and proposed as a new genus and family belonging to the Order Ichthyodectiformes. The specimens referred to this taxon were collected in limestones of the Middle Member of the Tlaya Formation of Albian age, near Tepexi de Rodrguez, Puebla, central Mexico. This new species shows a unique combination of primitive and derived characters. Its head and body proportions resemble those of other Cretaceous ichthyodectiforms, but its parietals are unfused and the caudal fin has three epurals and five uroneurals; it is also characterized by an unusually high total vertebral count, which comprises 78-80 centra, and areas of crowded teeth in the dentary and maxilla. 
23251285|Gnatho-dental specimens of the anthracotheres (Mammalia; Artiodactyla) from the four Neogene localities of central Myanmar are described. Four species of anthracotheres are recognized in the Neogene of central Myanmar: Microbunodon silistrensis and a small bothriodontine from the middle Miocene; and Microbunodon milaensis and Merycopotamus dissimilis from the latest Miocene to Pliocene. This discovery extends the temporal range of Microbunodon up to the Pliocene. The co-occurrence of forest-dwelling Microbunodon and grass-eating and semi-aquatic Me. dissimilis reinforces that central Myanmar was less arid and had a wider range of habitats than the northern Indian Subcontinent during the Pliocene. This implies the possibility that Pliocene Southeast Asia might have been a refugium for some late Miocene forest-dwelling ungulates.
41407709|A new mosasaur, Eremiasaurus heterodontus, gen. et sp. nov., from the Maastrichtian phosphates of Morocco is described based on the basis of two specimens: one consisting of a nearly complete skull, vertebral column, and isolated appendicular elements, and the other a nearly complete skull with associated vertebral column. This new mosasaur exhibits a high degree of heterodonty and a large number of pygal vertebrae, the latter feature expressed to a greater degree only in Plotosaurus from the Maastrichtian of California. Analysis of a data matrix of 135 characters and 32 terminal taxa resulted in three equally most parsimonious trees, and recovered E. heterodontus as the sister taxon to Plotosaurini. A second analysis incorporating five species of the globidensine mosasaur Prognathodon recovered 252 most parsimonious trees. This second analysis also recovered E. heterodontus as the closest relative to the Plotosaurini, a position supported by the presence of an internarial bar keel, exclusion of the prefrontals from the narial borders, narial embayments in the frontal, and the presence of a quadrate ala groove. A change in the positions of several key character-state changes in the second analysis not only supports the exclusion of E. heterodontus from the globidensine mosasaurs, but also calls into question the monophyly of the Globidensini and the suite of quadrate and dental characters used to diagnose this group.
4523296|Microvertebrates from limestones near the Burmese border town of Mae Sam Lap, northern Thailand, are dated as late Famennian by associated conodonts. The fauna contains the chondrichthyans Thrinacodus (Harpagodens) ferox, Symmorium? sp., "Cladodus," cf. C. acutus, and two new taxa, Phoebodus australiensis, sp. nov., and Siamodus janvieri, gen. et sp. nov. Several types of chondrichthyan scales, actinopterygian scales and teeth, and rare acanthodian scales also occur in the fauna. Phoebodus australiensis, sp. nov., is also recognized from Australia and South China; Siamodus, gen. nov., is also recognized from the Late Devonian of South China. Thrinacodus ferox appears in the Late Devonian of Australia, South China, and Thailand, predating the occurrence of this species in Europe and North America (Carboniferous). These data suggest close affinity between the Shan-Thai, East Gondwana, and South China Terranes at the end of the Devonian.
4523282|The holotype of Dioplotherium manigaulti Cope, 1883 was originally discovered in the phosphate beds that were formerly mined near Charleston, South Carolina. These deposits range from Eocene or Oligocene to Pliocene in age. D. manigaulti is now known by a skull (described here) from the early Miocene Hawthorne Group of northern Florida, which suggests that the holotype and other fragmentary remains from South Carolina and Florida are also probably early Miocene in age. The Old World early Miocene genus Rytiodus, "Halitherium" olseni from the early Miocene of Florida, and Dioplotherium all belong in the dugongid subfamily Rytiodontinae. This reveals for the first time that rytiodontines probably had their origin and greatest diversity in the New World. The more derived rytiodontines have enlarged, bladelike, self-sharpening tusks that may have been used to dig up seagrass rhizomes. The living Dugong may have evolved its large tusks for a similar reason, but now appears to use them chiefly in social interactions.
4524418|Specimens referred to Osteopygis (Late Cretaceous-Paleocene, North America) represent a chimera, a polyphyletic mixture of taxa. The holotype of Osteopygis (AMNH 1485) and more complete referred postcranial specimens resemble non-marine stem cryptodires ("macrobaenids"). Because the skull material historically referred to Osteopygis shares synapomorphies with cheloniid sea turtles, all current workers accept Osteopygis as a stem- cheloniid sea turtle. Multiple lines of evidence combine to support the hypothesis that sea turtle cranial material is not attributable to 'Osteopygis. These lines of evidence include: phylogenetic hypotheses of character evolution, the tenuous historical attribution of specimens, and the taphonomy of the Hornerstown Formation. The name-bearing Osteopygis material and referred postcrania are best considered Eucryptodira incertae sedis (cf. "Macrobaenidae"). The cranial specimens formerly assigned to the Osteopyginae now are restricted to the clade Euclastes and those referred to Osteopygis emarginatus are here referred to Euclastes wielandi (comb. nov.). The 'decapitation' of Osteopygis reconciles morphological trends within stem cheloniids.
4524180|Red Queen hypotheses maintain that biotic interactions are the most important drivers of evolutionary change, whereas Court Jester hypotheses regard physical-environmental perturbations, such as climate change, as most important. Tests for the biotic effects of climate change that are conducted on too large a geographic scale can falsely reject the Court Jester because climate is so complex its manifestation is in opposite directions in different geographic areas. Consequently, faunal responses vary from place to place, and lumping of data from different climate zones averages out any local faunal responses. Likewise, tests that are conducted at inappropriate temporal scales will not be effective at distinguishing between the Red Queen and Court Jester. A test at a temporal and geographic scale that takes the above considerations into account suggests a biotic response of mammals to a climatic warming event in the northern Rocky Mountains 18.5-14.0 Ma (the late-Early Miocene climatic optimum). During the environmental perturbation, mammalian species richness possibly increased, faunal turnover was pronounced, and taxa adapted to warm, arid environments became more abundant in numbers of species and density of individuals. The data are consistent with environmental change-the Court Jester-driving evolutionary change at sub-continental spatial scales and temporal scales that exceed typical Milankovitch oscillations. The Red Queen may be active at smaller temporal and geographic scales.
4524724|In recent years, mousebirds (Aves, Coliiformes) have been recognized as one of the predominant groups of small perching birds in the early Tertiary of the Northern Hemisphere. Two major lineages can be distinguished, the Sandcoleidae, which are exclusively known from Paleocene and Eocene deposits, and the Coliidae, which have been found in Upper Eocene to Pliocene deposits and also include the six extant African species. Here we describe a nearly complete tarsometatarsus of a mousebird from the middle Eocene to upper Oligocene fissure fillings of the Quercy in France. The specimen is tentatively referred to Selmes absurdipes Peters, 1999, and represents a previously unknown tarsometatarsal morphology that combines derived characters of Sandcoleidae and Coliidae. It provides further evidence that Selmes is a stem lineage representative of the Coliidae and not a sandcoleid bird as assumed in the original description. Classification of Selmes into the Coliidae is also supported by a cladistic analysis of 19 morphological characters.
30126362|The fossil record of abelisauroid carnivorous dinosaurs was previously restricted to Cretaceous sediments of Gondwana and probably Europe. The discovery of an incomplete specimen of a new basal abelisauroid, Berberosaurus liassicus, gen. et sp. nov., is reported from the late Early Jurassic of Moroccan High Atlas Mountains. Phylogenetic analysis recovers Ceratosauroidea and Coelophysoidea as sister lineages within Ceratosauria, and Berberosaurus as a basal abelisauroid. Berberosaurus is the oldest known abelisauroid and extends the first appearance datum of this lineage by about 50 million years. The taxon bridges temporal, morphological, and phylogenetic gaps that have hitherto separated Triassic to Early Jurassic coelophysoids from Late Jurassic through Cretaceous ceratosauroids. The discovery of an African abelisauroid in the Early Jurassic confirms at least a Gondwanan distribution of this group long before the Cretaceous.
25835826|A new genus and species of marine reptile is described from the Pelsonian (Anisian, Middle Triassic) of Luoping County, Yunnan Province, southwestern China. This diapsid reptile with a secondarily closed upper temporal fossa is the sister taxon to Saurosphargis from the lower Muschelkalk (Anisian, Middle Triassic) of central Europe. It further emphasizes the close faunal affinities between the Eastern and Western Tethyan realm. The new taxon is convergent on cyamodontoid placodonts in having developed a dorsal body armor composed of small osteoderms. The underlying ribs are transversely broadened so as to establish contact along their length, thus forming a closed dorsal 'rib basket,' a unique morphology shared with Saurosphargis.
4524444|A new genus and species of Clupeidae, Chasmoclupea aegyptica, is described from early Oligocene fluviatile deposits of the Jebel Qatrani Formation in the Fayum, Egypt. The new species is preserved in three dimensions, allowing details of the skull roof, as well as lateral skull bones, to be seen. The new species is considered to be most closely related to the Alosinae and Clupeinae. This is the first record of a clupeomorph fish from Oligocene freshwater deposits of Africa. Most clupeomorph fishes are preserved in marine or lacustrine sediments, and it is only the rare preservation of this riverine fossil, as an articulated specimen, that has allowed it to be identified as a clupeomorph.
20490995|The study of the so-called vertebral 'pachyostosis' of Carentonosaurus mineaui, a plesiopedal mosasauroid sensu Bell & Polcyn from the Cenomanian (Late Cretaceous) of Charente-Maritime (Western France), has revealed that it actually corresponds to pachyosteosclerosis resulting from the combination of cortical hyperplasy with bone compaction due to an inhibition of chondroclastic and osteoclastic activities. This characteristic also occurs in other Cretaceous squamates such as Pachyvaranus crassispondylus and Simoliophis rochebrunei but it is absent in extant squamates. On the contrary, vertebrate of the latter display a very strong porosity due to intense bone remodelling during growth. The phylogenetic significance of pachyosteosclerosis in squamates is thus discussed. The peculiar structure of the vertebrae of Carentonosaurus may be regarded as the result of a heterochronic process, more specifically neoteny. Its association with an adaptation to shallow marine environment is consistent with the inferred ecology of C. mineaui. Moreover, the histological features of the periosteal bone of Carentonosaurus vertebrae provide information about its growth pattern (asymmetry, rate, cyclicity) which may be compared to the ones of Pachyvaranus and Simoliophis.
4523234|Barameda decipiens, gen. nov. (Woodward, 1906) is described from the Early Carboniferous Mansfield Group, Victoria, Australia. It differs from other rhizodontiforms (Strepsodus, Rhizodus, Screbinodus, Sauripterus) by the shape of the skull roofing bones, course of the supratemporal sensory line, vertebral structure, and pectoral fin skeleton. The skull roof of Barameda, gen. nov., differs from that of Osteolepiformes in having a larger extratemporal bone that contacts the intertemporal, by the overlap areas on the intertem and in having fewer snout bones. The cheek has a very large postorbital bone, and the lacrimal is narrow. There are two external nostrils, which are situated close together and differ in their position in the only other rhizodontiform for which they are known, suggesting that the group was not choanate. Rhizodontiforms are a monophyletic group characterized by specializations of the pectoral girdle and fin. They may be placed in Schultze's (1987) scheme of osteichthyan interrelationships as the sister group to Osteolepiformes plus Tetrapoda, with which they share polyplocodont tooth structure, a similar cheek pattern, and a large humerus with well developed muscle attachment processes and prominent entepicondyle, and articulating with two large bones, the ulna and radius. Barameda, gen. nov., is regarded as the plesiomorphic sister taxon to the British rhizodontiforms (Strepsodus, Rhizodus, Screbinodus), as it lacks the main lateral-line canal looping into the parietal and has a broad dorsal division on the cleithrum.
30126345|The fossil suids from the Chiwondo Beds in northern Malawi constitute four separate assemblages that may be used for internal and external biostratigraphic correlation. Pig remains occur in two stratigraphic units. Unit 2 contains Notochoerus jaegeri. The younger stratigraphic unit 3A can be subdivided by the suid fauna into an older zone 3A-1 containing Notochoerus euilus and zone 3A-2 with more advanced forms such as Notochoerus scotti and early Metridiochoerus andrewsi. Unit 3B contains advanced M. andrewsi and M. compactus. Bushpig and warthog remains have also been recovered but their stratigraphic position could not be determined. A method of documenting the structural density of enamel bands on the occlusal surface of suid cheek teeth can be used to correlate the Chiwondo Beds suids with similar species from elsewhere in sub-Saharan Africa and thereby for estimating the age of the two hominins discovered by the Hominid Corridor Research Project.
4523020|A fossil humerus from Malheur County, Oregon, of probable Pliocene or late Miocene (Hemphillian) age, is tentatively referred to the genus Condylura. This specimen provides the first Tertiary and western record of a condylurine mole in North America.
42568547|Dicynodonts are the most abundant therapsids from the Beaufort Group (Karoo Basin, South Africa), and they have been used as index fossils to define most of the Beaufort biozones. Although speciose during the Late Permian, dicynodont diversity was greatly reduced by the end-Permian mass extinction. The Cynognathus Assemblage Zone, the uppermost biozone of the Beaufort Group, is traditionally known to host only the dicynodonts Kannemeyeria simocephalus and Kombuisia frerensis. Recent biostratigraphic research in this biozone has revealed the presence of two more poorly known dicynodont genera, Angonisaurus and Shansiodon, which are biostratigraphically constrained to the uppermost Cynognathus Assemblage Zone (subzone C). Although these taxa have been reported from subzone C of the Cynognathus Assemblage Zone previously, we provide the first detailed description of the material in question and justifications for the taxonomic identifications. The presence of Angonisaurus in the Cynognathus subzone C allows a direct correlation between this assemblage and that of the Lifua Member of the Manda beds in Tanzania. A correlation with the Antarctic upper Fremouw Formation also may be possible, but is less certain. The presence of Shansiodon allows a direct correlation with the upper Ermaying Formation of China, but we reject the previously proposed global 'Shansiodon biochron' because Shansiodon sensu stricto only occurs in China and South Africa. Biogeographically, Angonisaurus appears to have been widespread but rare in southern Gondwana, and the unusual distribution of Shansiodon mirrors that of Diictodon feliceps in the Permian. Southern African dicynodont assemblages display increased provinciality in the Middle Triassic.
4523075|The classical Late Miocene Maragheh fauna has been collected and studied sporadically for nearly 150 years. This study gives a comprehensive account of the entire mammalian fauna recovered at Maragheh to date and its biostratigraphic, biogeographic and geochronologic contexts. The sequence is divided into Lower, Middle and Upper biostratigraphic intervals, ranging from ca. 9.5 my to 7 my in age, based on the first appearance of a potential evolutionary series of hipparionine horses: "Hipparion" gettyi, Hipparion prostylum, and Hipparion campbelli. Stratigraphical ranges of individual mammalian species are given, and biostratigraphic intervals are characterized. A comprehensive zoogeographic analysis of the entire Maragheh mammalian fauna shows its relationships with late Mioceneearly Pliocene "savanna-mosaic" assemblages of Eurasia and Africa. It has been found that the Maragheh genera which have the broadest geographic distribution were part of a late early Miocene pan-Eurasian and African dispersal event. Their subsequent diversification may be attributable to biogeographic vicariance with both tectonic and paleoenvironmental factors playing contributing roles.
4524306|The Middle Jurassic sauropod Cetiosaurus is significant both historically and in terms of its potential phylogenetic relationships. The anatomy and taxonomy of this form are poorly understood because inadequate diagnoses have allowed the proliferation of species names and the referral of very fragmentary specimens. A review of Cetiosaurus species indicates that all, except C. oxoniensis, are unavailable or nomina dubia. The current type species, C. medius, can no longer be regarded as a valid taxon. Previous suggestions that Cardiodon is a senior subjective synonym of Cetiosaurus cannot be sustained because the two forms do not share any autapomorphies. It is proposed that the generic name Cetiosaurus be retained, with C. oxoniensis as the new type species. The most complete specimen of C. oxoniensis (a partial skeleton from Bletchingdon Station, Oxfordshire) is redescribed and compared with other sauropods. Cetiosaurus is rediagnosed on the basis of autapomorphies, including: (1) 'pyramid'- shaped neural spines in posterior cervical and anterior dorsal vertebrae; (2) loss of the spinodiapophyseal lamina on all dorsal vertebrae; (3) anterior chevrons with anteroposteriorly compressed distal shafts; (4) distal caudal centra have a 'tongue'-like projection at the dorsal midline of their articular ends; and (5) a distinct triangular hollow on the lateral surface of the ilium at the base of the pubic process.
41515054|New material of the "porolepidid" Heimenia ensis (Porolepiformes, Dipnomorpha, Sarcopterygii), sheds light on the evolution of scale morphology in sarcopterygian fishes. This material consists of an articulated, nearly complete body and numerous isolated scales from the Emsian-Eifelian (upper Lower Devonian) of Spitsbergen. Heimenia squamation can be described as 'transitional' between that of Porolepis and the more derived Holoptychiidae. The cosmoid scales of Heimenia are divided into three morphotypes: (1) rhombic, (2) intermediate, and (3) rounded. The rounded scales are present in the anterior third of the trunk, intermediate scales occupy its middle third, and rhombic scales extend in the rear and all over the ventral region. The transition between scale morphotypes is progressive along the body. All scales bear traces of a cosmine covering, regardless of their overall shape. Paleohistological study shows that the relative thickness of the cosmine layer decreases whereas the relative thickness of the bony basal layer increases from the rhombic to rounded scales. This unique squamation provides new information about the evolutionary transition from thick/rhombic scales covered with cosmine to thin/rounded scales lacking cosmine in the Porolepiformes. Such morphological and histological changes also occurred by convergence among different groups of Middle-Late Devonian sarcopterygians (e.g., lungfishes and "osteolepiforms"). In Heimenia, the presence of rounded scales in the anterior part of the body is here regarded as an adaptation to a dynamic and agile life style and constitutes a new example to support the hypothesis of the anteroposterior spread of derived characters in fishes.
41515286|Several new fossil remains of Felidae from the late Miocene (Turolian age, MN 13, local zone M2) locality of Las Casiones (near the village of Villalba Baja, Teruel, Spain) are studied in the present paper. This felid community includes the machairodontines Amphimachairodus giganteus, Paramachaerodus orientalis, and Metailurus major, and the felines Pristifelis attica and a small, undetermined species, previously unknown in the late Miocene. With this high diversity of felids, the environment of Las Casiones was probably relatively vegetated, with shrubs and trees that allowed smaller felid species to avoid dangerous encounters with the larger ones.
20627093|The neurocranial fragment from the Late Miocene (Huayquerian SALMA, 9,0 to 6,8 Ma) of Estancia La Pastosa new locality, Puerto Madryn Formation, Patagonia, Argentina, is described. This is the first available fossil skull of Accipitridae in South America. Features as the elongated-triangular shape of the cranial roof, vast separation between the processus postorbitalis and between both fossae temporalis, and narrow and acuminate outline of the fossa temporalis allow to assign the fossil to Accipitridae Vieilloit, 1816. The well-preserved cavum cranii allowed construction of an endocast that partially reflects brain anatomy. The latter is very similar to those of extant and fossil species of Accipitridae. This fossil eagle is the only predator recorded at this new Miocene locality thus far.
25835803|A new pleurosternid turtle from the Upper Jurassic of the Central West of Portugal is described. Pleurosternids are abundant in the European and American Upper Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous fossil record. Despite this, at present, there is no reference to any genus of pleurosternids before the upper Tithonian in Europe. Selenemys lusitanica, gen. et sp. nov., represented by several specimens from the upper Kimmeridgian of the Lusitanian Basin (Portugal), constitutes the most ancient generic attribution to a pleurosternid turtle in Europe. A cladistic analysis shows that Selenemys is more closely related to the European Lower Cretaceous pleurosternids than to the Jurassic North American representatives of this group. This is interpreted as a vicariant biogeographical distribution of the group on both sides of the North Atlantic during the Uppermost Jurassic, in contrast to that observed in other groups of reptiles.
4522884|The Mount Eden fauna, first described by Childs Frick in 1921, is an important late Hemphillian mammalian fauna from the San Timoteo Badlands of southern California. Identification of Repomys maxumi May, an early hypsodont cricetid rodent, and the results of geomagnetic-polarity determinations indicate that this fauna correlates with the lower reversed part of the Gilbert Magnetic Polarity Chron and must be older than the C2 (Thvera) normal-polarity event of this Chron. The fauna is between 5.0 and 5.4 m.y. old according to the temporal calibration of the geomagnetic stratigraphy here followed. This age approximately dates the change from Peninsular Ranges source to a Transverse Ranges source for sediment in the San Timoteo Badlands.
4524790|We describe a sample of skulls, mandibles and isolated dentitions of Machairodus aphanistus from the Spanish late Vallesian (late Miocene) site of Batallones-1, near Madrid. This is the first time that the cranial morphology of this species has been seen in detail, and shows that late Vallesian M. aphanistus combined a relatively primitive cranial and mandibular morphology with very specialized upper canines, as flattened as in the later, cranially derived species M. giganteus. Cranio-mandibular adaptations for the canine shear-bite are incipient or non-existent, suggesting that the specialized canines of M. aphanistus were used within the context of a biting mechanism more similar to the canine bite of modern felids. Evolution of more extreme machairodont craniodental features in later members of the homotherin lineage converged with smilodontins but occurred independently of the initial development of derived saber-like canines. The high number of specimens, at least 14 individuals represented, reveals considerable variation in size within the population, with indications of sexual dimorphism in the size of the upper canines. Differences in cranial morphology suggest separation at the generic level between M. aphanistus and M. giganteus.
4523253|A tiny amphibian specimen from the Lower Carboniferous of Scotland is identified as a juvenile adelogyrinid. It is approximately 10 cm in length, including the skull and approximately 70 vertebrae. A clavicle is present, but there is no trace of the pelvic girdle or any limb elements. The centra are fully formed but are very thin-walled cylinders. The anterior ribs bear conspicuous uncinate processes. The anatomy of this individual emphasizes the distinctive nature of adelogyrinids, and shows no clearly definable synapomorphies linking the adelogyrinids with any other particular group of Paleozoic tetrapods.
4523740|A series of mandibles and maxillae from the Ensenadan (middle Pleistocene) sediments of the Tarija Basin of Bolivia are assigned to Holochilus primigenus, sp. nov. This marsh rat of the subfamily Sigmodontinae (="South American cricetid") is one of the few extinct muroids known from South America. A cladistic analysis indicates that this new species is the sister taxon to living species of Holochilus and possesses a morphology transitional between extant Holochilus and their closest living relative, Lundomys. The occlusal molar morphology of H. primigenus is virtually indistinguishable from that in extant Lundomys, but synapomorphic characters of the mandible and palate unite M. primigenus with the extant Holochilus. Holochilus primigenus is a potential ancestor to its living congeners because it possesses no known autapomorphies. The explicit hypothesis of phylogenetic position for this new species combined with its presumed geologic age of 0.7-1.0 Ma may provide a calibration point to estimate ages of divergence among lineages of sigmodontines.
4524714|The holotype specimen of the ischnacanthid acanthodian Atopacanthus dentatus comprises most of the posterior half of a dentigerous jaw bone, rather than a fragment from the middle of the jaw as was previously believed. A new diagnosis and revised description for the taxon are based on the holotype from the Rhinestreet Shale (Frasnian) and other specimens from the North Evans and Genundewa limestones (early Frasnian) of the Genesee Formation (late Givetian-early Frasnian); all of these dentigerous jaw bones were collected near Hamburg, New York state, U.S.A. An emended diagnosis for Atopacanthus clarifies the differences between it and other ischnacanthid genera.
20490951|The Early Permian dvinosaur temnospondyl Acroplous vorax Hotton, 1959 is redescribed based on new specimens from the Eskridge Formation of Nebraska, and an unpublished specimen collected from the Speiser Shale of Kansas in 1960, along with reanalysis of previously described Acroplous specimens. The Nebraska Acroplous specimens are part of the oldest Permian (Asselian) nonmarine vertebrate faunal assemblage in the Paleozoic midcontinental sequence of the United States based upon invertebrate biostratigraphy. This study reveals previously unknown anatomical features for Acroplous, requiring a reassessment of the genus and the Eobrachyopidae. Among the new findings for Acroplous are: an anterior dorsal fenestra; prefrontals excluded from the external naris; lacrimal contacting the orbit; denticulated palatine, ectopterygoid and pterygoid; a lack of a postglenoid transverse trough; an unusual interlocking mandibular symphysis, and an elongate rod-like ilium. A cladistic analysis of 87 characters and 12 temnospondyl taxa indicates that the Eobrachyopidae (Acroplous and Isodectes) may be a paraphyletic group, with Isodectes filling a more basal position within the Dvinosauroidea.
4523187| Astephus antiquus from Eocene Green Formation of Wyoming and Utah is redescribed in detail based on newly obtained material, and the position of Astephus among Siluriformes is reconsidered. Phylogenetic evaluation of the genus is based on descriptive information from Astephus antiquus, the only species known by nearly complete specimens and a species that contains the type species for the genus. It was determined that Lundberg's (1970, 1975a) assessment of Astephus as an ictalurid is the most probable interpretation of available information. Assuming that Astephus is an ictalurid, there is strong evidence indicating that it is the sister group to a group containing all other members of the family. Astephus calvus (Cope), the type for the genus (designated by Jordan, 1919), is considered here to be a subjective junior synonym of Astephus antiquus (Leidy). The only other valid species recognized here as probably belonging in the genus (and probably distinct from A. antiquus) is A. resimus Lundberg (1975a), a species known only by a single, nearly complete neurocranium. Available evidence (shape of pelvic girdle, pelvic fin rays, and biogeography) indicates that Astephus is most closely related to a group containing all extant ictalurid genera. However, Astephus lacks any known unambiguously unique characters shared by living members of the family. Before stronger evidence can be found, more information on the interrelationships of living catfish families (e.g., what family or families make up the sister group of Ictaluridae?) and more characters uniquely derived for Ictaluridae (some of which may be present in Astephus) will need to be discovered. Astephus antiquus is one of the two earliest known North American catfish species that is both represented by nearly complete skeletons and easily integrated into phylogenetic osteological studies of living catfish species. [The other Early Middle Eocene North American catfish species that is as well preserved is Hypsidoris farsonensis, a species that was phylogenetically reevaluated in Grande (1987).] 
4523119| Hypsidoris farsonensis Lundberg and Case (1970) from the Eocene Green River Formation of Wyoming, is redescribed in detail based on much new material. The new material consists of (1) better preparations of the original type and referred specimens, and (2) many previously unreported specimens with exceptionally detailed preservation. Based on new information presented here H. farsonensis is interpreted (A) not to belong in Ictaluridae as originally proposed, and (B) to be the sister group to all known catfish families other than Diplomystidae. Diplomystidae appears to be the sister group to Hypsidoris plus all other known catfishes. Because of its apparent phylogenetic position (sister group to a group containing thirty nominal families), Hypsidoris is given superfamilial (Hypsidoroidea, new superfamily) and familial (Hypsidoridae, new family) rank, and may be more relevant to our understanding of the early evolution of siluriform subgroups than previously thought. Catfishes (Siluriformes) are a major group of freshwater fishes with 32 nominal families and over 2200 species, but so far relatively little is known about the higher (e.g. interfamilial) relationships of the group. Hypsidoris could potentially play a major role in deciphering the phylogenetic relationships of siluroids by providing a second basal outgroup (in addition to Diplomystidae) within Siluriformes. 
30126334|Georgenthalia clavinasica, a new genus and species of amphibamid dissorophoid temnospondyl, is represented by a small, complete, postmetamorphic skull from the Lower Permian Bromacker locality, Germany. It is only the third non-amniote of an assemblage of 12 terrestrial tetrapod taxa known from this locality. It is characterized by a broadly rounded skull with large orbits, a short postorbital length, and a unique keyhole-shaped external naris superficially resembling that of trematopid dissorophoids. New features that help to discriminate between amphibamid species are highlighted. Phylogenetically informative characters present in G. clavinasica include: anterolateral flaring of the lateral margin of frontals; narrow interorbital width; ventral orbital process of the prefrontal contacts palatine; palatine exposed on lateral surface of ventral rim of orbit; large otic notches closely approach the orbits; absence of a supratympanic flange of otic notch; long supratympanic process of squamosal with flange-like process that underlaps the midcentral portion of supratemporal. Several features support a highly terrestrial habitus of G. clavinasica, which is consistent with the interpretation of the fossiliferous beds of the Bromacker quarry as representing an upland terrestrial environment in which limnic conditions were characterized by ephemeral lakes and ponds. A new clade, Olsoniformes, is named for Dissorophidae and Trematopidae (dissorophoids exclusive of Amphibamidae), and new phylogenetic definitions for Amphibamidae, Trematopidae, and Dissorophidae are presented. The small neotenic Micromelerpetontidae, and presumably also the neotenic and larval Branchiosauridae, fall within the newly defined clade Amphibamidae in the current study, and future work should focus on clarifying the nature of this relationship.
4524662|The Crato Formation is located in the Araripe Basin in Northeastern Brazil, where the Ceara and Pernambuco provinces meet. It is considered Aptian (Early Cretaceous) in age and specimens of Dastilbe occur at many localities in the region of Nova Olinda. Nearly all derive from the Nova Olinda Member, which is the lowest member of the Crato Formation. Dastilbe, a gonorynchiform fish placed within recent Chanidae, has been used as a catchall for small fossil fish specimens for quite some time. The type species of Dastilbe, D. crandalli, was described by Jordan in 1910 from the Early Cretaceous of Riacho Doce, Brazil. More recent studies of Dastilbe are based on the material from the Crato Formation, but detailed morphological descriptions of the skull and postcranial features were lacking. More than 400 specimens from the Crato Formation and Riacho Doce are examined to establish the morphology and emend the diagnosis of Dastilbe crandalli. Two other species were contained in the genus: D. elongatus from Brazil and D. batai from Africa. D. elongatus is synonymous with the type species. D. batai resembles Parachanos and probably belongs to that genus. D. moraesi from a Brazilian locality further south in the Minas Gerais province is known too poorly to allow for comparisons.
4523422|Remains of a pterodactyloid pterosaur wing from the Two Medicine Formation (Campanian) of Montana were described by Padian (1984). The bones were preserved in a limestone concretion, which has now been further prepared to expose additional material. This allows some correction and further elaboration of earlier observations. The specimen (YPM-PU 22446) is now referred to the family Azhdarchidae, and provisionally to the genus Quetzalcoatlus.
4523564|We report here on newly collected materials comprising the best known remains of the extinct South American mammal Groeberia minoprioi. Comparison with the holotype of this species and that of Groeberia pattersoni, all of which are from the same Divisaderan (late Eocene or early Oligocene) locality and level, provides the following new conclusions: (1) A pair of elongated palatal vacuities, the cheektooth formula, and the macropodoid-like mandibular inflection are the most conclusive features of marsupial affinities for Groeberia. (2) The unique combination of autapomorphies present in this taxon justifies placement of the monotypic Groeberiidae in a new order, Groeberida. The most unusual of these autapomorphies is the presence of two pairs of somewhat gliriform incisors inserted in unusually developed premaxillae, together with the posterior projection of the mandibular symphysis, which forms a basal osseous floor for the co-ossified rami. This combination of features results in a skull architecture unmatched among other mammals. (3) The dental structure and inferred masticatory mechanics are suggestive of dietary preference for hard items. (4) Analysis of the depositional history of the Divisadero Largo Formation indicates marked seasonality.
4523696| Medium-to large-bodied mammalian herbivores are taxonomically diverse and comprise a large component of the highly fossiliferous Neogene terrestrial sedimentary sequence from Florida. In order to reconstruct herbivore paleodiets and community paleoecology as well as understand climate and ecosystem change, 112 pristine tooth enamel samples were analyzed for at least 12 families and 26 genera within the orders Proboscidea, Perissodactyla, and Artiodactyla. These samples are from 17 localities and seven time horizons of late Miocene (Hemphillian) through late Pleistocene (Rancholabrean) age and between about 9.5 Ma to 100,000 yrs ago. Stable carbon isotopic analyses indicate that during the late Miocene local terrestrial communities and herbivore paleodiets consisted exclusively, or predominantly, of C3 plants, e.g., mean tooth enamel C value is -11.9 from the 9.5 Ma level. During the latest Miocene-early Pliocene (after 7 Ma) there is a shift in mean C values of tooth enamel to -7.0 (4.5 Ma level). This shift appears to correspond to other late Miocene C shifts reported elsewhere in terrestrial and oceanic sedimentary sequences. On land, this shift is interpreted to represent the spread of isotopically more positive C4 grasses and probable change in diet from predominantly C3 to mixed C3/C4 plant foodstuffs. In general, the C data reported here indicate that within the Florida sequence: (1) some families have remained predominantly browsers (Mammutidae, Tapiridae, Camelidae, Palaeomerycidae, and Cervidae); (2) some are predominantly C4 grazers (Elephantidae, Bovidae); (3) others consisted of mixed C3/C4 diets (Amebelodontidae, Gomphotheriidae, Equidae, Rhinoceroti and, based also on modern diets, (4) the isotopically intermediate peccaries (Tayassuidae) may have fed on CAM succulents. While these results generally confirm previous paleodietary hypotheses based on relative crown height, there also are some notable surprises in light of the stable carbon isotopic analyses. 
41407658|The first fossil occurrence of the genus Lepidobatrachus is reported. The specimen comes from the Farola Monte Hermoso locality (Buenos Aires Province, Argentina), more specifically from the early Pliocene levels of the Monte Hermoso Formation. The specimen belongs to the living species L. laevis, a frog that currently inhabits the Chacoan region of northern Argentina, Paraguay, and Bolivia. The presence of this anuran represents the southernmost record for the genus Lepidobatrachus, and is in agreement with previous hypothesis suggesting that during the Pliocene the climatic environmental conditions of the southern Pampas were likely those of the modern Chacoan region. The disjunct distribution of extant L. laevis suggests that the retraction of Chacoan areas to the north modified the former distribution of this taxon, and that its current geonemy may represent relics of a formerly more extensive geographic distribution.
20627137|Two new species of fossil cetaceans (Pakicetus calcis and Pakicetus chittas) are described from a new locality in the Kuldana Formation (Lutetian, middle Eocene) of the Kala Chitta Hills in Northern Pakistan. Additional dentitions of the pakicetid Nalacetus ratimitus, the remingtonocetid Attockicetus, and additional dental material of the holotype of Ambulocetus natans are also described. Dental morphology of Nalacetus is intermediate between pakicetids and ambulocetids, as indicated by the presence of an ambulocetid-like P4, but pakicetid-like molars. Premolars of the specimen tentatively described as Attockicetus imply that some pakicetids and remingtonocetids were coeval. Furthermore, the new pakicetid dentitions described here are the most complete to date and further our understanding of pakicetid dental diversity.
4524321|A new taxon of sphenosuchian crocodylomorph, Dromicosuchus grallator, is described on the basis of a well-preserved, largely articulated partial skeleton from Late Triassic strata in the Durham sub-basin of the Deep River basin (Newark Supergroup) of Durham County, North Carolina. The holotype was preserved directly beneath the skeleton of a rauisuchian archosaur; this association, along with apparent bite marks to the head and neck of the crocodylomorph, suggests that the two animals died and were buried together during the act of predation. Dromicosuchus grallator is most closely related to Hesperosuchus agilis from the Petrified Forest Member of the Chinle Formation (late Carnian or early Norian) of Arizona and New Mexico and Saltoposuchus connectens from the Middle Stubensandstein (Lowenstein Formation; middle Norian) of Wiirttemberg, Germany. The monophyly of Sphenosuchia is only weakly supported at present.
4522930|A large population of the common American Miocene rhinoceros, Teleoceras, shows extreme variability in the shape of the magnum and unciform. A small number of the specimens show a de novo posterior (volar) articulation between these two carpals. The new articulation may have been formed as an early stage in the fusion of the two bones. It is suggested that in order to evolve a complex new structure, a population will sometimes produce more variation in the affected elements than is actually necessary to form the structure.
4524543| Paraplacosauriops, gen. nov., is a melanosaurin glyptosaurine lizard based on two isolated, nearly complete maxillae from the middle Eocene of France. Paraplacosauriops is known by one species, Paraplacosaurus quercyi (Filhol), a species previously included in the glyptosaurin genus Placosaurus. The taxon Paraplacosauriops quercyi is characterized by an unique heterodont dentition, consisting of large, crushing teeth in both the maxilla and neotype dentary. The dentary is further distinguished by a well-developed intramandibular septum fused to the ventral margin of the Meckelian canal. Paraplacosauriops is known with certainty from the middle Eocene (Lavergne, Phosphorites du Quercy). Fragmentary specimens from the early Eocene (Dormaal, Belgium) are provisionally referred to this taxon. The species Xestops abderhaldeni and X. weigelti are not referable to the genus Xestops and are formally synonymized with each other as Placosauriops weigelti. 
4523458|Ferugliotherium windhauseni Bonaparte 1986a, the only known species of the Ferugliotheriidae, is the first multituberculate recognized from South America. It is known from the previously described holotype m2 and 12 additional isolated teeth (m1, M1, and, tentatively, three lower incisors, one lower premolar, four upper incisors, and two upper premolars), which we describe here. All of the specimens were discovered in the Campanian Los Alamitos Formation of Argentina at one locality, Estancia Los Alamitos. Two other teeth, a purported lower premolar and a large lower incisor, both from the same locality and both previously referred to F. windhauseni, probably do not belong to that taxon. The lower premolar is unidentifiable and the lower incisor is probably referable to Gondwanatherium patagonicum. We regard two worn specimens previously identified as upper molars and comprising the hypodigm of Vucetichia gracilis Bonaparte, 1990 as probable mls of F. windhauseni. Vucetichia, previously assigned to the Gondwanatheriidae, is therefore probably a junior synonym of Ferugliotherium but formal synonymy is deferred pending the recovery of more nearly complete mls of Ferugliotherium and/or less worn molars of Vucetichia. The gross dental morphology of the new specimens and the inferred pattern of jaw movement help to confirm the multituberculate affinities of F. windhauseni. The Ferugliotheriidae is more derived than the Haramiyoidea and Paulchoffatoidea but probably still retained more than two lower premolars and generally low cusp formulae on m1 and M1; these characteristics indicate that a cimolodont grade of organization had not been attained. The family, tentatively assigned to the Plagiaulacoidea, is considered a derived member of that group, possibly most closely related to an undescribed genus from the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation. In other characters (e.g., presence of fully restricted band of enamel on central incisors, development of lingual row of cusps on M1, large size of m1 relative to m2), ferugliotheriids resemble either taeniolabidoids or ptilodontoids, or both. The Ferugliotheriidae differ from all other known multituberculates in possessing prominent transverse ridges and furrows on the molars. This unique mosaic of attributes indicates a significant interval of isolation from Laurasian populations.
20627083|Based on diagnostic jaw and dental material from the Cenomanianmiddle Paleocene of the western U.S.A., we erect a new fossil lizard taxon, Contogeniidae taxon nov., that contains the following species: Contogenys sloani Estes, 1969 (Maastrichtianearly Paleocene, Montana); Contogenys ekalakaensis sp. nov. (middle Paleocene, Montana); Palaeoscincosaurus middletoni Sullivan and Lucas, 1996 (early Paleocene, Colorado); Palaeoscincosaurus pharkidodon sp. nov. (Campanian, Utah); Utahgenys evansi gen. et sp. nov. (Turonian, Utah); and Utahgenys sp. indet. (Cenomanian, Utah). These taxa share unique characteristics of tooth and jaw morphologies (e.g., tooth crowns truncate and bearing longitudinal apical grooves; hypertrophied inferior alveolar canal). Phylogenetic analysis indicates that among squamates, Contogeniidae taxon nov. is most closely related to Xantusiidae.
4524515|Recent field expeditions to Upper Cretaceous deposits within Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, southern Utah, have revealed a diverse dinosaurian fauna that includes a previously unknown oviraptorosaur theropod. Represented by a single partial specimen consisting of manal and pedal elements, this new taxon, Hagryphus giganteus, gen. et. sp. nov., is estimated to be 30-40% larger than the coeval oviraptorosaur Chirostenotes. The holotype consists of a nearly complete, articulated left manus, a partial, articulated pedal digit II, and a series of fragmentary pedal phalanges and distal metatarsals. Several autapomorphies are present in the manus, related primarily to proportional differences in metacarpals and phalanges. Previous finds of North American oviraptorosaurs have been restricted to Alberta, Montana, and South Dakota. The discovery of this new specimen from southern Utah greatly expands the known geographic distribution of these theropods, nearly doubling the previously documented range of North American oviraptorosaurs.
30117458|The systematics and taxonomy of the large allosauroid Carcharodontosaurus are reviewed and a new species of this theropod is described from the Late Cretaceous (Cenomanian) Echkar Formation of Niger, which is roughly coeval with Cenomanian beds elsewhere in northern Africa. The type species, C. saharicus, was based originally on a pair of isolated teeth from Algeria, to which was referred a partial skull and skeleton from Egypt. All of this material was either lost or destroyed more than 50 years ago. Thus, a neotype is designated for C. saharicus, a well-preserved cranium from the Kern Kern beds in Morocco. Newly discovered material from Niger is distinct from that of C. saharicus, justifying the erection of a distinct southern species. C. iguidensis, n. sp. is represented by cranial (maxilla, braincase, dentary, lacrimal, teeth) and postcranial (vertebrae) remains and grew to the same large body size as C. saharicus. The skull displays several autapomorphies, including a laterally reduced external antorbital fossa, a maxillary anteromedial process that is broadly arched toward the midline, a prominent horizontal crest on the medial aspect of the maxilla, and a deeply invaginated fossa on the laterosphenoid. Unlike C. saharicus the ventral rim of the external antorbital fossa does not protrude laterally, the anteromedial process does not demarcate a deep ventral fossa, and the frontal-lacrimal suture is not elevated. The new material provides evidence of differentiation among Cenomanian-age faunas from the Sahara and supports a close relationship between Carcharodontosaurus, Giganotosaurus, and Acrocanthosaurus.
20627057|The Cameros Basin, distributed over Soria, La Rioja and Burgos provinces in NE Spain, is apparently one of the richest sources of pterosaur footprints, with six ichnospecies of Pteraichnus named to date. The Cameros Basin exposes 9 km thickness of Late Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous continental deposits that are richly fossiliferous. Of the six alloformations in this sequence, the Hurteles Alloformation is a succession of alluvial siliclastics and lacustrine limestones dated as Tithonian-Berriasian in age. The pterosaur footprints are described, and compared with related forms from elsewhere. Of the six ichnospecies named from the Cameros Basin, Pteraichnus palacieisaenzi and P. cidacoi are nomina dubia because they lack holotypes housed in a public institution. Further, P. manueli and P. vetustior cannot be characterized at present, and so are also regarded as nomina dubia until diagnostic characters may be identified. P. longipodus and P. parvus are probably valid taxa, distinct from P. saltwashensis and P. stokesi, named previously from North America. Of the four supposed pterosaurian ichnogenera, Pteraichnus is valid, and Purbeckopus and Haenamichnus may be valid, but Agadirichnus is a nomen dubium because it is poorly characterized and lacks type specimens.
30117451|A revision of the semionotids from the Lower Cretaceous Lagarcito Formation of Argentina leads to the conclusion that only one taxon, Neosemionotus puntanus Bocchino, 1973, is represented, instead of two monospecific genera and one species of Lepidotes as originally thought. Neosemionotus shares with Lepidotes the presence of more than one suborbital arranged in one row and a long posteroventral process of the dentary, features that have previously been thought to be diagnostic of Lepidotes. On the other hand, it shares with Semionotus the presence of conspicuous dorsal ridge scales. However, Neosemionotus is unique in the characteristics of its dorsal and anal fins, which are both flanked only by high and strong paired basal fulcra. These fulcra become gradually higher/deeper posteriorly, reaching approximately the height/depth of the first fin ray. Other probable synapomorphies of Neosemionotus are the presence of a long parietal pit line, a small, approximately triangular interoperculum, the complete absence of fringing fulcra on the dorsal, and anal fins, and the presence of only very few long and slender fringing fulcra on the pelvic and caudal fins. The systematic position of Neosemionotus is still unknown, but the presence of probably primitive features like the high number of extrascapulars, short parietals, the arrangement of suborbitals, and short snout indicate a relatively basal position among semionotids.
4523137|Muroid rodents recovered from sediments of the Verde Formation, central Arizona, aged at about 4 Ma, include species belonging to the subfamily Sigmodontinae. These are Calomys (Bensonomys) arizonae (Phyllotini), Sigmodon medius and Prosigmodon holocuspis, new species (Sigmodontini), and Jacobsomys verdensis, new genus and species. The latter genus shares some dental characters with the Oryzomyini and Akodontini, and also with the extant South American genus Zygodontomys. The mid-Pliocene diversity of sigmodont rodents in the Verde Formation gives further evidence of a late Tertiary diversification of cricetids in southwestern North America, and also tends to support the idea that some differentiation of sigmodontines had taken place in North America prior to the establishment of the Panama land bridge between 2.5 and 3.5 Ma. However, the Verde rodents, which lived at 4 Ma, were too late to have been members of a postulated flotilla of cricetids reaching South America at 6 to 7 Ma.
4523946|The morphology and histology of Australian placoderm scales which were found associated with dermal plates are described and compared. The specimens include the arthrodire Buchanosteus confertituberculatus from the Early Devonian (Emsian) of Buchanr, Victoria, the arthrodires Goodradigbeeon australianium and Buchanosteidae gen. et sp. indet., the acanthothoracid Murrindalaspis wallacei from the Emsian of Taemas, New South Wales, and the antiarch Wurungulepis denisoni from the Emsian of the Broken River Group of northern Queensland. Isolated scales from Emsian limestones of Taemas-Wee Jasper, N.S.W., and Tyers, Victoria, and Lochkovian/Pragian assemblages from New South Wales and Queensland are also reviewed, to indicate the potential biostratigraphical value of placoderm scales in microvertebrate faunal assemblages, and their relevance to phylogenetic analysis.
4523814|Arvicoline rodents show a number of evolutionary trends in their dental morphology and provide a useful basis for biochronologic study in late Tertiary deposits. This paper describes a large dental sample of Mimomys from a site in the Panaca Formation, southeast Nevada. This sample provides the basis for naming of a new species, M. panacaensis. The new species is comparable in evolutionary stage to the two early Blancan species M. (Ophiomys) mcknighti and M. (Ogmodontomys) sawrockensis in its low dentine tract on the labial side of m1, but it is differentiated from M. (Ophiomys) mcknighti in having some M3s with an enamel islet and/or three roots, and from M. (Ogmodontomys) sawrockensis in smaller size, higher percentage of the enamel islet on the m1, and the presence of two-rooted M3s. Compared to the middle Blancan species of Mimomys, M. panacaensis has more primitive characters, including smaller size, lower dentine tract on the labial side of m1, and/or a higher percentage of three-rooted M3s. M. panacaensis is considered early Blancan in age. The phylogenetic analysis of the North American early Mimomys places M. panacaensis as the sister-group of M. (Ophiomys) mcknighti + (M. (Ophiomys) magilli + M. (Cosomys) primus).
4524259|Two well-preserved specimens of a "cetothere" from the Lower Miocene Awa and Mizunami Groups, Japan, are described as Isanacetus laticephalus, gen. et sp. nov. It is distinguished by the following combination of characters: fossa for the stapedial muscle elongated anteroposteriorly, with a fully ossified floor; anteroposteriorly broad supraorbital process of frontal, with the orbital margin concave in dorsal view; posterior thrust of the medial rostral elements reaches the level of the center of the orbit; apex of the occipital shield reaches beyond the level of the anterior end of the zygomatic process of the squamosal; nasal slender, elongate, and partly located anterior to level of the preorbital angle of the supraorbital process of the frontal; and zygomatic process of the squamosal slender, elongate, and directed forward and slightly outward. A parsimony analysis of 16 cetaceans and 77 characters failed to identify any synapomorphies for the "Cetotheri-idae." The analysis supports the following hypotheses: "Cetotheriidae" as commonly used is a paraphyletic grade; "cetotheres" are more closely related to Balaenopteridae + Eschrichtiidae than they are to Balaenidae; and "cetotheres" form two subgroups, one which includes Cetotherium and another which includes Isanacetus, Parietobalaena, and Aglaocetus. The latter subgroup is more closely related to Balaenopteridae + Eschrichtiidae, but is also paraphyletic.
4523487|A new crocodilian from the Miocene of northwestern Queensland is described as Trilophosuchus rackhami, gen. et sp. nov. This is a small crocodilian reminiscent of Osteolaemus and Paleosuchus. However, resemblance to these forms appears to be the result of convergence on a short-snouted adaptive form. Trilophosuchus also resembles extinct taxa such as Notosuchus, Araripesuchus, Libycosuchus, Theriosuchus, and Protosuchus. Trilophosuchus displays some striking autapomorphies such as three longitudinal crests on the skull roof and narrow, elongate supratemporal fenestrae. The structure of the occipital surface suggests that Trilophosuchus held its head above the body. The insertions of muscles on the occipital surface are more consistent with a terrestrial, rather than aquatic, mode of life. A phylogenetic analysis suggest that Trilophosuchus is most closely related to four other Australian taxa of extinct crocodilians and should be included in the Australian Tertiary crocodilian radiation.
4523542|The braincase of two acid-prepared specimens of Nothosaurus is described in detail and compared to the braincase of Simosaurus, the sister-group of the Nothosauridae and Cymatosaurus. Nothosaurus is characterized by a number of derived neurocranial characters, which diagnose a monophyletic family Nothosauridae. The family includes the genera Nothosaurus, Paranothosaurus (possibly congeneric with Nothosaurus), Ceresiosaurus, and Lariosaurus. The sister-group of the Nothosauridae is Cymatosaurus. In comparison to its sister-group (Cymatosaurus), the Nothosauridae are characterized by an extreme dorsoventral flattening of the temporal region of the skull. This is correlated with the development of an occipital flange on the squamosal and parietal, allowing posterodorsal expansion of the jaw adductor musculature. A ventromedial flange along the quadrate ramus of the pterygoid indicates an increase in size of M. pterygoideus internus.
4523861|The giant otter Enhydritherium terraenovae, a New World taxon thought to be related to both the Old World otter Enhydriodon and the extant sea otter Enhydra, was originally described on the basis of relatively limited material, mostly dental. However, an incomplete skeleton of E. terraenovae recovered from the early Hemphillian Moss Acres Racetrack site in northern Florida includes a skull, mandible, part of the axial skeleton, and most of both the fore- and hindlimbs, adding greatly to knowledge of this animal. On the basis of this new material, the osteology of this species is described in detail for the first time, with its diagnosis revised accordingly. This new osteological information, along with information about the nature of the Moss Acres Racetrack site, allows such paleoecological and functional aspects of E. terraenovae as habitat preference, mode of swimming, and diet to be inferred or interpreted in a detail previously impossible. E. terraenovae: 1) was a habitat generalist rather than a marine specialist, as previously thought; 2) was reasonably competent for terrestrial locomotion; 3) extensively used its forelimbs during swimming like living otariid seals, in contrast to the hindlimb-specialized Enhydra; and 4) had a generalized diet, potentially including soft items such as fish, as well as hard items, such as thick-shelled molluscs.
4523227|The vast majority of the abundant fossil sirenian remains from the Bone Valley phosphate mining district (chiefly in Polk and Hillsborough counties, Florida) represent a single species of dugongid, Metaxytherium floridanum Hay, 1922. The osteology of this species is described here in detail. Most or all of these specimens apparently come from Units 4-5 of the lower Bone Valley Formation and are late middle Miocene (early Clarendonian) in age. M. ossivallense (Simpson, 1932) is a junior subjective synonym of M. floridanum. M. calvertense Kellogg, 1966, and "Hesperosiren" Simpson, 1932, are not represented in the Bone Valley Formation. Specimens are also reported here from elsewhere in Florida, mainly Alachua County. Some or all of these are later than the typical Bone Valley form, being of late Clarendonian or early Hemphillian age, and some of them, here termed Metaxytherium, cf. M. floridanum, seem to represent a slightly more advanced stage of evolution. M. floridanum had a strongly deflected rostrum adapted to bottom-feeding and very small, subconical, enameled tusks. It is practically indistinguishable from the contemporaneous M. medium of western Europe; however, the recency of their common ancestry remains to be clarified. Apparently M. floridanum was endemic to the West Atlantic and became extinct without issue by the end of the Miocene.
23361059|Pardinamys humahuaquensis, a new genus and species of Phyllotini (Rodentia, Cricetidae), is described on the basis of 111 cranial, mandibular, and dental remains belonging to at least 29 individuals. The fossils were recovered from a microvertebrate assemblage found in late Pliocene deposits (between 3 and 2.5 Ma ago) from the Uqua Formation, central Jujuy Province, northwestern Argentina. Pardinamys is morphologically intermediate between the extant genera Eligmodontia and Calomys and can be differentiated from these taxa by the combination of several traits, including short masseteric crest, with upper and lower ramus similarly developed; coronoid process well developed; anteromedian flexus in M1 only present in very young individuals, without any trace of anteromedian style; M1 and M2 with developed second minor fold; large M2 and M3; and metaflexus, paracone, and metacone of M3 well developed. The morphologic characteristics of the new genus and the other sigmodontines found in the Uquian assemblage (at least three extinct genera) suggest an important radiation before the establishment of the modern communities in the central Andean region and indicate the need for a reevaluation of the divergence-age estimates for the group. The recovered taxa indicate the presence of open environments during depositional times, within arid or semiarid conditions, unlike previous reconstructions for this geologic unit. The finding reveals the need for improving the fossil record of sigmodontines in the central Andean region and its importance to understanding the radiation of this group in a more inclusive South American context.
4524292| New genera of characoid fossil fishes are described on the basis of remains from the Maastrichtian El Molino Formation and the early late Paleocene Santa Luca Formation of Bolivia, and the Mio-Pliocene Solimes Formation of Brazil. Comparisons with the Hepsetidae, Erythrinidae, Ctenoluciidae, Acestrorhynchidae, and the characid Hydrocynus allow the following conclusions to be made: the new Bolivian genus lacks some erythrinid synapomorphies but shows notable resemblance to the Acestrorhynchidae, particularly in the pattern of the replacement teeth. The Brazilian genus is included in the erythrinids. 
4524122|The first thalattosaur from the marine Middle Triassic of Guizhou Province, southern China, is described, and its phylogenetic relationships analyzed. The taxon, Anshunsaurus huangguoshuensis, was found to be the sistertaxon of Askeptosaurus italicus from the southern Alpine Triassic. The paleobiogeography of thalattosaurs, now known from the Middle and Late Triassic of China, Europe, and North America, is discussed.
20062007|A unique 'buchanosteid' arthrodire specimen from Emsian limestones at Burrinjuck represents the complete articulated remains of the head and cheek, and most of the trunk armor bones from a single fish, together with well-ossified braincase and jaw cartilages. The structure of the toothplates and jaws are described, and compared with primitive brachythoracid material from Saudi Arabia of similar age. Both the palatoquadrate and meckelian cartilages are well preserved, and perichondrally ossified as single elements. As previously described in some phlyctaeniids, the dermal gnathal elements carry crowded denticles similar to the normal tubercular ornament, enlarged along anterior and lateral margins. Six characters concerning gnathal plates of brachythoracids, which have been used in phylogenetic analysis, are discussed and reformulated.
4523925|The holotype and only known specimen of Shingyisaurus unexpectus Young, 1965, from the Middle Triassic (Anisian) of China is redescribed. Originally identified as a simosaur, the incomplete and poorly preserved skull is instead referable to the genus Nothosaurus. Consequently, simosaurs remain unknown from the western Pacific faunal province. The occurrence of Nothosaurus in the Anisian of China provides circumstantial evidence for Asiatic affinities of the Nothosauridae.
20490953|The first in situ turtle egg clutch reported from China comes from the Lower Cretaceous (Albian) Liangtoutang Formation in the Tiantai Basin, Zhejiang Province. This clutch originally contained a minimum of 27 eggs, but four eggs separated from the clutch during excavation. The spherical eggs vary from 34 to 52 mm in diameter. The eggshell is 0.7-1.0 mm thick and has straight, narrow shell units with parallel margins and a height-to-width ratio of 2.5-3.1. Two eggs from this clutch previously were used to establish the new oogenus and oospecies Tiantaioolithus jiangi Fang et al., 2003, within the oofamily Testudoolithidae Fang et al., 2003. Based on our examination of all available eggs from this clutch, we propose the following: (1) Testudoolithidae Fang et al., 2003, is a junior homonym for Testudoolithidae Hirsch, 1996; (2) Tiantaioolithus Fang et al., 2003, is a junior subjective synonym of Testudoolithus Hirsch, 1996; and (3) the eggs pertain to a distinct oospecies, namely Testudoolithus jiangi (new combination). A previously unreported, isolated egg from the Upper Cretaceous (stage unknown) Chichengshan Formation in the Tiantai Basin is also referred to Testudoolithus jiangi based on its similar size, shell thickness, and shell unit height-to-width ratio; this specimen thus extends the fossil record of this oospecies into the Late Cretaceous. Taphonomic assessment of the egg block suggests that the egg clutch was buried in the substrate in a manner similar to modern turtles. The large, spherical eggs and large number of eggs in the clutch indicate the eggs were laid by a turtle taxon of large body size. The thick eggshell and sparse pores penetrating the shell indicate adaptation for a relatively arid, terrestrial environment.
20061958|We present a summary of the Eocene mammal faunas of Indo-Pakistan based on study of the known faunas and new collections. New taxa described here are the carpolestid Parvocristes oligocollis, the plesiadapid Jattadectes mamikheli (both new families for the subcontinent), the hyaenodontid Paratritemnodon jandewalensis, the arctocyonid Karakia longidens, the raoellid Khirtharia aurea, and the helaletid Jhagirilophus chorgalensis. Based on the faunal evidence and considering the geological setting, we also evaluate the uniformity of the Eocene faunas from northern Indo-Pakistan. Tentatively, we propose that three chronologically distinct faunas occur in Northern Indo-Pakistan. These are, from oldest to youngest, (1) the Banda Daud Shah Fauna, (2) the Ganda Kas Fauna, and (3) the Kalakot Fauna. Although there are broad similarities between these faunas and Eocene faunas of the Northern Hemisphere, the Indian subcontinent retained a highly distinctive fauna in that period.
4523695|Preparation and restudy of the Lower Permian synapsid Tetraceratops insignis demonstrate that it is related more closely to therapsids than to other Permo-Carboniferous synapsids. As the oldest known therapsid and the only known Lower Permian therapsid from North America, Tetraceratops not only fills a large morphological gap between Permo-Carboniferous sphenacodontids and Permian therapsids from Russian and South Africa, but also provides important new insights into the origins of the latter group. Tetraceratops shares with biarmosuchians and other Permo-Triassic therapsids the presence of a broad, concave shelf on the upper margin of the temporal fenestra, a wide tabular, a braincase attached firmly to the cheek, a reduced quadrate, a postero-median flange of the pterygoid, the loss of ectopterygoid teeth, a reduced ventral plate of the epipterygoid excluded from the basicranial articulation, and a shortened interpterygoid vacuity. Tetraceratops possesses several autapomorphies: a long diastema on the maxilla; bony, possibly hornbearing, processes on the premaxilla, prefrontal and angular; and a large orbital contribution of the lacrimal.
4523896|Tamiobatis vetustus is a very rare Paleozoic shark, originally based on a well-preserved, isolated braincase of somewhat doubtful provenance from Eastern Powell Co., Kentucky. A second much larger braincase has been referred to the genus but, like the holotype, is completely isolated. The latest specimen, found on a bedding plane in the Late Devonian Cleveland Shale, is associated with partial jaws, teeth, scales, and a spine impression which demonstrates that it is a ctenacanthoid shark, herein assigned to the family Tamiobatidae Hay, 1902. The well-preserved basicranial region reveals details of the blood circulation pattern not previously seen.
4523770|Several attempts have recently been made to recognize synapomorphic characters of Dinosauria. However, most of the alleged dinosaur synapomorphies show broader distributions among Archosauria, whereas other features are diagnostic to less inclusive groups than Dinosauria. With the aim to test the hypothesis supporting dinosaur monophyly, a comparative study of thirty-seven derived skeletal features in several archosaur taxa (e.g., Pterosauria, Scleromochlus, Lagerpeton, Marasuchus, Pseudolagosuchus, Saurischia, and Ornithischia) was undertaken. The monophyly of Dinosauriformes (=Marasuchus + (Pseudolagosuchus + Dinosauria)) is supported by 7 postcranial synapomorphies (e.g., proximal femur with fossa trochanterica and trochanteric shelf; cnemial crest present on proximal tibia; quadrangular distal tibia with lateral longitudinal groove). Dinosauria is diagnosed by 17 apomorphic features, such as: deltopectoral crest distally projected; at least three sacral vertebrae; perforated acetabulum; presence of brevis shelf on ilium; astragalar ascending process inserts beneath the tibia; distal tarsal 4 proximodistally depressed. The analysis suggests that a sustained modification of hindlimb morphology occurred in the early evolution of Ornithodira, since most of the diagnostic features of this and less inclusive groups (e.g., Dinosauromorpha, Dinosauriformes, and Dinosauria) pertain to the femur, tibia, tarsus, and pes. The transformation of the pelvic bones (and presumably in the musculature originating from the ilium, ischium, and pubis) was delayed with respect to the hindlimbs, since most important pelvic modifications occurred at the Dinosauria node, but not before. Forelimb transformation was not as profound as that which occurred in the hindlimbs.
42568670|Recent collecting in fossiliferous deposits at Lac des Bois, Northwest Territories, Canada, has produced the first record of acanthomorph fishes from the locality. Two specimens of acanthomorph, each representing a different taxon, were among the fishes collected. One of these is complete and well preserved; we here describe and name this fish, Boreiohydrias dayi, gen. et sp. nov. This fish is a polymixiiform, but it cannot be placed in any previously named family and we here give it a new family, Boreiohydriidae. The second acanthomorph is fragmentary; we describe it but do not formally name it. The relationships of early acanthomorph fishes are not easily determined, and still need much study, as do their living relatives.These two Turonian fishes are early members of the Acanthomorpha, which is first represented in the early Cenomanian in the Western Interior Seaway.
4523579|A new fossil odobenid skull from the late early or early middle Miocene age Moniwa Formation, Miyagi Prefecture, northern Japan, represents a new species of the genus Prototaria Takeyama and Ozawa, 1984. Prototaria planicephala, sp. nov., is distinguished from P. primigena Takeyama and Ozawa, 1984, by having a dorsoventrally flattened cranium with a wider rostrum, more derived cheek teeth, and a flattened tympanic bulla. These and other differences indicate that P. planicephala is a more derived species than P. primigena. The species of Prototaria lack many of the derived characters seen in the genus Neotherium Kellogg, 1931, which is interpreted as a closely related genus. Cladistic analysis of 25 cranial and dental characters suggests that the family Odobenidae form a monophyletic clade, united by a dorsoventrally thick and posterolaterally expanded pterygoid strut, a bony tentorium closely appressed to the petrosal, and molarized premolars with lingually expanded cingula resulting in near cheek tooth homodonty. Although the Dusignathinae and the Odobeninae are separate monophyletic subfamilies, the "Imagotariinae" are not monophyletic, and are regarded as a paraphyletic basal group. The genus Prototaria is a basal taxon within the family Odobenidae, which had an earlier evolutionary history in the middle Miocene in the western North Pacific than in the eastern North Pacific.
23251297|We report a new site with an occurrence of isolated bones of a Palaeochersis-like turtle in Norian-Rhaetian fluvial sediments from southern Poland. The turtle remains are associated with bones of a medium-sized aetosaur, a coelophysoid dinosaur, and a larger carnivorous archosaur, as well as a hybodontid shark, ganoid and dipnoan fishes, and a large temnospondyl.
4524308|We describe a skull and fragments of lower jaws of a ceratomorph perissodactyl from the Arshantan (Eocene) strata of the Zaysan Basin, eastern Kazakstan, and refer these specimens to Isectolophus latidens (Osborn, Scott, and Speir, 1878). The material from the Zaysan Basin is indistinguishable from the holotypes of Isectolophus bogdulensis Reshetov from Mongolia and Homogalax reliquius Qi from China. These two species are junior subjective synonyms of I. latidens. The presence of I. latidens, known also from Bridgerian strata of North America, in Asian deposits of Arshantan age provides further support for a correlation between the Arshantan and the Bridgerian land- mammal "ages."
41515276|Mawsonia, the largest actinistian, was a non-marine form common in continental and estuarine deposits of the Tithonian-Cenomanian of western Gondwana. The genus has been recently reviewed, and only two species are recognized as valid: M. gigas and M. tegamensis. Herein we describe new material that can be referred to this genus, including two basisphenoids, a coronoid, a pterygoid, a metapterygoid, one operculum, and two posparietals. The Uruguayan record represents the southernmost occurrence of Mawsonia and the Mawsoniidae in the world, and strengthens the Late Jurassic-Early Cretaceous age proposed for the unit.
4523928| In 1896 Charles Depret described a fauna of dinosaurs from the Upper Cretaceous (?Campanian) Maevarano Formation from the Mahajanga Basin of northwest Madagascar. Among the dinosaurs was a titanosaurid sauropod that he named Titanosaurus madagascariensis. He attributed to the titanosaurid a large, thick circular osteoderm. His referral of an osteoderm to a sauropod was widely doubted until 1980 when Bonaparte and Powell described Saltasaurus loricatus, an armored titanosaurid from Argentina. Since then titanosaurid osteoderms have been recognized from Spain, France and Malawi. In 1996, we collected three isolated and eight associated osteoderms from the Maevarano Formation, confirming Depret's prescient observation. They range in length from 3 cm to 17 cm, and in thickness up to 6.5 cm. At least one of the two titanosaurids we now recognize from Madagascar was covered with a sparse armor, and that the skin was in places nearly 7 cm thick. 
4523904|Four different species belonging to three genera of South African proterosuchids have been described: Proterosuchus fergusi (Broom, 1903), Chasmatosaurus vanhoepeni (Haughton, 1924), Elaphrosuchus rubidgei (Broom, 1946), and Chasmatosaurus alexandri (Hoffman, 1965). The specimens and descriptions suggest that all four are subjective synonyms for the same concept. The type specimen is specifically determinable and the senior synonym, Proterosuchus fergusi Broom, 1903, is selected as the valid name for the South African proterosuchid species. The diagnosis for the species includes features such as: the dentigerous borders of the premaxilla and maxilla form an angle of about 120 degrees; the palatal teeth are arranged in a specific pattern; the laterosphenoid is not reduced in its anterior development; and the epipterygoid is axe-shaped and has an anteroventral medial process.
40666169|We report new avian remains from the early Eocene Cambay Formation of Vastan Lignite Mine in western India. Most of the bones belong to the as yet poorly known taxon Vastanavis, of which a new species, V. cambayensis, is described. For the first time, tarsometatarsi of Vastanavis can be identified, which show that this taxon had semi-zygodactyl feet. In overall morphology, Vastanavis closely resembles the species of the Quercypsittidae, which occur in the late Eocene of Europe and are considered stem group representatives of the parrots (Psittaciformes). Several plesiomorphic features indicate, however, that Vastanavis is outside a clade including Quercypsitta and crown group Psittaciformes, and we therefore assign it to a new family, Vastanavidae. Vastanavis corresponds well with an as yet undescribed avian species from the early Eocene London Clay in England, and we conclude that, at least concerning the arboreal taxa, the early Eocene avifauna of India shows some concordances with the much better known one from the early Eocene of Europe. We further describe a distal tarsometatarsus from Vastan Lignite Mine that superficially resembles that of extant New World vultures (Cathartidae), but comes from a roller-sized species.
4524148|Theropod teeth are taxonomically diagnostic components of dinosaur assemblages. Seventy teeth have been recovered from six different localities in the Kogosukruk Tongue of the Prince Creek Formation (Upper Cretaceous) of the North Slope of Alaska. This assemblage of teeth shows slightly less diversity compared to well documented assemblages of teeth from the slightly older Judith River Formation of south-central Montana, the Aguja Formation of west Texas, and the Hell Creek Formation of eastern Montana. In addition, in contrast to the Judith River Formation assemblage of teeth in south-central Montana, the teeth assigned to Troodon dominated the Alaskan assemblage. The dominance of Troodon is attributed to adaptation by this theropod to low light conditions while over-wintering at a high paleolatitude.
30126300|New material of the Australian Lower Carboniferous rhizodontid Barameda provides additional information on poorly known aspects of rhizodontid anatomy, including the braincase and branchial arches, and indicates that two species of Barameda are present in the Mansfield Group, a larger poorly ossified species, B. decipiens, and a new species, Barameda mitchelli n. sp. based on the smaller well ossified specimens previously assigned to B. decipiens. Unusually, in a new pectoral fin specimen assigned to B. decipiens, the humerus lacks ossified entepicondylar and pectoral processes, strong projections present on the humeri of most sarcopterygian fish and tetrapods. Juveniles of rhizodontids and of Eusthenopteron (Tristichopteridae) also lack these processes (ossifying later in development), which along with poor overall ossification of the fin in juveniles and in B. decipiens, indicates that the pectoral fin of the latter has been affected by heterochronic processes. These observations suggest a degree of developmental variability (timing, degree of ossification) in the entepicondyle relative to the rest of the humerus, which could be extended to other posterior processes of pectoral fin elements such as the ulnare flange. This flange is present in tristichopterids but absent in rhizodontids and taxa closely related to the origin of tetrapods, such as Panderichthys.
25835815|Late Oligocene and early Miocene, nearly flat-lying and dominantly volcaniclastic, continental strata in the lower part of the Chalk Canyon Formation are exposed in central Arizona along the southwestern margin of the Transition Zone and the adjacent northeastern margin of the Basin and Range Province. The strata have yielded both of the two known oreodont records reported from Arizona. These occurences represent the Cave Creek and Black Canyon Local Faunas. Both records are assigned tentatively to the early late Arikareean (Ar3), small-bodied oreodontid species Merychyus calaminthus, based primarily on their occlusal and basicranial anatomies and on the comparatively small sizes of the individuals they represent. Both fossil sites are in discontinuous exposures separated by about 28 km (17 mi). Overlying olivine-rich basaltic lava flows still in the lower part of the formation in the Cave Creek area are as old as 23.3  2.7 Ma in age, based on wholerock Potassium-Argon radiometric age determinations. On the other hand, a pumice-rich air-fall tuff bed at the base of the formation is only 20.98  0.06 and 21.03  0.06 Ma old, based on Argon/Argon (Ar/Ar) analysis. A blue ash layer in the Black Canyon City area and at the approximate level of the oreodont site is 23.7  0.9 Ma old, based on the Uranium-Lead analysis of zircon crystals. The oreodont records and nearly all available radiometric data suggest that the fossil-bearing strata in the lower part of the Chalk Canyon Formation are correlatives of the Harrison Formation in the northwestern Nebraska Panhandle. The Agate Ash in the Harrison Formation is 23.23  0.13 Ma in age on the basis of Ar/Ar analysis.
4524329|Three acaremyid rodents from the Miocene of Patagonia are described. Galileomys antelucanus, gen. et sp. nov. (Colhuehuapian SALMA, early Miocene) is the most plesiomorphic genus within the Acaremyidae. Galileomys? colloncurensis, sp. nov. is the first acaremyid recorded from the Colloncuran SALMA (middle Miocene). The generic referral is tentative because the known material does not display enough characters. Acaremys cf. murinus Ameghino, 1887 represents a second Colhuehuapian acaremyid. Cladistic analyses of dental and mandibular characters do not support previous hypotheses that Sciamys and Acaremys are the ancestors of the Octodontidae. On the contrary, these two genera and Galileomys constitute a monophyletic group united by the presence of a hypoflexus in P4, a well defined anterodorsal limit of mandibular masseteric fossa, and a figure- eight-shaped molar pattern. The inclusion of other genera in the Acaremyidae is not supported by cladistic analysis. A shared figure-eight-shaped dental pattern was the primary basis for a presumed close relationship between the Acaremyidae and Octodontidae, but this state evolved independently in the two taxa. The Acaremyidae is an extinct, early radiation of the Octodontoidea that persisted at least until the middle Miocene. The Octodontidae probably originated from an ancestor closer to the "echimyids" than to the Acaremyidae, with neither normal dental replacement nor mental foramen.
24523219|Recent field work in the late Cenozoic Zanda Basin in southwestern Tibetan Plateau has provided new fossil evidence of vertebrate faunas spanning the late Miocene to Pleistocene, which represents new occurrences hitherto unknown in that region of Asia. In this paper we describe a new species of the cursorial hyaenid Chasmaporthetes, C. gangsriensis, sp. nov., from the Zanda Basin. Chasmaporthetes gangsriensis is smaller than other Plio-Pleistocene Eurasian records of the genus, and retains relatively wide premolars that are underdifferentiated in size. The m1 talonid has a trenchant hypoconid typical of Chasmaporthetes, but with a trigonid length-to-width ratio lower than all specimens referred to the genus. Metatarsal and phalangeal elements referred to C. gangsriensis are long and gracile, indicating cursorial abilities typical of Chasmaporthetes. With an age of early Pliocene (4.894.08 Ma), C. gangsriensis is morphologically the most basal Pliocene Chasmaporthetes in China, and is consistent with the 'out of Tibet' hypothesis for some Pleistocene megafauna. An analysis of nasal bone morphology revealed large intraspecific variation in extant spotted hyenas, showing that it is not a reliable criterion for species diagnosis in Chasmaporthetes. An evaluation of the biostratigraphic relationships among Asian and North American occurrences of Chasmaporthetes indicates that the genus first dispersed into the New World during the early Blancan North American land mammal age (NALMA) with likely ancestry close to the heterogeneous sample of C. lunensis in Eurasia. The possibility of a second dispersal is indicated by a mixed sample of specimens with significantly smaller p4/m1 length ratio than other Chasmaporthetes.
4524243|The hybodont form genus Lissodus is taken under revision and found to comprise a number of lineages. Twelve species, stratigraphically extended from the Scythian, Lower Triassic to the Albian, Lower Cretaceous, are retained in Lissodus s.s. Thirteen other species can be included in Lonchidion, here considered as a justified genus, ranging from the Ladinian in the Middle Triassic to the Maastrichtian in the Upper Cretaceous. of the species previously included in Lissodus, two new genera, Vectiselachos, gen. nov. and Parvodus, gen. nov., are described. Vectiselachos is at present a monotypic genus including a single species from the Lower Cretaceous of southern England. Parvodus comprises three species and is known from the Bathonian, Middle Jurassic to the Valanginian, Lower Cretaceous. Another species is placed in Steinbachodus, expanding the stratigraphical range of the genus from the Rhaetian in the Upper Triassic to the Cenomanian in the Upper Cretaceous. Palaeozoic small-toothed hybodonts are extremely poorly known and alleged Lissodus species fall into two genera, but these are at present kept in open nomenclature. The family Lonchidiidae is considered justified and includes the genera Lissodus, Lonchidion, Vectiselachos, Hylaeobatis and Parvodus.
4524348| The cranial anatomy of Coloraderpeton brilli Vaughn and postcranial anatomy of Oestocephalus amphiuminus Cope are reconsidered in light of new ophiderpetontid material from Nany, Czech Republic. Coloraderpeton is distinct from Oestocephalus amphiuminus in having a quadrate region extended farther posterior of the occiput and a tabular restricted from the lateral temporal margin by the supratemporal. In contrast to the original description, Coloraderpeton, like all lepospondyls, lacks an intertemporal. Coloraderpeton has widely spaced teeth, which bring into question the utility of this character for separating Ophiderpeton from Oestocephalus. Coloraderpeton has multiple rows of teeth on its palatoquadrate, as opposed to the single row in Oestocephalus. Oestocephalus has approximately 110 vertebrae. Vertebrae are not added posteriorly with growth, making vertebral counts of systematic significance in aistopods. Transverse processes remain laterally directed throughout the column, unlike Phlegethontia, which has an anterior migration of the bases of the transverse processes, and an anterior inflection of the distal transverse processes that becomes more pronounced posteriorly. Ribs are present to about the 70th vertebra, leaving 40 rib-free caudal vertebrae, contrasting with the 100-160 rib-free caudal vertebrae of Phlegethontia. Ribs are "k- shaped," with an anterior costal process and a long posterior process on either side of the tuberculum. No distinction can be made among any of the species from Linton, Ohio, Mazon Creek, Illinois, and Nyfany, Czech Republic, and so all are included within Oestocephalus amphiuminus. The exception is O. nanum from Newsham, Northumberland, which has reduced dorsal osteoderms. Preliminary phylogenetic analysis indicates that Ophiderpetontidae as previously understood are paraphyletic, and a new family, Oestocephalidae, is established to accommodate Oestocephalus and Coloraderpeton. 
4524115|Two new species of deep-bodied Paleozoic actinopterygians, Aesopichthys erinaceus gen. nov., sp. nov. and Proceramala montanensis gen. nov., sp. nov., are described from the Upper Chesterian, Upper Mississippian (Namurian E2b, Lower Carboniferous) Bear Gulch Limestone of Montana, USA, and the new family Aesopichthyidae is erected for them. These two fishes share features usually associated with deep body and deep head specializations, particularly in Palaeoniscimorpha, such as a shortened gape, tall maxilla, vertical suspensorium, deepened flank scales and an elongate dorsal fin. Aesopichthys in particular, for which more complete information is known, also possessed a suite of very specialized adaptations in feeding mechanism, ganoine sculpturing, fin form, and cranial defensive structures that have strong ethological implications. These features include small mobile premaxillae, a spinous and apparently rotatable posteroventral infraorbital, lobed pectoral base, and partially webbed pectoral, dorsal, anal and caudal fins. Within a general scheme of interrelationships of primitive actinopterygians, these two new taxa pertain to Palaeoniscimorpha, i.e., basal Actinopteri. Then, from a cladistic analysis limited, beside these two new taxa, to Wendyichthys and Cyranorhis (two other already described actinopterygians from Bear Gulch), Platysomus, and Cheirolepis, it appears that the Aesopichthyidae display no close relationship to the Platysomidae but should be the sister group of the Rhadinichthyid-group i.e., [Cyranorhis + [Rhadinichthyidae + Wendyichthys]].
20491078|A new species of enantiornithine bird from the Lower Cretaceous Yixian Formation of northeastern China is reported. The new taxon, Shanweiniao cooperorum, possesses several enantiornithine synapomorphies as well as the elongate rostral morphology (rostrum equal to or exceeding 60% the total length of the skull) of the Chinese early Cretaceous enantiornithines, Longipteryx chaoyangensis and Longirostravis hani. The discovery of this new specimen highlights the existence of a diverse clade of trophically specialized enantiornithines, Longipterygidae, for which we present phylogenetic support in a new comprehensive cladistic analysis of Mesozoic birds. Shanweiniao provides new information on the anatomy of longipterygids, and preserves a rectricial morphology previously unknown to enantiornithines, with at least four tail feathers closely arranged. This supports the hypothesis that enantiornithines were strong fliers and adds to the diversity of known tail morphologies of these Cretaceous birds.
4523454|The histology and morphology of Youngolepis, Powichthys, and Diabolepis are reviewed. Four characters are chosen to support the sister-group relationship between Youngolepis and Powichthys, independent from the characters shared by both genera and other groups. These four are: long extension of the anterior cranial division; absence of the suprapterygoid process; tooth patch along the lateral portions of the palate and lower jaw; and otic process with structures related to it. The group comprising Youngolepis and Powichthys, in turn, is referred to the Porolepiformes, rather than to Diabolepis + dipnoans. This is based on an analysis of characters that shows that Youngolepis and Powichthys share with porolepiforms 12 characters, among which five are shared uniquely, while they share eight characters with Diabolepis, including two that are shared uniquely, three are also shared by dipnoans, and five by porolepiforms. The possibility remains that, with an increase in information, this conclusion might be reversed.
20061976|A specimen collected from the Lower Jurassic Lower Lufeng Formation of Yunnan, China, represents a new genus and species of therizinosauroid theropod. It comprises an incomplete left mandibular ramus and is here named Eshanosaurus deguchiianus. Distinctive characteristics of the new species include the presence of a round fenestra in the posterior portion of the dentary, small size of tooth denticles, and denticles almost perpendicular to the anterior and posterior edges of tooth crowns. The discovery of Eshanosaurus deguchiianus extends the record of therizinosauroids from the Early Cretaceous back to the Early Jurassic. Recent phylogenetic hypotheses placing therizinosauroids within Coelurosauria imply this is the oldest known coelurosaur, and that diversification of the group began much earlier than was previously indicated by the fossil record.
4524189|The first phylogenetic analysis of the Euramerican Early Cretaceous- Miocene genus Albanerpeton is presented based on 16 characters of the jaws, frontals, and inferred body size scored for the seven recognized species in the genus and three other albanerpetontid taxa. Monophyly of Albanerpeton is corroborated and nested sets of synapomorphies yield the following hypothesized relationships: A. arthridion ((A. cifellii + A. galaktion + A. gracilis) (A. nexuosus (unnamed late Paleocene species + A. inexpectatum))). Osteological modifications identified in Albanerpeton initially involve the frontals, then shift largely to the jaws. Many of these changes are interpreted to be associated with broadening the head and strengthening the snout and jaws, presumably for feeding and burrowing. The first half or more (latest Aptian/earliest Albian to late Paleocene) of the known record for Albanerpeton and six of the seven species are restricted to the North American Western Interior. These occurrences and the phylogenetic framework proposed here suggest that the evolutionary history of Albanerpeton was centered in the Western Interior of North America.
4524577| The northernmost records of early Eocene brontotheres, fossils of cf. Eotitanops and Brontotheriidae gen. et sp. indet., are described here from late Wasatchian-aged strata of upper parts of the Eureka Sound Group on central Ellesmere Island (-79N). Although the fossils were initially tentatively identified on faunal lists as Lambdotherium, their larger size and dental morphology ally them more closely to mid-latitude Eotitanops and Palaeosyops. The Ellesmere Island specimens are dentally most similar to mid-latitude Eotitanops, but can be distinguished from the latter by derived characters on their premolars that are shared with the younger (i.e., Bridgerian) Palaeosyops. The presence of brontotheres in early Eocene strata on Ellesmere Island implies that the group's evolution was well underway early in its history at northern high latitudes, and is consistent with either an Asian or North American origin and trans-Beringian dispersal. While cf. Eotitanops from Ellesmere Island appears dentally too advanced to be ancestral to mid-latitude co-eval Eotitanops, it may be a suitable ancestor to Palaeosyops. The presence of cf. Eotitanops on Ellesmere Island may reflect a high-latitude lineage that subsequently dispersed to mid- latitudes during early middle Eocene (Bridgerian) time. 
30126370|New dental material of the hyaenid Hyaenictitherium hyaenoides Zdansky, 1924 from the late Miocene Baogeda Ula Formation in central Inner Mongolia is described. An evaluation of the morphological trends and spatial and temporal ranges of the genus Hyaenictitherium follows. The unworn isolated teeth described here represent a nearly complete set of dentition. Furthermore, the Baogeda Ula material is the eastern-most record of this genus, and the only hyaenid record in eastern Asia associated with a layer of basalt capping the fossil producing sediments. Previous studies of the capping basalt and associated small mammal fauna constrain the age of the Baogeda Ula hyaenid at 8-7 Ma. In addition to the Baogeda Ula material, other occurrences of the genus in eastern Asia include Gansu, Shanxi and Shaanxi provinces of northern China. Of the ten species currently thought to belong to the genus, two (H. intuberculatum and H. minimum) appear more primitive than the others. The rest seem to follow a morphological trend of increasing size and robustness of the teeth, as well as reduction of the trigonid of m1. This trend is observed roughly from H. wongi (MN9) to H. namaquensis (MN14). The genus appears to be a cursorial form and first appeared in western Eurasia in MN9. Subsequent range expansion occurred in northern Asia, southern Asia, and in Africa from MN12 on. The observed phylogenetic and morphological gaps between H. namaquensis and H. minimum prevent a clear interpretation of Hyaenictitherium immigration into Africa.
25835877|Three species of gull-like birds were described by Milne-Edwards in the 19th century from the early Miocene of Saint-Grand-le-Puy, France, two of which have been since then moved to the genus Laricola. These fossils are redescribed and revised in the present study. We further describe two new species of the taxon Laricola, L. intermedia, sp. nov., and L. robusta, sp. nov., as well as two species of a new taxon Sternalara, S. minuta and S. milneedwardsi, thus substantially increasing the number of charadriiform taxa known from this locality. To find out how Laricola relates to modern taxa, we performed a phylogenetic analysis of 41 osteological characters, which resulted in Laricola being placed outside of Lariidae, as early representatives of the newly designated group Laromorphae, which encompasses terns, gulls, and skimmers. The results of our analysis have additionally enabled us to evaluate relationships between extant taxa of the Laromorphae.
4523185| A new genus and species of paracanthopterygian fish, McConichthys longipinnis, is described from freshwater deposits of the Lower Paleocene Tullock Formation in Montana. It is the earliest known paracanthopterygian from North America. Although it is known from only a single specimen, it is nearly complete and extremely well preserved. McConichthys is considered to be most closely related to (forming a cladistic trichotomy with) two monophyletic groups of Patterson and Rosen (in press): the Gadiformes (codfishes) and the Pediculati (a group containing Lophiiformes [anglerfishes] and Batrachoidiformes [toadfishes]). The fossil species is therefore placed in its own family (McConichthyidae, fam. nov.). Well preserved, articulated freshwater teleosts from the pre-Eocene of North America are extremely rare, and McConichthys longipinnis gives important insight into the composition of the earliest Tertiary freshwater fish faunas. This species also provides an early fossil well enough preserved to be easily included in phylogenetic studies of living paracanthopterygian fishes. 
40864357|The fragmentary holotype and only known material of Platecarpus tympaniticus Cope, 1869, is redescribed and compared to other closely related plioplatecarpine mosasaurs. Re-characterization of the holotype reveals the following similarities to Platecarpus ictericus: exoccipital-basioccipital suture transversely oriented in condylar view; basal tubera not inflated and widely separated along ventral midline; cervical intervertebral joint surface strongly curved; seventh cervical vertebra lacking articulating intercentrum (i.e., hypapophyseal peduncle). In addition, the relatively complete right quadrate of the holotype of P. tympaniticus is virtually indistinguishable from those of P. ictericus. Quadrate characters, when combined with the four previously mentioned characters, uniquely diagnose both P. tympaniticus and P. ictericus among known mosasaur taxa. Because P. tympaniticus was established before P. ictericus, the former becomes the specific senior synonym of the latter, and is also the generic type of Platecarpus.
4524793| Cranial material from a new genus (Ramphastosula) of Sulidae is described. The material comes from the Early-Lower Pliocene of the Pisco Formation of the central-southern coast of Peru. The skulls are characterized by (1) remarkable convex curvature of the dorsal surface and straight ventral surface of the rostrum, only with a curvature on the third anterior part and the tip of the bill; (2) well developed occipital and temporal regions; (3) broad opisthotic process projecting to the level of postorbital processes; (4) broad temporal fossa, and (5) flat braincase and robust frontal region. /// Se describe material craneal de un nuevo g nero (Ramphastosula) para la familia Sulidae, proveniente del Plioceno temprano de la Formatin Pisco (costa centro-sur del Per). El material se caracteriza por presentar (1) un rostrum marcadamente curvo dorsalmente y recto en su superficie ventral, curvandose slo en la tercera parte anterior y la punta; (2) regiones occipital y temporal muy desarrolladas; (3) procesos opistticos anchos proyectados ms alla del nivel de los procesos postorbitales; (4) fosa temporal ancha, y (5) techo craneano plano y regin frontal robusta. 
4523265|Excalibosaurus costini, a Lower Jurassic ichthyosaur discovered in England in 1984, is re-examined using computed tomography. The species is characterized by its elongated snout, which extends beyond the mandibles by an amount equivalent to 35% of the snout length. Only in the later Lower Jurassic species Eurhinosaurus longirostris is there a similar development of the snout, but here the overbite approaches 60% of the snout length. Excalibosaurus may have given rise to Eurhinosaurus, and it is therefore important to verify that its overbite is real rather than a result of preservation. Radiography verifies this, and also confirms that the naris has a complex, bilobed structure. The forefin has four digits, as previously suspected; the coracoid is discoidal, with only an incipient anterior notch. Leptopterygius tenuirostris, geologically slightly older, shares many features with Excalibosaurus costini, including a tendency to develop an overbite. E. costini also has much in common with Eurhinosaurus longirostris, which is geologically younger. Simple modelling shows that one skull type can be derived from the previous one by changing the relative lengths of the snout and mandible. It is conceivable that the three species represent segments of an evolutionary lineage.
4523970|Standardized stem-based and node-based terms are proposed for the major groups of theropod dinosaurs recognized as relatively stable by recent phylogenetic analyses. The proposed terminology is intended to resolve conflict among names applied to the same clade, or sometimes applied without indication of whether the taxon is node-based or stem-based. In all cases but one, these names are already in the literature. We propose the new node-based name Eumaniraptora to refer to the most recent common ancestor of Deinonychus and Neornithes and all descendants of that ancestor. We also suggest the following points: (1) node- and stem-based taxa are preferable to apomorphy-based taxa because they are generally more stable; (2) names already used in the literature should be conserved as far as possible, though sometimes their basis requires adjustment (changing nodes to stems and vice versa and converting apomorphy-based taxa to stems and nodes); (3) the uses of some terms by some authors can be adjusted to reflect priority or common use; (4) in general, names should be based on well-resolved phylogenies; and (5) as a corollary, we recommend a moratorium on new names for theropodan nodes and stems until the phylogenetic relationships of theropodan sub-clades are better resolved.
4522888|Shark teeth have been found in Upper Devonian rocks from the Broken River embayment and Burdekin Star shelf of north Queensland and in Lower Carboniferous rocks from Broken River and from near Gresford, New South Wales. Harpago ferox gen. et sp. nov. is a new tooth type which occurs in the Upper Bundock Creek Formation (possible Late Devonian), Queensland, and in the Early Carboniferous Bingleburra Formation, New South Wales. Other Late Devonian forms found in Queensland include Protacrodus spp. and Phoebodus cf. P. politus Newberry, 1889, known previously from North America, Europe and India. From one Early Carboniferous site in Queensland came a tooth of Xenacanthus sp. and one of Cladodus thomasi sp. nov., a form previously described from the Laurel Formation of Western Australia where it is associated with bradyodont teeth referred here to Helodus.
4523443|Tachylagus gawneae, a new lagomorph from the Lac Pelletier Lower Fauna, is smaller with lower-crowned and more primitive teeth than members of the genus Megalagus, to which it is probably ancestral. Tachylagus may share a common ancestry with Procaprolagus. Relationships with the Mytonolagus-Palaeolagus lineage and with Eocene lagomorphs of Asia are unclear.
4524537| Istiodactylus sinensis, sp. nov., from the Jiufotang Formation of Liaoning, Peoples Republic of China, is described on the basis of a single nearly complete and nearly osteologically adult specimen. This is the tenth pterosaur described from this formation and the eighteenth pterosaur species described from northeastern China in almost half as many years. The species is placed in the Istiodactylidae, which was previously a monospecific family of pterodactyloid pterosaurs known only from the Isle of Wight, England. The new form is distinct from the two other istiodactylid species. It is smaller, more plesiomorphic, and younger than Istiodactylus latidens, but larger and more derived than the contemporaneous Nurhachius ignaciobritoi. Istiodactylus sinensis is very similar to I. latidens, so that almost all of the previous autapomorphies of /. latidens are now synapomorphies of Istiodactylus. They differ most in that /. sinensis is much smaller than /. latidens. The length of the wingspan, skull, and most of the preserved limb elements of I. sinensis are about 63 percent of the wingspan and elements of /. latidens. This new specimen demonstrates that Istiodactylus is diagnosed by, among other characters, a dorsoventrally depressed but not laterally expanded rostrum, and the presence of a suborbital vacuity. A dorsal deflection of the alveolar margins of the jaws and a humerus between 55 percent and one and a half times the length of metacarpal IV are synapomorphies uniting the Istiodactylidae and the Anhangueridae. 
20490965|The new dugongine dugongid Nanosiren garciae is the third species of fossil sirenian to be described from the Bone Valley phosphate deposits of Florida. It is found in the Upper Bone Valley Formation and is of latest Hemphillian (early Pliocene) age. Nanosiren sanchezi is described from the late Miocene upper member of the Urumaco Formation, Falcn State, Venezuela. It appears to be directly ancestral to N. garciae, and was preceded in the West Atlantic, Caribbean, and East Pacific region by other, undescribed members of the same generic lineage dating back at least to the early Miocene. The Nanosiren lineage is the most basal clade of the Subfamily Dugonginae after Crenatosiren olseni, and is the sister group to all remaining dugongines. It comprises the smallest known post-Eocene sirenians, with adult body lengths and weights probably around 2 m and 150 kg. Newborn animals may have had body masses little greater than the theoretical limit of 6.8 kg for a viable aquatic endotherm. In addition to a shallow draft, Nanosiren spp. had small conical tusks and strong rostral deflections. These characters possibly indicate that they foraged in shallower water than the larger dugongids with which they were sympatric, such as Metaxytherium (a rib from Urumaco probably referable to this genus is also recorded here). Nanosiren probably fed in nearshore marine waters on small seagrasses such as Halodule and Halophila. /// Se describe una nueva especie de dugongine dugongido como Nanosiren garciae, la cual representa la tercera especie fsil de sirenido descrita de los depsitos de fosfato de Bone Valley en Florida, USA. Proviene de la Formacin Upper Bone Valley de edad Hemphillian tardo (Plioceno temprano). Se describe igualmente la especie Nanosiren sanchezi del Miembro superior de la Formacin Urumaco, estado Falcn, Venezuela, de edad Mioceno tardo. Esta especie pareciera ser el ancestro directo de N. garciae, que a su vez es precedida por otro miembro del mismo linaje genrico aun no descrito de edad Mioceno temprano y que se distribuye en el Atlntico occidental, el Mar Caribe y en la regin oriental del Ocano Pacifico. El linaje Nanosiren es el clado ms basal de la Subfamilia Dugonginae luego de Crenatosiren olseni y es el grupo hermano del resto de los dugongines. Estos incluyen los sirenios post-Eocnicos de menor tamao conocido, con longitudes corporales y pesos en adultos que alcanzan alrededor de 2 m y 150 kg respectivamente. Los animales al nacer pudieron tener una masa corporal algo mayor que el lmite viable terico de los 6,8 kg para endotrmicos acuticos. Adicionalmente a ser de poco calado, Nanosiren spp. poseen pequeos colmillos de forma cnica y rostros fuertemente desviados. Estas caracteristicas probablemente indican que pastan en aguas ms someras que los grandes dugongidos con los cuales son simptricos, como es Metaxytherium (una costilla hallada en Urumaco que se registra en el presente trabajo probablemente se relaciona con este gnero). Nanosiren probablemente se alimentaba de gramneas marinas prximas a la costa tales como Halodule y Halophila.
40864364|Two eobaatarid multituberculates, Heishanobaatar triangulas gen. et sp. nov. and Eobaataridae gen. et sp. indet., and an ? albionbaatarid multituberculate, Kielanobaatar badaohaoensis gen. et sp. nov., from the Lower Cretaceous (Aptian to Albian) Shahai and Fuxin formations in Liaoning Province, northeastern China, are described. Heishanobaatar triangulus is a moderate-sized multituberculate characterized by lower jaw dental formula 1.0.3.2, slender lower incisor, singlerooted p2, triangular p3 in lateral view, p4 with eight serrations, ml with cusp formula 2:2, and m2 with cusp formula 1 (coalesced): 2. Kielanobaatar badaohaoensis is characterized by upper anterior premolars with relatively flat occlusal surfaces, roughly pentangular PI in occlusal view, PI and P2 with three cusp rows (cusp formulae 1:3:2), and P3 with four cusps (cusp formula 2:2). Together with already described three species of eobaatarids from the same localities, they demonstrate that there were quite diverse multituberculates in Asia in the late Early Cretaceous, and suggest that the mammalian fauna known from the Shahai and Fuxin formations probably show a transitional state from the mammalian fauna of the Yixian Formation to Late Cretaceous Asian faunas.
4524387|The postcranial skeleton of Ukhaatherium nessovi, eutherian mammal from the Upper Cretaceous of the Gobi Desert, Mongolia, is described. Nearly the entire skeleton is represented by three skeletal assemblages associated with each other, found at Ukhaa Tolgod, a locality in the Nemegt Basin. Morphological comparisons of Ukhaatherium are made with several other mammals, including placentals, marsupials, and Asioryctes, another Cretaceous eutherian from Mongolia. As has been previously pointed out, Ukhaatherium and Asioryctes possess a number of characters that suggest they occupy a basal position in the eutherian evolutionary tree. Ukhaatherium has epipubic bones, an unexcavated astragalar trochlea, and a depressed calcaneum, among other primitive characters. Derived characters that link it with eutherians include an upper ankle joint which is more restricted to the parasagittal plane than in basal marsupials and other outgroups, and an astragalar neck that is superimposed on the sustentacular facet, as opposed to the condition found in metatherians and other outgroups, in which the sustentacular facet is either medial to the astragalus, or it is ventral to the astragalar neck but the latter overhangs the sustentacular facet medially. Ukhaatherium offers some intermediate conditions between placentals and its outgroups which facilitate a better understanding of character evolution at the root of Placentalia.
20491044|Previous reports of the fossil vertebrates from the upper Lower Jurassic La Boca Formation of Tamaulipas, Mxico, presented descriptions of a tritylodontid therapsid, a burrowing diapsid, crocodyliforms, a pterosaur and sphenodontians. Mammaliaform materials is rare, consisting primarily of partial lower jaws, some of which are extremely small. Five partial dentaries and one maxilla all have molars of "triconodont" morphology. Two lower jaws clearly show the internal mandibular trough, suggesting attachment of postdentary bones, another two do not possess a trough, and in another its presence or absence cannot be determined. This diversity of forms suggests that during the late Early Jurassic variations on the primitive "triconodont" molar patterns and in lower jaw morphology took place. The mammaliaform specimens from Tamaulipas appear to represent new taxa, but, because of the incomplete preservation of most of the material, only three new genera and species are erected: Bocaconodon tamaulipensis, Victoriaconodon inaequalis, and Huasteconodon wiblei.
40864370|A new species of Gliridae (Rodentia, Mammalia), Microdyromys remmerti, sp. nov., from the Aragonian type area in the Calatayud-Montalbn basin (Miocene, Spain) is described. This species is characterized by combining a relatively large size and a moderately complicated to very complicated and irregular dental morphology. It has a wide and continuous range of morphological variation with intermediate forms filling all the range. In the studied localities, M. remmerti, sp. nov., displays a general increase in the complexity of the dental pattern through time, showing a unique pattern of addition of extra ridges in the lower molars. Comparisons with morphologically similar species are discussed; a taxonomical and nomenclatorial issue regarding two named species of the genus is clarified. The combination of the morphometrical features that characterize M. remmerti, sp. nov., have never been found in any other glirid material outside the Calatayud-Montalbn basin, thus reinforcing the idea of the endemic character of the Gliridae faunas from the Iberian Miocene. Microdyromys koenigswaldi is proposed as most probable ancestor of M. remmerti, sp. nov. The divergent evolution of the latter species is discussed in its paleoecological context. The functional consequences of this morphological divergence could be related also with the opening of new ecological niches during the middle Aragonian (Middle Miocene).
4523283| A new rytiodontine dugongid Xenosiren yucateca, of probable late Miocene or early Pliocene age, is described, based on fragments of a skull from a site in Yucatan, Mexico. It may be the direct descendant of Dioplotherium manigaulti Cope, 1883, and Xenosiren and Dioplotherium Cope, 1883 together are the nearest relatives of the Old World early Miocene Rytiodus Lartet, 1866. Though surprisingly conservative in its cheek dentition, Xenosiren apparently had large, flattened, self-sharpening tusks (evolved in parallel with those of Rytiodus), and also displays several bizarre derived characters in the zygomatic region. These features were probably specializations for forceful uprooting of seagrass rhizomes. /// Un nuevo sirenio, Xenosiren yucateca (Dugongidae, Rytiodontinae), probablemente del Mioceno superior o Plioceno inferior, se describe, basado en los fragmentos de un crneo encontrado en un lugar de Yucatn, Mxico. Puede ser el descendiente directo de Dioplotherium manigaulti Cope, 1883. Xenosiren y Dioplotherium Cope, 1883 juntos son los parientes mas cercanos de Rytiodus Lartet, 1866, encontrado en el Mioceno inferior en el Viejo Mundo. Xenosiren, aunque muy conservador en su dentadura posterior, tena aparentemente incisivos grandes, aplanados, que el constante crecimiento y uso mantena afilados. Estos incisivos evolucionaron en paralelo con aquellos de Rytiodus. Xenosiren tambin tena otras extraas caractersticas especializadas en la region zigomtica. Estas caractersticas fueron probablemente adaptaciones para realizar la tarea de extraer rizomas de fanerogamas marinas. 
4523776|A new species of the entoptychine geomyid Pleurolicus, P. exiguus, is named from the early Miocene of Nebraska. It differs from all other species of the genus by its smaller size and distinctive cusps on the metalophid of the lower premolar. The cusps of the metalophid of the lower premolar become increasingly distinct in the Great Plains species of Pleurolicus ranging from early Arikareean to early Hemingfordian time.
4524700|The hadrosaurid Nipponosaurus sachalinensis Nagao, 1936, was the first dinosaur discovered in Japan. Here we establish its ontogenetic stage, diagnostic characters, and systematic position by redescribing and phylogenetically analyzing the type and sole specimen of Nipponosaurus. The unfused neurocentral sutures of all vertebrae suggest that the type specimen of Nipponosaurus is subadult. Furthermore, it can be diagnosed by the following characters: (1) the coronoid process of the surangular is robust, (2) the neural spine of the axis is only slightly developed, and (3) the lateral margin of the first phalanx on digit IV is strongly deflected. The phylogenetic analysis, using 78 characters for seven ingroup and six outgroup taxa, indicates that Nipponosaurus belongs within Lambeosaurinae as the sister taxon to Hypacrosaurus altispinus.
4523646| Narrow, simple cephalic sensory canals enclosed by bone represent the primitive condition found in catfishes (siluroids) such as Diplomystidae, Hypsidoridae, and Ictaluridae. Derived conditions among siluroids include highly branched (e.g.,Andinichthys, Galeichthys, and Parapimelodus) and reduced (e.g., trichomycterids) canals. The large bone usually termed as the supraoccipital in siluroids is thought to be homologous with the parietals + supraoccipital of other ostariophysans based on position, sutures with surrounding bones, and presence of anterior and middle pitlines. The suture between sphenotic and parieto-supraoccipital is a synapomorphy for catfishes. In primitive catfishes, the posterolateral corner of the cranial roof is formed by pterotic, extrascapula, and a third bone which attaches the pectoral girdle to the neurocranium; the third element may be homologous with the supracleithrum or a posttemporo-supracleithrum. The presence of a small extrascapula sutured with pterotic, parieto-supraoccipital, and epioccipital (and, occasionally, the posttemporo-supracleithrum) is characteristic of primitive siluroids. The absence of the supratemporal commissure is a synapomorphy of catfishes, as well as the presence of the pterotic branch. The latter is a lateroposterior branch of the temporal canal (on the pterotic) that opens on the skin (e.g., Diplomystidae, Ictaluridae, and Hypsidoridae), or continues in the posttemporo-supracleithrum joining the main lateral line (e.g., Parapimelodus). The pitlines are not incised in bone in most extant siluroids or in other extant ostariophysans; however, pitlines and neuromasts incised in grooves and/or pit are characteristic of some catfishes such as Andinichthys, Hoffstetterichthys, lncaichthys, Galeichthys, and Parapimelodus. 
4523719|We describe Rosendolops primigenium gen. et sp. nov (Mammalia, Marsupialia, Polydolopimorphia), based on isolated upper molars found in early Eocene (Casamayoran Age) beds from the cliffs south of Lake Colhue-Huapi (Province of Chubut, Argentina). The molar pattern shown by Rosendolops primigenium is clearly anticipatory of the characteristic polydolopimorphian (i.e., Prepidolopidae, Bonapartheriidae, and Polydolopidae) pattern, although the synapomorphies typical of the group are already present. Reigia punae and the Protodidelphidae (sensu Marshall, Case and Woodburne, 1990) are excluded from the Polydolopimorphia as they lack these synapomorphies. The morphotype represented by Rosendolops primigenium sheds new light on the possible progressive modifications that enabled the establishment of the molar pattern in South American "pseudodiprotodont" marsupials.
4523374|A newly discovered specimen from the lower Sakmarian of the Saar-Nahe district in the Pfalz, southwestern Germany, shows a combination of skeletal characters that, when found separately, were thought to distinguish Batropetes (originally described as a reptile) from the microsaur Brachystelechus. If these specimens belong to the same species, the name Batropetes fritschi should be applied. The nature of the occipital condyle and first cervical vertebra as well as the structure of the palate and skull table demonstrate that this species is a microbrachomorph microsaur. The new specimen has a small number of long teeth, like those of the North American species Carrolla craddocki, but with three, rather than two, cusps. The jaw articulation is far forward, and the stapes articulates with the quadrate. In contrast with Microbrachis and Hyloplesion, there are four, rather than three, digits in the manus. Haemal arches 7 to 16 are fused to the centra. The radial condyle is on the anterior surface, rather than the distal end of the humerus. The ventral scales resemble those of reptiles, and there are two proximal tarsals.
4524446|Features of dental microwear have been used to infer diet in fossil mammals based on comparisons with analogues or modern representatives, because material properties of the food and jaw mechanics can be inferred from microwear attributes that are easily compared across diverse groups. However, only rarely has dental microwear analysis been applied to more ancient non-mammalian taxa without modern relatives. We examine patterns of dental microwear in two distantly related groups-traversodontid cynodonts (at least two distinct taxa) and a possible 'prosauropod' dinosaur, both from the mid-late Triassic of Madagascar. Pitting was absent in most specimens examined. Scratch length and orientation heterogeneity, factors that have been suggested to reflect the hardness of the diet, differ significantly between the traversodontids and the 'prosauropod1 analyzed, and may suggest some degree of resource partitioning between these two types of coexisting herbivores. The 'prosauropod' appears to have fed on softer plant material than the traversodontids did, whereas shorter scratch lengths and lower orientation consistency suggest that the traversodontids fed on more resistant vegetation. Rose diagrams of orientations of microwear features exhibit a clear bimodality of jaw motion in the traversodontid cynodonts, with a dominant postero-dorsal power stroke and significant horizontal motion in the antero-posterior direction. In contrast, the 'prosauropod' jaw motion was simple and orthal.
42568627|The late Campanian-aged (= Judithian) squamates from the Terlingua Local Fauna of the Aguja Formation, southern Texas, includes four scincomorphans: a new taxon (Catactegenys solaster, gen. et sp. nov.), referable to Xantusiidae, that has massive teeth and tooth crown morphology similar to that of contogeniid lizards; an indeterminate scincomorphan (Apsgnathus triptodon, gen et sp. nov.) with robust teeth; and two unnamed scincomorphan morphotypes. Anguimorphans in the fauna include Odaxosaurus piger, cf. Parasaniwa wyomingensis, and a likely xenosaur. Ophidian jaw fragments confirm the presence of a snake in the fauna. The Aguja squamate assemblage is one of the most southerly of a series of paracontemporaneous squamate faunas extending from central Alberta to northern Mexico. Comparison of these faunas reveals that, although two taxa are endemic to the Aguja Formation, others show some latitudinal trends. Odaxosaurus and Parasaniwa are present in all well-sampled faunas from Alberta to Texas. The mammal-like Peneteius and snakes are found only in faunas from southern Utah to Mexico. Chamopsiids are only present from Alberta to New Mexico. The sole representatives of Contogeniidae and Xantusiidae are restricted to southern Utah and southern Texas, respectively. These hypotheses of distributional patterns must continue to be tested through ongoing investigations of all of the relevant faunas from the late Campanian of the Western Interior.
4523545| We review the morphology and systematics of Lagosuchus from the Middle Triassic Los Chaares Formation. Two species have been named, Lagosuchus talampayensis and L. lilloensis. The holotype of Lagosuchus talampayensis is a fragmentary skeleton that does not exhibit any autapomorphies to distinguish it from contemporary dinosauromorphs, and the genus and species are regarded as nomina dubia. In contrast, the holotype of Lagosuchus lilloensis is a well-preserved skeleton that exhibits several distinctive features, allowing reference of additional specimens. We, therefore, designate a new genus, Marasuchus, for the species "Lagosuchus" lilloensis. Several synapomorphies unite Marasuchus and dinosaurs (as Dinosauriformes) to the exclusion of the contemporary dinosauromorph Lagerpeton and pterosaurs. These include an antitrochanter on the posterior wall of the acetabulum, an anterior (lesser) trochanter developed as a trochanteric shelf, and a posterior flange on the distal end of the tibia. These dinosauriform synapomorphies in the pelvis and hind-limb persist in dinosaurian descendants with body sizes exceeding that of Marasuchus by more than two orders of magnitude. 
4523252|Much of the visceral skeleton (jaws, hyoid arch, and branchial arches) and superficial orobranchial musculature is described from an unique three-dimensionally preserved cladoselachian from the Upper Devonian Chattanooga Shale of Tennessee. The mandibular joint lacks the complexity seen in modern chondrichthyans. The hyoid arch apparently helped support the mandibular suspensorium, but may have had only a weak craniohyoidean attachment. Five branchial arches are present, each supporting elongate branchial rays that project beyond the primary hemibranch lamellae. Impressions of branchiomeric musculature conclusively demonstrate that there was no continuous gill opening between the jaws and hyoid arch; this cladoselachian is not aphetohyoidean.
25835810|A new enantiornithine bird, Bohaiornis guoi, gen. et sp. nov., is described in this paper. The holotype, presumably a sub-adult, is a complete, fully articulated skeleton from the Lower Cretaceous Yixian Formation of western Liaoning, northeastern China. Bohaiornis exhibits some similarity in morphology to Eoenantiornis, but Bohaiornis is much larger than Eoenantiornis and differs from all previously known enantiornithine birds including Eoenantiornis in having the following features: caudal end of the articular pointed caudoventrally, sacral centra strongly compressed transversely, and clavicular ramus straight with a laterally expanded omal end. The almost perfectly preserved skeleton of this new specimen not only reveals many morphological features previously unknown in basal birds, but also clarifies many fine details of previously known features.
4523371|An associated skeleton of a crocodylomorph from the Painted Desert of Petrified Forest National Park is the second relatively complete specimen of a crocodylomorph described from the Upper Triassic Chinle Formation. The specimen lacks cranial and hind-limb elements commonly used for classification of crocodylomorphs, so character states of other features, notably armor, pelvic, tooth, and dentary morphology, are evaluated. Phylogenetic analysis of the Triassic/Jurassic non-crocodyliform crocodylomorphs ("sphenosuchians") indicates that the new specimen is most similar to the Early Jurassic genus Sphenosuchus. Some of the features that ally the new specimen with Sphenosuchus may be artifacts of scaling, as the new specimen and the holotype of S. acutus are the two largest specimens of members of this group.
24523206|Two fossil fish were recently recovered from late Miocene freshwater deposits of the Mu Basin in Eastern Anatolia, Turkey. This area is in the collision zone of the Afro-Arabian and Eurasian plates, and therefore is a biogeographic contact zone or ecotone, where different biotas have been brought together. Only one fish was previously known from the area, the leuciscine cyprinid Leuciscus (Palaeoleuciscus) oeningensis. Renewed collecting at this locality provides the potential to determine much more information about the composition of the biogeographic contact zone. The two fishes described here are not named; one is placed in the family Clupeidae and the other is left as an indeterminate teleost. The fishes from the Mu Basin locality indicate that the fauna, or at least the fish portion, of the ecotone has an overall Eurasian origin, with little or no Afro-Arabian component.
4523840|Examination of nearly one thousand skulls and braincases of the Pleistocene North American felid Smilodon fatalis revealed localized depressions in the parietal bones in 36% of the sample. The depressions are hypothesized to be the consequence of heightened local mechanical stresses in fibers of the temporalis muscle. Comparative dissections of modern felids indicate that this region is the attachment site for deep temporalis bundle fibers where masticatory stresses in this muscle would naturally be manifested. The depressions occur in skulls of a variety of extant and extinct carnivorans. Inferences from computerized axial tomographic scans and clinical observations of bone pathology indicate that the depressions are most likely cortical desmoids, bony defects created by avulsive processes associated with overexertion in highly active muscles.
4523594|Chester Stock (1936) described a late Rancholabrean species of extinct mountain goat (Oreamnos harringtoni) based on scant remains from a cave in the Great Basin, Nevada. We present a review using cranial, mandibular, and metapodial remains of O. harringtoni from 13 localities in the southwest. The extinct mountain goat is not just a smaller form of the living species, O. americanus. O. harringtoni has metapodials 25% smaller than those of the living species, indicating that the mountain goat is shorter; however, its feet are relatively robust. Its masticatory region is robust but is situated on a narrower face; the apparently longer, narrower face is accentuated by the presence of thinner and smaller horns.
4523028|Egretta subfluvia, n. sp. is described from a nearly complete right tarsometatarsus from the Withlacoochee River 4A local fauna. It is a small species of Egretta and is the first paleospecies of this genus. Examination of the fossil mammals from the Withlacoochee River 4A local fauna documents the North American Land Mammal Age of this local fauna as late early Hemphillian. Other specimens from the late Miocene and early Pliocene of Florida show the existence of unidentifiable species of Ardea, Egretta, and Ardeola. The coracoid and distal end of tarsometatarsus of Ardea polkensis are reported for the first time.
4523543|Sites in the middle Oligocene (Herrlingen 7, Ehrenstein 12) and upper Oligocene (Ehrenstein 7, Herrlingen 8, Eggingen-Mittelhart) of southern Germany have yielded ophidian assemblages consisting of Eoanilius oligocenicus, sp. nov. (Aniliidae), Bransateryx vireti, cf. "Tropidonotus" atavus, cf. Platyspondylia sp., four other unidentified boids (Boidae), and Texasophis bohemiacus (Colubridae). Most forms presumably were fossorial. Based on the caudal vertebrae, Bransateryx cannot be closely related with the extant Eryx and Charina. Texasophis is considered an oriental immigrant, while Eoanilius, cf. Platyspondylia, and perhaps Bransateryx represented an autochthonous European assemblage. Eoanilius, Boinae C, Bransateryx, and Texasophis survived in central Europe at least until the early Miocene.
20627166|The family Nimravidae is a group of cat-like carnivorans that evolved sabertooth forms in parallel to Felidae. The last records of nimravids are represented by species of the North American genus Barbourofelis. Fossils of Barbourofelis found in Clarendonian North American Land Mammal Age (NALMA) deposits of California represent the western-most occurrences of the genus. Here we describe new material of Barbourofelis whitfordi from the late Miocene Dove Spring Formation (12.5-8 Ma) of the northwestern Mojave Desert, southern California, including the first known saber and confirmed upper cheek dentition of the species. Consistent with the delayed canine eruption observed in other Barbourofelis species, the newly discovered permanent cheek teeth are associated with deciduous upper canines. The upper and lower third premolars of B. whitfordi are larger in size relative to the carnassials, and less reduced in cusp morphology than other Barbourofelis species. In this regard, p3 morphology and size in B. whitfordi resemble that of the Eurasian Sansanosmilus more so than its congeneric species. The known stratigraphic range of B. whitfordi within the Dove Spring Formation spans a two-million-year period from 10.5 to 8.4 Ma. Based on a distal humerus described in this study, the record of Barbourofelis in the Dove Spring Formation now extends to the Cl1-Cl2 boundary at 12 Ma. A comparison of known Barbourofelis in the United States revealed that the B. morrisiB. loveorumB. fricki sequence might represent a single anagenetic lineage, whereas B. whitfordi represents a side lineage contemporaneous with B. morrisi during much of the Clarendonian NALMA.
4523831| The osteoglossomorph genus Phareodus was first named by Leidy in 1873 although the type species of the genus is based on material reported earlier by Cope (Osteoglossum encaustum Cope, 1871). In North America, five species have at one time or another been included in this genus, and the type and figured materials of those nominal species are all from the early to middle Eocene deposits of the Laney and Fossil Butte members of the Green River Formation, southwestern Wyoming, USA. A detailed examination of the Phareodus collection in FMNH, UALVP, and AMNH, including more than 50 well-preserved new specimens, confirms that Phareodus encaustus and P. testis are the only two valid North American Phareodus species. These two species show little difference in their caudal skeleton, but can be distinguished from each other by seven cranial skeletal features: (1) anterior portion of frontal much broader in Phareodus encaustus than in P. testis, (2) parietal longer in Phareodus encaustus than in P. testis, (3) horizontal arm of preopercle shorter in Phareodus encaustus than in P. testis, (4) posterior infraorbitals longer than deep in Phareodus encaustus but deeper than long in P. testis, (5) lower and upper jaws longer in Phareodus encaustus than in P. testis, (6) mouth corner more posteriorly located in Phareodus encaustus than in P. testis, and (7) hyomandibula with a more expanded triangular anterior wing in Phareodus encaustus than in P. testis. A phylogenetic analysis suggests that the Australian species Phareodus queenslandicus is most closely related to Phareodus encaustus, and that the European species Phareodus (=Brychaetus) muelleri could be sister to Phareodus encaustus and Phar queenslandicus. 
20627047|Three extraordinarily well-preserved skeletons and skeleton parts of an Early Miocene sunfish are described. These unique fossils allow a precise osteological description of one of the largest if not the largest sunfish (320 cm) known so far and represent one of the largest teleost fossils of the Cenozoic Era. This new sunfish genus is the sister-taxon of the extant Mola+Masturus clade and, together with these two genera, forms the sister-clade of Ranzania. The radiation of modern-type sunfishes therefore already had occurred during Oligocene times. The finding from the earliest Miocene narrows the gap between the oldest known Eocene primitive sunfish and the Middle and Upper Miocene records, which are all referable to extant genera. Austromola is introduced as a new genus of the family Molidae; Austromola angerhoferi is described as a new species.
20627130|Relatively few studies of cranial endocasts document intraspecific variation. Here, discrete morphological and morphometric variation from a sample of more than 150 natural cranial endocasts from a single Eocene locality, Reeves Bonebed (hereafter 'RBB') from West Texas are documented. The first description of a digital endocast of an oreodont, Bathygenys reevesi, is given to provide comparative data for other oreodont endocasts. The RBB endocasts were originally assigned to B. reevesi, but virtually none has diagnostic craniodental material still attached, and isolated endocasts of other cetartiodactyl species are known from this locality. Consequently, an attempt was made to identify apomorphies on the RBB sample to diagnose specimens to the lowest possible taxonomic level. The RBB endocasts were diagnosed as oreodonts based on the presence of large, rounded casts of the tuberculum olfactorium, but no specimen can be diagnosed to a particular species. The range for most linear measurements for the RBB sample overlapped with measures from multiple species of oreodonts from RBB. A coefficient of variation analysis of linear measurements suggests that the RBB sample represents more than one species. Therefore, endocasts from RBB that lack associated craniodental material cannot be definitively assigned to a species, and the original assumption that all are B. reevesi is not supported. This illustrates the necessity of applying apomorphy-based identifications for isolated specimens, including endocasts. In addition, this study reveals some gaps in data from cetartiodactyl brains, which need to be filled for future studies on brain evolution in this clade.
4523326|Tenontosaurus tilletti is a moderate-sized ornithopod dinosaur from the Lower Cretaceous (Aptian-Albian) Cloverly Formation in Montana and Wyoming. Tenontosaurus remains are abundant. The vertebral count is 12-16-5-60+, the extremely long tail comprising approximately two-thirds the length of the animal. Ossified epaxial tendons are arranged in bundles to each side of the neural spines of the dorsal, sacral, and caudal vertebrae. Ossified hypaxial tendons run longitudinally across the caudal centra and chevrons. The forelimb is relatively long, the humerus is dominated by a strong deltopectoral crest, and the manus is short and broad with a phalangeal formula of 2-3-3-1?-1?. The tibia and femur are subequal in length and moderately robust. The pes has a phalangeal formula of 2-3-4-5-0 with a vestigial metatarsal V. Tenontosaurus is the primitive sister taxon to the iguanodonthadrosaur clade within the Ornithopoda.
4523800| A fossil mammal locality on the eastern bank of the Shinzhaly River, eastern Kazakhstan, is a bone bed in the Kolpak Formation that has produced three taxa of ceratomorph perissodactyls, the hyracodontid Forstercooperia minuta Lucas, Schoch, and Manning, the deperetellid Teleolophus beliajevae Biryukov (which we consider to be a junior subjective synonym of T. medius Matthew and Granger and the lophialetid Eoletes gracilis Biryukov. Eoletes is dentally indistinguishable from Lophialetes, but cranial features, especially the shallow nasal incision (only to above the upper canine) and large supraorbital bar of Eoletes, allow the two genera to be distinguished. Simplaletes Qi is a junior subjective synonym of Schlosseria Matthew and Granger, and we reassign Simplaletes xianensis Zhang and Qi, from the middle Eocene? of Shaanxi, China to Eoletes as E. xianensis. A re-evaluation of some character states used in a previous cladistic analysis suggests that Eoletes, Lophialetes, and Schlosseria form an unresolved trichtomy, so we recommend abandonment of the term Eoletidae Schoch. Because Eoletes and Lophialetes are impossible to distinguish solely on the basis of teeth, Eoletes may be represented by some Mongolian and Chinese dentitions referred customarily to Lophialetes but that lack associated diagnostic cranial material. This possibility, and the presence of F. minuta and T. medius at Shinzhaly, support the middle Eocene (Irdinmanhan) age of the Kolpak Formation bone bed.         (UTM 5084232N, 467096E,  44)    .       Ceratomorpha:   Forstercooperia minuta Lucas, Schoch  Manning, 1981;   Teleolopus beliajevi , 1974 (      T. medius Matthew  Granger, 1925);    Eoletes gracilis , 1974. Eoletes       Lophialetes,   ,     (   )       Eoletes     . Simplaletes Qi, 1980     Schlosseria Matthew and Granger, 1926    Simplaletes xianensis Zhang and Qi, 1981   ? ,   Eoletes  E. xianensis (Zgang and Qi, 1981).    ,  Eoletes, Lophialetes  Schosseria  ,     =   Eoletidae Schoch, 1989.   Eoletes  Lophialetes     , Eoletes         ,     Lophialetes.      F. minuta  T. medius          (Irdinmanhan). 
41407654|Remains of the chimaeroid fish Ischyodus are described from the early Kimmeridgian (Late Jurassic) of northeastern Spain. This is the first fossil holocephalan record from the Iberian Peninsula. The material comprises a mandibular tooth plate, two incomplete and isolated symphyseal tritoral rods, and almost 20 frontal tenacular denticles. On the basis of size and morphological features, the material represents different ontogenetic stages. The mandibular tooth plate is the smallest of a chimaeroid that has been described up to date. It is identified as an embryonic tooth plate, in which the pleromic tissue of the tritoral pads still is covered completely with dentine. The fragmentary symphyseal tritoral rods, which are almost as large as the tooth plate, and the frontal tenacular spines come from adults. The mandibular tooth plate from Spain described in this study most probably represents an embryonic stage of Ischyodus egertoni. The differences in tritor number, arrangement, and morphology are related to the early ontogenetic stage of the specimen. We thus tentatively assign the tooth plate, tritoral rods, and tenacular denticles to this species. Ischyodus egertoni was a common species inhabiting the epicontinental seas covering wide areas of England and France during the Kimmeridgian. The Spanish record extends the known geographic distribution of European Late Jurassic chimaeroids southwards.
4523836|Fossils recovered from the late Aptian portion of the Budden Canyon Formation of northern California represent the oldest dinosaur remains known from the Pacific Slope of North America. Eight well-preserved elements, including most of the lower left limb and pes, belong to a small ornithopod dinosaur that is similar to the hypsilophodontids Parksosaurus and Hypsilophodon, although they may represent a new taxon. The late Aptian age, documented by ammonites found in association with the vertebrate remains, suggests that this specimen is probably 20-30 million years older than any dinosaur previously known from the western margin of North America.
20627163|The Eocene Green River Formation provides one of the richest records of fossil birds worldwide. As part of a reevaluation of this avifauna, we describe 12 new specimens of the stem roller Primobucco mcgrewi from the well-dated (51.66  0.09 Ma) Fossil Butte Member (FBM) of the Green River Formation of Wyoming. FBM specimens represent most of avian diversity in the Green River Formation and include the oldest well-constrained record of the roller lineage (Coracii). These fossils provide new anatomical data, including the first observations on the palate, and broaden our understanding of the distribution, abundance, and taphonomy of P. mcgrewi. Using museum records and lithological comparisons, 14 of the 15 known P. mcgrewi specimens can now be assigned to specific quarries within Fossil Lake. The species is now known from five distinct localities representing both nearshore and mid-lake environments and accounts for >10% of the 148 FBM avian specimens reviewed in this study. Pectoral elements are disproportionately represented in the FBM P. mcgrewi specimens, and more than half of the sample exhibits broken elements. These new fossils and other key specimens from the Eocene of North America and Europe clarify our understanding of the evolution of the clade Coracii. Extant parts of this lineage (i.e., Coraciidae and Brachypteraciidae) have specialized ecologies and restricted Old World distributions, whereas stem representatives appear more generalized and were a major component of some North American avifaunas.
4523329|Eight taxa of therian mammals are herein recorded from the Smoky Hollow Member of the Straight Cliffs Formation, southcentral Utah. The assemblage is of middle to late Turonian age (early Late Cretaceous), a time period for which mammals are poorly represented worldwide in the fossil record. Two symmetrodonts, family Spalacotheriidae, are described as new; one is referred to the genus Symmetrodontoides, otherwise known from the early Campanian, and the other is placed in a new genus. Primitive tribosphenic taxa include two archaic forms characterized by single rank molar shearing; one is referred to the Deltatheridiidae and the other, of uncertain affinities, is similar to Picopsis of the early Campanian. A new species is tentatively referred to Anchistodelphys. This genus is marsupial-like in having an anteroposteriorly expanded protocone and, especially, in features of the lower molars (lingually placed paraconid and hypoconulid, reduced height differential between trigonid and talonid, presence of labial postcingulid) but lacks specializations of the stylar shelf thought to characterize marsupials, suggesting that acquisition of stylar cusps C and D occurred later in the evolution of marsupials than did the above-mentioned characters. Three unidentified and unnamed marsupial taxa are also present in the fauna. Evidence of some marsupial diversification in North America by the Turonian, the presence on the continent of primitive marsupial and marsupial-like taxa (depending upon how the group is defined), and the hypothesized derivation of South American and Australian taxa from an Alphadon-like form, suggest that marsupial origination in North America, followed by dispersal to South America, may be the simplest explanation for the temporal and geographic distribution of the group.
42568660|A new species of cricetid rodent, Megacricetodon vandermeuleni, sp. nov., is described from the local zone Db, middle Aragonian, from the Calatayud-Montalbn Basin and the Loranca Basin (Spain). The large-sized Megacricetodon is characterized by the elongated anteroconid and anterolophulid on m1 and the robust and swollen cusps. Comparisons with other species of similar size and morphology are discussed. We consider M. bezianensis a valid species, based on the morphological differences with M. gersii. We propose a closely related group of Megacricetodon species that includes M. aff. collongensis, M. bavaricus, M. aff. bavaricus, M. bezianensis, M. lappi, M. aunayi, and M. vandermeuleni, nov. sp. The new species is of importance for Spanish biostratigraphy and the proposed Megacricetodon group is very useful for European faunal correlations and timing of migration events.
30126333|Triplomystus applegatei, sp. nov., is described as a new clupeomorph fish belonging to the order Ellimmichthyiformes, based on a single specimen collected from the Early Cretaceous (Albian) limestones of El Espinal quarry, near Ocozocuautla de Espinosa, Chiapas, southeastern Mexico. T. applegatei is differentiated from the other two species of the genus on the basis of body proportions and meristic data, as well as a peculiar development of a complex shape and articulation between the last scutes in the posterodorsal series. This species extends the geographical and geological domain of this genus from the Cenomanian Eastern Tethys Sea to Albian western Tethys Sea.
4524457|A large-bodied (skull length 775 mm) elasmothere rhinoceros was discovered in the early late Miocene (equivalent to the European Vallesian) Liushu Formation of the Linxia Basin in northwestern China. Iranotherium morgani, represented by two skulls and a mandible, is the only known rhinoceros with a rugosity on each zygomatic arch of the male individual. Such a unique cranial feature is otherwise unknown among rhinoceroses. Numerous cranial and dental characteristics indicate that Iranotherium morgani is a member of Elasmotheriini, an enigmatic clade of Rhinocerotinae. The large, robust areas on the zygomas of the male Iranotherium, for larger masseteric and temporalis musculature, suggest that these rhinoceroses were sexually dimorphic, probably similar to their artiodactyl counterparts in an open grassland fauna.
41515279|A new elasmosaurid plesiosaur, Albertonectes vanderveldei, gen. et sp. nov., is described on the basis of an almost complete postcranial skeleton from the upper Campanian, Bearpaw Formation in Alberta, Canada. The new taxon is distinguished by a unique set of characters76 cervicals, lateral longitudinal ridge on posterior-most cervicals, relatively wide clavicular arch, tapered ventral projection at the median symphysis of coracoids, pointed anterolateral projection of pubis, fused posterior-most caudal vertebrae, and a relatively slender humerus. Ninety-seven chert gastroliths were also recovered with the specimen, and their mean diameters range from <1 to 13.5 cm. Shape analysis indicates that most of the gastroliths were ingested in the vicinity of a beach environment. Evidence that the carcass was scavenged by sharks includes a toothmarked coracoid, two shed Squalicorax sp. teeth, and small, localized disruptions to the skeleton. Preliminary phylogenetic analysis confirms the inclusion of Albertonectes in a clade comprised of 'middle' to Late Cretaceous, long-necked elasmosaurid plesiosaurs. The number of cervical vertebrae associated with different elasmosaur genera does not show any correlation with phylogeny. Both neck and total body length of Albertonectes are the longest among known elasmosaurs, and highlight the morphological extremes attained by this group of plesiosaurs.
4524017|The tooth enamel of living and fossil Canidae has been studied to test the hypothesis that a special type of Hunter-Schreger bands (HSB), termed zigzag HSB, is associated with bone consumption. It is shown that in the enamel of Canidae, as in other Carnivora, three types of HSB occur: (1) undulating, (2) acute-angled, and (3) zigzag HSB. Mapping the occurrence of these different types on to the proposed phylogeny of the Canidae indicates that zigzag HSB were derived from undulating bands. Undulating HSB, which have a three-dimensional simple structure, are associated with an insectivorous to carnivorous diet, whereas zigzag HSB occur in taxa that consume bone. Complex three-dimensional zigzag HSB increase the resistance of enamel to formation and propagation of cracks under greater loading of the teeth during bone crushing.
4523988|More than 300 specimens of Paramblypterus duvernoyi from four lakes of the Lower Permian of Germany are examined to determine intra-specific variation of this species and to revise the diagnosis of the genus Paramblypterus. For the first time, a three-dimensional model of the skull and the snout of Paramblypterus is reconstructed. A partial tooth bearing premaxilla, which forms the anterior most part of the gape, is described; in contrast, the absence of a premaxilla had until now been considered a synapomorphy of the genus Paramblypterus. Information obtained from the study of P. duvernoyi has required a new revision of Paramblypterus gelberti. A comparison between the two species indicates a very similar morphology and they may belong to a single species. The study of their intraspecific variation has shown only minor differences, which may be explained by heterochrony. Both Paramblypterus duvernoyi and Paramblypterus gelberti are highly variable concerning the number and arrangement of certain bones of the skull. Preliminary comparisons with several Paramblypterus species from France and the Czech Republic suggest that some species previously considered distinct may in fact belong to a single species. Furthermore, the results of this study call for a revision of Amblypterus latus, the type species of the genus Amblypterus, which appears to be very similar to Paramblypterus.
4522937|All known nasal horns of the Pleistocene Palearctic woolly rhinoceros, Coelodonta antiquitatis (Blumb.), are laterally flattened and transversely banded. A nasal horn discovered in the Museum of Paleontology, University of Helsinki, Finland, is described and figured. The old literature on woolly rhino horns is reviewed and the relevant plates from Brandt (1849) are reproduced. The differences between nasal and frontal horns are discussed and the shape of the nasal horn is interpreted as primary. The old contention that the woolly rhino used its nasal horn to shovel snow is supported, and the dynamics and significance of this behaviour are discussed. The transverse bands are interpreted as annuli and suggest a stronger sexual dimorphism in horn size in Coelodonta antiquitatis than in living rhinos. Such dimorphism in a probably migratory rhinoceros of a strongly seasonal environment would be in accordance with the general relationships proposed by Geist (1974) and Jarman (1974).
4524600|A partial association of fourteen teeth from a small lamniform shark with uncertain affinities is described. The material comes from the middle? Albian of Peru and represents a new genus and species, Priscusurus adruptodontus. The new taxon is characterized by a tearing-type dentition with comparably small teeth that lack any ornamentation and lateral cusplets. Other diagnostic features include distally inclined cusps in all tooth positions, an asymmetric root, and the lack of a lingual nutritive groove. The most remarkable feature is the very distinctly shaped lingual tooth neck, which differentiates teeth of the new taxon from all known lamniforms. The total body length, which was estimated from the crown height of the tallest preserved anterior tooth and a regression equation for the dentition of the modern sand tiger shark, Carcharias taurus, is only 69 cm. The very rare finds of this taxon and the restricted occurrence may indicate that Priscusurus was probably an endemic element of the shelf areas of western South America.
20061981|A new triconodont molariform tooth of Indozostrodon simpsoni, gen. et sp. nov., from the Early Jurassic Kota Formation is described and compared with other triconodont mammals. This nontherian triconodont mammal shows distinct dental morphological attributes which place it in the family Megazostrodontidae. The association of both nontherian and a number of therian mammals reported earlier from the Kota Formation undoubtedly points to a rapid diversification of the early mammals in the Early Jurassic. Remarkable similarity of this new taxon with other triconodont mammals points to a Pangaean distribution of these early mammals and supports the thesis that the continents were confluent at least up to the Early Jurassic and intercontinental migration was taking place.
4524748|A new basal neoceratopsian genus and species, Prenoceratops pieganensis, is described from the Two Medicine Formation of Montana. This material represents the only bone-bed deposition of a basal neoceratopsian currently known, and in addition is almost entirely disarticulated allowing for a more thorough understanding of basal neoceratopsian cranial morphology. The new taxon is characterized by a lower, more sloping head than in Leptoceratops, with a nasal that is pinched caudally, a wide, triangular jugal, extremely gracile surangular, and reduced articular among other autapomorphies. A preliminary cladistic analysis unites Prenoceratops firmly with the other North American basal neoceratopsians (and one Asian taxon) in the clade Leptoceratopsidae.
20491000|New specimens of Lithoptila abdounensis (Prophaethontidae) including long bones and fragments of mandibulae are described from the Upper Paleocene and Lower Eocene of the Ouled Abdoun Basin, Morocco. Elongated and slender wing bones suggest that this bird was an offshore or pelagic feeder capable of efficient flight. Lithoptila approximates Prophaethon in size but differs from the latter taxon in various features of the mandibula, coracoideum and femur. The anatomy and size of Lithoptila closely match those of Zhylgaia aestiflua, a putative shorebird (Charadriiformes) from the Upper Paleocene of Kazakhstan, known from two partial humeri. Consequently, we assign Zhylgaia aestiflua to the Prophaethontidae. The three species of Prophaethontidae inhabited tropical seas and most likely had comparable ecological niches.
4523319|Alligatorium depereti, a species of the family Atoposauridae from the Upper Berriasian-Lower Valanginian (Early Cretaceous) of Spain, has neither been revised nor redescribed since the first decade of this century. In the present paper we propose that Alligatorium depereti be transferred to a new genus, Montsecosuchus, on the basis of a detailed description following recent preparation of the holotype specimen. The main autapomorphic features of Montsecosuchus are: cranial length less than one-half that of the presacral region, domed occiput (=dolichocephalous), parieto-squamosal suture ungrooved, and retroarticular process caudally projected and dorsally recurved. Montsecosuchus has three sacral vertebrae, a trait perhaps shared with Alligatorellus. The iliac blade exhibits a rounded anterior border. This feature could be an autapomorphy of Montsecosuchus or, on the basis of the available data concerning the closest sister groups of Atoposauridae, a probable convergence. Finally, the forelimb of Montsecosuchus differs from that of other Atoposauridae in having a relatively short zeugopod (the radius especially), another probable autapomorphic trait.
4523966|New lepidosaurian material is reported from the Lower Cretaceous (middle to upper Valanginian) Kirkwood Formation, South Africa. The material includes fragmentary jaws of a new sphenodontian and a well-preserved squamate braincase. The braincase is attributable to Squamata based on its possession of a complete abducens canal, a vidian canal that is fully enclosed posterodorsally, a divided metotic fissure, laterally directed basisphenoid processes, and distally expanded paroccipital processes. The prominent anterodorsally directed alar process is a similarity shared with Scleroglossa and some Iguanidae, and the presence of an open fenestra "rotunda" excludes the specimen from the Chameleontidae. The long posterior process of the dentary behind the coronoid process and enlargement of the palatine toothrow support reference of the jaws to the Rhynchocephalia. The open Meckelian groove, the addition of teeth at the back of the jaw, and the possession of at least some degree of acrodonty confirm their sphenodontian affinities. These specimens help to fill a large gap in the fossil record of lepidosaurs from Gondwana and document that squamates and sphenodontians were not confined to northern Gondwana during the Early Cretaceous.
4523136|In this paper, I assess the correspondence between locomotor function (climbing, digging, and running) and skeletal morphology in living carnivores. Published behavioral observations are used to assign fifty-three extant carnivore species to four broad locomotor categories: arboreal, scansorial, terrestrial, and semi-fossorial. Body weight and measurements of claw shape, relative size of fore and hind claws, olecranon size and orientation, astragalar shape, and manus and hindlimb proportions are presented for each species. The correspondence between locomotor type and morphologic indices is examined with bivariate and multivariate (discriminant function) analyses. Results demonstrate that osteological indices are good predictors of locomotor behavior among extant carnivores. Arboreal and scansorial carnivores exhibit relatively more curved claws, longer proximal phalanges, and shorter metatarsals than do terrestrial taxa; semi-fossorial carnivores differ from other locomotor types in having relatively long olecranon processes, and longer fore claws than hind claws. Bivariate plots suggest that some characters, such as astragalar shape, reflect ancestry more than function. Applicability of the indices to other species is shown with a sample of eight non-carnivores and six Oligocene predators, including three sabertooth cats, a bear-dog, and two creodonts.
4523839|Three notohippids from the Salla Beds of Bolivia (Deseadan, late Oligocene) are described: Pascualihippus boliviensis, gen. et sp. nov., Eurygenium pacegnum, sp. nov., and Rhync sp., cf. R. brasiliensis. P. boliviensis has a transverse premaxillary dental arcade similar to that of toxodontids, suggesting a close relationship to the origins of Toxodontidae. E. pacegnum is represented by a virtually complete articulated skeleton, having a tetradactyl manus and proximal third trochanter, whereas Rhynchippus equinus and early toxodontids share the derived conditions of tridactyl manus and more distally placed third trochanter. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that toxodontids are nested within the paraphyletic Notohippidae. A recent, more inclusive concept of notohippids may also include Leontiniidae. The relative height of tooth crowns and relative width of muzzles were used to infer the feeding ecologies of Salla notohippids. Based on its broad muzzle, Pascualihippus is hypothesized as being principally a grazer, whereas the narrow muzzle of E. pacegnum and R. sp., cf. R. brasiliensis could have enabled them to select specific nutrient-rich food items, such as budding leaves. These latter two species are inferred to have been mixed feeders because their hypsodont dentition would have also permitted them to tolerate abrasives in food items, such as grasses.
4523996| The postcranial skeleton of early and middle Eocene leptictids is described based on several specimens from Wyoming and Colorado. Leptictids had a strongly keeled manubrium sterni, relatively short, generalized forelimbs (intermembral index60), a moderately robust humerus, stout metacarpals, and ungual phalanges resembling those of fossorial mammals. The femur is slender, with a narrow, elevated patellar trochlea and a posteriorly-directed lesser trochanter. The slightly longer tibia is firmly synostosed with the fibula just distal to midshaft. The fused tibiofibula forms a stable ankle joint with the deep astragalar trochlea. The astragalar neck and the metatarsals are moderately elongate, and there is a pronounced peroneal process on Mt I, probably related to pedal eversion. These traits indicate that leptictids were terrestrial mammals that progressed by quadrupedal walking, running, and hopping (possibly bipedally at high speed), and that burrowed using their forelimbs. Cladistic analysis of postcranial traits groups leptictids with lagomorphs, zalambdalestids, and macroscelidids. Postcranial characters do not support a sister-group relationship between Leptictidae and Lipotyphla. 
20490987|A new birkeniid anaspid, Cowielepis ritchiei gen. et sp. nov., from the mid Silurian Cowie Harbour fish bed in Scotland is described on the basis of three specimens. Although sharing characters with various well-known anaspids, it possesses a unique combination of features that justifies the establishment of a new genus. Cowielepis is characterized by a single row of dorsolateral scales and a distinctive skull roof pattern with a large pineal plate and elongated posterior plates. The presence of paired ventrolateral fins in C. ritchiei supports previous suggestions that all anaspids possess such fins, but leaves open the question of homology with the gnathostome pectoral fin.
4524196|A sub-adult Allosaurus fragilis (MOR 693) was discovered in 1991 in the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation of Big Horn County, Wyoming. Examination of the specimen reveals pathological conditions on five dorsal ribs, gastralia, cervical vertebra, three dorsal vertebrae, caudal vertebra, chevron, scapula, manus phalanx, ilium, two metatarsals, and two pes phalanges. Detailed description of these bones includes classification according to probable cause (i.e., traumatic; infectious; traumatic- infectious; developmental; idiopathic). In addition to the paleopathological analysis of MOR 693, descriptions and interpretations are given from a study in progress of pathological abnormalities in the Cleveland-Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry collection. This study provides a model for future paleopathological analyses, emphasizing that description of the location, extent, and texture of an abnormality is crucial, since interpretations are subject to change. This analysis discusses physiological implications of the abnormalities in MOR 693 and suggests probable behaviors and environmental influences resulting in injury and infection. Lifestyle and behaviors that likely predisposed allosaurs to injury and infection include pursuit of prey, intra-specific competition for mates, and intra- and inter-specific rivalry for carcasses and territory. Ultimately, paleopathological analysis of a large sample of dinosaur bones may reveal that certain abnormalities characterize taxa, and are diagnostic of specific behaviors, environmental influences, and physiology.
4522833|Nearly 4000 hybodontoid teeth assignable to the typically Mesozoic genera Acrodus and Polyacro were recovered by bulk-sampling techniques from the Early Permian Wichita-Albany Group in north-central Texas. They belong to 37 local faunas. Generic assignments are based mainly on crown histology, following the methods of earlier workers. This approach must suffice until the suborder can be revised using a new methodology, yet to be devised. The roots of all the teeth bear specialized foramina on the labial side, parallel to the root-crown contact. The teeth questionably assigned to Acrodus have roots morphologically different from those of Mesozoic species. Hybodus is absent. Tooth morphotypes are assigned to six new species: ?A. olsoni (large teeth with symmetrical crowns; dentition moderately heterodont), ?A. sweetlacruzensis (arcuate root-crown contact; roots with deep, closed sulcus; dentition tion homodont), P. zideki (teeth small; crowns uncrenulated, possess longitudinal and transverse occlusal crests, and prominent labial and lingual processes; dentition moderately heterodont), P. lapalomensis (crowns asymmetrical; roots with open sulcus which has straight margins; dentition homodont), P. ritchiei (crowns longitudinally asymmetrical, with a double longitudinal occlusal crest; roots flexed and lingually extended; dentition considerably heterodont), and P. wichitaensis (crowns with posteriorly directed, asymmetrical principal cusp and posterior accessory cusps; histology variable; roots extended lingually; dentition strongly heterodont). All these species, except possibly P. lapalomensis and P. ritchiei, also occur in the Late Pennsylvanian of Nebraska. Hybodontoid cephalic spines and dorsal fin spines accompany the teeth, but cannot be safely assigned to any of the taxa.
4523015|The horse Parahippus leonensis is the most numerous large mammal known from the important early Miocene Thomas Farm fossil locality. A large sample of mandibles (n = 89) of P. leonensis was analyzed. Despite having a variable dental morphology, morphometric studies indicate that only one species is represented. Sexual dimorphism in body size is suggested by bimodality of several measured characters, although there is some overlap between the sexes. The sample of P. leonensis seems to be attritional, although the youngest wear-class (estimated age at death 0-2 weeks) is underrepresented, probably due to taphonomic factors. The population does not exhibit discrete dental wear-classes, indicating a lack of breeding synchrony in the population, or that mortality was not seasonal. Individuals of P. leonensis are estimated to have lived an average of three to four years, with a maximum potential lifespan of about nine years. The rate of cheektooth wear in P. leonensis indicates that it had not shifted its diet completely to grasses, as did later equids.
4524327|Kulbeckia, a placental mammal from the late Turonian-Coniacian (Late Cretaceous) of Uzbekistan, was originally placed in the monotypic Kulbeckiidae. Important new material indicates that Kulbeckia is the basal most member of "Zalambdalestidae", which also includes Zalambdalestes, Barunlestes, and the poorly known Alymlestes, all from the Late Cretaceous of Asia. Kulbeckia shares with other zalambdalestids: a narrow, somewhat elongated snout; procumbent, enlarged, and open-rooted medial lower incisor with enamel restricted to the more ventrolabial surface; and anteroposteriorly compressed and centrally pinched molar trigonids. Commensurate with its 10-million- year earlier age relative to other zalambdalestids, it is notable in its smaller size, probable retention of four lower incisors, bifurcated or two-rooted lower canine, relatively smaller or absent diastemata between anterior teeth, more lingually placed cristid obliqua, less reduced M3 and m3, and more dorsal and posterior placement of the angular process in adults. Kulbeckia kansaica (Tadjikistan) and Kulbeckia rara (Uzbekistan) are regarded as synonyms of Kulbeckia kulbecke, the only recognized species of Kulbeckia.
4523924|Three of the six earliest ichthyosaurs, namely, Chaohusaurus geishanensis, Chensaurus chaoxianensis, and Chensaurus faciles, occur in the Lower Triassic (Spathian) of the Chaohu area, Anhui Province, China. A reexamination of the three holotypes and two referred specimens indicates that the three species share derived features; however, the characters originally used to distinguish among the three are either growth-related or absent. Measurements of the specimens suggest that they represent a growth series of a single species, Chaohusaurus geishanensis Young and Dong 1972. The forefin of this species shows a strongly positive allometry, leading to the unusually large forefin in the largest specimen (the holotype). The use of the standard allometric equation may be problematic when two structures compared start their developments asynchronically. However, the alternative equation of Schmalhausen is also problematic, and therefore more scrutiny is required. The lunate fin elements, which commonly occur in the first and fifth digits of Early Triassic ichthyosaurs, first become ossified as biconcave elements, as in other metacarpals and phalanges.
40666205|The genus Hoplophorus is one of the most distinctive glyptodonts from the Quaternary deposits of the intertropical area of Brazil. In this paper, we redescribe cranial and postcranial elements and describe some new tarsal elements belonging to the species Hoplophorus euphractus from caves from Minas Gerais state, southern Brazil, in order to provide a better diagnosis for the genus. The material examined shows several striking, distinctive characters relative to Neosclerocalyptus, besides those previously reported, reinforcing the validity of Hoplophorus. On the other hand, we find that the postcrania o Hoplophorus presents striking, unreported resemblances with Panochthus (e.g., more lateromedially elongated cuboid facet of navicular and caudal tube with large lateral figures separated from the terminal ones by a wide space). In order to infer the relationships of Hoplophorus and to reevaluate the monophyly of the tribe Hoplophorini and the subfamily Hoplophorinae (in which Hoplophorus was previously allocated), we carried out a cladistic analysis of 18 taxa, including 13 glyptodont genera and five cingulate outgroups, scored for 151 cranial, dental, and postcranial characters. The most parsimonious tree shows that Hoplophorinae and Hoplophorini are both paraphyletic and has Hoplophorus as the sister group to Panochthus based mostly on synapomorphies of the caudal tube. We propose: (1) restricting the definition of the tribe Hoplophorini to the lineage represented by Hoplophorus, making it the sister group to Panochthini within Panochthinae (=Hoplophorus + Panochthus); and (2) a new subfamily, Neosclerocalyptinae, represented by Neosclerocalyptus, the sister group to Panochthinae.
4524697|Gastralia are dermal ossifications situated in the ventral abdominal wall. Gastralia may be plesiomorphic for tetrapods, but are only retained in extant Crocodylia and Sphenodon, and possibly as part of the chelonian plastron. In contrast to previously published reports, a similar structural configuration of the gastralia is shared throughout prosauropods and (non-ornithurine) theropods. Within the Prosauropoda and Theropoda, the gastralial system consists of approximately 8 to 21 metameric rows. Each row consists of four bones: two lateral and two medial rods. Gastralia of the cranialmost or caudalmost rows may coalesce, forming a median chevron-shaped gastralium. The lateral gastralia articulate in parallel with the medial gastralia in an elongated groove. The medial gastralia imbricate with contralateral gastralia along the ventral midline, creating a series of cranially directed chevrons. Thus all the gastralia are connected to one another, and operate as a single functional unit. The bones recently identified as sauropod gastralia show no morphological similarities with the gastralia of prosauropods and theropods and are probably sternal elements. No gastralia have been recovered in the Ornithischia. In contrast to the reduction of the gastralia in other amniote groups, theropod gastralia show elaborate modification. The anatomy of the gastralial system indicates a more active function than abdominal support or protection. The gastralia may have affected the shape and volume of the trunk in theropods, and may have functioned as an accessory component of the aspiration pump, increasing tidal volume. Moreover, if the caudal region of the lungs in some theropods had differentiated to form abdominal air-sacs, the gastralia might have ventilated them. Gastralial aspiration may have been linked to the generation of small pressure differences between potential cranial and caudal lung diverticula, which may have been important for the evolution of the unidirectional airflow lung of birds.
4524124|Acid preparation, at the Natural History Museum, London, of a turtle skull and jaw presented to the Museum of Geology, Sandown, Isle of Wight, England, by R. W. Harris in 1931, has revealed extremely derived palatal morphology previously undescribed in turtles. The specimen is described as a new genus and species, Sandownia harrisi, and is superficially similar to certain soft-shelled turtles (family Trionychidae) although the extensive secondary palate and extensive skull roof are previously unknown for this family. Other features of the skull suggest that it is not a trionychid but can be assigned to the Trionychoidea and that its closest affinities are with the members of the Trionychia (Carettochelyidae and Trionychidae). This specimen is one of the oldest known cryptodiran turtles that nests within the living families (the Polycryptodira). It suggests that the deep divergences among the living families of the Cryptodira occurred more than 110 million years ago.
20627048|A fossil ceratioid anglerfish of the extremely rare genus Acentrophryne is described from a single specimen collected from the Miocene (upper Mohnian) diatomaceous metric and meristic features suggest a close similarity with the extant Acentrophryne longidens from which it apparently differs in having a longer illicium. The fossil provides the first osteological information about this genus of the family Linophrynidae. The analysis of the present and past distribution of the very rare material assigned to Acentrophryne has revealed that it is restricted to the tropical and subtropical sectors of the Eastern Pacific. Moreover, living and fossil representatives of this genus appear to be exclusive of the oxygen-depleted deep waters associated with the upwelling phenomena in the Eastern Pacific.
4524426|Choristoderan material from a microvertebrate horizon in the Czech Republic extends the history of the group into the early-middle Miocene. On cranial and vertebral morphology, the new Czech material most closely resembles Lazarussuchus inexpectatus from the Upper Oligocene of France. The morphological similarity supports attribution of the Czech material to the genus Lazarussuchus, but the combination of a smaller and more rounded upper temporal fenestra and the absence of accessory articular facets on the vertebrae distinguish the Czech form from the type species. The articulated skull of L. inexpectatus, re-examined for this study, and the disarticulated material of L. dvoraki sp. nov. complement each other, and permit a better understanding of skull morphology in this enigmatic genus. They demonstrate clearly that the lower temporal fenestra in Lazarussuchus was secondarily closed by apposition of the squamosal, jugal, quadratojugal, and postorbitofrontal.
40864381|A complete dentition of Edaphodon hesperis, sp. nov., is described from the Upper Cretaceous (lower Campanian) Haslam Formation of Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. It is one of the complete specimens for Edaphodon, most species of which are known only from incomplete toothplates. This is the first Cretaceous Edaphodon from western North America, extending the geographical range of the genus from its original distribution in Australia, Europe, New Zealand, and eastern North America. The specimen also extends the stratigraphie range of the genus in North America to the lower Campanian. Edaphodon hesperis, sp. nov., is characterized by a deep symphyseal surface and a distally located posterior outer tritor with reduced size on the mandibular toothplate. The vomerine toothplate has six tritorial pads on the oral surface. A phylogenetic analysis based on discrete characters of the mandibular toothplate indicates that the new species is basal among the eight species of this genus for which a nearly complete mandibular toothplate is known. A linear discriminant analysis shows that the new species is morphologically distinct from four other Edaphodon species based on continuous characters on the mandibular toothplates.
25835857|The morphology of the labyrinth of zhelestids, a group of eutherian mammals from the Late Cretaceous, agrees with that of other extinct eutherians, including Kulbeckia kulbecke, Ukhaatherium gobiensis, and Zalambdalestes lechei. Features of the labyrinth of zhelestids a cochlea with one and a half turns and a secondary common crus, which are plesiomorphic for eutherians. Although isolated petrosals likely represent multiple species because several species of zhelestids are recognized based on dental characters, the degree of variation within the entire zhelestid petrosal sample is comparable to that observed within single extant species of therian mammals. Planarities of individual semicircular canals were the most variable measurements. Coiling of the cochlea and arc radii of the semicircular canals do not vary significantly in the specimens examined. The morphology of the bony labyrinth does not suggest any phylogenetic affinities of zhelestids, but the anatomy described will be useful for future studies of the evolution and physiology of the ear of mammals.
4523975|A partial skull of a new ankylosaurid dinosaur, Nodocephalosaurus kirtlandensis gen. et sp. nov., differs from known ankylosaurids in possessing a distinctive post-maxillary/lacrimal (osteoderm) ridge and a prominent quadratojugal protuberance that projects anteroventrally. Furthermore, it is distinguished by semi-inflated to bulbous, polygonal, cranial osteoderms that are bilaterally and symmetrically arranged on the frontonasal region of the skull, similar to the Asian ankylosaurids Saichania chulsanensis and Tarchia gigantea. Nodocephalosaurus kirtlandensis and these Asian genera are thus interpreted as composing a clade within the Ankylosauridae. Nodocephalosaurus kirtlandensis is from the Upper Cretaceous Kirtland Formation, De-na-zin Member, now considered to be late Campanian in age. Previously collected ankylosaurid material, from the Kirtland Formation, may pertain to this taxon rather than Euoplocephalus or Panoplosaurus, but this cannot be determined with certainty.
4524102|Seven local faunas (Little Muddy I-VII) of early to middle Eocene age are described from the Little Muddy Creek area in the southwestern Green River Basin. These assemblages were collected from approximately 400 m of interfingering alluvial and lacustrine deposits in the Wasatch, Green River and Bridger formations. This is the first time the Wasatchian-Bridgerian boundary has been delineated within the southwestern Green River Basin. A continuous stratigraphic section from the late Wasatchian (Wa7) through the late Bridgerian (Br3) is now known in the southern Green River Basin. The Lostcabinian (Wa7) in the southwestern Green River Basin is recognized by the occurrence of Lambdotherium and the presence of Meniscotherium and Notharctus nunienus. The temporal range of Anemorhysis wortmani is extended upward to include the Lostcabinian of the southwestern Green River Basin. The late Gardnerbuttean (Bridgerian Biostratigraphic Zone Brla) is recognized in the southwestern Green River Basin by the first appearances of Palaeosyops fontinalis and Hyrachyus. "Bridger A" (Bridgerian Biostratigraphic Zone Br1b) is recognized in the southwestern Green River Basin by the first appearances of Orohippus pumilus, Omomys carteri, Leptotomus parvus, and Washakius insignis. Other important records include the earliest occurrences of Tetrapassalus sp. and Parasauromalus. The presence of a new genus and species of crocodylian and a new genus and species of helaletid perissodactyl are documented.
4524702|Pyozia mesenensis, gen et sp. nov. is the second varanopid synapsid from the Middle Permian Krasnoschelsk Formation of Russia. Pyozia is a basal varanopid similar to Archaeovenator in having teeth that lack lateral compression or serration, lacking a caniniform tooth or region on the maxilla, and possessing four premaxillary teeth. Pyozia uniquely possesses a medial contact of the maxilla with the quadratojugal with no lateral exposure allowing the jugal to form part of the skull's ventral margin, and rounded interpterygoid vacuities just anterior to the basipterygoid articulations. Phylogenetic analysis places Pyozia as sister taxon to the terminal dichotomy of Mycterosaurinae and Varanodontinae. The newly described Upper Carboniferous Archaeovenator is again found to be the most basal varanopid. The Permian saw a large-scale changeover of the synapsid fauna, with derived, but ecologically similar, taxa, replacing more primitive "pelycosaurs." Leaf-shaped tooth-bearing caseids were replaced in the Middle and Late Permian by herbivorous pareiasaurs with similar dentition, and Edaphosaurus was replaced by therapsids capable of processing plant material. The large predators of Sphenacodontidae were similarly replaced by therapsid predators. The small to medium sized predator niche, however, was continuously occupied by varanopids. The discovery of the basal Pyozia suggests that varanopids maintained their diversity in the Middle Permian.
4524299|For the first time, a three-dimensionally preserved skull of the Lower Jurassic leptonectid ichthyosaur Leptonectes cf. tenuirostris is described. The specimen reveals a wealth of new data on the cranial anatomy of basal leptonectid neoichthyosaurs. The osteology of the skull roof differs fundamentally from other well-known post- Triassic ichthyosaurs and is highly autapomorphic. The structure of the sclerotic ring, which is well preserved in situ, is described and it appears plausible that L. cf. tenuirostris was capable of stereoscopic vision. Inadequate description makes comparison to other leptonectids difficult. It can be demonstrated, however, that L. cf. tenuirostris is most similar to L. tenuirostris among known leptonectids. It is fundamentally different from the Upper Liassic Eurhinosaurus longirostris in the osteology of the skull roof and the size and orientation of the major skull openings, making generic distinction of these two species a necessity. At the moment, no autapomorphies are known of the genus Leptonectes, which therefore must be considered as a metataxon that comprises basal leptonectids from the Lower to Middle Liassic.
4523039|New finds of brontotheres, raoellid artiodactyls and cetaceans are reported from the Middle Eocene Upper Subathu Group exposed in the Kalakot-Metka-Moghla inliers of Rajauri District, Jammu and Kashmir. The brontothere is closely allied to Eotitanops dayi from the Ganda Kas region of Pakistan and is much smaller than Pakotitanops. Raoellids are represented by four genera and five species including Metkatius kashmiriensis, gen. et sp. nov. and Kunmunella transversa, sp. nov. The Eocene artiodactyls of India do not resemble contemporary forms from contiguous regions and are probably endemic to the subcontinent. The systematics of previously described Indo-Pakistani genera have been revised and listed. Associated mammals include a jaw fragment of a protocetid whale, Ichthyolestes pinfoldi, which is also known from coeval beds in Pakistan.
4523109|A new diapsid reptile, Malerisaurus langstoni, n.sp., from the Late Triassic Dockum Formation of Texas, was a small, gracile, long-necked animal similar to modern bipedal lizards in size, proportions, and inferred activities. The skull is diapsid with an incomplete lower temporal arcade and a fixed quadrate. A similar configuration of the cheek region is known in many long-necked Permo-Triassic protorosaurs (= Prolacertiformes) that paralleled the squamates in the loss of lower temporal bar without any phyletic relationships to the latter group. The protorosaurs were very successful during the Permo-Triassic period, being recorded from all continents except South America. The number of neck vertebrae and its length are diagnostic characters for classifying the two families of protorosaurs. The family Protorosauridae (including Protorosaurus, Prolacerta, Kadimakara, Macrocnemus, Malerisaurus and the unnamed Yerrapalli form) has a moderately long neck, with 8 vertebrae. The family Tanystropheidae (including Tanystropheus and Tanytrachelos) has an extremely long neck with 12 vertebrae. The ankle structure is the most important derived feature that distinguishes protorosaurs, rhynchosaurs, and trilophosaurs from the traditional lepidosaurs, and unites them with archosaurs in a larger assemblage, the Archosauromorpha.
20061983|Archaeodesmana baetica, sp. nov. is a new water-mole (Desmaninae, Talpidae) from Purcal 4, a locality at the Miocene-Pliocene transition in southern Spain. It is characterized by a very large p2, larger than P2, and a p2/p3 ratio which is larger than in any known desmanine. Its I1 are bilobed. The premolars are very large in comparison with the molars, or, in other words, the mandibles and maxillae of this new species are greatly enlarged anteriorly. The new species is possibly close to the ancestry of Desmana.
4523693|Well preserved eggs and eggshell from the Middle Eocene lignite beds of the Geiseltal (Eastern Germany) can be assigned to crocodilians and birds on the basis of their histostructure. Because a specific assignment of the crocodilian eggshell is not yet possible, its parataxonomic similarity to Krokolithes wilsoni Hirsch 1985 has supported establishing the new parataxonomic family Krokolithidae, including the new species, Krokolithes helleri. The avian eggshell of the Geiseltal is subdivided into three types, representing both palaeognathous and neognathous birds. The one specimen with a palaeognathous morphotype, has been assigned to the new parataxonomic family Medioolithidae with the type genus and species Medioolithus geiseltalensis. The eggshell, although fragmented, is excellently preserved, displaying color lines and impressions of decayed organic fibers in both the crocodilian and bird eggshell. Fragmentation may be due to transport and modern day weathering.
40864367|The subfamily Mylodontinae, typified by Mylodon, is known from the Colloncuran (late Miocene of Patagonia, Argentina) to the late Pleistocene of South America and North America. Mylodontinae have been recorded during the Pleistocene of Argentina, including the genera Glossotherium, Paraglossotherium, Lestodon, and Mylodon, with Paraglossotherium and Mylodon not as well known as the other genera. In Argentina there have been traditionally four species of Mylodon, M. darwini, M. zeballozi, M. listai, and M. insigne, although the validity of some has been considered doubtful. A nearly complete skull with an associated mandible of Mylodon darwini from the late Pleistocene of Mesopotamia, Argentina, is described. The specimen represents the first record of the species in the Mesopotamian region. The morphometric analysis indicates that M. darwini had greater individual variability than previously thought. Although based on the results of the morphologic and morphometric analysis, the idea of sexual dimorphism for M. darwini is, for the time being, unwarranted. This new record also supports the idea that Mylodon had great ecological tolerance and was capable of inhabiting climates ranging from cold and arid to warm and humid, and even montane environments.
4524279|Giganotosaurus carolinii is one of the largest known theropod dinosaurs. Its remains include a well-preserved braincase that displays a suite of derived characters unique to the animal, and others that help establish its relationships amongst the Theropoda. These include the development of a broad frontoparietal skull table that forms a shelf overhanging the supratemporal fenestra, the reorientation of the metotic fissure and fenestra ovalis onto the occiput, the ventral extension of the supraoccipital on either side of the foramen magnum, a broad but low occipital condyle, and pneumatization of the basioccipital. Some characters suggest affinities with South American abelisaurids, but many support a sister grouping of Giganotosaurus and Carcharodontosaurus within a larger group that includes the Asian sinraptorids. The close affinities of Giganotosaurus with the northern African Carcharodontosaurus support the hypothesis of intercontinental connections until mid-Cretaceous times.
40666165|Tylosaurus pembinensis (Mosasauridae; Tylosaurini), from the middle Campanian Pembina Member of the Pierre Shale, exposed near Morden, Manitoba, Canada, is redescribed and removed from the genus Hainosaurus. In support of our reassignment, we highlight incorrect diagnostic features in the original description that were used as support for the assignment of the new species to Hainosaurus (e. g., small suprastapedial process of the quadrate and the presence of 54 vertebrae in the dorsal and pygal series [33 dorsals and 21 pygals]). In contrast, we note that the fully prepared quadrate possesses key Tylosaurus features such as a moderately large-sized suprastapedial process. We also report that of the original 54 'pre-chevron'-bearing vertebrae, that 26 are from a second, unrelated species of mosasaur. Of the 29 remaining vertebrae, it is difficult, due to poor preservation, to identify which of these elements are pygals. Although the exact pre-chevron count is unclear, the preserved remains clearly do not support a diagnosis of a high pygal count consistent with Hainosaurus. In recharacterizing Tylosaurus pembinensis, we discuss a number of problematic characters used to diagnose Hainosaurus, in the context of diagnosing Tylosaurus and not for the purpose of revising the European taxon Hainosaurus bernardi.
4523648|The aigialosaur Carsosaurus marchesetti is represented by a nearly complete skeleton from the Upper Cretaceous (Cenomanian-Turonian) of Slovenia. Dermal girdle elements include portions of the clavicles and a small interclavicle with a short anterior process. Endochondral girdle elements include a small scapula and large unfenestrated coracoid. A mineralized sternum is also present. The carpus is anguid-like and consists of ten ossified elements. Reduction of the procoelous nature of centrum articular surfaces is restricted to the caudal series. The type of C. marchesetti is the largest aigialosaur specimen known (> 1.5 m) and has proportionally larger propodials than any other aigialosaur. Phylogenetic reconstruction places Carsosaurus within a polytomous clade composed of all known aigialosaurs. Aigialosaurs are the sister-group to Mosasauridae, forming the Mosasauroidea, and are within Anguimorpha but distinct from Varanoidea. Supposed synapomorphies of varanids and mosasauroids are identified as either plesiomorphies of Anguimorpha, or as misidentified homologs. Results of a principal component analysis of limb measurements suggest that aigialosaurs occupy a position on a functional continuum reflective of terrestrial not aquatic animals. Morphometric criteria cannot validate the exclusion of Carsosaurus from the Aigialosauridae.
25835852|The South American record of early Late Triassic aetosaurs is composed of two species: Aetosauroides scagliai and "Aetosauroides subsulcatus." Previously undescribed materials belonging to "Aetosauroides subsulcatus" allow us to reassess its taxonomy, leading us to consider it a junior synonym of Aetosauroides scagliai. Based on the emended diagnosis of the species provided here, we recognize that specimens assignable to Aetosauroides scagliai are less common than thought previously and several of them are not diagnostic beyond indeterminate non-typothorasicine aetosaurins. Previous assignments of Aetosauroides as a junior synonym of Stagonolepis are not followed because the South American taxon is distinct due to the presence of a maxilla excluded from the external narial margin, tooth crowns with a straight distal margin and without a constriction between the root and crown, a gradually convex ventral margin of the dentary, oval fossae ventral to the neurocentral suture on the lateral sides of the centra, and a ratio between the length and the width between the distal-most tips of the postzygapophyses equal to or lower than 0.75. The evidence provided here bolsters the validity of Aetosauroides and extends the distribution of Aetosauroides scagliai into southern Brazil. Although Stagonolepis was employed as an index taxon for the Adamanian LVF, this genus is currently restricted to Europe and North America. Thus, no overlapping genera or species of aetosaur are shared between South America and other landmasses. Accordingly, the record of aetosaurs is not useful for providing biostratigraphical correlations between Late Triassic South American beds and those in other regions.
20061949|Continuous replacement of teeth throughout their lifetimes is a well known phenomenon in modern sharks. The mechanism involves the continuous generation of embryonic teeth internally on the inner surface of the jaws, and their subsequent displacement on a moving mat of connective tissue in "assembly-line" fashion. The fully-formed teeth erupt from the gum at the outer jaw margin, are functional for a short time, and are shed as the next tooth in the series takes its place. This study reports a specimen of a Devonian cladodont shark, Ctenacanthus, in which the dentition was not shed at the jaw margin, but instead migrated beneath the skin on the outside of the head. A survey of additional specimens demonstrates that tooth retention was present in cladoselachians as well, and may have been a feature of cladodont sharks in general. Tooth retention in the cladodonts (the top-level predacious sharks of their day) seems to have been a problem that had to be overcome before the development of the modern cutting and gouging mechanism. It is suggested that the reorganization of the blood supply to the teeth, coupled with a sharp jaw margin, may have provided the mechanism for tooth loss and the eventual development of rapid tooth replacement.
20491075|Prosauropods are basal sauropodomorphs that were the major terrestrial faunal components from the Norian until their extinction during the Toarcian. Their status as a natural group is debatable. In the present work I describe Adeopapposaurus mognai, a new sauropodomorph from the Can del Colorado Formation, in northwestern Argentina. Diagnostic autapomorphies and combination of characters of Adeopapposaurus include a series of large foramina in a sub-vertical row on the lateral surface of the premaxilla; strongly rugose depression bordered by a protuberance with a series of foramina in a sub-vertical row, on the lateral surface of the anterior end of the dentary; eleven anteroposteriorly elongated cervical vertebrae and thirteen dorsal vertebrae with neural arches taller than the respective centra. Phylogenetically Adeopapposaurus is resolved as the sister group to Massospondylus; differing from the latter based on differences in mandible and premaxilla and addition of one dorsal vertebra to the neck. The specimens described here reveal numerous herbivorous adaptations, including the presence of a highly vascularized bony plate in the premaxilla and dentary, which indicates that it had a horny beak.
40666199|Hadrosaurids form the most diverse and derived clade of ornithopod dinosaurs. Although well represented in Asia and North America, its presence in South America is known only from rare and fragmentary remains that are poorly documented and mostly unstudied. As a result, the impact of these animals on the phylogenetics and biogeography of hadrosaurids as a whole is poorly known. Here, we provide a revised and complete osteology of the type specimens and hypodigms for the only two taxa known from South America, Secernosaurus koerneri and Kritosaurus australis. Likewise, we infer the phylogenetic position and historical biogeography of South American hadrosaurids using a nearly complete taxonomic sampling of hadrosaurid species. Parsimony methods were used to infer phylogenetic relationships, whereas Fitch parsimony and Dispersal-Vicariance analyses were implemented to reconstruct ancestral areas. Kritosaurus australis is regarded as a junior synonym of Secernosaurus koerneri, based on a combination of iliac and pubic characters unique to these two taxa. Inclusion of S. koerneri within the genus Kritosaurus is not supported by the phylogenetic analysis. S. koerneri is inferred to be a member of the Kritosaurus-Gryposaurus clade within Saurolophinae, as the sister taxon to the Argentinean unnamed hadrosaurid from Salitral Moreno. Another unnamed hadrosaurid from Big Bend National Park, Texas, is positioned as the closest outgroup to the South American clade. The results of this biogeographical analysis supports the hypothesis that the Secernosaurus clade originated in South America during the late Campanian after a dispersal event (probably followed by vicariance) from southern North America before the end of that geologic stage.
4523881|Harris lines are osteological markers of recovery from an episode of growth arrest that have been utilized primarily to track fluctuations in the health of prehistoric human communities. The transverse lines are visible in radiographs of long bones and should be visible in well-preserved fossil material. Here, we test their utility for nonhominid fossils in an analysis of late Pleistocene mammals from the extensive collections of the Rancho La Brea tar seeps. The species examined include dire wolf (Canis dirus), coyote (C. latrans), sabertooth cat (Smilodon fatalis), bison (Bison antiquus), camel (Camelops hesternus), and horse (Equus laurentius). The tar pits range in age from about 33,000 years ago to near the time of last appearance of all these species but the coyote, about 11,000 years ago. The frequency of Harris lines in the bones of the fossil mammals ranged from less than one percent to nearly seven percent. These frequencies were compared with those found in samples of presumed healthy and possibly food-stressed populations of modern mammalian herbivores and carnivores. Harris line frequencies in the Pleistocene mammals did not differ significantly from those of the presumed healthy modern populations but were significantly lower than that of one of the possibly stressed populations, the highly endangered Florida panther (Puma concolor coryi). This suggests that the late Pleistocene species were not suffering from unusual levels of poor health, even as they approached the extinction horizon. This study of Harris line incidence in both modern and fossil mammal populations demonstrates their utility for future studies of paleofaunas.
4522967|A new sebecid from the early Eocene of Jujuy, with more generalized characteristics than Sebecus, is described. A tooth from the same formation (Lumbrera Formation, Salta Group) and age, in the province of Salta, is assigned to ?Sebecus sp. Another sebecosuchian comes from the late Eocene of Mendoza. A sebecid from the early Oligocene in Patagonia (Chubut) is the most recent record of sebecosuchians in Argentina. Certain local environments in the Tertiary of South America are inferred on the basis of presence of sebecosuchians and associated herpetofauna. Hypotheses of origin and geographical distribution of the Sebecosuchia s.l. (Langston, 1956; Sill, 1969; Steel, 1973; Buffetaut, 1980; Molnar, 1981) are analyzed. Finally, it is confirmed that ziphodonty arose several times during crocodilian history, and that in order to understand the origin and evolution of the Sebecosuchia it will be necessary to have more and better material.
42568549|The knowledge of northern South American Glyptodontidae (Mammalia, Xenarthra, Cingulata) is very scarce compared with that of southern South American taxa, which have been systematically studied since the 19th century. Recently, the northern taxa (originally assigned to the Glyptodontidae Propalaehoplophorinae Asterostemma and Propalaehoplophorus) have been reinterpreted as basal Glyptodontinae, belonging to the new genus Boreostemma. In this contribution, we present and describe the most complete Neogene Glyptodontidae from northern South America (middle Miocene of the Honda Group, La Venta, Colombia), and its main taxonomic, paleobiogeographic, and phylogenetic implications. This new material expands the morphological characterization of B. acostae and corroborates differences compared with Glyptodontidae from Miocene southern South America. A cladistic analysis corroborates the monophyly of the Glyptodontinae, that B. acostae and B. venezolensis being the sister group of the remaining taxa of Glyptodontinae. The traditionally recognized genera (e.g., Glyptodon and Glyptotherium) constitute natural groups. Whereas the Miocene seems to represent a diversification period for Glyptodontidae in southern South America, the recorded taxa in northern South America are restricted with certainty only to the Glyptodontinae Boreostemma.
4523775|A new genus, Douglassia, is erected for the problematic Chadronian sciurid Sciurus jeffersoni Douglass, 1901. Previously undescribed material adds new morphologic information for the taxon. Douglassia differs from other sciurids in the retention of primitive dental and masseteric morphology. Based on postcranial anatomy, the genus is referred to the Tribe Sciurini (tree squirrels), which is regarded as the sister taxon to all other Sciurinae. The known fossil material of Tertiary flying squirrels is inadequate to determine whether they constitute a distinct family.
4523593|The skull with mandible of a fossil tremarctine bear from Ubajara county, northeastern Brazil, is described and compared to other specimens belonging to the nominal species, Arctodus (Pararctotherium) brasiliensis. It differs from the other almost complete skull, from Minas Gerais State, in having a shorter, more slender rostrum, larger braincase, and smaller teeth. We also propose a phylogenetic hypothesis and correspondent classification for the genera of Tremarctinae, using cladistic methodology. Arctodus and Arctotherium are recognized as separate genera, with the latter including two subgenera, Arctotherium and Pararctotherium. The Ubajara bear is tentatively identified as Arctotherium (P.) brasiliense (comb. nov.).
4524535|Because many fossil pipoid anurans have been described during the past 35 years from Cretaceous deposits in South America and Africa, it is appropriate to revisit some of the earlier ones to have been discovered, viz., Cordicephalus gracilis, C. longicostatus, and Thoraciliacus rostriceps from Israel. Careful examination of Cordicephalus, based on study of previously, as well as newly, prepared specimens, reveals the existence of only one species. Cordicephalus gracilis is redescribed and compared with Thoraciliacus, and the phylogenetic relationships of these genera to other living and fossil pipoid frogs are investigated in a parsimony analysis. Thoraciliacus is basal to a clade containing Cordicephalus, Palaeobatrachus, and all other living and fossil pipids; however, the placement of Cordicephalus with respect to Palaeobatrachus and Pipidae is unresolved. Both Thoraciliacus and Cordicephalus retain the primitive state for several pipid synapomorphies involving the condition of the vomers, parasphenoid, and presence of a tympanosquamosal bone. In contrast to Thoraciliacus, however, Cordicephalus is characterized by several derived characters including possession of an otic capsule modified to accommodate a Eustachian tube and depressed, fully ossified opisthocoelous vertebrae. Despite their lack of many pipid specializations, both Thoraciliaus and Cordicephalus seem to possess many morphological features that typically are associated with aquatic habits. Among these are possession of a flat skull with a short rostrum, short axial column, and relatively long metapodials.
4523999|Quarry samples of lower cheek teeth of the Miocene rhinoceros Teleoceras are analyzed for the presence of enamel hypoplasia using macroscopic, thin-section, and scanning electron microscopic techniques. The presence of enamel pits, furrows, and grooves is noted predominantly on, but not limited to, the buccal side of dp4s. The enamel defect is not as common on permanent teeth, but does occur with decreasing frequency on p4s, mls, m2s, and m3s. Analysis of the formative sequence of deciduous cheek teeth in Teleoceras and the extant rhinoceros Diceros bicornis suggests that the Teleoceras dp4 was developing in the alveolus at the time of birth. Varying degrees of wear on the dp4s exhibiting enamel hypoplasia imply that the defect-producing stress did not result in immediate death. Isolation of the enamel hypoplasia to distinct bands on the Teleoceras dp4s suggests causes linked to non-lethal severe physiological stress due to metabolic disruption or nutritional deficiency occurring at or very near birth. The Teleoceras p4 was probably developing in the alveolus between three and five years of age. The observed p4-hypoplasias appear to reflect physiological stresses not related to weaning, but to some other stressful period such as cow-calf separation prior to the birth of the next offspring.
4524006|Abnormalities that appear during the development of the dermal, chondral and visceral cranium of the Australian lungfish, Neoceratodus forsteri, are common and many of these anomalies are reflected in the skulls of fossil lungfish. In addition to asymmetry of individual bones, elements may be missing altogether, or may have fused with one or more adjacent bones. Bones may be divided, with the separate bones having the outline of a normal bone. Elements may be malformed, and sometimes additional elements are present alongside a normal structure. Ossicles of the infraorbital, mandibular and preopercular series vary both in shape and in number. Aberrations may be genetic or teratogenic in origin, or may result from inappropriate osteogenic stimuli from the sensory lines that appear before the bones. The incidence of abnormalities is low in the Recent lungfish, Neoceratodus forsteri, and anomalies appear early in development and persist throughout life. Fossil dipnoans appear to have a high incidence of similar aberrations. Abnormalities have implications for taxonomic determinations, and phylogenetic analyses that rely on precise patterns of fusion and loss in the skull roofing bones of dipnoans should be treated with caution. Similar constraints apply to attempts to relate the skull roofing bones of dipnoans to those of other vertebrates.
41407665|A new genus and three species of parrot (Psittaciformes, Strigopidae, Nestorinae) are described from the early Miocene (19-16 Ma) St Bathans Fauna of Otago, New Zealand, based on 85 fossils as follows: Nelepsittacus minimus (17), N. donmertoni (60), and N. daphneleeae (6), with two additional fossils representing a fourth unnamed taxon. These taxa range from small parrots approximately the size of Cyanoramphus species to one as large as the living Nestor notabilis. Apomorphies in the coracoid, humerus, tibiotarsus, and tarsometatarsus ally Nelepsittacus with Nestor and exclude a close relationship with Strigops, the other endemic genus assumed to have had a long history in New Zealand. With only nestorine parrots represented, the St Bathans Fauna has nothing in common with the Australian psittaciform fauna, in which cacatuids and a diversity of psittacid genera exist. These data add to the growing body of evidence that the New Zealand terrestrial vertebrate fauna, at a time minimally 3 Ma after the maximal marine inundation of Zealandia in the late Oligocene, was highly endemic, with no close relationship to the closest faunas in Australia. This high degree of endemism strongly suggests that the Zealandian terrestrial biota persisted, at least in part, through the Oligocene highstand in sea level.
20490961|A new dromaeosaurid dinosaur--Velociraptor osmolskae n. sp.--is described on the basis of associated paired maxillae and a left lacrimal discovered in Campanian (Upper Cretaceous) deposits at Bayan Mandahu (Inner Mongolia, P. R. China). The maxilla of this new taxon is characterized by its long rostral plate and its enlarged, teardrop-shaped promaxillary fenestra, which is as large as the maxillary fenestra. The teeth are robust and the serrations are weakly developed on their distal carinae. This new taxon appears more closely related to Velociraptor mongoliensis, from the Campanian Djadokhta Formation in Mongolia, than to other dromaeosaurids described to date. The identification of the Bayan Mandahu Velociraptor as a distinct species is in keeping with the taxonomic distinction of the entire dinosaur fauna of this locality. Minor regional differences among Djadokhta-like localities in regards to their dinosaur faunas may reflect either some kind of geographic isolation, or small differences in their age or in their paleoenvironment.
30126338|A new eusuchian skull from the Maastrichtian locality of Oarda de Jos in the southwestern Transylvanian Basin of Romania represents the best-preserved known specimen of Allodaposuchus precedens Nopcsa, 1928. This new fossil allows us to clearly characterize the skull morphology of A. precedens and to reject the idea, as recently suggested, that the taxon could be considered a nomen dubium. Parsimony analysis confirms earlier phylogenetic hypotheses based on the fragmentary holotype from the Maastrichtian of Valioara in Haeg Basin (Romania), as well as on putative conspecific remains from approximately coeval localities in Spain and France: A. precedens is a non-crocodylian eusuchian. However, some relevant morphological traits differ from what was previously reported for this taxon: the external naris is large and anterodorsally directed; the lateral profile of the skull is not festooned in dorsal view; the suborbital fenestrae reach the eighth alveolus; the postorbital bar is not massive and inset from the jugal margin; the skull table is approximately planar or medially concave and does not markedly overhang the supratemporal fenestrae; the exoccipitals are not significantly involved in the basioccipital tubera. Because the condition of most of these characters was unknown in the holotype, the morphology of the taxon was previously evaluated on non-Romanian remains only. The morphological discrepancies between Romanian and western European fossils could suggest the presence of different taxa, possibly of infra-generic rank. Allodaposuchus and presumably Hylaeochampsa are the only eusuchians showing a laterally open cranioquadrate passage.
4524503|The histological composition of the galeaspid cephalothoracic skeleton has been much debated: here we attempt to resolve this through the analysis of well-preserved remains of galeaspids from Yunnan Province, and Tarim Basin, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, China. Our results indicate that the galeaspid dermoskeleton is dominantly composed from an acellular laminar bone in which the mineral is organised into cylindrical crystal bundles that are arranged into three orthogonal sets with associated extrinsic fiber spaces, a unique histology for which the term galeaspedin is coined. This is permeated by a coarse vascular plexus that divides the dermoskeleton into upper and lower zones, and the upper zone into distinct tesserae which, like the bounding vascular network, are polygonal in outline. The outer surface of the dermoskeleton is ornamented by a series of tubercles centered on tesserae, the latter composed partly from galeaspedin, and partly from a capping layer of microspherulitic, acellular bone, similar to the limiting layer of bone of elasmoid scales. Neither dentine nor enameloid is present, nor do the tissue compositions or their arrangement indicate an odontogenic origin. The endoskeleton is composed of an outer zone of globular calcified cartilage in contact with the dermoskeleton through a poorly mineralized intermediate zone. The inner zone is finely laminated, resulting from progressive zones of calcification embracing the calcospherites in a direction away from the dermoskeleton. There is no persuasive histological evidence for the presence of appositional perichondral bone. As in osteostracans, the galeaspid endoskeleton is interpreted as an expanded neurocranium. However, the presence of a calcified cartilaginous neurocranium in galeaspids in the absence of a perichondral bone layer indicates that these two histogenic components have distinct evolutionary origins. The presence of perichondral bone is a synapomorphy of osteostracans and jawed vertebrates, while the presence of a mineralized neurocranium unites galeaspids to this clade (possibly also including pituriaspids).
4524513|Tyrannosaurus rex possesses a heterodont dentition composed of three classes (premaxillary, maxillary, and dentary) and several sets. The maxilla contains mesial and distal sets and the dentary contains first dentary tooth (dl), mesial, and distal sets. Teeth were described with four size and two shape variables and several variables describing crown curvature and denticle size. The premaxillary teeth are derived structures with labiolingually oriented long axes, moderate mesial curvature, and mesiolingually and distolingually placed carinae that extend down the lingual faces. The mesial maxillary crowns are large, basally rounded, and moderately curved with mesiodistally oriented long axes. The mesial carinae begin at the apices and curve lingually to about the midcrown point and the distal carinae begin at the apices and extend down the labial sides of the distal faces. The distal maxillary crowns are larger than the premaxillary and smaller than the mesial maxillary and all but the most distal dentary teeth. They have labiolingually oriented long axes and have narrower basal widths than lengths. The carinae roughly define the mesiodistal axes of the crowns. The first dentary tooth is similar to those of the premaxilla. The mesial dentary teeth are similar to the mesial maxillary teeth and the distal dentary teeth are similar to those in the distal maxilla. This examination revealed that several putative systematic characters related to size and shape can be discerned from T. rex teeth, suggesting that useful dental characters may be more common within the Theropoda than has generally been presumed.
20627160|A new rhamphorhynchid pterosaur species, Sericipterus wucaiwanensis, gen. et sp. nov., is described from the Upper Jurassic part of the Shishugou Formation in the Xinjiang Autonomous Region of northwest China. Pterosaurs from this unit are the earliest and only records of pterosaurs in the Jurassic of northwest China. The individual specimen is one of the largest known among 'rhamphorhynchoids,' or non-pterodactyloid pterosaurs. The holotype comprises an associated skeleton of mostly disarticulated, largely three-dimensional material. Although partly crushed, the preservation in this specimen reveals morphology rarely seen in non-pterodactyloid pterosaurs. This includes a distinct cervical intervertebral articulation morphology that is proposed to be widespread among the non-pterodactyloids. The skull of this new specimen is most similar to that of other rhamphorhynchids, Angustinaripterus longicephalus and Harpactognathus gentryii, found in terrestrial deposits. A phylogenetic analysis of 18 non-pterodactyloid pterosaurs and the Pterodactyloidea places Sericipterus wucaiwanensis with these species within the Rhamphorhynchinae and a monophyletic Rhamphorhynchidae. Unlike previous phylogenetic analyses, the Dimorphodontidae is paraphyletic, the Campylognathoididae is polyphyletic, and the Anurognathidae is the sister group of the Pterodactyloidea. Sericipterus wucaiwanensis, Angustinaripterus longicephalus, Harpactognathus gentryii represent a clade of large pterosaurs that likely lived in the terrestrial settings in which they preserved.
4523031| Late Miocene to early Pliocene gomphothere proboscideans (Family Gomphotheriidae: Subfamily Anancinae) from the Middle Awash Valley, Ethiopia, were recovered throughout 350 m of strata, representing some 1 to 2 my. Specimens referred to the genus Anancus from the Adu-Asa and Sagantole Formations are more complete and more extensive than any described previously from sub-Saharan Africa. Three evolutionary stages referable to A. kenyensis, as well as a much more derived new form of Anancus, are recognizable from dental remains. 
20062004|The new genus and species Corveolepis elgae is described from the Lochkovian, Severnaya Zemlya formation of October Revolution Island, Severnaya Zemlya. It is ascribed to the family Corvaspididae whose diagnosis is corrected. Corvaspis arctica Loeffler and Dineley is designated as the type species of Corveolepis. Previously described taxa such as "Corvaspis kingi" auct. and Corvaspis graticulata Dineley from Spitsbergen are included with doubt in Corveolepis. Other new material includes Corveolepis? sp. cf. C.? graticulata from the Lochkovian, Pod'emnaya formation of October Revolution Island. This material is used as supporting evidence for a correlation of Lower Devonian vertebrate-bearing strata between Severnaya Zemlya and Spitsbergen.
4524477|New and more complete specimens of pleurodiran turtles from the Salamanca Formation (lower Paleocene) of Patagonia are described. The shell sculpturing, size, and morphology of these specimens match with the characteristics of the largest of Staesche's species (?Najadochelys maior Staesche, 1929 and Osteopygis sculptus Staesche, 1929). Osteopygis sculptus is considered a junior synonym of INajadochelys maior. This taxon is the only valid one of Staesche's large species, and is assigned to the chelid genus Yaminuechelys de la Fuente et al. 2001 as Y. maior (Staesche, 1929) new comb. The phylogenetic hypothesis proposed supports a sister-group relationship between Yaminuechelys and Hydromedusa. This clade plus the Australasian genus Chelodina form a monophyletic group supported by cranial and postcranial derived characters, and differentiated in Patagonia at least as early as the upper Cretaceous.
4524230|A fossil cranium from Rusinga Island, Kenya, is described as a new species of free-tailed bat, Tadarida rusingae (Chiroptera, Molossidae). The sediments where the skull was found are dated by Potassium-Argon assay at about 17.5-18.0 million years before present (early Miocene). Comparisons with fossil molossids and all the extant species of Tadarida show that T. rusingae is distinguished by its large size, well developed posterior sagittal crest, deeply domed palate, and several features of the upper molars. This skull represents one of the most complete fossil molossid bats known.
4523004|Cosmine is a unique association of skeletal tissues and soft, presumably sensory, structures. The evolutionary and biological significance of cosmine in the lobe-finned fishes has been a continuing source of controversy in the systematics of this group. The wide variation in cosmine morphology and the inferred developmental pathways producing this variation have not been comprehensively studied by those interested in the systematics of the lobe-finned fishes. In this study, I examine the different arrangements of tissues that cosmine exhibits in dipnoans and "rhipidistians." I discuss the ontogenetic pathways by which such arrangements could have been achieved and show that a continuum of developmental processes existed between cosmine sensu stricto and other configurations of the dermal skeleton, such as those in coelacanths and actinopterygians. Particular attention is paid to the proposed role of the pore-canal network in the development and maintenance of cosmine. Although the phylogenetic significance of cosmine remains unclear, I conclude that understanding the developmental constraints on the dermal skeletal system provides a framework for reconstructing pathways of evolutionary change.
4524665|Recent fieldwork in the Tropic Shale of southern Utah has resulted in the recovery of two new specimens of the short-necked pliosaurid Brachauchenius lucasi Williston, 1903. Both specimens were recovered in Lower Turonian strata a few meters above the Cenomanian-Turonian Stage boundary as determined from molluscan assemblages found in direct association, and both include skull material. The larger of the two also includes pectoral and pelvic elements previously unknown for this taxon. These specimens represent the first records of B. lucasi from the western margin of the Cretaceous Western Interior Seaway; previously recorded specimens were recovered in Kansas and Texas. The Cenomanian through middle Turonian temporal range of B. lucasi, in addition to its geographic range across the seaway, indicates that this taxon suffered few, if any, negative consequences as a result of global scale oceanographic events, including marine extinctions, that transpired during late Cenomanian-early Turonian time.
4524044|The promylagaulines are represented in the late Hemingfordian to early Barstovian by a single genus, Galbreathia n. gen. Galbreathia is erected for the problematical Hemingfordian species Mylagaulus novellus Matthew. The early Barstovian species Trilaccogaulus bettae Sutton and Korth is included as a referred species. This genus is included in the generally primitive Promylagaulinae rather than the advanced Mylagaulinae because of the primitive condition of the skull (not as wide as long, single sagittal crest, more gracile appearance, occipital not anteriorly sloped) and skeleton (limb bones not as fossorially adapted), even though it has attained many of the derived features of the cheek teeth of Mylagaulinae (loss of P3, greater hypsodonty, loss of first molar with eruption of permanent premolars). Galbreathia is a derived promylagauline that shows parallel development of the dentition with the later, more specialized mylagaulines.
4522986| The subhumid Pacific slopes of El Salvador and Honduras contain a valuable record of late Cenozoic terrestrial vertebrates. Vast ignimbrite flows, mainly of mid-Miocene age, and subsequent block-faulting and basin-filling provide a substantial sequence of late Cenozoic tuffaceous sediments. This paper discusses the geological setting and faunal content of six local faunas ranging from the late Miocene through the late Pleistocene. Many other more limited late Pleistocene sites are known throughout Honduras and El Salvador. The late Miocene fauna includes no families not already known from North America at temperate latitudes, but does indicate an endemic turtle genus, Rhinoclemmys, and endemic mammal species Pliohippus hondurensis and Rhynchotherium blicki, and a much earlier record of brevirostrine proboscideans than in temperate North America. Although no Pliocene faunas are known, substantial numbers of previously South American taxa appear in the early Pleistocene. By the late Pleistocene, interamerican faunal mingling in Central America was very extensive. /// Las faldas subhumedas Pacfico de El Salvador y Honduras contienen un registro valioso de vertebrados terrestres del Cenozoico Superior. Vastas corrientes de ignimbritas, principalmente de edad Mioceno Medio, y subsecuente fallos de blque y sedimentacin de cuencas proveen una acumulacin substancial de sedimentos tobceos del Cenozoico Superior en la regin. Este informe discute el escenario geolgico y el contenido faunistico de las faunas nativas desde el Mioceno Superior hasta el Pleistoceno Superior. Varios otros sitios del Pleistoceno Tardi, aunque menos ricos en especies, son conocidos por todo Honduras y El Salvador. La fauna nativa del Mioceno Superior no incluye familias que no sean ya conocidas en Norte America sobre la latitud de 28 N, pero si indica un genero endmico de tortuga, Rhinoclemmys, dos especies endmicas de mamferos Pliohippus hondurensis y Rhynchotherium blicki, y un registro mucho ms temprano de proboscidea brevirostrina que en Norte America en la zona templada. Aunque no se conocen faunas Pliocenicas, una entrada substancial de taxa previamente Sur Americana aparece en el Pleistoceno Temprano. En el Pleistoceno Tardo, la mezcla de faunas interamericanas en America Central fue muy extensiva. 
4523987|Two polypterid postcranial skeletons are described from the continental Cenomanian of southeastern Morocco. These specimens represent the only articulated fossil polypterid fossils known to date. The postcranial skeletons are less than 5 cm long and belong to a new genus and species, Serenoichthys kemkemensis, gen. et sp. nov., which is diagnosed by a short and deep body with 30 scales along the mid-lateral line and 10 scale rows below the third finlet, 9-10 predorsal scales and 24 caudal fin rays.
4524068|Theropod eggshell is identified for the first time from the Lower Cretaceous of North America. Eggshell microstructure and variability in ornamentation and thickness of this material is comparable to that present in elongatoolithid theropod eggs, known previously only from Asia. This identification is based on re-examination of the holotype of the putative spheroolithid Boletuoolithus carlylensis and description of additional eggshell fragments from the Lower Cretaceous of Utah. This oospecies is characterized by the ornithoid-ratite morphotype (i.e., of theropod parentage) and not, as recently suggested, by the dinosauroid-prolatospherulitic morphotype (i.e., of ornithopod parentage). Additionally, Boletuoolithus carlylensis includes a much broader range of eggshell morphologies than previously described: eggshell thickness ranges from 1.38-3.04 mm, ornamentation is remarkably variable, and sometimes the typical elongatoolithid microstructure is altered by extreme development of both the ornamentation and pore system. The thickness, ornamentation, and elongatoolithid microstructure indicate that the holotype and referred materials assigned to Boletuoolithus carlylensis are indistinguishable from the Asian elongatoolithid Macroelongatoolithus xixiaensis. Accordingly, the oogenus Boletuoolithus is rendered a junior subjective synonym of Macroelongatoolithus. In turn, Macroelongatoolithus xixiaensis is regarded as a junior synonym of Macroelongatoolithus carlylei (new combination and emendation of specific epithet) by virtue of publication priority.
4524475|The ilium is widely considered to be the single best element upon which to base the identification of fossil anurans when isolated bones are all that are available. I tested the diagnostic utility of continuous and discrete ilial characters for toads of the genus Bufo by evaluating their distribution among an expanded taxonomic sample of 27 extant North American species. Support for species-level identifications and for the identification of traditionally recognized species groups based on ilial characters alone was assessed. Results indicate that no distinctive morphologies in the ilium of extant North American Bufo are known that permit a species-level identification or the diagnosis of any traditionally recognized species group. Two of the ten included extinct species, B. holmani and B. kuhrei, do contain ilial characters that fall outside the observed range of the examined extant species. The fact that both morphometric and discrete characters fail to support species-level identification of isolated ilia of extant Bufo indicates that identifications should be restricted to higher taxonomic levels until new ilial characters are established. Potentially informative characters should be tested against a comparative sample that reflects clade diversity rather than one that reflects our geographic and/or temporal assumptions. This approach helps to avoid circularity if the identifications are used subsequently in analyses of faunal dynamics.
4524179|A new early Irvingtonian (latest Pliocene) rodent fauna is reported here from Inglis 1C, Citrus County, Florida. This sinkhole deposit near the west coast of the state contains 33 species of mammals, including 11 rodents, of which six are now extinct. A new species of Peromyscus, P. sarmocophinus, sp. nov., is described from this locality and the slightly older Inglis 1A. Inglis 1C contains the oldest records of three rodents (Peromyscus polionotus, Reithrodontomys humulis, and Atopomys texensis) and the youngest occurrences of two others (Reith wetmorei and Ondatra idahoensis). Additionally, the paleogeographic range of two taxa, R. wetmorei and Baiomys sp., is extended east of the Mississippi River. Deposition at Inglis 1C was nearly contemporaneous with, the better-known, early Irvingtonian Inglis 1A fauna. The two localities share Sciurus sp., Glaucomys sp., Orthogeomys propinetis, Sigmodon curtisi, P. sarmocophinus, sp. nov., R. wetmorei and O. idahoensis. A slightly younger age at Inglis 1C is implied by the presence of P. polionotus, R. humulis, and Atopomys texensis. This fauna serves as an older complement to Florida's other well studied Irvingtonian localities, Leisey Shell Pits, Hillsborough County, and Coleman 2A, Sumter County.
30117459|A new lambeosaurine hadrosaurid, Velafrons coahuilensis, is described as the first lambeosaurine from the Cerro del Pueblo Formation of Coahuila, Mexico, and the first lambeosaurine genus to be named from North America in more than 70 years. Although the holotype specimen is a juvenile individual-as evidenced by its incomplete crest development and relative size compared to other North American lambeosaurines-ontogeny independent autapomorphies have been identified including quadrate with narrow quadratojugal notch and a postorbital with well developed, dorsally positioned squamosal process. Additionally, this taxon is unique in that the prefrontal is not dorsally deflected and anteroposteriorly expanded as in other lambeosaurine taxa of its size, but rather retains the frontal-prefrontal "clamp" present in smaller individuals of other taxa. Phylogenetic analysis places Velafrons in a polytomy with numerous other fan-crested lambeosaurines. The crest structure of Velafrons more closely resembles that of Corythosaurus and Hypacrosaurus because it possesses an anteriorly projecting nasal process over the dorsal premaxilla process. Biogeographically, Velafrons is one of three distinct hadrosaurids known from approximately 73.5 Ma-two lambeosaurines and one hadrosaurine-all restricted to the southern region of the Western Interior Basin of North America.
4523668|Multituberculate faunas from the Dakota Formation (upper Cenomanian) and the Smoky Hollow Member of the Straight Cliffs Formation (middle or upper Turonian) are described. The presence of Cimolodon is established in the Cenomanian; a new genus, possibly cimolodontid, is present as well. A new genus (Dakotamys) is described from the Dakota Formation, and another (Bryceomys) from the Smoky Hollow Member. Neither of the new genera are assigned to suborder or family, and both are morphologically closer to Paracimexomys than to other described taxa. Paracimexomys and, possibly, cimolomyids are present in both faunas. The difference in composition of mammalian faunas from the Cenomanian to Turonian may reflect ecologic changes causing geographic shifts in mammalian faunas rather than an episode of catastrophic extinction.
4522936|The flight performances of Pteranodon ingens and Nyctosaurus gracilis from the Upper Cretaceous of Kansas were modeled using data from a Sailvane hang-glider which has an airfoil similar to that of a pterosaur. The aerodynamics of large pterosaurs were mainly dictated by three parameters: low wing loadings, wings with high aspect ratios, and the performance of the thin cambered airfoil. Given maximum muscular efforts, Nyctosaurus and Pteranodon could have taken off at airspeeds of 1.5 and 4 m/sec, respectively. These airspeeds included windspeed, running speed, and a flapping component, so takeoff presented no problems. Landing speeds were also slow. The sustained power output of Pteranodon was not enough for continuous level flapping flight. A maximum burst of power allowed level flapping or climbing flight. However, this required anaerobic muscle operation and was only maintained briefly. The power profile shows that Pteranodon was a soarer. On the other hand, the sustained power output of Nyctosaurus was more than enough for continuous level flapping. However, the animal probably reduced the metabolic cost of transport by alternate gliding and flapping as in gulls. In as much as the power required for soaring is much lower than that for flapping or alternate gliding and flapping, Nyctosaurus probably soared whenever the weather was suitable. The gliding performance of the Kansas pterosaurs was characterized by slow horizontal and vertical speeds, excellent gliding angles, and narrow ranges of horizontal speeds. The pterosaurs flew far from shore in a warm, calm climate. Their aerodynamics were ideal for slope soaring along a low relief coastline and for convection-current soaring. Pteranodon and probably also Nyctosaurus obtained seafood by skimming the waves and/or landing and seizing fish and crustaceans. Compared to soaring birds, large pterosaurs were specialized for low power requirements and a narrow range of slow horizontal flight speeds.
40864351|The few records of Jurassic fishes from Antarctica comprise several actinopterygians. Here we describe the first fish material recovered from the Latady Group, upper Middle to lower Upper Jurassic southern Antarctic Peninsulaone indeterminate actinopterygian and two teleosts, including a Leptolepidae indet. The content of the family Leptolepidae is revised and the assignment of Leptolepidae indet. to family level is based on three uniquely derived characters proposed here (vertebrae with thin and smooth autocentra; autocentra and chordacentra not constricting the notochord; and lack of cavities for adipose tissue in the walls of the autocentra). The new finding changes previous interpretations that Leptolepidae s. str. is a Northern Hemisphere family. The presence of Middle Jurassic leptolepids in Antarctica as well as in the Lower Jurassic of Chile, South America, supports the hypothesis that during Jurassic times more than one center of diversification of teleost fishes were operating in far distant regions of the world. Amongst the new material are the oldest marine teleosts (middle-late Callovian to early Kimmeridgian) recovered from Antarctica. They represent the most southern distribution of teleosts during the Jurassic.
4524392|Mammalian fossils of the Konso Formation (southwestern Main Ethiopian Rift) derive from stratigraphic intervals dated to between 2.0 Ma and younger than 1.3 Ma. Systematic paleontological collecting resulted in almost 8,000 identifiable mammalian specimens representing 8 orders, 22 families, and more than 68 species including Australopithecus boisei and Homo erectus. Despite geographic proximity to the Turkana Basin (approximately 200 km), aspects of the Konso fauna are distinctive, with its 1.9-1.7 Ma assemblage showing some degree of endemism. Bovids Megalotragus, Parmularius altidens, Parmularius eppsi, Menelikia, and Pelorovis, all common at Turkana and/or Olduvai, are rare or absent at Konso, while Parmularius cf. pandatus, Simatherium, and Notochoerus n. sp. of the Konso assemblages are the youngest known records of these taxa in eastern Africa. The dominant suid of this assemblage is Kolpochoerus majus, a previously poorly known taxon. Subsequent to circa 1.7 Ma, an influx of external elements occurred, possibly related to a general East African trend of climatic drying between 1.8 and 1.6 Ma. The post-1.5 Ma Konso fauna is characterized by apparently immigrant dry grassland adapted bovids, such as Damaliscus niro and Parmularius angusticornis. Metridiochoerus compactus, Metridiochoerus hopwoodi and Metridiochoerus mo- destus are common in the 1.5 to 1.3 Ma levels at Konso, whereas the latter two suids are rare at Turkana. The post- 1.5 Ma Kolpochoerus limnetes/olduvaiensis of Konso is morphologically more conservative than time-equivalent Turkana specimens. The post-1.5 Ma Konso Elephas recki represents an evolutionary grade immediately preceding the fully advanced E. recki recki condition.
20627121|Rapetosaurus krausei is a titanosaur sauropod from the Upper Cretaceous Maevarano Formation of northwestern Madagascar and is among the most complete titanosaurs ever discovered. To date, over 15 localities in a 10 km field area have yielded hundreds of titanosaur bones, including associated and articulated specimens of Rapetosaurus. A juvenile skeleton is of particular significance because it was found directly associated with a well-preserved partial skull. The juvenile postcranial skeleton only lacks only the axis, atlas, representative elements from the proximal caudal series, carpals, and tarsals. The Rapetosaurus axial column consists of at least 17 cervical, 10 dorsal, six sacral, and 17 caudal vertebrae. Appendicular skeletal anatomy documents unique aspects of the titanosaur skeleton, and the association of large osteoderms with other, adult specimens confirms the lithostrotian status of Rapetosaurus. These new skeletal data have proven significant for phylogenetic resolution within Titanosauria, particularly because Rapetosaurus can be coded for 83% of over 400 characters for titanosaurs.
4524780|The Dry Mesa Dinosaur Quarry in western Colorado is characterized by a high diversity of vertebrate fossils, including pterosaur remains. Most of the pterosaur material has been referred to the species Mesadactylus omithosphyos. Since its original description, additional material of this pterosaur has been uncovered. The new material includes the first described well-preserved basicranium of a Jurassic pterodactyloid pterosaur from North America and several appendicular elements. The cervical vertebra described previously was CT-scanned to reveal a complicated internal pneumatic system that can be compared to the avian system.
4523774|Four species of marsupials occur in the Lac Pelletier Lower Fauna (Duchesnean), Cypress Hills Formation, Saskatchewan. Herpetotherium sp., cf. H. marsupium from Lac Pelletier is intermediate in size and stylar cusp morphology between Uintan H. marsupium and Chadronian H. valens. Herpetotherium sp., cf. H. knighti from this assemblage shows smaller and less transverse upper molars than in H. knighti from the Uintan. Copedelphys sp., cf. C. innominata from Lac Pelletier is smaller than in Uintan samples, and is also smaller, with a smaller stylar cusp D, than Copedelphys titanelix of the Chadronian. Peradectes californicus is the only peradectid recognized in the Lac Pelletier Lower Fauna. The marsupial assemblage from the Lac Pelletier Lower Fauna is transitional in nature between Uintan and Chadronian faunas. Evidence from this fauna indicates that the genera Herpetotherium and Copedelphys, previously recognized from Chadronian and later assemblages, include Duchesnean and earlier species.
4522942|Albionbatrachus wightensis n.gen. et sp. from the late Eocene of the Isle of Wight is the only representative of the family Palaeobatrachidae known from England. A. wightensis differs from most palaeobatrachids in having dorsal skull bones with prominent sculpturing and an hourglass-shaped frontoparietal bone. It agrees with other members of the family in having a synsacrum, procoelous vertebrae, and an azygous frontoparietal. The fossil palaeobatrachid described as Palaeoba-trachus sp. by Vergnaud-Grazzini and Hoffstetter from Oligo-Miocene deposits at Laugnac, France, shows close resemblance to A. wightensis and is also included in the new genus Albionbatrachus.
4523790|A reconstruction of the terrestrial locomotion of pterosaurs is presented, based on Pteraichnus trackways. The pterosaurs that made the trackways were walking quadrupedally with a digitigrade manus and plantigrade pes at approximately 1 m/s. Their posture was erect rather than sprawling or semi-erect. The trackways suggest that bird-like bipedal and sprawling to semi-erect postures, and the restrictive interpretations of limb and girdle joint mobilities upon which they are based, may be incorrect.
4523034|The new genus and species Alainaspis platyrhina from the Silurian of Prince of Wales and Somerset Islands, Northwest Territories, Canada is a large cyathaspidid of the subfamily Poraspidinae with distinctive proportions of probable adaptive significance. It is most closely related to Boothiaspis, previously described as an amphiaspid, but here reassigned to the Poraspidinae. The distribution of this genus helps to provide local correlation between the lower member of the Peel Sound Formation and the Somerset Island Formation on Prince of Wales and Somerset Islands. Associated invertebrates and vertebrates indicate a late Ludlovian to Pridolian age for the fauna.
4523165|The Archaeolaginae of North America, excluding Archaeolagus and Panolax, include the following genera and species: Hypolagus vetus, H. parviplicatus, H. gidleyi n. sp., H. fontinalis, H. tedfordi n. sp., H. furlongi, H. edensis, H. oregonensis, H. ringoldensis, H. regalis, H. voorhiesi n. sp., H. arizonensis, Lepoides lepoides n. gen. and sp., Pewelagus dawsonae, and ?Pewelagus mexicanus. ?Hypolagus apachensis is referred to the Leporinae. The genus Notolagus is referred to the Leporinae and Paranotolagus is tentatively referred to the Leporinae. Lepoides lepoides n. gen. and sp. is tentatively thought to be a jack rabbit ecomorph, while some species of Hypolagus possibly cottontail ecomorphs. The Archaeolaginae of North America became extinct by the end of the Blancan land mammal age (Pliocene).
42568540|A nearly complete amphibamid skull from the Richards Spur locality in Oklahoma is demonstrated to be a new species of Tersomius. This new species has a mosaic of features seen in other amphibamids, and appears to fall on the Amphibamus side of the amphibamid basal dichotomy of some authors. This specimen also calls into question the validity of the Tersomius assignment of a large specimen from the Texas Red Beds. One feature of note is the presence of a weakly bicuspid fang on one of the vomers. This poorly developed feature is present only on an unattached replacement cusp, and appears to have been rapidly worn away through use. This is the first potential bicuspid palatal fang known from an amphibamid. A second partial skull is assigned to the recently described species Pasawioops mayi. A micro-computed tomographic reconstruction shows a prominent ventral flange of the nasal that meets a counterpart from the prefrontal and palatine to wall the nasal capsule posteriorly. The nasolacrimal canal shows the three openings in the orbit quickly converge to pass rostrally as a single canal except for a mysterious lateral diverticulation that has a superficial exposure on the lacrimal. Both skulls preserve a pars palatina of the premaxilla, in common with batrachians, and the Pasawioops specimen also preserves a prominent palatal process of the premaxilla, a frog synapomorphy. Richards Spur preserves one of the most diverse amphibamid faunas in the world, with three species described so far.
25790799|Cryptocleidoid plesiosaurs from the Upper Jurassic are well known from the Oxford Clay (Callovian) of the United Kingdom. The plesiosaurs of the nearly coeval Sundance Formation (Oxfordian) of North America are poorly known, but are thought to include two cryptocleidoid taxa: Pantosaurus striatus and Tatenectes laramiensis. Here we present two specimens recently recovered from the Bighorn Basin of Wyoming. The first specimen comprises three articulated adult cervical vertebrae and fragments of a fourth. This specimen preserves a posteriorly directed cervical neural spine, a character diagnostic of Pantosaurus striatus. It also resembles Pantosaurus in the morphology of its cervical rib articulations. The second specimen is a partial articulated skeleton comprising a complete pelvic girdle, dorsal, sacral, and caudal vertebrae, and numerous ribs and gastralia. This specimen displays a number of unique characters, including posteriorly directed dorsal, sacral, and caudal neural spines, highly autapomorphic illia, and a pathologically asymmetric pelvic girdle. Despite the lack of overlapping material, it is tentatively referred to Pantosaurus on the basis of posteriorly directed neural spines. These specimens represent the first significant adult material provisionally referable to Pantosaurus striatus, as well as the first posterior axial column and pelvic girdle.
25835832|Carnotaurus sastrei is a large abelisaurid dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous of Patagonia. Its remains include an almost complete skeleton with a well-preserved skull and braincase. Because relatively few abelisaurid braincases are known, the description of the Carnotaurus braincase is important for understanding the variability of this complex structure within the clade. Carnotaurus exhibits traits that characterize the abelisaurid basicranium, such as a well-developed preotic pendant, solid basipterygoid processes, and pneumatic basisphenoid, subsellar, and lateral tympanic recesses. The basipterygoid processes do not project laterally, unlike the divergent processes observed in other abelisaurids. Carnotaurus shares with the Malagasy abelisaurid Majungasaurus crenatissimus caudodorsally oriented paroccipital processes and a maxillomandibular foramen for the trigeminal nerve that in lateral view is aligned with the nuchal crest. The detailed description of the braincase of Carnotaurus presented here provides a better cranial anatomical record of this Patagonian abelisaurid and preliminary insights to the neurocranial morphology within the group.
42568651|Utatsusaurus hataii is an early member of Ichthyopterygia from the Osawa Formation (Lower Triassic) of Miyagi Prefecture, Japan. Although the holotype of the species lacks a well-preserved cranium, UHR 30691 preserves a near-complete skull and may be referred to Utatsusaurus based on a similar geologic occurrence and, most importantly, the following shared features with the holotype: subthecodont tooth implantation; the presence of distomesially compressed tooth crowns; a humerus that is longer than wide; and an ulnar facet on the humerus that is as wide as the radial facet. The first complete description of the skull of UHR 30691 and the incorporation of data derived from it into a phylogenetic analysis retrieves a monophyletic Ichthyopterygia that is supported by 18 unambiguous synapomorphies. The updated analysis recovers Utatsusaurus in a basal clade with Parvinatator (united by one unambiguous feature), which collectively form the sister group to all other ichthyopterygians.
20490950|Chlamydoselachus teeth recorded from the Takatika Grit, Chatham Islands, Southwest Pacific, are Danian in age and represent a new species of Chlamydoselachidae and the oldest Cenozoic record in the world, once considered to be Lazarus taxon for the early Paleogene. The new species Chlamydoselachus tatere n. sp. is diagnosed by three prominent upright cusps that display weak ornamentation restricted to the base of the cusp, a cutting edge that reaches the root and lacks intermediate cusplets. The root is broader than long and is labiolingually shortened with a wide transverse notch and poorly differentiated lobes. The variable tooth morphology within these Chatham specimens confirms that the fossil taxon has a slight degree of intraspecific variation laterally within dentition. Posterolaterally, the cusps become more gracile with greater lingual inclination and increasing separation between cusps. Also, the root becomes labiolingually shorter and the transverse notch wider and shallower. The presence of the chlamydoselachians in the shallow marine Takatika Grit indicates that early in its evolutionary history the group may have inhabited shallow neritic environments and their teeth were more robust, possibly a reflection of the sharks predatory lifestyle.
4524536|We describe the new ichthyosaur taxon Mixosaurus panxianensis, sp. nov., from the Middle Triassic of Guizhou Province. China. Diagnostic characters of the new species include a short posteroventral jugal process and the absence of external contact between jugal and quadratojugal. The morphologic description of the type specimens amends the knowledge of the postorbital region and the postcranium of the Mixosauridae. The holotype of Mixosaurus maotaiensis, which is very fragmentary and has no taxonomic value at the species level, is found to be undiagnostic, and hence the lately introduced, monospecific genus name for this species needs to be abandoned. Phylogenetic analysis strongly supports the monophyly of the family Mixosauridae. Furthermore, the analysis shows a bifurcation of the family into two sister groups, suggesting the presence of two genera, Mixosaurus and Phalarodon. Mixosaurus, characterized by a relatively short and wide humeru, includes M. panxianensis sp. nov., M. cornalianus, and M. kuhnschnyderi. Synapomorphies of Phalarodon, which contains P. fraasi. P. callawayi, and P. atavus, are a narial shelf and the absence of a maxillary dental groove.
4523146|Students of fossil arvicoline rodents are challenged to conform to a higher level of modern statistical and phylogenetic analysis. The terminology of the occlusal surface of arvicoline teeth of van der Meulen (1973, 1978) is proposed as the standard for future research. The current taxonomy of North American fossil voles referred to Allophaiomys, Pedomys, and Pitymys is reviewed and critiqued. These taxa are combined in the genus Microtus. Phaiomys (= Allophaiomys; = Orthriomys) and Pitymys (= Pedomys; = Herpetomys) are recognized as subgenera. A Pleistocene replacement chronology for Microtus dental morphotypes is presented, and a cladogram based on dental character states is constructed for North American Microtus. Microtus meadensis is considered to be an Old World immigrant and not closely related to M. quasiater. The Late Pleistocene Microtus reported by Repenning (1983) from El Tajo de Texquixquiac, Mexico as M. meadensis is tentatively referred to M. quasiater. Microtus quasiater is further considered to be distinct from M. pinetorum. Microtus (Pitymys) mcnowni is not a valid species and is tentatively combined under M. ochrogaster. Microtus (Pitymys) aratai is a valid species. Pleistocene specimens reported by Repenning (1983) from Centerville Beach, California now lack proper species reference. Microtus oaxacensis and M. guatemalensis, here classified in Pitymys, demonstrate both confluent T4-5 and closed T4-5 on m1, thus providing a possible evolutionary scenario deriving some species of the subgenus Microtus from Pitymys. This scenario is contrasted with that of Guthrie (1965), in which Microtus is descended from a species such as M. paroperarius, which has predominantly four closed triangles on m1.
4524636|A new species of freshwater Testudinoidea is described from the fossil locality of Le Quesnoy (Oise, France; Argiles a Lignites du Soissonnais, Lower Eocene, Ypresian, MP7). This taxon is the oldest representative of Ptychogasteridae known from Europe. This species is compared to the American representatives of the genus Echmatemys Hay, 1906, to three Ptychogasteridae from the Geiseltal Formation (Eocene, Germany; Geiselemys ptychogastroides [Hummel, 1935], "Geoemyda" saxonica Hummel, 1935 and Hummelemys ambigua Hervet, 2004b), and to representatives of the Ptychogaster complex and to Clemmydopsis Boda, 1927. The phylogenetic relationships of this new taxon and of the other European Ptychogasteridae are studied.
4523017| Two new specimens of the early Oligocene primate Branisella boliviana have been discovered recently in deposits at Salla, Bolivia. One specimen is a right mandibular fragment with M and roots of M. The other, a right maxillary fragment, includes M, M and the first known M for this primate. The M is substantially smaller than other upper molars, with a reduced protocone and metacone, and only an incipient hypocone. Three roots are present on all upper molars and two on all lower molars. Although M is more complex than M of Saimiri, considerable similarities support the assertion that Branisella boliviana is a platyrrhine primate. /// Dos muestras nuevas del primate Branisella boliviana del Oligoceno temprano han sido descubiertas recientemente en los depsitos de Salla, Bolivia. Una muestra es un fragmento de la mandbula derecha con el M y races del M. La otra, un fragmento del maxilar derecho, incluye el M, M y el primer M conocido en este primate. El M es substancialmente ms pequeo que los otros molares superiores, con el protocono y metacono reducidos y solamente un hypocono incipiente. Se notan tres races en todos los molares superiores y dos en todos los molares inferiores. Aunque el M es ms complejo que el M de Saimiri, semejanzas considerables sostienen la aseveracin que Branisella boliviana es un primate platirrino. 
4523785|New sphenodontian material is described from the Early Cretaceous (?Berriasian) of Morocco. Two taxa are recognized. The first is represented by a dentary and, probably, a partial maxilla. Comparison with known Jurassic and Early Cretaceous genera suggests the Moroccan form is sufficiently distinctive in its tooth and jaw morphology to warrant the erection of a new genus and species, Tingitana anoualae. The second taxon, sphenodontian B, is represented by a small dentary which bears a superficial resemblance to that of Theretairus (Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation, North America) in its simple alternating dentition-a hatchling condition. A fragment of a larger dentary bearing the remains of an anterior caniniform tooth may also be attributable to this form. Sphenodontian B differs from Tingitana in overall size, hatchling tooth number, and in the shape of the coronoid process of the dentary, but cannot be named without more diagnostic material.
20061990|In the late 19th century, rare fossil remains of a small chalicothere were recovered from early Miocene rocks of the John Day Formation of north-central Oregon. Totaling eight isolated teeth and four foot bones, and gathered by various collectors from several localities, these specimens were not at first recognized as chalicotheres, and were originally assigned to a dental species, Lophiodon? oregonensis, and a postcranial species, Moropus distans. All were assigned to the chalicothere genus Moropus by Holland and Peterson in 1914. The lack of precise geographic and stratigraphic data did not permit any definitive assessment of age, origin, or evolutionary stage. We report here newly discovered teeth and foot bones of M. oregonensis found from 1994-1998 at precisely located levels in the John Day Formation. These new discoveries indicate that M. oregonensis occurs in upper John Day units but is absent from the lower part of the formation. One tooth occurs in proximity to a tuff dated at 22.6  0.13 Ma, hence establishes a minimum age for the appearance of the species in North America. New dental and foot elements allow us to synonymize Moropus distans with M. oregonensis, now the type species of the genus Moropus. Additionally, a small chalicothere, probably M. oregonensis, occurs at four Arikareean Gulf Coast sites in north Florida and east Texas. It is suggested that these animals, along with the Oregon chalicotheres, represent relatively primitive populations inhabiting mesic coastal environments of the Pacific margin and southern United States in the early Miocene.
4523921|Cranial features of Prosalirus bitis, an Early Jurassic anuran from the Kayenta Formation, include a dentigerous premaxilla and maxilla; a parasphenoid with a lanceolate cultriform process and posterolateral alae; a well ossified, unpaired sphenethmoid; and a stapes of modern form. The atlas bears a notochordal fossa between the cotyles. The number of vertebrae is unknown but anterior, middle, and posterior presacral vertebrae are represented. The sacrum, which lacks postzygapophyses, possesses elongate, narrow alae and a cartilaginous intercentral articulation with a short urostyle. The appendicular skeleton exhibits a relatively primitive glenoid, prolongation of the iliac shaft, elongation of the hind limbs, radio-ulnar and tibiofibular fusion, and unfused, elongate proximal tarsals. Mobile sacro-urostylic and ilio-sacral joints are important kinetic links in the anuran caudopelvic mechanism for saltation. The angular appearance of the back common among living anurans reflects a pronounced flexure at the sacro-urostylic and ilio-sacral joints. During the launch phase of a jump, the sacrum+presacral vertebral column extends at these joints by the action of the longissimus dorsi muscles, aided by forelimb thrust. The urostyle remains fixed between the ilia by the coccygeo-iliacus muscles that transmit propulsive thrust from the ilia to the urostyle, and thence to the sacrum and presacral column. The juxtaposition of a shortened tail between elongate, anteriorly directed ilia in the Early Triassic salientian, Triadobatrachus massinoti, represents a primitive stage in the evolution of the anuran caudopelvic muscular linkage.
20627058|The recent discovery of early dinosauromorphs from North America demonstrates that they were contemporaries with dinosaurs and other basal archosaurs during a substantial portion of the Late Triassic Period. Hindlimb material (femora, tibiae, a fibula, astragalocalcanea, and phalanges) of Dromomeron romeri, a non-dinosauriform dinosauromorph from the Petrified Forest Member of the Chinle Formation from north-central New Mexico, is described. A new species of Dromomeron from the lower portion of the Chinle Formation (eastern Arizona) and Dockum Group (northern Texas) is also described, based on several disarticulated femora and tibiae. D. romeri, Lagerpeton, and the new taxon form the sister group to all other dinosauromorphs and demonstrate that this clade, Lagerpetidae, persisted well into the Norian. Lagerpetidae is supported by several synapomorphies: femoral head hook-shaped in medial and lateral views; ventral emargination on the anterolateral side of the femoral head; an enlarged posteromedial tuber of the proximal end of the femur; femoral crista tibiofibularis larger than the medial condyle; anteromedial corner of the distal end of the femur forms 90 or acute (>90) angle; and a posterior ascending process of the astragalus. An ontogenetic series of the femur of Dromomeron indicates that some character states previously used in phylogenetic analyses of early dinosaurs may be ontogenetically variable.
25835853|A new basal sauropodomorph dinosaur, Arcusaurus pereirabdalorum, sp. nov., is named and described on the basis of a partial, disarticulated but associated skull and dispersed cranial and postcranial elements from at least two individuals. Arcusaurus is part of a distinctive local fauna from the upper Elliot Formation (Lower Jurassic) in the Senekal District, Free State, South Africa. It can be diagnosed by various details of the premaxilla, nasal, and dentary in the skull and the shape of the distal caudal vertebrae. The taxon displays an unusual mix of characteristics. It lacks several synapomorphies of Plateosauria (Plateosaurus + Massospondylus and all descendants of their most recent common ancestor) but does display other derived characteristics that are otherwise known only from less inclusive clades within Plateosauria. In a cladistic analysis a position outside Plateosauria as the sister group of the clade of Efraasia + more-derived sauropodomorphs is supported; however, this position was not found to be a significantly better explanation of the data as a relatively derived position within Plateosauria. If the basal position for Arcusaurus is accepted, then a divergence from other sauropodomorphs in the middle Norian and a ghost lineage up to 35 Ma is implied. No other non-plateosaurian sauropodomorphs are known from the Jurassic, making Arcusaurus a potentially relictual taxon in the Early Jurassic.
25835824|New remains of an anuran and various squamate reptiles have been recovered from Cenomanian paralic deposits of Charentes (southwestern France). Remains are not abundant, yet they make up one of the most diverse Cenomanian assemblages and the most diverse one from Europe. Nine or 10 taxa are present. Precise taxonomic assignment of most of them is not always possible, even at family level; however, the mosasauroid Carentonosaurus mineaui, the snake Simoliophis rochebrunei, as well as a possible dolichosaurid lizard are identified. At least two taxa are new, but they cannot be named on the basis of the available material. Among the fossils are an anuran and terrestrial lizards that rank among the very scarce ones from the Cenomanian. In addition, three distinct snakes are among the oldest ones. The faunas from the Cenomanian of Charentes are mixtures of terrestrial and predominantly marine taxa.
20627124|The holotype of Dyoplosaurus acutosquameus Parks, 1924 (=Euoplocephalus tutus Lambe, 1910), represents one of the most complete ankylosaurid specimens collected to date. It consists of a partial skull roof, four mandible fragments with two teeth in situ, portions of postcranial armor (some in situ), skin impressions, articulated post-thoracic vertebrae, ten partial thoracic ribs, a partial left ilium, both ischia, and tail club, and associated right radius, left metacarpal IV, femur, tibia, fibula, and pes. We provide a detailed redescription of this material as well as comparisons with other ankylosaurid specimens referred to E. tutus. The synonymy of the genus with Euoplocephalus is not supported, and Dyoplosaurus is a valid taxon. It is possible that the fragmentary nature of the holotype of Euoplocephalus leads to the inference that the diversity of Late Cretaceous North American ankylosaurids is lower than it actually is. As such, it might be necessary to look beyond traditional cranial characters in order to accurately appraise the number and nature of various ankylosaurid taxa.
4524008|A new species of Coniasaurus, from the Lower Chalk Formation (Upper Cretaceous; Lower to Middle Cenomanian) of southeast England, is described. The type and only specimen preserves the right and left maxilla, frontal,? squamosal?, parietal, partial right and left pterygoids, right septomaxilla, partial right and left vomeropalatines, four articulated dorsal vertebrae, several fragmentary ribs, and the left scapula and coracoid. The maxilla and vertebrae of the new species are similar in form to equvialent elements from the genotype, Coniasaurus crassidens Owen, 1850. However, significant differences are found in maxillary tooth morphology, the number of maxillary teeth, and the length of the maxilla. In Coniasaurus, sp. nov., in contrast to the genotype, the maxilla is shorter and slightly more robust, the ascending process of the maxilla is taller (but lower as compared to other squamates), the crowns of the maxillary teeth are swollen and blunt-tipped, not bulbous, and without lateral sulci. Cladistic analysis of six mosasaur taxa, three 'aigialosaur' taxa, Coniasaurus crassidens, and Coniasaurus, sp. nov. (73 characters, 11 taxa in total) found 52 shortest cladograms (137 steps; CI 0.650; HI 0.350). A Strict Consensus Tree found the genus Coniasaurus to be monophyletic in all cladograms; the six mosasaur taxa also formed a monophyletic group nested higher in the cladogram. However, basal relationships between coniasaurs, the three aigialosaur taxa (Aigialosaurus dalmaticus, Aigialosaurus [=Opetiosaurus] buccichi, Carsosaurus marchesetti), and the mosasaur clade were unresolved. A Majority Rule Consensus tree found that in 58% of the cladograms, coniasaurs are the sister-group to a clade composed of mosasaurs and aigialosaurs. Previous suggestions of aigialosaur paraphyly cannot be verified or refuted by this analysis, however, coniasaurs are a basal clade within the larger clade containing mosasaurs and aigialosaurs.
4522994|A brief historical review of the discussion and evidence for a segmented head is given. The idea that the head is made up of a number of segments is accepted, and the number of segments is identified as five and one-half. The half is due to the fact that the sclerotomic segments alternate with myotomic ones. If the head is segmented, then structures can be assigned to segments. Several figures and a table summarize these assignments. A segmented head is viewed as part of the hypothesis that the vertebrate arose from a cephalochordate-like ancestor lacking a complex pharynx and having a better developed head.
25790810|Dipodid rodent fossils from Gashunyinadege at 17 Ma, one of the oldest Neogene localities in central Nei Mongol, China, include six genera (Heterosminthus, Plesiosminthus, Litodonomys, Sinodonomys, gen. nov., Omoiosicista, gen. nov., and Sicista) and nine species, including four new species (P. vegrandis, sp. nov., L. minimus, sp. nov., S. simplex, sp. nov., and O. fui, sp. nov.). The high diversity and abundance of dipodid rodents in Gashunyinadege indicate the evolution of basal dipodids was centered in Nei Mongol. Omoiosicista is described on the basis of eight isolated teeth and characterized by possessing one autapomorphy. This new taxon shares seven synapomorphies with Sicista, suggesting Sicista is the closest relative.
23251305|The genus Notopithecus is the best known and most abundant among the genera traditionally grouped as "Notopithecinae" (Notoungulata, Interatheriidae). Previous studies have described in detail the morphology of the skull of Notopithecus; however, its scarce appendicular bones were poorly characterized. Until now neither skulls nor associated skeletons were known for the other genera of this group. In this paper, the most complete individual of Notopithecus is described. The specimen MPEF-PV 1113 is in the vertebrate paleontology collection at the Museo Paleontolgico Egidio Feruglio, Trelew, and comes from Valle Hermoso, Chubut Province, Argentina. It includes the articulated cranium and mandible and most of the postcranial skeleton, with almost all the elements in anatomical position: many articulated vertebrae, scapula, humerus, radius, femur, tibia, fibula, calcaneum, astragalus, metapodials, and phalanges. The present contribution constitutes the first comparative study of the postcranial skeleton associated with the skull of an individual of Notopithecus, clarifying some systematic contradiction relative to the holotype of this taxon; at the same time, most of these elements are known for the first time for notopithecines. The appendicular skeleton of Notopithecus is significantly distinct from other known interatheriine interatheriids such as Federicoanaya sallaensis and Eopachyrucos ranchoverdensis from the Deseadan SALMA or Interatherium and Protypotherium from the Santacrucian SALMA. On the other hand, it presents some similarities with the Mesotheriidae Trachytherus and the generalized notoungulate Colbertia magellanica. The new specimen of Notopithecus offers the potential for morphofunctional studies and improving our understanding of the phylogeny of this group.
41515062|Deposits from the Fossil Butte Member of the Green River Formation preserve exceptional fossils from one of the most diverse Paleogene avifaunas worldwide. Stem lineage parrots are well represented in this avifauna. Here we report a new species of Pan-Psittaciformes (crown clade parrots and their stem lineage relatives). The new species shares several features with extant parrots that are not present in the contemporaneous, clades Halcyornithidae and Messelasturidae, including a wider pelvis, deeper trochlea cartilaginis tibialis, and larger pygostyle. Morphology of the foot suggests strong grasping ability and an arboreal ecology. Phylogenetic analysis of a combined data set of morphological and molecular sequence data resulted in limited support for a sister-group relationship between the new taxon and Quercypsittidae as well as a previously unrecognized clade including Vastanavidae, Halcyornithidae, and Messelasturidae. Regardless of whether this phylogeny or alternate hypotheses are preferred, a complex history of character evolution is inferred for key features related to the zygodactyl grasping foot within Pan-Psittaciformes.
4523132|The large reptilian marine predators of the Mesozoic preyed upon pelagic animals such as bony fish, sharks, soft cephalopods, belemnoids, ammonoids, and even each other. All had undifferentiated conical teeth of one of several forms ranging from a blunt, bulbous shape to a slender, sharply pointed cone, to a robust, slightly compressed cone with two distinct cutting edges. Tooth form, along with tooth wear and occasionally preserved stomach contents, suggests the preferred prey of each species. Seven somewhat overlapping predator types, or guilds, can be defined on the basis of tooth form and prey preference. Members of each guild have tooth morphologies which fall within a defined range, and thus they probably shared the same preferred prey. The guilds present in six well-preserved faunas of the Jurassic and Cretaceous illustrate the structure of and changes in the large marine predator adaptive zone. Six guilds co-existed for most of the Jurassic. Although the composition of some of the guilds changed in the Middle Jurassic, the kinds and number of guilds remained constant. Sometime before the Late Cretaceous, however, there was a major reorganization of the large marine predator adaptive zone resulting in a reduction in the number of reptilian guilds to three. Although the number of guilds increased in the later part of the Late Cretaceous, reptilian predators never attained their earlier diversity before the Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction ended their reign as the dominant large marine predators.
4523375|In Sylvilagus webbi, sp. nov. from the Blancan (Pliocene) and Irvingtonian (Pleistocene) of Florida, the posteroexternal reentrant of the p3 is rounded in its inner portion and does not extend to the lingual border, a structure that is also present in S. hibbardi. S. webbi differs from S. hibbardi in being significantly larger and in having a greater number of anterior reentrants on p3. S. webbi is the same size as the extant S. palustris, in which the posterior external reentrant extends to the lingual border. S. webbi may be the immediate ancestor of S. palustris.
4523931|Elliotsmithia longiceps Broom, 1937 is a varanopseid synapsid from the middle part of the Tapinocephalus Assemblage Zone (Late Permian) of the Abrahamskraal Formation (Beaufort Group), South Africa. Its placement within this basal eupelycosaur clade is supported by the presence of the following features: strongly recurved, mediolaterally flattened marginal dentition, a tall and posteroventrally enlarged temporal fenestra, a narrow lower temporal bar formed by the jugal and quadratojugal with only a small contribution from the maxilla, a long medial process of the parietal that extends far anteriorly over the orbital region, and distinctive ornamentation on three circumorbital bones. Analysis of varanopseid phylogenetic relationships indicates that Elliotsmithia is a sister taxon to the clade formed by the medium-sized North American varanopseids Varanops, Aerosaurus, and Varanodon. Elliotsmithia is unique among Paleozoic synapsids in showing evidence of supravertebral armor. Elliotsmithia is important biogeographically because it is the only known Permo-Carboniferous synapsid from the Southern Hemisphere in an assemblage dominated both numerically and taxonomically by therapsids. It demonstrates that Permo-Carboniferous synapsids were not excluded ecologically by therapsids and restricted to equatorial regions during the Late Permian.
20491037|A new eosauropterygian genus and species is described from the middle Anisian (Middle Triassic) of Panxian (Guizhou Province, southwestern China). The new taxon is characterized by an unique specialization of the jaws that form an elongate pointed rostrum furnished with numerous small, monocuspid and vertically oriented teeth with a basally expanded crown and pointed tip, which is quite unlike any other sauropterygian known. Other diagnostic characters include: frontals paired; parietal unpaired; pineal foramen located centrally in broad parietal skull table; two carpal ossification; ilium with distinct preacetabular process at the base of the dorsally extending iliac blade; pubis plate-like and of rounded contours; two tarsal ossifications. The curved and distally expanded humerus, the reversed topological relationship of the clavicle and scapula, and the presence of three sacral ribs indicate sauropterygian affinities of the new taxon, whereas the 'butterfly-shaped' or 'cruciform' facet for the neural arch on the dorsal centrum surface indicate its eosauropterygian status.
4523860|We analyzed 108 adult lower third premolars and 38 upper second premolars of leporids from the late Barstovian (ca. 13 Ma) Valentine Railway quarries in north-central Nebraska. Remains of two species of the archaeolagine genus Hypolagus are overwhelmingly abundant in four of five quarry samples. Both the large, primitive Hypolagus parviplicatus and the smaller, more derived H. fontinalis are represented by larger samples than have previously been available, including upper and lower jaws. At a fifth site remains of leporines, including a new species of Pronotolagus and a probable new species of Alilepus, outnumber those of Hypolagus. The leporines are characterized by lingual reentrants and/or an enamel lake on p3 and, possibly, by three anterior reentrants on P2. The new Pronotolagus is less derived than the oldest leporine previously known, P. apachensis of Clarendonian age (ca. 10 Ma), and probably descended from an earlier population of H. parviplicatus. The unnamed Alilepus, on the other hand, shows closer affinity to H. fontinalis. The existence of two well-differentiated leporine species in the late Barstovian of the Great Plains strongly supports a North American rather than Palaearctic origin for the Leporinae, the oldest Eurasian representatives of which are at least five million years younger than the Valentine species. The abundance of brachydont ungulates at the leporine-rich Valentine site indicates a more wooded paleoenvironment than those represented at the remaining archaeolagine-rich sites, suggesting that the Leporinae may have first evolved in a forested environment.
4524489|Deciduous premolars of Mammut americanum have received relatively little study, and previous work was based on small sample sizes. We present morphologic descriptions and quantitative data for a sample of over 135 deciduous premolars of M. americanum from Florida. Most second and third deciduous premolars are bilophodont, although a few anomalous teeth deviate from this pattern to a varying degree. Although the premolars are morphologically similar to the adult molars in many respects, differences in development of cingula, orientation of lophs and lophids, and relative strengths of enamel crests are observed. Distal cingula and stylar cusps are the most variable portions of the crown. Crown length increases distally along the tooth row, with no observed overlap in length between adjacent teeth.
4523796|A well-preserved skull of Simocyon, an extinct hypercarnivorous procyonid, is described from a late Miocene (Baodean; approximately 5.3-9 Ma) locality in north Shaanxi, China. New knowledge about its cranial morphology allows insight into its phylogenetic position among musteloid carnivorans. A sister-group relationship between the simocyonines and the ailurines (the East Asian red panda) is proposed on the basis of cranial and dental evidence. Shared derived characters in support of this relationship include: highly arched zygomatic arch; posteriorly extended posterior palatine border; long bony external auditory meatus; a posterolateral process of promontorium; ventrally ridged paroccipital process; anteriorly inclined coronoid crest; and lateral grooves on canines. The simocyonine-ailurine clade is in turn postulated to be within the procyonid clade because of its common possession of an enlarged M2 and an elongated talonid on m2. The new fossil evidence contradicts several recent phylogenetic studies (both morphological and molecular) that place the red panda (Ailurus) in various basal positions within the ursoid clade (including ursids, amphicyonids, and pinnipeds) instead of the musteloid clade. Analysis of the primitive morphotype at the base of the simocyonine-ailurine clade suggests that many of the characters in support of the ursoid relationship for Ailurus are primitive conditions or were independently derived within more restrictive clades.
25790800|A new pterodactyloid pterosaur is identified from the Early Cretaceous Doushan Formation of Laiyang, Shandong Province, China, based on a fragmentary humerus. The humerus exhibits several diagnostic characters: deltopectoral crest is elongate and un-warped, its base is slightly displaced relative to the humeral shaft axis, and the crest is swollen terminally and ventrally displaced; humeral shaft is straight and thin-walled with a 'D'-shaped cross-section. Based on these features, the specimen is referable to the superfamily Azhdarchoidea as Azhdarchidae indet. As the oldest known azhdarchid fossil, the specimen represents a significant stratigraphic range extension for the family. Other non-azhdarchid azhdarchoids such as tapejarids and chaoyangopterids are common in the Jiufotang Formation of western Liaoning, which possibly is equivalent to the Doushan Formation of Laiyang with an age of about 120 Ma. Consequently, the possible coexistence of these azhdarchoids lineages documents that the azhdarchids split from the main azhdarchoid clade occurred no later than the Early Cretaceous.
4524634|A new species of pufferfish from the Miocene (Messinian) of Algeria is described. The single specimen available consists of a fragment of the trunk region including abdominal and caudal vertebrae, dorsal and anal fin pterygiophores, and ventral postcleithrum. It can be referred to the genus Archeotetraodon on the basis of its bifid scale spinules covering the preserved portion of the body. The skeletal morphology of this new species is compared to that of the previously known Archeotetraodon species and of selected extant tetraodontids and used to formulate hypotheses about the potential muscle arrangement in the trunk region, its significance for the functional morphology of swimming and puffing behaviour, and the possible origin of pufferfish.
4523566|We provide a description of the complete adult and upper deciduous cheek dentition of ?Spermophilus cragini, previously known only from M1-M3, from the transitional Blancan-Irvingtonian Borchers locality, Meade County, Kansas. We also present evidence for two additional morphologically derived ground squirrels in the fauna. All three forms are united with the clade including Cynomys and Spermophilus, indicating early diversity in this clade on the Great Plains, but placement within the clade is less certain. ?Spermophilus cragini, the best represented of the three, is more derived in several features than known species of the subgenus Spermophilus but lacks some derived features expected in Cynomys. This fossil species resembled Cynomys in size and, likely, in biology. The other derived morphs from Borchers may belong to undescribed taxa but are too poorly represented to allow formal recognition; one (morph B) exhibits a derived structure of m3. None of the adequately known morphs from Borchers appear to be appropriate ancestors for the subgenus Spermophilus-Cynomys clade or for any extant supraspecific group within it.
4523735|Statistical analyses of measurement data and morphological studies of pterosaur fossils from the Upper Jurassic Solnhofen Limestone of Germany reveal the presence of year-classes resulting from repeated seasonal sampling of pterosaur populations. Year-classes of Rhamphorhynchus had previously been named as separate species. Similar year-classes of nominal species of Pterodactylus indicate that size-classes of some pterodactyloid species also had been named as separate species or genera. Lumping the nominal species reduces the Solnhofen pterosaur fauna to a small number of large species, and suggests that some long-held ideas about pterosaur evolution are incorrect.
20627044|The Palaeospinacidae are a highly diverse clade (> 30 species) within the Synechodontiformes, which are considered to be a monophyletic group of basal galeomorph sharks. Four genera, Macrourogaleus, Paraorthacodus, Palidiplospinax, and Synechodus, are included in the Palaeospinacidae, ranging in age from the Early Permian to the Paleogene. So far, the only described palaeospinacids from the Upper Jurassic lithographic limestones of southern Germany are several specimens of Macrourogaleus from the Solnhofen area, and a single one of Paraorthacodus jurensis from Nusplingen. The presence of Synechodus in the Upper Jurassic of southern Germany was only indicated by a single figured but undescribed tooth. An incomplete and disarticulated skeleton of a small neoselachian shark and additional isolated teeth from the Kimmeridgian of Baden-Wrttemberg represent the first record of Synechodus in the Upper Jurassic lithographic limestones of Germany. The skeleton includes parts of the vertebral column, the left palatoquadrate, the right Meckel's cartilage, several fragments of calcified cartilage of the cranial skeleton, 32 teeth, and several placoid scales. The dental features unique to this species include a slender and sub-triangular main cusp, a crown ornamentation consisting of long ridges, a basal reticulation pattern that does not extend basally to the crown-root boundary, and a basal labial depression of the main cusp in anterior teeth.
20490952|Recent studies have shown that the Middle Jurassic is a key time for understanding the origin and early evolution of crown group turtles, but few turtle-bearing localities from this epoch are known. This study adds to our knowledge by providing a detailed description of two poorly characterized specimens (IVPP-V6507 and IVPP-V8805) from the Middle Jurassic of China that previously were both assigned to the poorly known species Chengyuchelys baenoides. This reappraisal allows us to present new observations, images, and taxonomic conclusions about these specimens and others from the same locality (Dashanpu, Zigong Prefecture, Sichuan Province, China). With at least four species, Dashanpu is the most diverse locality from the Middle Jurassic; all other turtle localities from this time have only one species each. We place Chengyuchelys into a cladistic analysis of turtle relationships for the first time. Our analysis places Chengyuchelys as sister to Xinjiangchelys latimarginalis and solidly on the stem of Cryptodira. This result is surprising because Chengyuchelys retains mesoplastra. Nevertheless, derived osteological and scalation characters of this taxon drive its phylogenetic position as a relatively advanced stem cryptodire. This finding, combined with a reappraisal of other Middle Jurassic turtles from Asia, shows that the crown group Testudines had evolved by the Middle Jurassic. Unfortunately, many key specimens from Sichuan Province are still poorly characterized morphologically and stratigraphically. This lack of phylogenetic and temporal resolution hinders our understanding of the origins of extant turtle clades, but also highlights the importance of Jurassic Asian turtles for ultimately resolving these issues.
4524635|The cranial anatomy of Lydekkerina huxleyi, a lydekkerinid stereospondyl from the Lower Triassic Lystrosaurus Assemblage Zone (Beaufort Group; Karoo Basin) of South Africa, is redescribed in detail following additional preparation of the poorly known holotype specimen. Whereas previous studies failed to identify any uniquely derived characteristics of L. huxleyi, three autapomorphies are identified herein: the presence of paired, anterodorsal projections within the anterior palatal vacuity, vomerine shagreen, and a series of thickened ridges on the ventral surface of the skull roof. The low ridge on the quadrate ramus of the pterygoid in L. huxleyi, previously identified as the crista obliqua homologous to that of mastodonsauroids, is reinterpreted in light of new observations on rhinesuchids. The mandible is described in detail for the first time and is shown to possess an extensive denticle shagreen on all three coronoid elements (as in primitive stereospondyls), and a distinctly elongated, prong-like arcadian process of the postglenoid area. Characters that show intraspecific variation in L. huxleyi include the contribution of the lacrimal to the narial margin, the presence of an ectopterygoid tusk, the degree of development of the transverse flange of the pterygoid, and the number of anterior meckelian foramina on the mandible. Redescription of L. huxleyi permits a reassessment of lydekkerinid species diversity in the Karoo Basin: 'Broomulus dutoiti' and 'Limnoiketes paludinatans' are regarded as subjective junior synonyms of L. huxleyi. Morphologically, Eolydekkerina magna resembles L. huxleyi more closely than had been initially suggested, and is cautiously regarded as a distinct taxon.
4523488|The bone microstructure of three third metatarsals and two tibiae of differing sizes from Troodon formosus was examined. Bone in T. formosus passed through three ontogenetic stages: rapid fibro-lamellar, moderate lamellar-zonal, and slow avascular lamellar growth. Highly-vascularized fibro-lamellar bone accounted for the majority of growth, with adult size possibly being reached in 3 to 5 years. No significant growth occurred after T. formosus reached a body weight of roughly 50 kg (femur: tibia length 310:425 mm). Abundant vasculature together with dense Haversian bone suggests T. formosus had a relatively high metabolism. Other gross morphological features (large brain, large eyes, cursorial adaptations including high tibia: femur ratio) would indicate T. formosus was very active and possibly endothermic.
25790793|The late DevonianCarboniferous (DC) shark Thrinacodus has been known only from highly distinctive teeth since its first description from North America in 1875. The poor quality of illustrations of the type material meant that the thrinacodont tooth form remained unrecognized until the early 1980s when similar teeth were found in DC boundary beds in Australia. Since then, Thrinacodus taxa have been found globally with a Paleotethyan distribution. Discovery of articulated specimens in the Serpukhovian of Montana could have helped to clarify their phylogenetic relationships and paleobiology of Thrinacodus, but their first formal description has caused taxonomic confusion rather than resolving problems of the thrinacodont taxonomy. A new genus, Thrinacoselache Grogan and Lund, 2008, was mistakenly erected, the introduction of which is rectified here and supported by taxonomic arguments. A new interpretation of the phylogeny of Thrinacodus is proposed.
4523611|Therian petrosals from the Milk River and Oldman formations of Alberta are described. The Milk River specimen is the earliest known ear structure of a therian from North America and has a cochlea with one and a quarter turns. Two of the Oldman specimens are from marsupials, probably Eodelphis. These specimens provide significant new evidence about the earliest known otic structures in marsupials, including: absence of the promontory and stapedial grooves on the promontorium, presence of a prominent rostral tympanic process of the petrosal, achievement of a fully coiled cochlear canal, and development of the radial innervation system of the cochlea. Implications of the new findings are: 1) absence of the stapedial artery is consistently distributed in marsupials; 2) the rostral tympanic process of the petrosal has evolved more than once in marsupials; 3) a fully coiled cochlear canal had evolved in the therian ear by the Late Cretaceous; 4) a radial innervation complex of the cochlea evolved along with the coiled cochlea in the therian ear during the Late Cretaceous.
23361058|The oldest Miocene continental fauna in the Guadix-Baza depression from southern Spain is described in this paper. The small mammals remains from Cortijo de la Piedra fossil localities have a latest Vallesian (early Tortonian) age, and provide evidence of late Vallesian continental environments, which were unknown until now in southern Iberia. The age of the reported assemblage is previous to the establishment of the Guadix-Baza Basin sensu stricto. It represents the oldest Miocene continental mammalian fauna found thus far in southern Iberia, and proves the presence of connections with the foreland. The small mammals from Cortijo de la Piedra display a similar size and morphology as those recorded on the mainland, showing no particular traits that might be interpreted as insular features. These continental faunas suggest that the North-Betic Foreland Basin was at least partially closed at the end of the early Tortonian.
4524119|A new genus and species of stereospondyl temnospondyl, Nanolania anatopretia, is described from the Early Triassic Arcadia Formation (Rewan Group) of Queensland, Australia. N. anatopretia has several character states that suggest it belongs to the group of derived trematosaurian stereospondyls that include the Rhytidosteidae and Brachyopoidea. These include the absence of a lacrimal, an untwisted quadrate ramus of the pterygoid, and a shallow otic notch. It is tentatively referred to the Rhytidosteidae. N. anatopretia is the third temnospondyl taxon from the Arcadia Formation to be represented by a skull less than 50 mm long. The others are the basal stereospondyl Lapillopsis nana, and juveniles of the capitosaurid Parotosuchus aliciae. Given that Lapillopsis nana and Nanolania anatopretia are not known from any larger specimens, and that the temnospondyl fauna from the Arcadia Formation has been well sampled, it is suggested that they are species that never grew large. It seems quite likely that a diverse array of small temnospondyls lived alongside the larger temnospondyls of the Triassic elsewhere in the world but have not been discovered due to biases working against the preservation and collection of small temnospondyl specimens.
4524508|The cranial osteology of many prosauropod dinosaurs remains poorly described, hampering broader systematic studies of basal sauropodomorph interrelationships. Here, we present a detailed re-description of the skull of Lufengosaurus huenei Young. 1941a. from the Lower Lufeng Formation (Lower Jurassic) of China. Lufengosaurus can be diagnosed on the basis of four cranial autapomorphies (the presence of bony bosses on the ascending process of the maxilla, the jugal. and the rostrolateral wing of the parietal, and the presence of a ridge on the lateral surface of the maxilla) and distinguished from all other prosauropods by a unique combination of cranial character states. Previous suggestions that Lufengosaurus is congeneric with either Massospondylus or Yunnanosaurus are rejected on the basis of craniodental evidence. Comparison with published character codings for Lufengosaurus reveals numerous discrepancies that are demonstrated to affect the phylogenetic position of the genus and patterns of sauropodomorph interrelationships.
4524256|Septentrogon madseni, gen. et sp. nov. is assigned to the family Trogonidae (Aves: Trogoniformes), based on a well-preserved neurocranium from the latest Paleocene-earliest Eocene Fur Formation in north-western Denmark. The taxonomic assignment to Trogonidae is based on an overall similarity and the diagnostic character state of the zygomatic processes, being mediolaterally flattened and rounded in circumference. The specimen is identified as a separate genus and species based on slight proportional differences of the frontals, braincase and zygomatic processes. This new fossil trogon exceeds the hitherto oldest known trogon (and only other known fossil trogon with cranial elements preserved), Primotrogon wintersteini Mayr (1999) by more than 20 Ma. The significant similarity between S. madseni and extant trogons implies that trogons as a taxonomic group morphologically has stayed nearly stationary through time. The palaeoenvironment and palaeoclimate of northern Europe in late Paleocene and early Eocene corresponds well with that in which extant trogons live, and trogons may have followed the movement of the (sub-)tropical climatic belt toward the equator through the Cenozoic rather than adapt to new climatic and environmental conditions.
41407663|Psilopterus lemoinei, the largest species in this genus, was a small terror bird weighing 8-9 kg, and was a ground bird with functionally tridactyl feet. New remains of this phorusrhacid, including an exceptionally preserved anterior part of a skull recovered from the Patagonian Killik Aike Norte locality (Santa Cruz Formation, late early Miocene), is now available for study. The main purpose of this paper is to provide a detailed morphological description of Psilopterus lemoinei. The new fossils show for the first time that the internal structure of the beak is hollow and reinforced with thin-walled trabeculae. The absence of zona flexoria palatina and zona flexoria arcus jugalis are key features related to the evolution of cranial akinesis. Homologies of the narial and fenestra antorbitalis boundaries have been clarified. Our re-examination allows the establishment of primary osteological homologies useful in comparative anatomy, functional morphology, and phylogenetic studies.
4523612|Well-preserved dentitions of a new genus and two species of basal lipotyphlan insectivoran, Carnilestes, are described from the early(?)-middle Paleocene Shanghu Formation, Nanxiong Basin, Guangdong Province, China. As the earliest east Asian record of a lipotyphlan, Carnilestes is distinct from primitive eutherians and leptictids in its rectangular upper molars with reduced stylar shelves, and transversely oriented, crestiform paraconid on the lower molars. Carnilestes differs from east Asian micropternodontid palaeoryctoids in its lack of transversely elongated upper molars, its isolated paracone and metacone on the upper molars, and its low trigonids. Carnilestes is peculiar in lacking the last molar (an autapomorphy), paralleling the condition of such Asiatic forms as the micropternodontid palaeoryctoids Prosarcodon and Sarcodon, and the erinaceid erinaceomorph Exallerix.
4523102|A portion of a proximal right femur from Coco Ree Cave, Jamaica, provides additional evidence of the primate radiation in the West Indies. The cave material is late Pleistocene and predates human occupation in the area. The specimen is slightly larger than the femur of Pithecia, within the range of other known Antillean primates. It differs markedly from the femora of large-bodied platyrrhines and is most similar in derived characters to those of the dwarfed callitrichids from South America. More than one platyrrhine lineage may be represented in the Greater Antillean fauna despite the apparent uniformity in body size of the known fossils.
42568669|The vertebrate fauna of the Cloverly Formation has been studied for more than 75 years, but remains poorly sampled and incompletely understood. We undertook an extensive survey of the formation that resulted in the discovery of several new, highly productive vertebrate microfossil bonebeds (VMBs). Comprehensive sampling of these and other sites has nearly doubled the known vertebrate diversity of the Cloverly Formation. In addition to the comparatively well-known dinosaurs, this augmented faunal list includes hybodontoid sharks, numerous bony fishes, three lissamphibian lineages, lizards, multiple crocodylians, and several new mammal occurrences. The known Cloverly vertebrate fauna now more closely resembles those of other late Early Cretaceous formations in North America, indicating broad similarities across wide geographic areas at this time. In addition, this work underscores the important role VMBs can play in areas previously studied primarily through surface prospecting and quarrying, especially for assessing paleoecology and species diversity.
23251282|We describe new avian remains from the middle Eocene of eastern Ukraine. The material includes wellpreserved bones of a small species of Pelagornithidae (bony-toothed birds), which was tentatively identified as Odontopteryx toliapica in an earlier study. The Ukrainian pelagornithid is, however, distinguished from this species and other early Eocene pelagornithids in several features, and we describe it as Lutetodontopteryx tethyensis, gen. et sp. nov. The new material includes the most complete pseudodentition of a small Paleogene pelagornithid, and details of pseudotooth morphology strengthen previous assumptions that the pseudodentition of pelagornithids derives from tooth-specific developmental programs and is homologous to true avian teeth on a molecular level. Most major postcranial bones of L. tethyensis are represented by well-preserved bones, and in some derived morphological features the Ukrainian species agrees with Neogene pelagornithids but differs from the early Eocene Dasornis species. We also report a partial sternum of a much larger bony-toothed bird, which resembles the sternum of the middle Eocene Gigantornis eaglesomei. We further describe previously unknown skeletal elements of the loon Colymbiculus udovichenkoi (Gaviiformes), which show that this species substantially differs, in both wing and leg morphology, from the well-known gaviiform stem-group taxon Colymboides.
23361069|A new genus and species of cyathaspid heterostracan, Capitaspis giblingi, gen. et sp. nov., is described from the Late Silurian (Pridolian) Upper Member of the Somerset Island Formation, Northwest Territories, Canada. The new species is most closely related to Pionaspis in the subfamily Cyathaspidinae, family Cyathaspididae, showing similarity in the presence of distinct central, anterior, and lateral epitega and in overall size and proportions, but differing in details of the ridge pattern. The unique specimen of the new taxon has an articulated oral cover that consists of a series of postoral and oral plates. Because the oral cover is almost unknown for cyathaspids, this specimen increases our knowledge of the range of oral structures in this family beyond the simple structures known for Poraspis and Anglaspis.
20062006|Acanthodians, osteostracans, and putative chondrichthyans from the Lower Devonian (Lochkovian) 'MOTH' locality are found to have granular labyrinth infillings located immediately posterior to the orbits and composed of fine, sand-sized particles. They were examined under light and scanning electron microscopes and an elemental analysis (EDX) was performed. The infillings contain large proportions of silica, calcium carbonate, and dolomite, as well as minor proportions of elements such as aluminum, iron, and potassium. These results were similar to elemental analysis of the rock matrix. The inability of the fish to manufacture some of the minerals confirms that the labyrinth infilling consists at least partly of extrinsic grains. Endolymphatic pores, the openings through which this material probably entered the labyrinth, are seen in osteostracans, but have seldom been reported in acanthodians and never in basal (putative) chondrichthyans. No undoubted otoliths were seen in any of the specimens. The presence of similar statoconia, including extrinsic grains, in all three groups indicates a common inner ear physiology and presence of open endolymphatic ducts. The phylogenetic distribution of this feature suggests that it is primitive for osteostracans + gnathostomes, and that placoderm ancestors also had open endolymphatic ducts that functioned to allow entry of extrinsic grains into the labyrinth.
40666194|A new species of the genus Adriosaurus Seeley, 1881, Adriosaurus skrbinensis, is described and diagnosed by the following unique features: presence of 30 dorsal vertebrae; much larger body size than that of A. suessi and A. microbrachis (about 60% larger); forelimbs much more reduced than the hind limbs, i.e., with a humerus/femur ratio of only 0.40; parietal foramen lying on the suture line between frontal and parietal; and anterior margin of the parietal convex anteriorly. Further features observed in A. skrbinensis, but obscured or poorly preserved in other adriosaurs, include intercentra articulating with (not fused or sutured to) cervical vertebrae; presence of high, rectangular neural spines on caudal vertebrae; very long chevron bones articulated to posterior ventral margin of caudal vertebrae; pubic bone with well-developed square anterior process and distinct pubic foramen. This new fossil suggests variability in the dorsal vertebrae count of Adriosaurus, ranging between 28 and 30. Similar to what has been observed in living scincids and anguids, there seems to be a direct relationship between axial elongation and shortening of the humrus in Adriosaurus. Cladistic analysis resulted in one shortest cladogram that places A. skrbinensis as the sister taxon to A. suessi.
41407666|Griphotherion peiranoi, a new genus and species of notoungulate from northwestern Argentina, is presented here. The material studied consists of a nearly complete skull and part of the postcranial skeleton, recovered in the Lumbrera Formation (Eocene) at the locality of El Simbolar (Salta Province, northwestern Argentina). The specimen was evaluated in terms of a matrix of 28 craniodental characters and compared with 11 typotherian genera. Additionally, characters of the new taxon were compared to those included in a previously published data matrix that includes several native South American ungulates. The particular features present in the specimen indicate unequivocally that this is a new notoungulate taxon; nevertheless, due to its distinctiveness, we opted not to place the novel taxon in any of the known families of Notoungulata. The results of the analyses performed indicate that G. peiranoi is closely related to Mesotheriidae, Hegetotheriidae, and Archaeohyracidae. These families represent the ' rodent-like' notoungulates that evolved during the Late Paleogene and the Neogene. This new record contributes to our knowledge of the Eocene notoungulate fauna of northwerstern Argentina. It also supports the broader perspective that this region played an important role as an area of origin and diversification for several lineages of this remarkable order of endemic South American ungulates. Se presenta un nuevo gnero y especie de notoungulado del noroeste argentino, Griphotherion peiranoi. El material estudiado consiste en un crneo casi completo y la parte anterior del esqueleto postcraneal y fue colectado en niveles de la Formacin Lumbrera (Eoceno) en la localidad de El Simbolar (provincia de Salta, noroeste argentino). El espcimen fue incluido en una matriz de 28 caracteres craneodentales y 11 gneros de tipoterios. Adicionalmente, el nuevo taxn fue incluido en una matriz de datos con varios ungulados nativos sudamericanos previamente publicada. Las caractersticas particulares presentes en el espcimen indican que se trata indudablemente de un nuevo taxn de notoungulado. Por lo tanto, se eligi una hiptesis taxonmica abierta y el taxn no fue incluido en ninguna de las familias conocidas para el orden. Los resultados de los anlisis realizados indican que G. peiranoi esta cercanamente relacionado a Mesotheriidae, Hegetotheriidae y Archaeohyracidae. Estas familias representan los notoungulados ' rodentiformes' que evolucionaron durante la ltima parte del Palegeno y el Negeno. Este nuevo registro mejora el conocimiento de las faunas de notoungulados en el noroeste argentino y apoya la idea de que esta regin jug un papel importante como rea de origen y diversificacin para varios linajes de este importante orden de ungulados nativos sudamericanos.
20062012|Late Famennian assemblages of chondrichthyan microremains, especially teeth, from Nevada and Utah representing two zones of different water depth are analysed and compared to formerly described pelagic chondrichthyan biofacies from the areas between S Euramerica and NW Gondwana. The assemblage from the deeper (deep to moderately deep subtidal) zone is comparable to the Phoebodus-Thrinacodus biofacies, but it lacks such typical forms as Ph. gothicus and Th. tranquillus. The assemblage from the shallower (shallow subtidal) zone might be an equivalent of the Protacrodus biofacies from which it differs in containing Th. ferox and some other shallow water taxa, thus far unknown or very rarely found from the Famennian of central Europe and Africa. New definitions of chondrichthyan biofacies are proposed.
20490955|A new species of the basal tylosaurine mosasaur Taniwhasaurus, is described from materials collected from upper Santonian-lower Campanian marine clastics outcropping near Mikasa City, Island of Hokkaido, Japan. The type species, Taniwhasaurus oweni Hector, 1874, was originally described from a partial frontal and right and left dentaries collected from the middle Campanian, Conway Siltstone Formation at Haumuri Bluff, New Zealand. Taniwhasaurus n. sp. shares the diagnostic features of the generic type (i.e., prefrontal forms portion of naris precluding frontal-maxillary contact), but is differentially diagnosed at the specific level by features of the teeth (number of flutes), the postorbitofrontal morphology, the contact and degree of overlap of the premaxilla and frontal, and the morphology of the jugal. Recent recharacterization and rediagnosis of Lakumasaurus antarcticus Novas et al., 2002, as Taniwhasaurus antarcticus, establishes the existence of a third species of the genus, and broadens the paleogeographic and stratigraphic distribution of these animals in Upper Cretaceous circum-Pacific basins. These three species range temporally from the upper Santonian-lower Campanian to upper Campanian, and geographically, from the northern to the southern hemisphere. Endemism of the previously recognized species of Taniwhasaurus is contradicted by recognition of the first Japanese Taniwhasaurus.
25835883|An unusual specimen of a perissodactyl from the Bridgerian (late early to early middle Eocene) of Wyoming provides the basis for a new genus and species, Mesolambdolophus setoni. The specimen (MCZ 19585) displays an unusual combination of features: first lower premolar absent; p2 and p3 not molariform; p4 submolariform; anterior end of metalophid lingually placed, contacting metaconid; metaconid not twinned; and large hypoconulid on m3. The orientation of the metalophid excludes this specimen from Ceratomorpha, and the size and characters of this specimen exclude it from any known genus of Bridgerian perissodactyl, as well as from any other Eocene perissodactyl taxon. Including this taxon in a phylogenetic analysis of basal perissodactyls places Mesolambdolophus as sister taxon to Tapiromorpha, but we consider any assessment of the position of Mesolambdolophus tentative at best, given the limitations of analyses of basal perissodactyls currently available. The presence of a small Bridgerian 'hippomorph' form that is larger than Orohippus reduces the reliability of assigning isolated postcrania to Bridgerian perissodactyl taxa on the basis of size.
20627079|New Zealand's late Pleistocene and Holocene Haast's eagle (Harpagornis moorei) was the sole predator of the moa (Aves: Dinornithiformes) and the largest eagle so far described. Recent molecular evidence has hypothesised that it evolved from a much smaller Asian/Australian eagle within the past 1.8 my. Osteometry and high-resolution spiral computed tomography of skeletal remains of Haast's eagle were used to determine morphological and functionally significant characteristics of the central and peripheral nervous system and sensory apparatuses and to test these against hypotheses about behavior and evolution based on molecular and external morphology. Compared with other accipitrids, Haast's eagle had a proportionally low endocranial volume for its body weight. There was no anatomical evidence to support the significant use of olfaction by Haast's eagle, as the olfactory bulb size and cross-sectional area of the olfactory nerve foramen were no larger than would be expected for Accipitridae of this body weight. Both the size of the neural canal at the cervicothoracic junction and the brachial spinal quotient (ratio of neural canal area at cervicothoracic and caudal thoracic levels) were low, suggesting that the spinal cord at brachial levels was also small. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that Harpagornis had evolved to large size from a smaller ancestor and that the ancestors of Haast's eagle appear to have undergone rapid expansion of body size and elements of the hindlimb somatic nervous system at the expense of enlargement of the brain and visual, olfactory, and vestibular apparatuses.
20627061|The lacustrine deposits of the Jiufotang Formation, Liaoning Province, China have yielded a diverse avifauna representing a wide spectrum of basal lineages. Here we add to this diversity by describing the longirostrine enantiornithean taxon Rapaxavis pani gen. et sp. nov. The specimen possesses the following autapomorphies: (1) caudoateral processes of the sternum with two prominent branches and a smaller third branch, (2) paired triangular thoracic elements of unknown homology, and (3) the combination of six sacral vertebrae and six free caudal vertebrae. Otherwise, this genus is closely allied with the Yixian Formation species Longirostravis hani, sharing elongate, curving rostrum with teeth restricted to the premaxilla and rostral-most dentary, and a derived manus lacking unguals. The holotype of Rapaxavis is exquisitely preserved, with such details as distal tarsals, keratinous sheaths of the pedal unguals and some three-dimensional features of the bones intact. The holotype appears to lack a fused tibiotarsus and a fused carpometacarpus. These features may indicate that the specimen is not yet fully grown, though the life stages of members of the Enantiornithes will not be clear until a complete ontogenetic series can be constructed. A comparison of the proportions of the pedal phalanges of Rapaxavis to modern birds shows Rapaxavis to be highly adapted to a grasping, arboreal lifestyle. The combination of strongly arboreal pedal adaptations and the probing adaptations in the rostrum is here confirmed in a member of the Enantiornithes for the first time in the literature, adding to their already impressive known functional diversity.
42568645|We describe newly recovered cranial material of Bunostegos akokanensis, a pareiasaurian reptile known from the Upper Permian Moradi Formation of northern Niger. Bunostegos is highly autapomorphic, with diagnostic cranial features including two or three hemispherical bosses located above and between the external nares; laterally projecting supraorbital 'horn' formed by an enlarged postfrontal; large foramen present on ventral surface of postfrontal; and hemispherical supratemporal boss located at posterolateral corner of skull roof. We addressed the phylogenetic position of Bunostegos by incorporating it into a cladistic analysis of 29 parareptilian taxa (including all 21 currently valid pareiasaurs) and 127 cranial and postcranial characters. The results of this analysis place Bunostegos as more derived than middle Permian forms such as Bradysaurus and as the sister taxon to the clade including Deltavjatia plus Velosauria. Certain characters, such as the pattern of cranial ornamentation and the size and placement of the tabulars, appear to be more similar to more derived pareiasaurs such as Elginia from Scotland and Arganaceras from Morocco, but the most parsimonious tree topology indicates that these features were evolved independently in the Nigerien form. The lack of both dicynodont herbivores and Glossopteris, combined with the presence of a giant herbivorous captorhinid, indicates a markedly different community structure in the Permian of Niger compared with those for contemporaneous southern Pangean basins (i.e., Karoo, Luangwa, Ruhuhu). The endemic tetrapod fauna of Niger supports the theory that central Pangea was biogeographically isolated from the rest of the supercontinent by desert-like conditions during Late Permian times.
4522961|A size series of thirty-five specimens of Eusthenopteron foordi Whiteaves, 1881, shows isometric and allometric changes. As in Recent fishes, the main difference between small (juvenile) and large (adult) specimens is the relative size of the orbit and of the head. The large relative decrease of the orbit diameter from 31% to 12-7% of head length (b = 0.632) explains the positive allometric growth of bones surrounding the orbit, i.e., the change from a palaeoniscoid-like juvenile to a typical rhipidistian with an elongated postorbital region. With the exception of the caudal prolongation, all fin positions remain isometric to standard length.
4523630|Examination of hundreds of shed and intact tyrannosaurid teeth from several taxa and formations revealed that the presence of split carinae is widespread. Approximately 11% of the surveyed teeth showed some degree of expression of this trait. Split carinae were found in Tyrannosaurus rex, Daspletosaurus sp., Albertosaurus sp., and Alectrosaurus olsoni. The trait is also found in non-tyrannosaurids (e.g., Allosaurus fragilis). Trauma, aberrant tooth replacement, or genetic factors may have led to the development of split carinae, although the latter finds the most support. If the split carinae are caused by genetic factors, they may prove valuable in assessing the dispersion patterns and evolution of the tyrannosaurids.
4522943|Members of the family Baenidae cease significant growth and co-ossify the shell as adults. Recognition of adults allows size to be effectively used as a means of taxon discrimination in taxonomic, stratigraphic, and ecologic studies. The feature is used to discriminate the Eocene genera Baena and Chisternon and trace their increase in size through time.
4523603|The study of fossil and extant dipnoan dentitions shows that the shagreen of denticles found in such Devonian genera as Uranolophus and Griphognathus is not primitive for the group, that the ontogeny of the extant Neoceratodus is not a guide to the primitive adult tooth plate, that homology between teeth on dipnoan tooth plates and polyphyodont marginal teeth of other osteichthyans has not been established, and that the Chinese Devonian genus Diabolepis should not be regarded as a dipnoan. We conclude that no convincing argument has been advanced to destroy our contention that the primitive dipnoan plate was a relatively featureless sheet that was added to at the margins by the incorporation of small enamel-covered dentine blisters, and was thickened by resorption of the basal bone and subsequent ingrowth by pleromic dentine.
4523255|Multituberculate mammals are considered to lack a jugal bone in the zygoma, the latter being composed only of zygomatic processes of the maxilla and squamosal. A jugal has been discovered in the Paleocene ptilodontid Ptilodus montanus; it is an elongate plate-like element that in life lay against the medial surface of the zygoma and was not exposed laterally. The jugal extends from the floor of the orbit back nearly to the glenoid. Among other ptilodontoids, the jugal is preserved in a specimen of the Eocene neoplagiaulacid Ectypodus tardus. Among taeniolabidoids, the jugal is preserved in specimens of the Late Cretaceous Nemegtbaatar gobiensis and Chulsanbaatar vulgaris; its precise size is uncertain but it is relatively smaller than that of Ptilodus. Impressions on the inner surface of the zygomatic process of the maxilla indicate the presence of a large jugal in Late Jurassic paulchoffatiids. It is suggested that the expansion of the zygomatic process of the maxilla and restriction of the jugal to the inside of the zygoma, where it spans the maxillary-squamosal suture, served to increase the ability of the zygoma to resist primarily downward bending and longitudinal compression caused by forces exerted by enlarged masseter muscles in the earliest multituberculates.
42568677|The late early Miocene Santa Cruz Formation of southern Argentina is one of the most productive fossil mammal-bearing formations in South America. Hundreds of species have been named from this formation, resulting in a clear overestimation of Santa Cruz mammal diversity. Recent paleoecological studies have attempted to minimize this problem by analyzing more restricted faunal lists based only on recently collected fossil samples. In some cases, this approach has excluded clearly recognizable Santa Cruz taxa. In this study, I use a family-level rarefaction analysis of the Yale Peabody Collection of Santa Cruz fossils to test whether such absences are likely due to smaller sample size or to other factors. I further attempt to reconcile these absences using distributional data from recent and historical Santa Cruz Formation collections. The rarefaction analysis indicates that most single-locality samples from the Santa Cruz Formation have lower familial diversity than expected based on the taxonomic distribution of specimens in the Princeton University Collection at Yale Peabody Museum (YPM-PU) as a whole. However, I conclude that single-locality samples are not necessarily more appropriate than multi-locality samples for paleoecological analyses of ancient Santa Cruz Formation mammal communities given the large regional extent of the Santa Cruz Formation and the large geographic area encompassed by most modern communities used for comparison. This study highlights the need for more precise stratigraphie correlations among Santa Cruz localities and integration of important historical collections into a modern stratigraphie framework.
4523673|Remains of Eremotherium, representing a large-sized megatheriid ground sloth, are known from localities in North, Central, and South America. Usually these remains are currently assigned to the following three species, based largely on geographic provenance: E. laurillardi (Lund), E. mirabile (Leidy), and E. rusconii (Schaub). However, two large, recently recovered collections of Eremotherium remains from Jacobina, Bahia, Brazil, and Daytona Beach, Florida, USA, do not support the separation of these species. Instead, these collections demonstrate the existence of a single Panamerican species. The range of variation is larger than was suspected and the morphological characteristics used in species distinction are not diagnostically valid. The valid name for this species is E. laurillardi (Lund, 1842). The type is a juvenile molariform (ZMUC 1130) from the Pleistocene of Lagoa Santa, Minas Gerais, Brazil. E. mirabile (Leidy, 1855) and E. rusconii (Schaub, 1935) fall as junior synonyms.
4522997|Chondrichthyans (sharks, rays and holocephalans) are subjected to cladistic analysis in order to identify possible monophyletic groups. Chondrichthyan monophyly is established on the basis of several apomorphic characters, of which the most convincing is the presence of a mineralized layer of prismatic perichondral tissue of a unique type. Modern elasmobranchs are united with the Jurassic Palaeospinax by several synapomorphies. Palaeospinax and some other fossil sharks are sequenced as successive sister-groups to modern elasmobranchs. It is concluded that elasmobranchs and chimaeroids are monophyletic sister-groups, but that sharks are not monophyletic unless holocephalans are included.
4523986|A second specimen of Piveteauia madagascariensis (Sarcopterygii, Actinistia) from the Lower Triassic of Madagascar, very well-preserved compared to the holotype, adds to our knowledge of the genus. It is characterized by an anterior position of the pelvic fins, a lachrymojugal very elongated and slightly curved, and a palatal surface of the entopterygoid covered with numerous parallel rows and tiny rounded denticles. The new specimen shows also some peculiar elements such as remains of the calcified bladder consisting of superimposed plates with parallel striations and enigmatic spherical bodies extending from the area of the pectoral fin to that of the pelvic fin.
4523257|New dental and skeletal remains of Prothoatherium colombianus, from the Miocene of Huila Department, Colombia, are described and discussed. The species, originally described as a didolodontid condylarth, is an advanced proterotheriid litoptern closely allied to Prothoatherium species from the Colhuehuapian of Patagonia. This further substantiates the primitive aspect of the La Venta Fauna, from whence the Colombian species came. Prothoatherium colombianus is of special interest because it is the smallest known advanced proterothere and because it is skeletally morphotypic to Thoatherium, a Santacrucian genus and the most completely monodactyl known mammal. In body size, skeletal adaptations, and presumed diet, P. colombianus is most similar to small, cursorially-adapted, forest-dwelling Recent ungulates and rodents. This accords with the hypothesis that the La Venta assemblage represents a forest or woodland savanna community.
4523209|Snake fossils from the early Hemphillian Higgins local fauna of Lipscomb County, Texas, include Charina prebottae Brattstrom, Paleoheterodon tiheni Holman, Miocoluber dalquesti gen. et sp. nov. Coluber or Masticophis, and Thamnophis cf. T. sirtalis or T. proximus. Miocoluber is a small colubrid similar in vertebral morphology to Paracoluber Holman and Coluber Linnaeus, but distinct from any living or fossil taxon. Based on these and other Hemphillian-age snakes from Texas, it appears that part of the midcontinental snake fauna changed to its modern composition between mid-Hemphillian and Blancan time.
4523356|Two specimens collected recently from the middle Wichita Group (Wolfcampian-Leonardian Series, Early Permian) of Baylor and Archer Counties, Texas, represent a new sphenacodontid pelycosaur, Ctenorhachis jacksoni, gen. et sp. nov. The type includes of an articulated column of 31 vertebrae (presumably numbers 4 through 34) and an attached, nearly complete pelvis; the second specimen consists primarily of dorsal vertebrae. The vertebrae are typically sphenacodontid, with well-developed keels in the cervical and anterior dorsal series and pronounced pits on the lateral surface of the neural arch above elongated transverse processes. The pelvis is very similar to, if not indistinguishable from, Dimetrodon. Ctenorhachis is distinguished from all other sphenacodontids by neural spines that are only modestly heightened and uniformly blade-like antero-posteriorly. These spines are more primitive than those of Dimetrodon and Secodotosaurus and possibly more primitive than those of Ctenospondylus. A survey of sphenacodontid taxa from the Wichita Group of North-Central Texas indicates that existing classifications are handicapped by fragmentary type specimens that may be generically indeterminate and by a reliance upon size differences that are largely unquantified and upon stratigraphic data of questionable significance.
4524231|Fieldwork conducted since 1981 has greatly increased the sample of proboscidean fossils from Wadi Moghara, Egypt. The Moghara proboscidean assemblage is taxonomically more diverse than previously suspected, comprising four taxa: Gomphotheriwn angustidens libycum, Afrochoerodon kisumuensis, cf. Archaeobelodon, and Zygolophodon aegyptensis, sp. nov. Biochronological analysis of the proboscideans supports previous findings based on the remainder of the fauna that the age of Moghara is early Miocene, approximately 18-17 Ma. The composition of the Moghara proboscidean assemblage suggests complex biogeographic distribution patterns of proboscideans throughout Eurasia and Afro-Arabia during the early Miocene. Moghara and other pene-contemporaneous Afro-Arabian sites were apparently characterized by a relatively high degree of mammalian species-level endemism.
41515283|Argyrosaurus superbus is one of the earliest-named Argentinean dinosaurs. The holotype comprises a complete forelimb, probably from the upper member of the Bajo Barreal Formation (Late Cretaceous), Chubut Province. Numerous remains have been referred to Argyrosaurus from Argentina and Uruguay; however, the type specimen has not been adequately diagnosed and referrals have predominantly been based upon their large size. Here we redescribe Argyrosaurus, demonstrating it to be a valid titanosaur genus based on five autapomorphies, as well as an unique character combination. The exact placement of Argyrosaurus within Titanosauria is uncertain, although the probable presence of carpal bones, otherwise unknown in titanosaurs, may indicate a basal position. None of the referred remains can be attributed to Argyrosaurus, and most should be regarded as indeterminate titanosauriforms. The exception to this is a partial skeleton from the lower member of the Bajo Barreal Formation (early Late Cretaceous), Chubut Province, comprising dorsal and caudal vertebrae, as well as numerous appendicular elements. This specimen is distinct from Argyrosaurus and can also be differentiated from other sauropods based on an unusual character combination (including plesiomorphic tarsus), plus one autapomorphy. Elaltitan lilloi, gen. et sp. nov., displays numerous titanosaur characters and snares several features with derived taxa such as Neuquensaurus, Opisthocoelicaudia, Rapetosaurus, Saltasaurus, and Trigonosaurus. Elaltitan can be referred to Lithostrotia; however, its precise position within this clade must await future phylogenetic analysis. The revision and description of the titanosaurs Argyrosaurus and Elaltitan provides new information on this diverse but still poorly understood clade.
4524746|A Ctenochasma specimen from the latest Jurassic of eastern France is described in detail and referred to Ctenochasma sp. The preserved braincase of this specimen has a bird-like lateral position of the optic lobes, with proportionally a smaller size than in birds, the bones surrounding it being thick and hollow. An original biometric analysis, based on skull length and tooth number, has been performed using a selection of Late Jurassic Pterodactyloidea of Europe. This study suggests that Ctenochasma gracile and Ctenochasma porocristata are senior synonyms of Pterodactylus elegans and Pterodactylus antiquus of Pterodactylus kochi. It also reveals that Pterodactylus elegans may be transferred to Ctenochasma. These results obtained with biometric analyses are confirmed by morphological observations. This study could not determine if Pterodactylus micronyx is a juvenile of C. roemeri, the Ctenochasma of Saint Dizier or Gnathosaurus subulatus. Because this species is only composed of juveniles, more data are needed to determine its adult morphology. The genus Ctenochasma is thus represented by three species, C. elegans, C. roemeri and C. sp., and Pterodactylus by two, P. antiquus and P. longicollum, all from the Late Jurassic of Germany and France. This study points out a biological anomaly: all the teeth are not present in a hatching pterosaur, but their number increase progressively during growth, with new teeth erupting from the front of the jaws. This phenomenon is particularly spectacular in Ctenochasma elegans, where the tooth number increases progressively from 60 to more than 400 teeth during growth.
4524581|A postcranial skeleton of the viverravid carnivoran, Viverravus acutus from the early Eocene of Wyoming, is described and compared to contemporary carnivorans (the viverravid Didymictis, and the miacids Miacis and Vulpavus), and to extant taxa belonging to the families Mustelidae, Procyonidae, Canidae, Viverridae, and Herpestidae. Based on humeral and femoral midshaft diameters, body mass for this animal is estimated to have been about 250 g, less than all but a few living species of Carnivora. Shoulder and hip morphology indicate a considerable range of motion and the structure of the humeroulnar joint suggests habitually flexed postures, characteristics typical of extant carnivorans that are excellent climbers. These similarities are also shared with miacids, supporting the hypothesis that basal members of the order Carnivora were well adapted for exploiting arboreal habitats. An astragalus tentatively attributed to the middle Eocene species Viverravus gracilis, however, is similar to that of Didymictis and suggests a greater emphasis on terrestrial locomotion than is found in miacids.
4523444|Preliminary excavations in western Kenya from the middle Miocene Muruyur Beds, in particular from the Kipsaramon site complex (15.5 Ma), are yielding a diverse rodent fauna from a poorly documented period of African prehistory. Seven families (?sciurids, pedetids, anomalurids, thryonomyids, diamantomyids, myophiomyids, and cricetodontids) are represented. Thryonomyoids are dominant; cricetids and murids of modern aspect are currently unknown. The fauna includes a mixture of primitive early Miocene taxa (e.g., Diamantomys and Notocricetodon) and also more derived taxa (i.e., Thryonomyidae genus and species large). A new small anomalurid, Anomalurus parvus, sp. nov., is reported. Faunal composition and the distribution of rodent taxa from the Muruyur Beds show similarities with early and middle Miocene sites in East Africa, Namibia, and Saudi Arabia. Comparison of early and middle Miocene African rodent faunas suggests a period of relative faunal stability among rodent taxa during this time.
4523139|Pseudoglyptodon sallaensis, new genus and species, represented by a partial mandible from the Deseadan Salla Beds of Bolivia, is a sloth of uncertain affinities. The trilobate cross-sectional pattern of the cheek teeth resembles that of glyptodonts. This similarity to glyptodonts may be convergent, but is quite possibly the result of retention in both sloths and glyptodonts of a primitive feature of the Xenarthra. Complex and well-developed teeth should be regarded as the likely condition of the primitive dentition in the Xenarthra.
25835874|A new plioplatecarpine taxon, Latoplatecarpus, gen. nov., is proposed here to incorporate two species, L. willistoni, sp. nov., and L. nichollsae (comb. nov.). The new genus is currently restricted in distribution to the lower middle Campanian of North America. Phylogenetic analysis incorporating 97 morphological characters and 17 ingroup taxa indicates that (1) Ectenosaurus clidastoides is the basal-most member within the Plioplatecarpinae; (2) Platecarpus planifrons is generically distinct from P. tympaniticus; (3) Latoplatecarpus willistoni, gen. et sp. nov., constitutes the basal-most member within the clade that is sister to Platecarpus tympaniticus; and (4) as many as 17 unequivocal character changes support the clade comprising the three post-middle Campanian Plioplatecarpus species. Plesioplatecarpus, gen. nov., is erected to establish Plesioplatecarpus planifrons (comb. nov.). Further, we propose that the North American specimens referred to Platecarpus somenensis pertain to Latoplatecarpus nichollsae, based on the available phylogenetic, ontogenetic, biostratigraphic, and paleobiogeographic data and interpretations. Consequently, the current study recognizes 11 species within seven genera to constitute the Plioplatecarpinae. Of anatomical note, we suggest that quadrates in most plioplatecarpine taxa including Latoplatecarpus were tilted anteriorly in life, as a result of the suspensorial articulation forming along the distomedial portion of the long suprastapedial process that typifies quadrates in plioplatecarpine mosasaurs.
40864385|Ichthyosaurs remains from the Albian and Cenomanian of Wyoming have been assigned to Platypterygius americanus, but apart from structures of the distal humrus, few other unequivocal character states have been proposed to differentiate this species from its congeners. The purpose of this study was to reevaluate the postcranial morphology of Platypterygius americanus, in order to assess the validity of this species and distinguish postcranial traits relevant for specific diagnoses. Several applicable features were identified, including the location of extrazeugopodial facets on the distal humrus and femur, shape of the intermedium, relative degree of fusion within the atlas-axis complex, number of presacral centra, and varying lengths of the anterior caudal centra. Comparative assessment suggests that Platypterygius americanus is a valid taxon, and that it is possible to differentiate the various Platypterygius spp. independent of stratigraphical and/or geographical occurrence data. Nevertheless, a future review of cranial morphology in all Platypterygius spp. is necessary to bolster these conclusions.
4523421|Aigialosaurs are known from three nearly complete skeletons from the Upper Cretaceous (Cenomanian-Turonian) of Yugoslavia. The Aigialosauridae is identified as the sister-group of mosasaurs on the basis of the following shared derived characters: fusion of frontal bones; circular configuration of quadrate; well-developed hinge joint between angular and splenial; surangular and articular contributing equally to articulating surface of lower jaw; reduction of transverse processes and zygapophyses of caudal vertebrae. No significant characters of the skull are known that distinguish aigialosaurs from primitive mosasaurs. In contrast, the trunk vertebrae and the limbs are indistinguishable from those of terrestrial varanoids. The tail and the ventral elements of the pelvic girdle resemble those of some other aquatic diapsids. Aigialosaurs share many derived characters with modem varanids (including Lanthanotus and Varanus and the Eocene genus Saniwa), to the exclusion of the Upper Cretaceous varanids Saniwides and Telmasaurus. This suggests an earlier Cretaceous dichotomy separating advanced varanids and aigialosaurs from more primitive genera now included in the Varanidae.
4524322|The vertebrae of sauropod dinosaurs are characterized by complex architecture involving laminae, fossae, and internal chambers of various shapes and sizes. These structures are interpreted as osteological correlates of an intricate system of air sacs and pneumatic diverticula similar to that of birds. In basal sauropods pneumatic features are limited to fossae. Camerae and camellae are internalized pneumatic chambers independently acquired in neosauropods and some Chinese forms. The polycamerate and camellate vertebrae of higher neosauropods are characterized by internal pneumatic chambers of considerable complexity. The independent acquisition of these derived morphologies in Mamenchisaurus, derived diplodocids, and most titanosauriforms is correlated with increasing size and neck length. The presacral vertebrae of basal sauropods were probably pneumatized by diverticula of cervical air sacs similar to those of birds. Although pneumatic characters in sauropods are most extensive and complex in presacral vertebrae, the sacrum was also pneumatized in most neosauropods. Pneumatization of the proximal caudal vertebrae was achieved independently in diplodocids and titanosaurids. In birds, the synsacrum is pneumatized via abdominal air sacs which function primarily in lung ventilation. The presence of pneumatized sacral and caudal vertebrae in neosauropods indicates that abdominal air sacs were probably present in at least some sauropods.
4524145| Genypterus valdesensis, sp. nov. from the Puerto Madryn Formation in Pennsula Valds, Argentina is the first fossil ophidiid reported from South America and represents the first well preserved record of the genus worldwide. The specimen consists of a nearly complete articulated skull and some disarticulated postcranial elements. A thorough description is given of the osteological features of the species, which can be used to recognize it as a distinct taxon. The fossil species is characterized by the presence of a foramen on infraorbital 3 and by the square-shape of infraorbital 4. An array of morphological features taken in combination contribute to further differentiate G. valdesensis from the Recent species. This specimen also provides unequivocal evidence of the presence of the Ophidiiformes in the southwestern Atlantic Ocean 14 MA. 
4523011|Segnosaurus Perle, 1979, and Erlikosaurus Barsbold & Perle, 1980, are recently described dinosaurs of unusual form from the Late Cretaceous of Mongolia. Both taxa are medium-sized herbivores with small skulls, beaks, spatulate teeth, retroverted pubes, and broad four-digit hindfeet. Barsbold and Perle consider them to be theropods. However, the feet of segnosaurs are much less derived than are the bird-like feet of theropods. Further, the segnosaurs do not show any distinctive theropod-like characters that justify their assignment to this group. They appear, instead, to be derived prosauropods with a number of early ornithischian adaptations. Notable among these ornithischian-like adaptations are their beaked jaws with cheeks. A cladistic comparison of the segnosaurs with thecodonts and early dinosaurs of the Triassic suggests that, despite their late appearance, the segnosaurs are phylogenetic intermediates between herbivorous prosauropods and early ornithischians. As such the segnosaurs strengthen the hypothesis of dinosaur monophyly. Segnosaurs cannot be placed in the theropods, but traditional schemes of dinosaur classification do not recognize the possibility of dinosaur monophyly. Here the segnosaurs are considered to represent a clade between the prosauropods and ornithischians.
4524045|A thorough re-examination of the Microtus remains from the Cudahy Ash Pit fauna in Meade County, Kansas revealed a greater degree of morphological variation than previously reported for this fauna. Morphological variants of the m1 sample include typical M. paroperarius morphotypes with only four closed triangles, morphotypes with five closed triangles, and specimens with intermediate morphologies in which well-developed fifth triangles show variable degrees of partial closure. Morphological variants of the M2 include specimens with a well-developed posterolingual dentine field often considered to be indicative of the presence of M. pennsylvanicus. A survey of six additional species of North American Microtus revealed that the posterolingual dentine field is present as a regular feature in several species and cannot be used to confidently identify M. pennsylvanicus. Current North American microtine rodent biochronologies utilize the first appearance of M. pennsylvanicus to define the youngest microtine rodent division of the Irvingtonian (Irvingtonian III). The atypical morphotypes in the Cudahy fauna are not identified to species, but the presence of specimens indistinguishable from M. pennsylvanicus in a fauna at least 660,000 years old, combined with changes in the known temporal distribution of other microtine rodent taxa, destabilizes the lower boundary definition of the Irvingtonian III and its continued use can no longer be supported. This results in the recognition of only two microtine rodent divisions of the Irvingtonian and lessens the temporal resolution currently obtainable from microtine rodents in the middle Pleistocene, but more accurately reflects our knowledge of the evolution and temporal occurrence of microtine rodents on the North American continent.
4524097|Absence of an ossified calcaneum has been suggested as a synapomorphy of Diplodocidae and used to construct sauropod phylogenetic hypotheses. Restudy of sauropod material at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History revealed a diplodocid pes with an unknown ossified pedal element. The relatively complete pes, CM 30767, has been identified as Diplodocus. Comparisons with known sauropod calcanea, carpals, and phalanges, indicate that this element is a calcaneum. The presence of an ossified calcaneum in a diplodocid has important functional and systematic implications. Ossified calcanea may have helped to stabilize the pes during locomotion and assisted in the proper alignment and insertion of lateral plantar musculature. The unusual morphology and unreliable preservation of the sauropod calcaneum suggest that its presence or absence should not be used as a character state, nor should the absence of the calcaneum be used as a synapomorphy of Diplodocidae.
25790808|Direct radiocarbon dating and stable isotope and biometric analyses are evidence that the holotype of Equus laurentius Hay, 1913 comprises the skull and jaw of two different horses that are less than 500 years old. The size and morphology of the specimens fall within the range of like elements of modern Equus caballus Linnaeus, 1758. The mandibular cheek teeth exhibit bit wear, demonstrating that the mandible is that of a domestic animal. The taxonomy of the purportedly late Pleistocene species is therefore resolved, and Equus laurentius Hay is a junior synonym of Equus caballus Linnaeus. Equus laurentius and its holotype are neither taxonomically nor phylogenetically pertinent to studies of North American Pleistocene Equus.
4523517|Late Clarendonian and very early Hemphillian horse teeth from Florida previously identified as early members of Nannippus aztecus (=N. minor) are referred instead to N. westoni (Simpson). N. westoni was originally assigned to Merychippus and thought to date from the early Miocene. The very low crown height in the teeth of the type specimen is the result of heavy attritional wear and is not of phylogenetic significance. N. westoni displays a mixture of derived Nannippus and primitive hipparionine character states, both in its cheekteeth and metapodials. N. morgani, sp.nov. is described from a small sample of diminutive, isolated teeth and a medial metatarsal that occur in late early Hemphillian faunas together with N. aztecus. N. morgani is 15 to 20% smaller in dental parameters than mean values for N. aztecus, making it one of the smallest known hipparionines, with an estimated body mass of about 40 kg. Three similar-sized, diminutive equids, N. morgani, Pseudhipparion skinneri, and Calippus elachistus, lived contemporaneously in the very late Miocene of Florida.
4523286| Early Eocene (Wasatchian) Eoryctes melanus, gen. et sp. nov., is a relatively large palaeoryctid insectivore (skull length ca. 32 mm, body weight ca. 51 gm) found in the Clarks Fork Basin of northwestern Wyoming. The skull has a short rostrum and prominent lambdoid plates. It appears to have lacked zygomatic arches. The middle ear cavity is large, with an enlarged epitympanic recess. Arteries of the middle ear include an internal carotid artery and a stapedial artery. Both are enclosed in bony tubes for their whole intrabullar course. The neopallium of the brain exhibits a rhinal fissure, a marginal sulcus, and a pseudosylvian sulcus. Venous blood from the cranial cavity drained mainly through the petro-occipital fissure. Endocranial volume is about 1.0 cm, which is equivalent to a brain weight of 1.0 gm. The Jerison encephalization quotient (EQ) of E. melanus is estimated at 0.60 and the Martin EQ is estimated at 0.85. Proportional development of the brain indicates that olfaction was the dominant sense, although Eoryctes probably had acute hearing and a sensitive rostrum also. Palaeoryctidae appear to be most closely related to extinct Leptictidae and extant Lipotyphla, and are probably best included in the order or superorder Insectivora. 
4524174| Szalinia gracilis, gen. et sp. nov. is a new "didelphoid" marsupial from the early Paleocene beds of the Santa Luca Formation at Tiupampa (Bolivia). It is characterized by a short rostrum and a strong anteroposterior compression of the molars. Stylar cusp C is small and stylar cusp A is very large, strongly projecting anteriorly. Like most of the other marsupial genera from Tiupampa, S. gracilis presents greater similarities with other South American "didelphoids" (e.g., Incadelphys, Tiulordia, Marmosopsis, Derorhynchus, Carolopaulacoutoia) than with any of the North American basal marsupials (Kokopellia, Aenigmadelphys, Anchistodelphys, Iqualadelphys, and the Alphadon group). Szalinia is, in many respects, more plesiomorphic than the "didelphoids" from Itabora (late Paleocene) and is part of a basal stock for the South American "didelphoids." Szalinia appears to be morphologically intermediate between basal North American taxa (e.g., Kokopellia, Aenigmadelphys, Anchistodelphys, Iqualadelphys) and the later "didelphoids" of South America. This is consistent with a North American origin of the South American "didelphoids." Limited available data on Late Cretaceous and early Paleocene South American tribosphenic mammals suggests that their dispersal from North America was complex and may have involved several distinct events. The fact that Szalinia and structurally similar taxa from Tiupampa form a diverse assemblage that already possesses some apomorphies of South American "didelphoids" suggests that they arrived before the "condylarths" and pantodonts also present at Tiupampa. 
4523455|The dinosaurian generic name Monoclonius has been explained as a reference to a single nose horn. Evidence indicates, however, that Cope named the genus for hadrosaurid teeth mistakenly attributed to the type of M. crassus. The name was paired with Diclonius in allusion to different modes of tooth replacement in each genus. Later discoveries revealed the supposed distinction was based on teeth from the upper and lower jaws of hadrosaurs. Etymological analysis shows that Cope derived nearly all of his dinosaurian names from Greek roots to highlight distinctive anatomical features.
4524153|A new bat, Karstala silva, gen. et sp. nov., is described from the early Miocene (early Hemingfordian) Thomas Farm local fauna, Gilchrist County, Florida. The new taxon is represented by an upper canine, posterior part of the dentary, isolated upper and lower molars, much of the humerus, and part of the radius. The myotodont configuration and steeply inclined lingual cingulid of m1-m2 separate Karstala from the Molossidae and most Vespertilionidae except Antrozous. Karstala differs from Antrozous in other molar details and from all molossids and North American vespertilionids in having a humerus with the combination of a rounded head, deep supraglenoid pit, long and high pectoral ridge, tiny olecranon fossa, and no notch between the medial side of the trochlea and spinous process. The new species is comparable in size to the larger known species of the Vespertilionidae and is the largest known bat in the Tertiary of North America.
4524698| We describe an articulated specimen of the titanosaurian sauropod Epachthosaurus sciuttoi from the early Late Cretaceous Bajo Barreal Formation of Chubut Province, central Patagonia, Argentina. The skeleton was found in tuffaceous sandstone, with its hindlimbs flexed and its forelimbs widely extended. It is slightly deformed on its left side. The skull, neck, four or five cranial dorsal vertebrae, and several distal caudals are missing. Epachthosaurus is diagnosed by the following autapomorphies: middle and caudal dorsal vertebrae with accessory articular processes extending ventrolaterally from the hyposphene, a strongly developed intraprezygapophyseal lamina, and aliform processes projecting laterally from the dorsal portion of the spinodiapophyseal lamina; hyposphene-hypantrum articulations in caudals 1-14; and a pedal phalangeal formula of 2-2-3-2-0. The genus shares the following apomorphies with various titanosaurians: caudal dorsal vertebrae with ventrally expanded posterior centrodiapophyseal laminae; six sacral vertebrae; an ossified ligament or tendon dorsal to the sacral neural spines; procoelous proximal, middle, and distal caudal centra with well- developed distal articular condyles; semilunar sternal plates with cranioventral ridges; humeri with squared proximolateral margins and proximolateral processes; unossified carpals; strongly reduced manual phalanges; craniolaterally expanded, nearly horizontal iliac preacetabular processes; pubes proximodistally longer than ischia; and transversely expanded ischia. Epachthosaurus is considered the most basal titanosaurian known with procoelous caudal vertebrae. /// Se describe un espcimen articulado del saurpodo titanosaurio Epachthosaurus sciuttoi de la Formacin Bajo Barreal, Cretcico Superior temprano, de la provincia del Chubut, Patagonia central, Argentina. El esqueleto fue hallado en un estrato de arenisca tobcea, con sus miembros posteriores flexionados y sus miembros anteriores ampliamente extendidos; su costado izquierdo est ligeramente deformado. El crineo, cuello, cuatro o cinco vrtebras dorsales anteriores y varias caudales distales han desaparecido. Epachthosaurus es diagnosticado por las siguientes autapomorfas: vrtebras dorsales medias y posteriores con procesos articulares accesorios que se extienden ventrolateralmente desde el hipsfeno, presencia de una l'ina interprezigapofiseal fuertemente desarrollada y procesos aliformes que se proyectan lateralmente desde la porcin dorsal de la lmina espinodiapofiseal; presencia de articulaciones hipsfeno- hipantro en las caudales 1-14 y una frmula falangeal pedal de 2-2-3-2- 0. El gnero comparte las siguientes apomorfas con otros titanosaurios: vrtebras dorsales posteriores con l'inas centrodiapofisiales posteriores ventralmente expandidas; seis vrtebras sacras; un ligament0 osificado o tendn dorsal a las espinas neurales sacras; centros caudales proximales, medios y distales proclicos con conos articulares bien desarrollados; planchas esternales semilunares con crestas nteroventrales; hmeros con mrgenes prximolaterales cuadrados y procesos prximolaterales; carpales no osificados; falanges de la mano fuertemente reducidas; procesos preacetabulares iliacos casi horizontales; pubis prximodistalmente ms largos que los isquiones e isquiones transversalmente expandidos. Epachthosaurus es considerado el titanosaurio ms basal conocido con vrtebras caudales proclicas. 
40864360|Metriorhynchids were a peculiar group of fully marine Mesozoic crocodylomorphs. The derived genera Dakosaurus and Geosaurus exhibit a macroevolutionary trend towards extreme hypercarnivory, underpinned by a diverse array of craniodental adaptations, including denticulate serrated (ziphodont) dentition. A comparative analysis of serrations in Metriorhynchidae shows that known Dakosaurus species had conspicuous denticles, in contrast to the microscopic denticles of Geosaurus. A new tooth from the Nusplingen Plattenkalk of Germany provides evidence for a previously unknown large species of Geosaurus. Metriorhynchid specimens from the upper Kimmeridgian-lower Tithonian of Southern Germany show that ziphodont species of Dakosaurus and Geosaurus co-occurred in the Nusplingen and Solnhofen Seas. Although these genera are similarly denticulate, they diverge in overall crown morphology. Therefore, resource/niche partitioning via craniodental differentiation is posited as maintaining two contemporaneous genera of highly predatory metriorhynchids. Additionally, the new generic name Torvoneustes is proposed for "Geosaurus" carpenteri, the only known metriorhynchid with false-ziphodont dentition. A cladistic analysis shows that ziphodont dentition may have evolved independently in Dakosaurus and Geosaurus, or been acquired earlier by their common ancestor and secondarily lost in Torvoneustes and related taxa.
4524701|The Extant Phylogenetic Bracket approach is applied to infer the kind of soft tissue that would have been associated with the bifurcated neural spines of the cervical vertebrae of sauropods. A median ligament ("ligamentum nuchae" or lig. supraspinale) extends along the tips of the neural spines and attaches to them in the cervical region of extant avian and non-avian diapsids, thus enabling a parsimonious inference that a homologous ligament would also have attached to the same sites in extinct diapsids, including sauropods. In the extant ratite bird, Rhea americana, "lig. nuchae" splits ventrally into two halves as the neural spines become bifurcated in the posterior cervical region, thereby maintaining its connection to both tips of each bifurcated neural spine. This shows the conservative nature of the connection between "lig. nuchae" and its osteological correlate. Furthermore, this ligament and the notches of the bifurcated neural spines enclose another ligament, lig. elasticum interspinale, that arises from the nonbifid neural spine of the most posterior "cervico-dorsal" and gives off branches inserting on the posterior surfaces of the neural spines of the middle to posterior cervicals in Rhea. This ligament in Rhea is suggested to be a good modern analog to the structure occupying the notches of the bifurcated neural spines of sauropods. A hypothetical reconstruction of the proposed ligament system is given using Camarasaurus and Apatosaurus as examples.
4524612|A new species of Hathliacynidae (Sparassodonta, Metatheria), Acyon myctoderos, from the middle Miocene of Quebrada Honda, Bolivia, is described. This new species is the largest known hathliacynid. Compared to the type species of the genus, A. tricuspidatus, Acyon myctoderos differs in having: (1) longer diastemata among premolars; (2) p2 comparatively more robust, with a better developed posterior cusp and with a sharp anterior crest; (3) lower molars with a more poorly developed anterobasal cingulum; (4) ml-m3 with hypoconulids less salient posteriorly and more vertically oriented; and (5) larger hypoconids at least on the m
4523135|A pantodont skull with a strongly retracted nasal incision and a mandible fragment were recently found in Yan chi County, Ningxia, People's Republic of China. Comparison with ancient and modern proboscis-bearing forms indicates that this pantodont had a proboscis, unlike any previously-known pantodont. It and several other gracile Chinese pantodonts have expanded our view of pantodont diversity beyond the common, heavy, graviportal North America types. The form most similar to it is Pantolambdodon inermis from Inner Mongolia for which, unfortunately, there is no comparable skull material.
4524035|The vertebrae of sauropods are characterized by numerous bony struts that connect the costovertebral and intervertebral articulations, centrum, and neural spine of the presacral, sacral, and anterior caudal vertebrae. A nomenclature for sauropod vertebral laminae is proposed that: 1) utilizes the morphological landmarks connected by the laminae (rather than their spatial orientation); and 2) provides the same name for serial homologues. This landmarkbased nomenclature for vertebral laminae, which establishes the first criterion of homology (similarity), is the first step towards interpreting their phylogenetic significance. Nineteen different neural arch laminae are identified in sauropods, although all are never present in a single vertebra. Vertebral laminae can be divided into four regional categories, with each distinct lamina abbreviated with a simple four-letter acronym: diapophyseal laminae; parapophyseal laminae; zygapophyseal laminae; and spinal laminae. The distribution of neural arch laminae in presacral, sacral, and caudal vertebrae is evaluated to assess homology in sauropods and other saurischians. Five diapophyseal laminae and six zygapophyseal laminae characterize saurischian dinosaurs. Parapophyseal laminae and spinodiapophyseal laminae are unique to a subgroup of sauropods that includes Barapasaurus, Omeisaurus, and Neosauropoda. The presence of diapophyseal laminae in caudal vertebrae characterizes diplodocids. Vertebral laminae probably partitioned pneumatic diverticuli on the neural arch and provided structural support for the axial column. Their basic architecture evolved in saurischians prior to the Late Triassic (Carnian), 25 million years before the first known sauropod.
4523235|Lepidotes gloriae, sp. nov. (Actinopterygii: Semionotiformes) from the Late Jurassic of Western Cuba is described. The skeletal anatomy of this fish shows two features previously unknown in Lepidotes Agassiz, 1832: 1) presence of two pairs of ectopterygoids and 2) presence of dermome-tapterygoids. Skeletal elements whose structure is little known or even unknown in other species of Lepidotes have been studied in detail in L. gloriae: 1) branchial tooth plates, 2) endoskeletal shoulder girdle, 3) posttemporal, 4) clavicle, 5) pelvic girdle, and 6) caudal fin skeleton. The sensory canal system on the head of L. gloriae is unique among other species of Lepidotes in having the median part of the supratemporal commissure enclosed within the parietals, in having a medio-anteriorly directed branch of the infraorbital canal behind the orbit reaching from the dermopterotic into the frontal, and in having the ventral part of the median pit line of the skull roof replaced by a short canal traversing the dermopterotic. The cranial sensory canal system is unique among actinopterygians in having developed an oral canal dorsal to the mandibular canal in the anterior part of the dentalosplenial.
4524620|Eocardiid rodents from the late early Miocene Pinturas Formation (Ameghino's "Piso Astrapothericulense") of Patagonia are here studied. Three species are recognized: Luantus propheticus Ameghino and Luantus toldensis sp. nov. are recorded exclusively from the Pinturas Formation; Phanomys mixtus Ameghino is also known from the Santa Cruz Formation (Santacrucian SALMA). The dentition of Luantus propheticus has rudiments of accessory prisms in M3 and p4, and the cheek teeth exhibit a bilobated occlusal pattern with interlobular cement and discontinuous enamel covering in senile stages. Luantus toldensis has more hypsodont cheek teeth than L. propheticus, even more developed M3 and p4 accessory prisms, and a bilobated pattern that is attained in earlier stages of wear. Luantus propheticus, L. toldensis, and Phanomys mixtus represent an evolutionary series that leads to the hypselodont pattern of Eocardia; thus, the traditional dichotomy between "Luantinae" and "Eocardiinae" is not supported. Luantus propheticus occurs in the lower and middle sequences of the Pinturas Formation, whereas the more derived species are recorded in localities interpreted as corresponding to the upper sequence. This distribution agrees with that of other faunal components recorded at the Pinturas Formation.
4524482|A new specimen of the sauropod titanosaur Neuquensaurus australis, collected in the locality of Cinco Saltos (Patagonia, Argentina), provides an opportunity to improve our knowledge of the anatomy of this dinosaur. The elements represented in this specimen include a complete cervical vertebra, most of the dorsal vertebrae, fifteen caudal vertebrae, the complete sacrum articulated to both ilia, one ischium, two femora, one tibia articulated to the fibula and astragalus, and two osteoderms. Surprisingly, the sacrum is composed of seven vertebrae, the last of which, unfused to the other six, is apparently biconvex. A third femur and one tibia were found associated with this specimen; these are morphologically similar but stouter than those belonging to the former specimen.
4524175|The cranial anatomy of Megalohyrax eoceanus Andrews, 1903, a pliohyracid (Hyracoidea, Mammalia) from Oligocene levels of the Jebel Qatrani Formation of the Fayum Depression in Egypt, is described. Megalohyrax is the largest of the Fayum hyracoids, its skull is 391 mm long and the specimen described here is probably the bestpreserved pliohyacid skull known. Megalohyrax has a strong lambdoid crest, a primitive alisphenoid canal, a notch for the minor palatine neurovascular group, orbits which are not anteriorly displaced, and a broad contact between the maxilla and frontal. In all of these features, Megalohyrax differs from modern hyracoids. Contrary to previous suggestions, the dental formula of Megalohyrax is 3.1.4.3, not similar to early sirenians (which have 5 premolars). Basioccipital morphology suggests that Megalohyrax may have had a eustachian sac.
4523762|Skull morphology is described from acid-prepared articulated specimens of the antiarch Phymolepis cuifenshanensis from the Early Devonian of Yunnan Province, South China. The nasal and circum-orbital bones have a similar structure to the advanced antiarch Bothriolepis, but with the nasal openings bounded laterally by the sclerotic ring. Yunnanolepis parvus is reinterpreted to have the same structure, assumed primitive for antiarchs. The suborbital plates of Phymolepis meet in the midline, are crossed by a single sensory groove, and also carry possible cutaneous sensory pits as in arthrodires. Three bones (submarginal, prelateral, and infraprelateral) are identified in the cheek complex, and comparisons with Yunnanolepis suggest that they were also present in other primitive antiarchs. Traces of an opercular cartilage are described for the first time in an antiarch. The sensory canal pattern of Phymolepis differs from that of Yunnanolepis, with the supraorbital canal entering the preorbital depression from the lateral plate, an ethmoid commissure on, or just beneath, the rostral margin of the premedian, and two branches to the cheek originating on the lateral plate of the skull. A diversity of sensory canal patterns is predicted for the Early Devonian antiarchs of South China. The trunk armor of Phymolepis has two additional small bones previously unknown in antiarchs, which are proposed as homologs of the anterior lateral plate of arthrodires. The new morphological evidence supports the view that the Yunnanolepiformes is a paraphyletic group, that antiarchs and arthrodires are sister groups, and that Phymolepis may be more advanced than Yunnanolepis in aspects of the sensory canal pattern, but more primitive in retaining vestiges of the anterior lateral plate. The prelateral and infraprelateral bones of antiarchs have homologs in the cheek of arthrodires, but the attachment of the postsuborbital to the quadrate is regarded as an arthrodiran synapomorphy. Contrary to previous claims, the quadrate has no dermal bone attachment in Bothriolepis. The absence of small cheek bones in asterolepidoids may be secondary, but the midline suture between suborbitals is considered to be a symplesiomorphy within the antiarchs.
23251274|A broad phylogenetic analysis of extant and fossil fishes led previous authors to conclude that the occipital region of primitive actinopterygians was formed by the fusion of three segments. They included the dipnoan Griphognathus whitei from the Devonian of Western Australia in their study and assumed that all sarcopterygians also had the occipital ring made of three segments. In reaching this conclusion, they interpreted the foramina in the walls of the occipital rings in that species as carrying the spino-occipital nerves, and the furrows in the wall as being for myocommata. We now have access to three small juveniles of this species with the occipital rings isolated from the cranium, and three other young adults smaller than those described previously. There is no evidence of three occipital segments in any of these specimens. The isolated occipital rings have been examined by serial tomography and they have a single spino-occipital nerve that divides into dorsal and ventral branches. The attachment of the occipital segment to the cranium is described for the first time. The structure of the hyomandibula is described from a growth series, and its pattern is different from that of other sarcopterygians. The assumption that the occipital region in dipnoans is representative for all sarcopterygian fishes is shown to be incorrect.
40666188|A collection of fossil fish teeth and other elements from Eocene deposits on the northshore of Birket Qarun, Fayum Depression, Egypt, is reported. This collection adds significantly to our knowledge, as it consists of material that was screened from the sediments, allowing collection of small teeth that represent taxa not previously reported from the Fayum. Previous collections from these sediments have concentrated on larger remains that generally represent elasmobranchs, which are marine species from deposits lower in the section. Most of this material, collected by screening at the Birket Qarun 2 (BQ-2) locality, represents fully freshwater fishes. It includes the first record of the mormyrid Gymnarchus in the Fayum Depression, which represents the oldest record for this group, known previously only from the late Miocene or younger deposits. Similarly, Mochokidae (Siluriformes) and Hydrocynus (Alestidae) remains from the site are the oldest record of these taxa. Other taxa recovered are the osteichthyans Polypterus (Polypteriformes), Protopterus (Dipnoi), and Parachanna (Channidae), and the chondrichthyans Hypolophodon cf. H. malembeensis (Dasyatoidea incert. fam.), Rhinoptera sherborni (Rhinopteridae), and Coupatezia wousteri (Dasyatoidea incert. fam.). A new ray, Coupatezia attiai, n. sp., Cook, is also described. These fishes confirm the freshwater influence at locality BQ-2 in the Birket Qarun Formation.
4523266|A newly discovered non-mammalian vertebrate fossil assemblage belonging to the Casa Blanca Local Fauna comes from the middle Eocene Laredo Formation, Claiborne Group, of Webb County, Texas. The Casa Blanca Local Fauna includes eight chondrichthyan, six osteichthyan, one amphibian, 10 reptilian, and one avian species and is the southernmost and westernmost Paleogene vertebrate assemblage from the Gulf Coastal Plain. Four non-mammalian vertebrate taxa previously known from the Eocene of the Old World are reported from Eocene deposits of North America for the first time. The Casa Blanca Local Fauna indicates that a Tethyan marine community existed at least as far west as the Rio Grande Embayment during the middle Eocene. A new species of the osteichthyan Diaphyodus is described.
25790807|Artiodactyls show a step-wise morphological transition from groups with a primitive and pentadactyl limb configuration to groups with more derived and didactyl limb configurations. An analysis of proportions of the forelimb segments indicates that artiodactyls can be separated based on digit number along a morphometrical axis indicating relatively longer segments of manus (carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges). The three digit configurations in artiodactyls (pentadactyl, tetradactyl, didactyl) are identified and the relevant bony characteristics of each configuration are described. Among tetradactyl groups, there are two grades of anatomy in the manus. In the more derived tetradactyl groups (tayassuids, tragulids, and early camelids), the proximal volar metacarpal process becomes flatter and joints of the digit become more ginglymal in comparison with the less derived tetradactyl groups (ticholeptine and merychyine oreodonts, leptomerycid traguloids, primitive cainotheres, oromerycids, and protoceratids). The foot posture of members of the pentadactyl groups is interpreted as digitigrade. The evolution of unguligrady took place between the morphological condition of the primitive type of tetradactyl manus and the derived type of tetradactyl manus. This transition to unguligrady occurred at least three times and was facilitated each time by the formation of ginglymal joints of the digit and the transition to interosseus ligaments from muscular precursors.
4524223|Recent discoveries from the Aptian-Albian Antlers (Oklahoma) and Cloverly (Montana, Wyoming) formations provide significant additions to the Early Cretaceous record of lizards in North America. The lizards from the Antlers Formation include two teiids (one named), an anguimorphan, and a series of fragmentary jaws with "paramacellodid"-like teeth. The lizards from the Cloverly Formation include a new species of Paramacellodus and many indeterminate jaw fragments. The apparent lack of shared lizard taxa between the two units calls into question their temporal equivalence, which is based on similarity of dinosaur taxa. Although apparently distinct, the lizard faunas of both units are very similar to that of the Late Jurassic Morrison Formation in being composed primarily of "paramacellodid" or "paramacellodid"-like taxa. It appears that there was a period of relative stasis in the evolution of lizards in North America between the Late Jurassic and Aptian-Albian, paralleling a similar trend in Europe between the Late Jurassic and the Barremian (or later). Reported lizards from the Aptian-Albian of Mongolia present a level of taxonomic diversity much different than that of the same time period in Oklahoma, Montana, and Wyoming, but more like that of the Late Cretaceous of North America, suggesting that taxonomic groups common to the Late Cretaceous and Tertiary occurred earlier in Asia than in North America.
4523376|Excellent material, including two partial skulls, of the geomyoid rodent Heliscomys is the basis for a new species (H. ostranderi), and allows the recognition of a new family, the Heliscomyidae, which includes Heliscomys Cope and Apletotomeus Reeder. Heliscomyidae, an early offshoot of the Geomyoidea, is not ancestral to any later geomyoids. Two lineages of Heliscomys are recognized, one distinguished by reduction in size and specialization of the premolars, and the other (which includes H. ostranderi) by enlargement of the premolars and development of stylar cusps on the upper molars.
4524450|Total length, snout-vent length, and body mass are tightly correlated with length and other dimensions of the femur in Alligator mississippiensis. American alligator-based equations relating total length and body mass to femoral dimensions predict the sizes of other extant crocodylian species reasonably well, suggesting that alligator-based relationships should also work for extinct crocodylians and their close relatives. Size estimates from different femoral dimensions are most consistent when extinct forms have femora similar in size and shape to those of alligators. For many extinct mesoeucrocodylians, alligator femur-based total length estimates are close to length estimates based on reasonably complete skeletons or estimates made from osteological parameters other than femoral dimensions. However, the total length estimated for Pristichampsus is much larger than the length of the skeleton, indicating a relatively longer femur in this form, perhaps reflecting a more terrestrial lifestyle. In contrast, femur-based size estimates of a large individual of Deinosuchus are considerably less than an estimate based on mandible length. Femur size may be reduced relative to body size in Deinosuchus, which may be associated with more strictly aquatic habits than in alligators.
25835875|The vertebrate assemblage of the lower Fremouw Formation has been studied for nearly 50 years, but many components remain poorly known. We describe a partial presacral vertebra and the distal end of a left humerus collected just above the PermianTriassic boundary in the Shackleton Glacier region of the central Transantarctic Mountains. Our identification of these specimens as archosauromorphs that represent at least one taxon of large-bodied archosauriform increases the known reptile diversity of the Fremouw Formation considerably, and provides the first definitive evidence for the presence of Archosauriformes in the Early Triassic of Antarctica. These records increase faunal similarities between the lower Fremouw Formation and other Early Triassic assemblages. Although the lower Fremouw assemblage is typically considered a subset of the coeval Lystrosaurus Assemblage Zone (LAZ) of South Africa, the discrepancy in inferred body size between the Antarctic specimens and Proterosuchus fergusi, coupled with the fact that the LAZ of the Karoo Basin has been sampled much more thoroughly, suggests a real disparity in the maximum body size of apex carnivores between the lower Fremouw assemblage and the LAZ. The lower Fremouw specimens also demonstrate that one or more lineages of archosauriform had attained the large body size characteristic of later members of the clade very soon after the end-Permian mass extinction. This offers a point of contrast with the global pattern of post-extinction terrestrial communities, which are typified by a marked reduction in body size (the 'Lilliput effect').
41407687|Apatemyids are known from the Paleocene and Eocene of Europe, and the Paleocene to Oligocene of North America, and may share a special relationship with Euarchontoglires. The only endocast previously described for an apatemyid pertains to Carcinella sigei from the late Eocene of France. Here we present a composite virtual endocast of Labidolemur kayi derived from high-resolution X-ray computed tomography data, based on partial crania from the late Paleocene (Clarkforkian) and early Eocene (Wasatchian) of the Clarks Fork Basin, Wyoming. Like C. sigei, L. kayi had voluminous, transversely expansive olfactory bulbs, accounting for approximately 12-15% of the endocranial volume. This is similar to Cretaceous eutherians, but contrasts with the relatively smaller olfactory bulbs in both the basal gliran Rhombomylus turpa nensis and in primitive primates (Ignacius graybullianus, Microsyops annectens). Similar to R. turpanensis, I. graybullianus, and the inferred ancestral condition for Microsyops, but unlike C.sigei, L. kayi exhibited exposed caudal colliculi, supporting the inference that this condition was primitive for Euarchontoglires and Euarchonta. The cranial capacity of L. kayi is estimated at 0.5-0.6 cc, yielding encephalization quotient (EQ) estimates of 0.23-0.28 or 0.42-0.50 depending on the equation used. These values are much lower than estimates for C. sigei, suggesting significant increase occurred in brain size in Apatemyidae, perhaps related to elaborations in the family's specialized manual extractive feeding regime. Similarities with primitive primates in EQ and the inferred position of the rhinal sulcus may allow for inferences about encephalization and neocorticalization in the common ancestor of Euarchontoglires.
4523330|Eutherian mammals are herein reported from the Wahweap and Kaiparowits formations, southern Utah, of probable Aquilan and Judithian age, respectively. Three species of the leptictid insectivoran Gypsonictops are tentatively recognized from the Kaiparowits Formation; none is identified, although the stratigraphically highest species bears some resemblance to G. clemensi from the lower Kirtland Shale of the San Juan Basin, New Mexico. Paranyctoides, the oldest undoubted North American eutherian and known elsewhere from faunas of Aquilan and Judithian age, is the stratigraphically lowest eutherian present in the local section and is represented in the Wahweap Formation by two unidentified species. Two other species of Paranyctoides, also unidentified and unnamed, are recognized from the overlying Kaiparowits Formation. Upper and lower premolars representing loci not previously known for Paranyctoides significantly augment knowledge of the genus. In known morphology, Paranyctoides contrasts with other known pre-Lancian eutherians and is structurally close to many Cenozoic placental groups, as has been previously suggested; a special relationship of the genus to nyctitheriid lipotyphlans is neither strongly supported nor contradicted by the new evidence. Avitotherium utahensis, of uncertain ordinal and familial affinities, is described as new from the Judithian Kaiparowits Formation. Although similar to Alostera and Paranyctoides in certain respects, Avitotherium lacks presumed autapomorphies seen in those genera, and in known morphology is suggestive of the latest Cretaceous and early Tertiary condylarth Protungulatum. Morphological diversity among known North American Cretaceous Eutheria suggests the possibility of considerable diversification on the continent prior to the Lancian.
4523766|One almost complete mosasaur skeleton and much additional material from the Upper Cretaceous Bearpaw Formation of South Central Saskatchewan permits the first adequate description and diagnosis of Plioplatecarpus primaevus Russell. It possesses the following unique (within mosasaurs) characters: 11 maxillary teeth; a large shieldshaped septomaxilla forming a median internarial septum; a posterodorsally directed iliac process; and no obturator foramen. It can be distinguished from Plioplatecarpus marshi in the possession of a modest sized coracoid foramen, and both P. houzeaui and P. marshi in the possession of an unreduced presacral column of 30 vertebrae, all bearing functional zygapophyses, indicating that P. primaevus is the primitive sistergroup to these two taxa. Although extremely similar to UNO 8611-2, an unnamed specimen from Alabama, the lack of an eminence on the posterior surface of the quadrate shaft in the latter establishes UNO 8611-2 as the primitive sister group of P. primaevus + [P. houzeaui + P. marshi]. A quadrate eminence, long considered to be diagnostic of the genus, shows considerable variability in size and shape in P. primaevus, suggesting that it is not suitable as a specific diagnostic character. Other species of Plioplatecarpus (P. crassartus, P. depressus, "Platecarpus" somenensis, "Mosasaurus" scanicus, and undescribed species from Scabby Butte, Alberta and Anderson River, North West Territories), have not been sufficiently characterized to include in a phylogenetic analysis.
30126304|The sequence of neurocentral suture closure is one criterion for the determination of ontogenetic stage in extant crocodylians. This pattern is frequently used to assess ontogeny for a variety of fossil archosaurs that may or may not follow the same sequence and timing of suture closure. Phytosaurs are one of the few basal archosaur groups with a sample size large enough to help test whether the crocodylian pattern of suture closure is plesiomorphic for Pseudosuchia and Archosauria. Analysis of a large sample of North American phytosaur specimens confirms that phytosaurs share the crocodylian state of closure, and so this pattern is probably plesiomorphic for the Pseudosuchia. An additional independent ontogenetic trend observed in phytosaurs is that the lateral fossae on cervical vertebrae in phytosaurs deepen with ontogeny. A preliminary survey indicates that there is considerable variation of both the sequence and timing of neurocentral suture closure in other archosaur clades. Therefore, it is unwise to apply a priori the crocodylian pattern to other archosaur groups to determine ontogenetic stage. Currently, apart from histological data, there are few if any reliable independent criteria for determining ontogenetic stage. I propose that histology be integrated with independent ontogenetic criteria (such as neurocentral suture closure) and morphometric data to provide a better understanding of archosaur ontogeny.
20627133|The first diagnostic sirenian material from Madagascar and, more broadly, the first diagnostic pre-Pleistocene Cenozoic mammal material recovered from the island is reported. Eotheroides lambondrano is a new species of sirenian collected from middle Eocene nearshore marine deposits in the Mahajanga Basin of northwestern Madagascar. The recovered material consists of a nearly complete adult skull (including the first complete rostrum known for Eotheroides) and several portions of pachyosteosclerotic ribs. Diagnostic features of E. lambondrano include: primitive upper dental formula of 3.1.5.3, relatively large occlusal area of M2 and M3, long and narrow nasals, weak rostral deflection compared to other Eocene Dugongidae, well developed supraorbital processes, short infraorbital canal, anteroposteriorly short zygomatic-orbital bridge of maxilla, and a palate that is narrow anteriorly, creating a strongly bell-shaped maxillary dental arcade. The cranium of E. lambondrano is similar to that of E. aegyptiacum from the middle Eocene of Egypt in aspects of both morphology and size but the upper molars of E. lambondrano are considerably longer and wider and it has longer, narrower nasals. The age and relatively primitive morphology of E. lambondrano suggests that it may represent the ancestral form from which more northerly species were derived.
4524518|During mammalian evolution the simple radial enamel, where prisms follow a straight course from the dentin-enamel junction to the tooth surface, gave rise to the typical arrangement of layers of prisms forming Hunter- Schreger bands (HSB). The formation of HSB is believed to have improved the physical properties of enamel. The pattern of HSB has been used to infer relationships between feeding habits and enamel structure. The evolution of enamel structure in the South American faunas is poorly known. Most studies have relied mainly on fossil teeth of Europe and North America mammals, and the majority of the taxa studied are from the Eocene or younger ages. In the present work the patterns of HSB in the enamel of herbivorous mammals from the Paleocene of the Sao Jose de Itaborai basin, Brazil were investigated. Vertical HSB were present in the teeth of large animals (first lower molar width >8 mm), while transverse HSB were present in taxa with first lower molar width ranging from 5.6 to 3 mm. The only exception was Lamegoia conodonta (first molar width = 10.3 mm). However, maybe to compensate for its larger size, in L. conodonta the transverse HSB were highly undulated. Our results indicate that the development of vertical HSB in large lophodont and bunolophodont herbivors may have occurred as a functional adaptation. Vertical HSB wear at a slower rate than transverse HSB, and this adaptation would enhance functional durability of enamel, extending the overall longevity of the teeth and the animal's life span.
4522897|We present a preliminary report on vertebrate faunas from the Middle Awash Valley in the Afar Depression, from the newly described Adu-Asa, Sagantole, Matabaietu, and Wehaietu Formations. These units, together with the well-known hominid-bearing Hadar Formation and the Chorora Formation, comprise the Awash Group, which is over one kilometer thick, spans the late Neogene, and contains vertebrate fossils throughout. Significantly, periods are represented-the late Miocene to early Pliocene and Middle to late Pleistocene-that are poorly or incompletely known elsewhere in East Africa. At least 24 mammalian families and 170 species are represented in the Awash Group. In the newly described stratigraphic units, faunal change is documented for a number of mammalian groups. This is especially true for Proboscidea, specifically anancine gomphotheres (Gomphotheriidae: Anancinae) and elephants (Elephantidae: Stegotetrabelodontinae and Elephantinae), the Artiodactyla, particularly suids (Suidae), bovids (Bovidae) and hippopotamids (Hippopotamidae), and Primates (Cercopithecidae: Cercopithecinae and Colobinae). Available radiometric dates and biostratigraphy indicate that the time span represented by the Adu-Asa and Wehaietu Formations is at least 5.0-6.0 m.y. long, making the Middle Awash sequence one of the most extensive faunal records in the African Neogene.
4523207|Microtus (Pitymys) meadensis and M. (P.) quasiater show no special relationship to each other within the subgenus, and both differ greatly from M. (P.) ochrogaster. Samples of fossil Microtus (Pitymys) from late Pleistocene sites in southeastern New Mexico differ from each other and from modern M. ochrogaster to about the same degree as do some populations of modern M. ochrogaster from one another. All the southeastern New Mexican fossils pertain to that species as do mid-Holocene specimens from northwestern New Mexico and probably a late Pleistocene specimen from the south-western part of the state. In southeastern New Mexico, M. ochrogaster was present near Dry Cave in small numbers during the mid-Wisconsinan, becoming and remaining more common until near the onset of full-glacial conditions, at which time they disappeared from the area. The region was repopulated in latest Wisconsinan times, but was again abandoned at the end of the Pleistocene. Tentative correlations between tooth characters and Pleistocene temperatures indicate that, in southeastern New Mexico, the mid-Wisconsinan was characterized by mild winters and hot summers; that following these conditions, severe winter temperatures and cooling summer conditions obtained, followed in turn by somewhat less cold winters and very cool summers. Absent during full-glacial times, the voles returned to severe winter temperature conditions and warming summers. In northwestern New Mexico, warmer summers and winters similar to or slightly cooler than at present obtained during the mid-Holocene.
25790792|Two embryonic skeletons preserved inside thin-shelled eggs of a partially preserved clutch from the Upper Elliot Formation (Lower Jurassic) of South Africa have been attributed to the sauropodomorph dinosaur Massospondylus carinatus. A virtually complete skeleton is exposed in right lateral view, with the slightly telescoped skull and several cervical vertebrae extending beyond the eggshell. A second, partial skeleton has a skull preserved in dorsal view. The embryos have proportionately very large skulls, with the broad skull table formed by wide parietals and frontals. The wide posterolateral wing of the frontal separates the postorbital from contact with the parietal. The embryos have short rather than elongated cervical vertebrae, with tall rather than low neural arches. The large forelimbs are only slightly shorter than the hind limbs, which suggests an obligatory quadrupedal posture for the hatchlings. This pattern may represent an ontogenetic constraint related to the large size of the head and horizontally oriented neck. Similarities between the embryonic and post-hatchling specimens include the slenderness of the lower jaw and slight ventral curvature of the symphyseal portion of the dentary, the large supraorbital process of the prefrontal, and the prefrontal, and the tall antorbital and infratemporal fenestrae. There are 10 cervical, 14 dorsal, and three sacral vertebrae. The large distal claw-bearing phalanx of manual digit 1 is longer than any other phalangeal element of either manus or pes. The embryos of Massospondylus carinatus represent the oldest dinosaurian embryos known to date.
4524118|In the thirty years since the last comprehensive review of the Brachyopidae many new brachyopid genera have been described and several different phylogenies proposed. This paper provides revised diagnoses of the Brachyopidae, their sister taxon, the Chigutisauridae, and the Brachyopoidea. erects a new higher taxon, Brachyopomorpha to include stem brachyopoids, and reviews the status of all material referred at one time to these taxa. In it we present revised illustrations of the first described member of the Brachyopidae and clarify parts of the morphology of it and other members of the Brachyopoidea including especially the mandible and postcranial skeleton. A new genus and species, Vigilius wellesi, is proposed for the skull of Hadrokkosaurus bradyi as the holotype of H. bradyi, a mandible, cannot be positively associated with the skull. A phylogenetic analysis including most taxa and all putative outgroups confirms the Chigutisauridae as sister group to the Brachyopidae, forming the Brachyopoidea. Bothriceps australis becomes a sister taxon to the Brachyopoidea. Xenobrachyops allos and Keratobrachyops australis are the most plesiomorphic members of the Brachyopidae and Chigutisauridae respectively.
4524694| An anatomical study of Microbrachis reveals inaccuracies in previous studies, especially in the palate and cranial proportions. The vomer and the pterygoid reach the midline anteriorly, and the postorbital does not appear to reach the tabular. The skull is higher in our cranial reconstruction than previously thought. A phylogenetic analysis of early stegocephalians places Microbrachis at a fairly basal position in the clade that includes "microsaurs," lysorophians, and lissamphibians. This analysis corroborates previous suggestions that lissamphibians are part of a clade that includes the taxa classically referred to as "lepospondyls," and that seymouriamorphs and temnospondyls are not part of Tetrapoda. Statistical tests on another recent amphibian phylogeny reveal that its different placement of the origin of lissamphibians is not statistically more parsimonious than the placement that we suggest. Our analysis also suggests that the first evolutionary radiation of amphibians took place in an aquatic environment because most of the first groups of amphibians to have differentiated, namely adelogyrinids, nectrideans, and Microbrachis, appear to have been aquatic or amphibious taxa. However, the lifestyle of many early amphibians is difficult to assess. /// L'tude anatomique du genre Microbrachis montre de nombreuses modifications par rapport aux prcdentes, particulirement au niveau du palais et des proportions crniennes. Le vomer et le ptrygode atteignent le plan sagittal et le postorbitaire ne semble pas avoir de contact avec le tabulaire. La nouvelle reconstitution montre un crne plus haut que sur les reconstitutions prcdentes. Une nouvelle analyse phylogntique suggtre que Microbrachis occupe une place relativement basale dans le clade qui inclut les "microsaures," les lysorophiens, et les lissamphibiens. Cette tude conforte les dernires hypothses sur I'enracinement des lissamphibiens au sein des "lpospondyles" et l'exclusion des seymouriamorphes et des temnospondyles du taxon Tetrapoda. Des tests statistiques sur une autre matrice de donnes rcente rvlent qu'on ne peut exclure la possibilit que les lysorophiens sont le groupe-frre des lissamphibiens, mme si l'arbre le plus parcimonieux obtenu  partir de cette matrice suggre une autre hypothse. Nos rsultats laissent prsager que la radiation volutive des premiers amphibiens a eu lieu en milieu aquatique car la plupart des premiers amphibiens connus taient aquatiques ou amphibies. Cependant, le mode de vie de nombreux amphibiens anciens est difficile  dterminer. 
4523875|A revised classification is proposed for the Protostegidae. This revision is aided significantly by a redescription of Calcarichelys gemma Zangerl, 1953 based on a nearly complete specimen from the Mooreville Chalk (Campanian) of Alabama. The phylogenetic relationships of "Protostega" eaglefordensis are unresolved but it does not belong in the genus Protostega. Protostega dixie and Protostega potens are junior synonyms of Protostega gigas. Archelon copei is placed in a new genus, Microstega, and is included with Archelon ischyros, Calcarichelys gemma, Chelosphargis advena, and Protostega gigas in the family Protostegidae. The protostegids have the following synapomorphies: absence of the foramen palatinum posterius; a basioccipital with knob-like processes fitting into sockets on the posterior end of the pterygoids; the presence of only one suprapygal; and a T-shaped entoplastron that is not sutured to the other plastral elements. Evidence exists for a larger group containing Desmatochelys, Rhinochelys, Cimochelys, "Protostega" eaglefordensis and the protostegids based on the following synapomorphies: medial contact between palatines; foramen posterius canalis carotici interni located between the basisphenoid and pterygoid; coracoid longer than scapula; and radius bends posteriorly.
4523223|A new species of psittacosaur, Psittacosaurus xinjiangensis, is based on one articulated skeleton and additional disarticulated material from several individuals. Diagnostic features of the species include an anteriorly flattened jugal horn, an unusually high denticle count on maxillary and dentary crowns, a proportionately narrow iliac postacetabular process, and ossified tendons that extend along the tail.
4524070|Dental remains assigned to nimravid carnivores have been discovered in southern Thailand. These specimens come from the upper Eocene Krabi Basin that has already yielded numerous vertebrate taxa important for the knowledge of mammal evolution. The fossils described here are among the oldest remains belonging to the Nimravidae, and they are attributed to Nimravus cf. intermedius and Hoplophoneus sp. The occurrence of nimravid carnivores in Southeast Asia implies exchanges between Asia and North America during the Late Eocene, and it supports a larger geographical distribution and an origin of the family older than previously known.
4523634|The term prootic canal has been used to describe vascular canals in the adult petrosal bones of extant monotremes and marsupials and presumed vascular canals in the petrosals of extinct "non-tribosphenic" mammals (i.e., morganucodontids, docodontids, triconodontids, multituberculates, Vincelestes). Study of the ontogeny of these canals in extant mammals and of their morphology in extinct mammals reveals that the term prootic canal has actually been applied to four different arrangements of canals. The prootic canal variously encloses the prootic sinus (most extinct "non-tribosphenic" mammals), the prootic sinus in company with the ramus superior of the stapedial artery (the platypus Ornithorhynchus and most multituberculates), the prootic sinus and the lateral head vein (the echidna Tachyglossus), and the lateral head vein alone (didelphid, caenolestid, and some dasyurid marsupials). We propose restricting the term prootic canal to the canal enclosing the prootic sinus (middle cerebral vein) at its exit from the cranial cavity. As so defined, the prootic canal is a canal that: (1) in extinct "non-tribosphenic" mammals passes through the lateral trough of the petrosal; (2) in the platypus forms between the petrosal and lamina obturans and also transmits a meningeal branch of the ramus superior; (3) in the echidna forms within the petrosal bone; and (4) in marsupials forms between the petrosal and squamosal. Several presumed vascular canals in non-mammalian cynodonts have been proposed as precursors of the canal enclosing the prootic sinus in mammals. We review the vascular structures of the ear region and lateral braincase in non-mammalian cynodonts and conclude that the most likely precursor is a canal through the lateral flange of the prootic similar to those interpreted as enclosing the prootic sinus in Probainognathus jenseni and Massetognathus pascuali. However, until a prootic canal is found in other non-mammalian cynodonts, those in Probainognathus and Massetognathus are most reasonably viewed, given current phylogenies, as acquisitions independent of the prootic canal in mammals.
4523834|Evolution of paddle-like limbs in ichthyosaurs and plesiosaurs is correlated with loss of perichondral bone from the shafts of long bones. Among ichthyosaurs, loss of perichondral bone is first observed on the shafts of digit bones of Early Triassic taxa. Late Triassic ichthyosaurs show perichondral bone loss on the postaxial margins of the ulna and fibula. Among plesiosaurs, loss of perichondral bone is first observed on the postaxial margins of the ulna and fibula of Lower Jurassic taxa. In geologically later species of both groups, perichondral bone is progressively lost on all margins of the ulna and radius, and fibula and tibia. Late Triassic and Jurassic ichthyosaurs show an absence of perichondral ossifications on all limb bones distal to the humerus and femur. Delayed ossification of the mesopodium is not observed in ichthyosaurs. Evolutionary changes to the ossification of perichondral tissues appear to affect the sequence of limb ossification as long bones lose perichondral bone. Limb bones of ichthyosaurs and plesiosaurs resemble mesopodial elements through loss of perichondral bone. The proportion of endochondral bone found on these transformed bones is increased, resulting in an increased articular surface area and increased articular complexity.
4523100|Gondwanatherium patagonicum is a new mammalian genus and species from the Upper Cretaceous Los Alamitos Formation of Patagonia. It is represented by several isolated, high-crowned, hypselodont molars that were found in association with hadrosaurs, titanosaurs, theropods, and a varied assemblage of small vertebrates. The presence of the hadrosaur Kritosaurus, titanosaurs, and data of regional geology indicate a Campanian age. The relationships of Gondwanatherium are uncertain. The closest phenetic resemblances are to a middle Paleocene xenarthran, Sudamerica, from Patagonia, although differences suggest that they belong to different families. The presence of Gondwanatherium in Patagonia is evidence for endemism of Gondwanan and Laurasian mammalian faunas during the pre-Maastrichtian Cretaceous.
4523403| The monotypic family Ostariostomidae Schaeffer, 1949 is represented by a single specimen of Ostariostoma wilseyi Schaeffer, 1949. This unique and enigmatic fossil is the impression of the left side of a complete, articulated skeleton from Upper Cretaceous or lower Paleocene freshwater deposits of the Livingston Group in Montana. It was originally described based on the incompletely prepared type specimen and identified as a clupeoid. Based on a more complete preparation of the holotype, we redescribe O. wilseyi in previously unknown detail and reexamine its phylogenetic relationships. It clearly is not a clupeoid because it lacks all known derived characters of Clupeomorpha. Unfortunately, even based on the additional morphological information available to us, we were unable to clearly identify Ostariostoma even to superorder. Our questionable assignment of Ostariostoma to Osteoglossomorpha (possibly a hiodontoid) is not strongly supported and needs to be further tested with additional material, should it be discovered. Although less than five centimeters in total length, the specimen of Ostariostoma appears to be an adult based on certain features of its skeletal structure, making it one of the smallest species known from Late Cretaceous or Early Tertiary freshwater deposits. Ostariostoma is one of only a few teleost genera known from Cretaceous through middle Paleocene freshwater deposits of North America. It gives us additional insight into the little known transitional teleostean fauna that existed between Jurassic and Eocene time in North America. 
23251301|Estimating the mass of an extinct organism is naturally difficult. Practicality and simplicity means that often some linear measurement is used as a proxy. In the case of non-avian dinosaurs, the total length of the animal (from the snout to the tip of the tail) is sometimes used for this purpose. However, the total length of the tail is unknown in all but very few dinosaurian taxa. Tail length data taken from specimens and the literature are shown here to have remarkable variation both between and within clades (and even within single species). Comparison with body length data shows that total length (including the tail) is therefore a less reliable measure of size than using the snout-vent length of the animal. 'Snout-sacrum' lengths are suggested as a more reliable alternative. Total length should not be abandoned, however, both to provide a comparison with older works and specimens lacking complete presacral axial columns, and for communication with the general public.
4522987| The occurrences of sigmodontine rodents in the Hemphillian Land Mammal Age of Arizona and northern Mexico have been offered as evidence for a North American origin of South American cricetines from a common ancestor of peromyscines, Copemys. The discovery of neotomines and peromyscines associated with sigmodontines in the Hemphillian of central Mexico, combined with the previously reported evidence of ectoparasite distributions and the distribution of nematode endoparasites belonging to the genus Parastrongylus suggest a dual origin of New World cricetines. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that the North and South American cricetines did not have a common New World ancestor. The Copemys-peromyscine lineage may have had an origin from eumyines independent of the Old World cricetodontines, or evolved directly from the Old World cricetodontines and migrated to the New World. /// La existencia de roedores sigmodontines en la edad mamfero-terrestre Hemphillian en Arizona y en el Norte de Mxico se han postulado como evidencia de un origen norteamericano para los cricetines sudamericanos a partir de un ancestro comn con peromyscines, Copemys. El descubrimiento de los neotomines y peromyscines associados con los sigmodontines en le Hemphillian de Mxico Central en conjunto con la evidencia reportada previamente sobre la distribucin de ectoparasitos y la distribucin de nematodes endoparasiticos del genero Parastrongylus sugieren un doble origin en el Nuevo Mundo. Estos datos estn de acuerdo con la hiptesis que los cricetines del Norte y Sur de Amrica no poseian un ancestro comn en el Nuevo Mundo. El linage Copemys-peromyscine puede haber tenido un origen en los eumyines totalmente independiente al origen de los cricetodontines en el Viejo Mundo, o puedan haber evolucionado directamente de los cricetodontines del Viejo Mundo, y emigrado al Nuevo Mundo. 
4523722|Observations of the holotype of Syndyoceras cooki and comparative material indicate that protoceratid basicrania share no striking resemblances to those of camelids, a group purported to be closely related to the protoceratids. The protoceratid petrosal has a massive posterodorsal (canalicular) part with a strong dorsal crest separating the cerebral and cerebellar surfaces, like the petrosals of ruminants, and its endocranial surface lacks a fossa mastoidea, a feature of uncertain polarity found in camelid petrosals dating back at least as far as the Oligocene genus Poebrotherium. Furthermore, the subarcuate fossa of the petrosal is reduced in protoceratids (a derived condition found in pecoran ruminants). These results, while they cannot be analyzed completely with currently available data, indicate: 1) a pressing need for the reappraisal of interrelationships of "tylopod" artiodactyl taxa and their relationships with the ruminants, and 2) the potential that protoceratids themselves may be more closely related to ruminants than previously thought, hearkening back to conclusions originally reached by Scott in the late 19th century. Comprehensive study of all Eurasian and North American neoselenodont artiodactyl taxa with preserved basicrania will be necessary to clarify these issues.
24523216|Isolated bones of forelimb and pelvic girdle (two humeri, five ulnae, and an ilium) recovered from the Late Jurassic (Kimmeridgian) Guimarota coal mine in western central Portugal are attributed to the docodont Haldanodon exspectatus, dryolestoids, and a?paulchoffatiid multituberculate. The larger of the two humeri is assigned to the dryolestid Dryolestes leiriensis based on size and shape. It clearly exhibits an incipient trochlea at the distal joint, suggesting that this derived character was well established among Late Jurassic dryolestidans, including Henkelotherium. Plesiomorphic characters are the prominent spherical radial condyle and the weakly developed ulnar condyle. An incipient medial keel is present in distal aspect of the humerus trochlea. The shallow olecranon fossa of the humerus corresponds to the small anconeal process of the radius. The smaller humerus with damaged distal joint is 50% smaller and cannot be assigned to a specific dryolestoid taxon. It is in the size range of the smaller Guimarota dryolestoids Krebsotherium, Drescheratherium, and Henkelotherium. One ulna differs from the dryolestoid ulnar shape by the nearly semicircular articular surface for the ulnar condyle of the humerus, the asymmetric olecranon with medial overhang, as well as the prominent anconeal process and is tentatively attributed to a paulchoffatiid multituberculate.
24523208|The Neotropical frog genus Leptodactylus is one of the most taxonomically diverse of all neobatrachian anurans. Despite the genus being highly diversified and widely distributed today, the fossil record is scanty and restricted to the Quaternary of the Neotropics. Here, we report and describe a new record of total group Leptodactylus from the Chapadmalalan (early Pliocene) of the South American Pampas. We evaluate both qualitative and quantitative characters and discuss the taxonomic value of body size in the context of living Leptodactylus. A number of features of the fossil elements suggests an affinity with the living species of the L. latrans species group and, particularly, with L. latrans. However, the lack of resolution of Leptodactylus interrelationships and, thus, the lack of osteological synapomorphies of the species groups and species within the genus conspire to force allocation of the fossils to crown Leptodactylus until they are studied in a rigorous phylogenetic context. In any case, the new material constitutes the oldest record of total group Leptodactylus and extends their stratigraphic range back to the early Pliocene.
4523030|Two species of soricid insectivores, Paracryptotis rex and Sorex powersi, are the first soricids to be reported from the Ringold Formation. They make up a portion of a new stratigraphically separate local fauna, the Blufftop local fauna, from the upper part of the White Bluffs, Franklin County, Washington. This fauna occurs at a stratigraphic position near a paleomagnetic boundary, which has been interpreted as the Gauss-Gilbert boundary but may be an older boundary within the Gilbert. Compared to other Ringold Formation local faunas, the Blufftop l.f. is older than the Taunton l.f. (which on new evidence is closer in age to the Hagerman l.f. of Idaho) and is similar to the underlying White Bluffs local fauna.
40864380|We present the first detailed account of cranial ontogeny in a fossil marsupial. An exceptionally well-preserved ontogenetic sample representing 26 individuals of Nimbadon lavarackorum (Diprotodontidae, Zygomaturinae) is described from a 15 million-year-old cave deposit in the Riversleigh World Heritage Area, Queensland. Based on comparison with one of N. lavarackorum's closest living relatives, the common wombat (Vombatus ursinus), the N. lavarackorum sample represents developmental stages spanning suckling pouch young through to elderly adults. In addition to documenting ontogenetic changes, reduced major axis regression analyses of 14 cranial and seven mandibular measurements were used to analyze allometric growth. Early growth patterns in the cranium are comparable to those of other marsupials such that the bones of the facial portion of the cranium develop precociously compared with those of the neurocranium. Most differences between adult and juvenile crania result from reorganization of structures associated with the cranio-mandibular joint and the developing dentition and strengthening of areas for insertion of the muscles of mastication. These changes reflect the transition from a purely suckling function to one focused on mastication of leaves. The sample also provides a unique view into the development of the extraordinarily complex endocranial sinuses characteristic of diprotodontid marsupials.
4523001|A preliminary diagnosis and description is given of a new palaeonisciform, Lawrenciella schaefferi n.g., n.sp., from the Pennsylvanian (Late Carboniferous) of Kansas, U.S.A. This species is known only by the braincase and associated parasphenoid. Endocranial characters of the Palaeonisciformes are reviewed and discussed in connection with their use in palaeoniscid systematics. Some remarks are made on features which appear to be significant in the evolution of the palaeonisciform braincase.
20491040|A new large nodosaurid ankylosaur, Peloroplites cedrimontanus, is described from a partial skull and postcranial skeleton found at the PR-2 Quarry located at the base of the Mussentuchit Member of the Cedar Mountain Formation in central Utah. The specimen is about the same size as the contemporary nodosaurid Sauropelta edwardsorum from the Cloverly Formation of Montana, and is of an individual approximately 5-5.5 m long. The skull of Peloroplites differs from that of Sauropelta in the vertical orientation of the suspensorium, non-domed cranium and broad, square premaxillary beak. The quarry is near and roughly at the same level as the CEM Quarry that produced the holotype of the ankylosaurid Cedarpelta bilbeyhallorum. The postcrania of Cedarpelta is described and illustrated based on the paratype and new material. These elements clearly establish that Cedarpelta is closer to Ankylosaurus than to Sauropelta. As a primitive ankylosaurid, there is no a priori reason to assume that the tail club was present. Based on recent finds in China, a hypothesis is presented that the tail club is a derived feature in non-shamosaurine (i.e., ankylosaurine) ankylosaurids.
4524453|Recently collected materials of a tylosaurine mosasaur from Haumuri Bluff, New Zealand, are assigned to Taniwhasaurus oweni Hector, 1874. Previously described tylosaurine mosasaur specimens from Haumuri Bluff that were assigned to other taxa are re-evaluated here and assigned to T oweni. Taniwhasaurus is diagnosed as a tylosaurine based on the possession of a premaxillary rostrum and anterior edentulous process of the dentary. However, Taniwhasaurus also exhibits a prefrontal-maxillary contact in which the prefrontal forms a portion of the naris, thus precluding the frontal- maxillary contact characteristic of all other tylosaurines with the possible exception of Hainosaurus bernardi. The distribution of the frontal-maxillary contact in mosasaurs suggests that it may be correlated with snout elongation.
25835882|The taxonomic status of European Plio-Pleistocene badgers is currently uncertain, due to the relative scarcity of their fossil remains. Here we describe craniodental remains from the Iberian locality of Vallparads, indicating that the extant European badger (Meles meles) was distributed throughout Europe during the late Villafranchian. On the basis of morphological and morphometrical comparisons, we attribute the studied specimens, together with other late Villafranchian and Epivillafranchian badgers from Europe, to M. meles atavus, thereby considering that M. hollitzeri and M. dimitrius (in part) are subjective junior synonyms of the former. Only the early to middle Villafranchian M. thorali can be considered a distinct species, with M. iberica and M. dimitrius (in part) being subjective junior synonyms of this other species. It is concluded that extant European badger species must have diverged from Asian badgers before the top of the Olduvai subchron. Available molecular and paleontological data are consistent with an Asian origin of the Meles lineage, and with M. thorali being the ancestral species that dispersed into Europe attaining a wholly Palearctic distribution by the early Villafranchian. Later, before the top of the Olduvai subchron, M. thorali might have given rise to both the European and Asian badger lineages through a vicariance process prompted by paleoclimatic changes.
20491064|An exceptionally well-preserved white shark fossil (Carcharodon sp.) is described here from the early Pliocene (ca. 4 Ma) Pisco Formation of southwestern Peru. This specimen preserves 222 teeth and 45 vertebrae as well as fragmentary jaws. The teeth show characters of Carcharodon, including weak serrations and a symmetrical first anterior tooth that is the largest in the tooth row. This dentition also shows a character of Isurus with a distally inclined but mesially slanted intermediate tooth. Although the Pisco specimen demonstrates characters of both Isurus, also known form the Pisco Formation, and modern Carcharodon carcharias, it is assigned to the genus Carcharodon and referred to herein as Carcharodon sp. While Carcharodon sp. From the Pisco Formation shows numerous diagnostic characteristics shared with C. carcharias, it differs from the extant species in having a distal inclination of the intermediate tooth. The precaudal vertebral centra of the Pisco Carcharodon preserve distinctive dark and light incremental bands that, based on calibration with oxygen isotopes, indicate annular growth couplets. The fossil shark was at least 20 (1) years old at the time of its death. Based on measurements of teeth and vertebral centra, this specimen is estimated to have had a minimum total body length of 4.80-5.07 m, similar to estimates for modern older individuals of C. carcharias. Relative to the extant Carcharodon carcharias, the Pisco Carcharodon sp. grew at a slower rate. The fossil record of lamnoid sharks preserved in the Pisco Formation demonstrates that the modern white shark is more closely related to Isurus (I. hastalis) than it is to the species Carcharodon megalodon, and the latter is therefore best allocated to the genus Carcharocles.
41515053|This study identifies three new neoselachian tooth taxa from the Middle and Upper Triassic. On the basis of morphological and histological characters, Rhomaleodus budurovi, nov. gen. et sp. (Anisian of Bulgaria), is resolved as stem selachimorph, with an additional specimen from the same stratigraphie level assigned to Synechodus sp. Selachimorph grade of enameloid microstructural organization (crystalline bundles) was also identified during examination of the dental tissues of "Polyacrodus" holwellensis (Rhaetian of England), necessitating its transfer to the new genus Duffinselache. The present data reveal several levels of increasing architectural complexity in the arrangement of the enameloid crystalline bundles of stem selachimorphs, which are argued to convey a phylogenetic signal that can be used to establish relationships within the group. It is suggested that the evolution of the hypermineralized enameloid cover of neoselachian teeth progressed from a plesiomorphic single crystalline state, through amalgamation of individual crystals into loosely defined bundles (marking the appearance of Selachimorpha), and their subsequent differentiation into a highly ordered parallel bundles, followed by the development of an inner layer of haphazardly oriented bundles. The superficial shiny-layered enameloid of Neoselachii is interpreted as remnant of a much reduced single crystalline layer.
4522837|A pterosaurian cervical vertebra, fragment of humerus, and associated femur and tibia from the Merchantville Formation (early Campanian, Late Cretaceous) of northern Delaware provide the second record of Cretaceous flying reptiles in eastern North America. These bones resemble Pteranodon in morphology and size but are not securely assignable to a particular genus of the family Ornithocheiridae. Comparison with Pteranodon skeletons from the Niobrara Chalk of Kansas indicates a wingspan of about 5.8 m (19 ft) for the Delaware pterosaurs. The successive Upper Cretaceous reptile faunas of the Merchantville, Marshalltown, and Mount Laurel Formations along the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal are listed for the first time.
20061986|The holotype of Priscodelphinus squalodontoides Capellini, 1878 and a second, more complete skull both derive from Miocene sediments of the Salento Peninsula (southern Italy). They are ascribed to Rudicetus, a new genus within the Kentriodontidae (Odontoceti, Cetacea). Rudicetus is characterized by a nearly symmetrical skull, condylobasal skull length of about 450 mm, rostrum 60 percent of the condylobasal length of skull, about 30 teeth in the upper tooth row, posterior teeth with accessory denticles, wide and knob-like premaxillary terminations, wide, flat and low vertex, nasals smaller than frontals at vertex, rectilinear anterior margin of nasal, nasal-frontal suture anteriorly convex, relatively narrow posterior portion of skull with occipital shield laterally constricted, and slender and anteroposteriorly elongated zygomatic process of squamosal. Rudicetus is referred to the subfamily Kentriodontinae because of its flat, wide, and low vertex. Rudicetus squalodontoides confirms the presence of kentriodontids from Italy and the Mediterranean Basin, as all previous reports were based on fragmentary specimens.
4524291|A new primitive brachythoracid arthrodire, Uralosteus bashkiricus gen. et sp. nov., is described from two Emsian (late Early Devonian) localities in the Ural Mountains of the Autonomous Republic of Bashkortostan, Russia. The holotype includes bones of the skull and trunk armor associated with numerous scales from one individual, which facilitates the study of isolated microremains. The dermal ornament of distinctive tuberculate ridges suggests a relationship to Errolosteus Young, 1981 from the Emsian of southeastern Australia, but neither form is well enough known for this to be strongly supported in a character analysis. Some isolated placoderm bones with ridged ornament from southeastern Australia are figured, and interpreted to belong to a new form of williamsaspid rather than to Errolosteus. The new genus Uralosteus is referred to the family Buchanosteidae, defined by a unique overlap arrangement of the posterior lateral onto the anterior dorsolateral plate of the trunk armor. Buchanosteids, as a basal brachy- thoracid group, are a key to understanding the phylogeny of that clade. The type genus Buchanosteus comes from southeastern Australia, but it is now evident that the family was widely distributed in shallow marine environments during the Emsian.
4524391|An isolated upper fourth premolar (P4) of the extinct red panda Parailurus was recovered from the Pliocene (3-4 Ma) Ushigakubi Formation near Tochio, Niigata Prefecture, Japan. This is the first report of Parailurus from Asia, a genus previously known from Europe and northwestern North America. The Tochio P4 is about 50 percent larger than that of the extant Ailurus fulgens, lacks an entostyle, but has a lingual cingulum, protoloph with paraconule, a marked posterior cingulum with fine wrinkles, and a distal buccolingual groove. The transverse width of the P4 is greater than the anteroposterior length; the reverse is true of Parailurus anglicus from Europe.
4523060|Teeth and cranial remains of a small tritylodontid have recently been discovered in the "Silty Facies" of the Kayenta Formation of northeastern Arizona. Based on the characteristic structure of the postcanine teeth, they can be referred to Oligokyphus Hennig, 1922, previously only known from the Lower Jurassic of Europe. The presence of Oligokyphus in the Kayenta Formation supports an Early Jurassic age for this formation and is paleobiogeographically significant because it forges a link with the more or less contemporaneous tetrapod assemblages in Europe.
4523730|Several specimens of the seymouriamorph Utegenia from the Upper Carboniferous or the Lower Permian of Southern Kazakhstan are described and illustrated for the first time. Utegenia is represented by several larval and post-metamorphic individuals, but a fully mature specimen has not been discovered. Comparisons to other seymouriamorphs indicate that Utegenia is a valid genus characterized by seven diagnostic characters: narrow postorbital-supratemporal contact; narrow dorsal flange of the postparietal and tabular; absence of a maxilla-quadratojugal contact; presence of an extensive shagreen of denticles on the parasphenoid; broad cultriform process; high presacral count; and presence of gastralia. Other characters previously used to diagnose Utegenia may reflect the juvenile condition of the known specimens. The taxonomic position of Utegenia is problematic but preliminary evidence suggests that it may be the sister-group of most other known seymouriamorphs.
25835851|We report the discovery of a new species of the snake Madtsoia from infratrappean horizons of Late Cretaceous age in Pisdura, central India. Recovered vertebrae are large (1.83 cm long; 4.35 cm tall) and pertain to a snake that was ca. 5 m long. Discovery of Madtsoia in India extends the geographic distribution of the genus and represents only the second species known from the Cretaceous. Vertebrae of Madtsoia pisdurensis sp. nov. are strikingly similar to those of M. bai and M. camposi (South America) and M. madagascariensis (Madagascar), but can be distinguished from them by a unique process on the hemal keel, which is low, flat, and triangular in outline. Whereas the eastern Gondwanan species of Madtsoia (M. madagascariensis, M. pisdurensis) are Late Cretaceous in age, the western Gondwanan species (M. bai, M. camposi) are Paleogene in age. Geophysical evidence suggests that land connections between South America, Madagascar, and Indo-Pakistan were severed by at least 10090 Ma, which implies that Madtsoia achieved its broad geographic distribution either by (1) origin and dispersion before the end of the Turonian; or (2) the presence of an unrecognized land connection persisting into the latest Cretaceous. Both hypotheses predict that Madtsoia will be discovered in Mesozoic strata of South America, where it survived the Cretaceous-Paleogene mass extinction.
4524380|A growth series of 97 specimens of the dissorophoid temnospondyl Micromelerpeton credneri from the Permo-Carboniferous of Central Europe is taken as a basis for ontogenetic investigations. Whereas the dermal skull roof is already ossified and sutured in the smallest specimen with a skull length of 6 mm, the ossification sequence of the postcranium can be reconstructed. Compared to branchiosaurids and Recent urodeles, the ossification of the post- cranial skeleton is delayed. For the first time, external gills are described in Micromelerpeton credneri. Their three pairs of branches shorten proportionally during ontogeny. A Cartesian transformation and biometric analyses show allometric changes in the dermal skull roof. Whereas the preorbital region elongates slightly (due to positive allometric growth of nasal length and negative allometric growth of orbits) and grows in width isometrically, the postorbital skull table shows isometry in length (due to positive allometry of frontal length and negative allometry of parietal length) and distinct negative allometry in width (due to negative allometry of parietal and supratemporal width). The interorbital width relatively decreases. The cheek region shows positive allometry both in length and in width, shifting the jaw articulation posteriorly. In this way proportionally more space and attachment area for the adductor musculature are provided and the gape enlarges proportionally. The positive allometric growth of the diameter of the sclerotic ring indicates increased importance of the optical sense. Transformation into the adult stage took place gradually and in a longer period of time during ontogeny than in extant amphibians.
4524228|The Pisco Formation (Miocene-Pliocene) of Peru contains a diverse marine vertebrate fauna. Among the more unusual members of the fauna is the semi- aquatic to aquatic nothrothere sloth, Thalassocnus. Continued fieldwork indicates that, in addition to the late Miocene type species, Thalassocnus natans, the genus is also represented by two additional species in higher horizons of the Pisco Formation. The skull morphology of T natans is described along with that of Thalassocnus littoralis, sp. nov. and Thalassocnus carolomartini, sp. nov. from the earliest and late early to early late Pliocene, respectively. Many aspects of the cranium of the oldest species of Thalassocnus, T natans, compare well to those of terrestrial nothrotheres. The terminal species, T. carolomartini, has the most derived features of the skull, absent in all other nothrotheres, that are related to feeding in a marine environment.
4524646|Description of the first varanodontine varanopid material from the highly fossiliferous limestone fissure fill deposits at Richards Spur (Dolese Brothers Limestone Quarry), Oklahoma, is based on elements of at least three individuals recovered from two separate blocks of sedimentary rock. One block, which yielded associated cranial and postcranial bones from both adult and juvenile individuals, includes two well-preserved parabasisphenoid complexes, vertebrae, forelimb, pelvic girdle, and hind limb bones. An isolated maxilla fragment from another block preserves the diagnostic dorsal process characteristic of varanodontines. Preserved cranial and postcranial material is virtually identical to the varanodontine Varanops brevirostris. Taxonomic assessment of this new material in the context of the most comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of Varanopidae to date indicates the Richards Spur varanodontine is referable to Varanops brevirostris based on distinctive characters of the maxilla and the parabasisphenoid. The large size of Varanops suggests it was one of the top predators of the Richards Spur ecosystem. The Richards Spur locality records the only known co-occurrence of a mycterosaurine and a varanodontine varanopid at a single locality, and varanopids are the most common synapsids in the assemblage. As generally rare components of the more typically preserved lowland environments, the relative abundance and diversity of varanopids at Richards Spur suggests that they may have been more common components of the upland ecosystems in the Early Permian.
4524782| Here, we provide a comparative survey of the histology of postcranial dermal-armor osteoderms of ankylosaurs, including material of polacanthids (Polacanthus foxii, Gastonia sp.), ankylosaurids (e.g., Saichania chulsanensis, Pinacosaurus grangeri, Ankylosauridae indet.), and nodosaurids (e.g., Struthiosaurus austriacus, Nodosauridae indet.). Samples of osteoderm-bearing outgroups (Scelidosaurus harrisonii, phytosaurs, and crocodiles) as well as literature data on Stegosaurus stenops plates and spikes helped to elucidate histological evolution and character polarity. The complex histology of ankylosaur osteoderms seems to be of systematic value, as the sectioned osteoderms can be classified into three distinctive groups. All polacanthid osteoderms share a relatively generalized histology with a thickened, uniform cortex completely surrounding trabecular bone. Nodosaurid osteoderms only have an external cortex with the underlying internal spongiosa being much thicker and forming a rather flat base. Ankylosaurids have very thin osteoderms that were greatly strengthened by the incorporation of structural collagen fiber bundles, similar but not identical to Sharpey's fibers, into the thin primary cortex and, uniquely, the secondary bone tissue. Structural fibers are also abundant in nodosaurids but there are significant differences in arrangement and occurrence, being random in ankylosaurids but highly ordered in nodosaurids. In their cortex, the latter have two sets of 3D-orthogonal fibers rotated at 45 to each other. The combination of the greatly strengthened external cortex covering a thick cushion of cancellous bone thus serves to resist local penetration. Ankylosaurid and nodosaurid osteoderms are thus highly optimized towards a resistant yet light-weight armor. 
40666168|Constructing musculoskeletal models of extinct vertebrates requires subjective assumptions about soft tissue parameters rarely preserved in the fossil record. Despite these necessary assumptions about fundamental input values, paleobiologists rarely perform objective tests of best-estimate models before reaching conclusions based on predicted results. The extent to which lack of knowledge on soft tissue anatomy limits the accuracy of running speed estimates of extinct dinosaurs is therefore poorly understood. In this study, a sensitivity analysis is performed on an evolutionary robotics model of the non-avian theropod dinosaur Allosaurus, used previously to estimate maximum running speed in this extinct animal. A range of muscle parameters were varied over the range observed in extant vertebrates, whereas mass-related parameters were altered across the range of published estimates for Allosaurus. Muscle parameters have a linear relationship with maximum running speed, whereas surprisingly total body mass and torso center of mass have little effect. Muscle force values produced the greatest range in predicted running speeds (4.5-10.7 m/s) and stride lengths (4-5.8 m) in the sensitivity analysis, equating to 65.9% and 30.7% variation about the original ' best-estimate' prediction, a relatively high potential margin of error. These results highlight the importance of sensitivity analyses in biomechanical modeling of extinct taxa, particularly where values for soft tissues parameters are not tightly constrained. The current range in plausible values for soft tissue properties makes a robust quantitative assessment of behavioral ecology and species interactions in dinosaurian communities extremely difficult.
4523035|A new skeleton of the amphibious reptile Champsosaurus from the late Paleocene of western North Dakota reveals that the head and body were dorsoventrally flattened as an adaptation to a fully aquatic existence. The nearly intact and undistorted skull demonstrates that a well developed secondary palate was present. Long nasal passages and a flexible neck functioned in snorkeling. The essentially complete articulated postcranial skeleton indicates that the ribcage was relatively rigid. Gastralia functioned with this rigid unit in compression and expansion of the pleural cavity and lowered the center of gravity to assist in underwater stability. An integument of fine circular or rhomboid scales was present.
4523712| A new Middle Jurassic North American sphenodontian, Cynosphenodon huizachalensis, gen. et sp. nov. is described on the basis of several dentaries and maxillae. It is characterized by its small size and its striking similarity to Sphenodon. The presence of a deep posteromedial wear facet on the caniniform tooth, a small denticle in the additional tooth series, and an anterior small groove dorsal and convergent to the Meckelian Canal, are unique characteristics of this species. In adult individuals the caniniform tooth placed posteriorly to an edentulous ridge, and the presence of wear facets on teeth and jaws caused by propalinal jaw action, suggest that C. huizachalensis is closely related to Sphenodon; the wear facet on the posteromedial face of the caniniform tooth, however, may suggest a different arrangement of the anterior palatal region. /// Con base en varios dentarios y maxilas, se describe Cynosphenodon huizachalensis, gen. et sp. nov. un nuevo esfenodonte del Jursico Medio de Norte Amrica. Se caracteriza por sus pequeas dimensiones y su gran similitud a Sphenodon. La presencia de una faceta de desgaste en la parte posteromedia del diente caniniforme, de un dentculo en la serie dental adicional, y de un pequeo surco dorsal y convergente al Canal de Meckel, son caracteres nicos de esta especie. El diente caniniforme ubicado posteriormente a un margen edentado en adultos, y la presencia de facetas de desgaste en dientes y mandbulas causados por movimientos mandibulares propalneos, sugieren que C. huizachalensis est cercanamente relacionado a Sphenodon; la faceta de desgaste en la cara posteromedia del diente caniniforme, sin embargo, sugiere un arreglo diferente de la regin palatal anterior. 
4524598|Fossils are frequently conserved with cyanoacrylate (CA) adhesives, which have never been scientifically assessed for their long-term stability and suitability for this application. The degradation of three types of CA adhesives were studied: an ethyl CA, an ethyl CA with added poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA), and a butyl CA, in the presence and absence of five different fossils obtained from various sites. The fossils were characterized by pH, moisture content, porosity, and ash content, as well as by their mineral and elemental composition. Hydrolytic degradation of polymerized CA adhesives was monitored by quantitative determination of formaldehyde, one of the degradation products. Both in the presence and absence of a fossil, butyl CA degraded more slowly than ethyl CA, making it attractive for fossil applications. It was also found that acidic fossil inhibits the degradation of CA adhesives, while neutral or alkaline fossils increase the CA degradation. The CA degradation appears to be correlated to some degree with a fossil's physical and chemical properties, but this requires further study. Further study is also necessary to determine how the observed CA degradation affects the actual fossil/CA bond strength.
4524330|A new species of the notoungulate Eopachyrucos is described on the basis of mandibles and lower cheek teeth from the upper Oligocene Fray Bentos Formation of Uruguay. Eopachyrucos ranchoverdensis, sp. nov., is most similar to the pre-Deseadan/post-Mustersan (late Eocene) Eopachyrucos pliciferus from Patagonia, but is much larger and less hypsodont. The new species has a well-developed postmetacristid on p3 similar to that of Notopithecinae but with higher crowned teeth. The Oligocene record of Eopachyrucos greatly extends its chronologic range. A cladistic analysis of Eopachyrucos and other interatheriids supports the hypothesis that Eopachyrucos is the most primitive interatheriine, retaining a number of primitive features also found in advanced Notopithecinae. The Fray Bentos Fauna shares a few typical elements with Deseadan faunas from Patagonia, but an important distinction between the two faunas is the persistence of some archaic taxa in the Fray Bentos Fauna. The overall composition of the Fray Bentos Fauna is more similar to late Oligocene Deseadan faunas of Bolivia, and this may be attributed to temporal (younger than the Deseadan of Patagonia) or ecological factors.
20627091|Bones of Alamosaurus sanjuanensis were collected from the Upper Cretaceous Javelina and Black Peaks formations in Big Bend National Park, Texas, for use in the first extensive histological study of a titanosaurian sauropod dinosaur. Samples include cervical, dorsal, and caudal vertebrae; ribs; a scapula; humeri; an ulna; a metacarpal; an ischium; femora; a tibia; fibulae; and a metatarsal, representing a minimum of twenty two individuals between 35% and 100% maximum length. In elements of less than 60% maximum length, cortical tissue is primarily reticular or plexiform fibro-lamellar, often with modulations. Resorption in some specimens appears to have proceeded as outwardly expanding bands. In larger specimens (70-79% maximum length), primary tissue is only visible interstitially as either fibro-lamellar or parallel-fibered with low vascularity and annuli. Secondary osteons are in many places linearly arranged. Haversian systems are so pervasive in many of the largest specimens (80-100% maximum length) that virtually no primary tissue remains. However, one adult sized femur possesses laminar fibro-lamellar tissue in its outer cortex, suggesting that the adult size for Alamosaurus may have been underestimated. Camellae typical of titanosaur dorsal vertebrae are present in Alamosaurus but absent in caudal vertebrae. Although pneumatic dorsal ribs characterize Titanosauriformes, sections of ribs analyzed in this study show the cavities in Alamosaurus are much more extensive than most previously described. Overall, Alamosaurus bone histology combines characteristics found in less derived sauropods, such as an early onset of secondary reconstruction, with novel characters such as extensively pneumatic ribs and longer retention of juvenile tissue.
41407707|The nycteroleter parareptiles have lately become the focus of increased attention, owing to their recently recognized sister-group relationship to pareiasaurs and the discovery an impedance-matching ear in members of the group. The Kotel'nich locality in central Russia dates to the early part of the Late Permian and preserves a diverse tetrapod fauna that includes the pareiasaur Deltavjatia vjatkensis and the nycteroleter Emeroleter levis. The latter taxon was previously known only from isolated crania, but recent excavations have produced additional material, including well-preserved postcrania, allowing a complete redescription. The skull of Emeroleter is typified by dermal sculpturing consisting of evenly spaced small, round pits and supratemporals that extend posterolaterally into broad horns. The quadratojugal is long and the posterior portion of the element curves dorsally into a pointed projection, an autapomorphy of the taxon. Postcranially, Emeroleter is very gracile with a long, sigmoid femur, and slender limbs, carpal, and tarsal elements. A reassessment of the Russian nycteroleters results in the synonymy of Tokosaurus perforatus with Macroleter poezicus. Phylogenetic analysis of parareptilian relationships using both parsimony and Bayesian inference yields a monophyly of ' nycteroleters' in parsimony, whereas the group is found to be paraphyletic with Bayesian inference. The genus Bashkyroleter is consistently paraphyletic. A clade consisting of the nycteroleters and pareiasaurs, here termed Pareiasauromorpha, is supported by both methods.
4524198|Pachyrhachis problematicus is an early Upper Cretaceous snake with legs from the Middle East. The taxon is involved in an increasingly controversial debate about the origin and higher-level interrelationships of snakes. Its status is problematic because it combines characters of advanced (macrostomatan) snakes with plesiomorphic squamate traits. Two competing hypotheses of relationships have consequently been proposed: (1) Pachyrhachis is the sister group of all other snakes, and links Serpentes with Mosasauroidea; and (2) Pachyrhachis is related to the advanced macrostomatan snakes and has no bearing on the issue of snake origins. In a recent paper published in this journal, Caldwell critically reviewed the status of Pachyrhachis as the sister-taxon of macrostomatan snakes, and concluded that Pachyrhachis is the sister-group of all other snakes instead. In the present paper, we review several aspects of character delimitations as proposed by Caldwell, and corroborate the macrostomatan affinities of Pachyrhachis.
4524691|The fragmentary remains of a new dipnoan, Ichnomylax karatajae, sp. nov., have been discovered in the Lower Devonian sediments of Taymir Peninsula, northern Russia. This form is characterized by a prearticular tooth plate consisting of a large, elongated, strongly convex, heel-like posterior region, which is clearly demarcated from the anterior tooth zone. There are three or four anterolaterally-directed rows of large, rounded teeth. Numerous rounded, elongate, enamel-covered denticles are present anteriorly between the tooth rows, as well as medially, laterally, and posteriorly, near the outer edges of the plate. This new species, like Ichnomylax kurnai, can be interpreted as being a basal dipnoan, close to Speonesydrion, another Lower Devonian form. The discovery of this new species of Ichnomylax on the Siberian plate, widely separated from the Southern Australian type locality of l. kurnai, provides additional evidence for rapid dispersal of Early Devonian dipnoans. Histological examination of one of the prearticular plates revealed the presence of petrodentine in both the body of the plate and in the teeth. We provide a definition, brief description, and discussion on the significance of this unique type of hypermineralized dentine, and conclude that the discovery of petrodentine in such an early stage of dipnoan history has important implications for studies of dipnoan evolution.
4523021|Recognition of the multituberculate Essonodon browni in the Upper Cretaceous Naashoibito Member of the Kirtland Shale, San Juan Basin, New Mexico suggests a Lancian age for the Alamo Wash local fauna.
4523559|At least six species of Shastasaurus have been described in the literature and accounts of its anatomy, which have included a restoration of the entire skeleton, give the impression that it is a well understood genus. This is not the case. Most of the species, primarily from California, were erected on inadequate material-especially vertebrae and rib fragments-and should be considered nomina dubia. Although there is information for the skull, fins, and girdles, most of the material is incomplete. Thus there is no complete skull, forefin or hindfin, nor is the vertebral column known much beyond the pelvic girdle. A partial skeleton of Shastasaurus, from the Upper Triassic of Williston Lake, British Columbia, is the most complete specimen known to date. It is described here as a new species, Shastasaurus neoscapularis. Being early Norian in age, it is geologically younger, by some 5-12 Ma, than the other material of Shastasaurus, which is late Carnian. While similar to the older material in other respects, the new material differs in having a radically different scapula, which is like that of typical Jurassic taxa such as Ichthyosaurus and Stenopterygius. The skull, with its large orbit, narrow postorbital region, and small maxilla is also like that of a Jurassic ichthyosaur. As comparative data are unavailable, it is not known whether these cranial features are typical of the genus or only of the new species.
4523341|A new genus and species of heterostracan jawless vertebrate is described from early Wenlockian (Silurian) beds of the Delorme Group, Mackenzie Mountains, Northwest Territories, Canada. The age of the fossil is based on conodonts and other fossils in the same and in nearby correlated sections. The new vertebrate is significant as the oldest heterostracan and one of the oldest vertebrates preserved as complete, articulated skeletons. It is also one of the few heterostracans of any age for which mouth parts, branchial scales and platelets, body scales, and tail are all preserved. The new genus is most closely related to Tolypelepis and Asketaspis in the subfamily Tolypelepidinae, family Cyathaspididae, resembling those genera in subdivision of the dorsal shield into epitega anteriorly and laterally and into scale-like units posteriorly, but differing in body and plate proportions, details of ornament, and possibly in branchial and trunk scale construction. The new vertebrate has distinct orbital and lateral epitega, rod-like oral plates arranged in a Vpattern, multiple branchial scales and platelets, trunk scales in eight or more equal-sized longitudinal rows, and a nearly symmetrical, forked tail with uniserial ray-like rows of scales. These features provide important structural links between primitive cyathaspidids and derived heterostracans such as Ctenaspis, pteraspidids, and Drepanaspis. Divisions between epitega are associated with pores of sensory canals. The open mouth likely formed a V-shaped scoop. The branchial scales and platelets show that heterostracans need not have a single pair of large branchial plates. The body scales suggest that primitive cyathaspidids did not have wide, rectangular lateral scales. The tail shows that fin "rays" of a simple construction existed in agnathans 20 my before the first appearance of analogous structures in Osteichthyes, and that early heterostracans had more symmetrical and flexible tails than previously known.
20491002|An enigmatic dicynodont specimen from Tweefontein in Graaff-Reinet, South Africa, represents a new species of the Middle to Late Permian genus Emydops, E. oweni. Taxonomic revision of the genus reveals that, of the thirteen previously described species, only E. arctatus is valid. The holotype of E. oweni, SAM-PK-3721 is unusual in that it bears two tusks on each side of the skull, a symmetrically developed double-tusked condition being a very rare if not unique case in the dicynodont fossil record. The possible pathological causes for this occurrence are discussed and the production of the supernumerary teeth by mutation is considered to be the most likely explanation. Phylogenetic analysis supports the sister-taxon relationship of the two species of Emydops and their position at the base of Emydopidae. Emydops oweni shares a number of derived characters with E. arctatus, including its small size, wide temporal region, prominent lateral dentary shelf, embayment on the medial surface of the palatal rim, and squared-off profile of occiput. In addition to its aberrant dentition, SAM-PK-3721 can be distinguished from the type species by a number of autapomorphies, including the absence of the small maxillary foramen lateral to the postcaniniform keel, the presence of a distinct ventrolaterally projecting pterygoid flange, and the diagnostic shape of the lateral dentary shelf. The identification of two additional tuskless specimens referable to the new species excludes the possibility that the autapomorphic characters are associated with the double-tusked condition, allowing us to conclude that E. oweni has both tusked and tuskless morphs.
4523342|The pterygoid plates and inner bones of the lower jaw of Diabolepis were further prepared and sections made of one dental plate to examine additional features of the dentition and to relate macrostructure to histology and growth. These observations confirm the position of Diabolepis within dipnoans. The growth pattern inferred from these observations is compatible with the general model for the growth of dipnoan tooth plates proposed by Smith (1988). New teeth are added from the anterolateral margin, the older posteromedial teeth are retained until worn flat, and the worn surface is repaired by new tissue forming as a blister superimposed on the old tissue. It is proposed that the dentition in Diabolepis is the most primitive for dipnoans. These primitive features include 1) paired dental plates consisting of radial rows of teeth that converge on the posteromedial corner, 2) radial tooth rows in which the teeth gradually increase in size from posteromedial to labial, 3) tooth patches of graded size teeth on the shortened premaxilla and dentary, and 4) a complete cover of denticles and teeth on the palate and the inner bones of the lowerjaw. New observations support a previous suggestion that the entopterygoid and prearticular in dipnoans may incorporate the dermopalatine, ectopterygoid, and coronoids.
4523587|The holotype and only known specimen of Sorbitorhynchus deleaskitus, a large Devonian lungfish from Guangxi, China, is abnormal in the structure of the snout and lower jaw. The tooth plates show marked asymmetry and do not occlude when the jaws are placed in normal articulation. There is a large hemispherical depression with sinus tracts in the bone between the lower tooth plates. Both snout and lower jaw are abnormal in shape and only traces remain of ossified sensory tubules within the bone of the snout and mandible. The lower jaw of S. deleaskitus may have included a dentigerous cyst that developed from a persistent juvenile symphyseal tooth and grew large enough to distort the symphysis and cause malocclusion between the tooth plates. The cyst may have become infected, forming an abscess with sinus tracts in the bone below, and hyperplastic or neoplastic cells from the cyst may have spread to destroy normal sensory structures in the snout and lower jaw. If this interpretation is correct, the unusual structures in the holotype of S. deleaskitus are unlikely to have any significance for taxonomic or phylogenetic analysis.
4523772|The probability of fossil preservation of eggs with a soft or pliable shell or of small eggs with a thin hard shell layer is very poor. As result, their structural and parataxonomic classification has been almost non-existant. To fill this gap, the following parataxonomic groups have been established: 1) for chelonian eggs two oofamilies Testudoolithidae and Testudoflexoolithidae with the oogenera Testudoolithus and Testudoflexoolithus and three oospecies, and 2) for gecko eggs one oofamily Gekkoolithidae, with the oogenus Gekkoolithus and one oospecies. This paper also provides some condensed background information about amniote eggshell, its identification, structural and parataxonomical classification, and the potential of eggshell to fossilize.
23251296|Fossil soft-shelled turtles (Trionychidae) have so far been recognized in all continents except Antarctica, based largely on remains preserving their diagnostic sculptured shell bones. The origin of the group is generally assumed to be in the Early Cretaceous of Asia, whereas they first appear in North America and Europe during the Late Cretaceous and Paleocene, respectively. Here we describe the first record of an indeterminate trionychid from the late early Campanian from southern Sweden, a part of the paleobiogeographically isolated Fenno-Scandian Shield, thus extending the stratigraphic record of the group in Europe back about 15 Ma into the Late Cretaceous. Our finding provides evidence against the currently favored dispersal scenario in which trionychid turtles are interpreted to have come to Europe first during the Paleocene either directly from North America or via Asia. The described indeterminate trionychid possibly represents a relic of a pre-Cretaceous endemic radiation of North European trionychids living mainly on the Fenno-Skandian Shield or it may indicate a potential lower latitude dispersal route of trionychids from Asia to North America via Europe during the Late Cretaceous.
4524727|The aquatic sloth Thalassocnus is represented by five species that lived along the coast of Peru from the late Miocene through the late Pliocene. A detailed comparison of the cranial and mandibular anatomy of these species indicates different feeding adaptations. The three older species of Thalassocnus (T. antiquus, T. natans, and T. littoralis) were probably partial grazers (intermediate or mixed feeders) and the transverse component of mandibular movement was very minor, if any. They were probably feeding partially on stranded sea weeds or sea grasses, or in very shallow waters (less than 1 m) as indicated by the abundant dental striae of their molariform teeth created by ingestion of sand. The two younger species (7". carolomartini and T. yaucensis) were more specialized grazers than the three older species and had a distinct transverse component in their mandibular movement. Their teeth almost totally lack dental striae. These two species were probably feeding exclusively in the water at a greater depth than the older species.
25790809|Cavioidea sensu stricto groups three traditionally recognized families that are characterized by hypsodont, double-heart-shaped cheek teeth and moderate hystricognathy: Eocardiidae, Caviidae, and Hydrochoeridae. Eocardiidae was erected to include a diverse assemblage of extinct and plesiomorphic taxa, whereas Caviidae and Hydrochoeridae (the crown group of Cavioidea) include the lineages with extant representatives (cuyes, maras, and capybaras). A new genus and species of Cavioidea sensu stricto, Guiomys unica, is described here from the middle Miocene of west central Patagonia (Argentina). The new taxon is known from mandibular and maxillary fragments with molars, and isolated cheek teeth. A phylogenetic analysis of Cavioidea sensu stricto shows G. unica as the sister taxon of the clade formed by the crown group of Cavioidea sensu stricto ('medialis series'). The new species displays characters states intermediate between eocardiids and the 'medialis series.' The most outstanding character of Guiomys unica is the autapomorphic position of the notch for the insertion of the masseter medialis pars infraorbitalis muscle, isolated from both the masseteric and horizontal crests. This notch is located at the anterior end of the masseteric crest in eocardiids and represents the plesiomorphic state for Cavioidea sensu stricto. In caviids and hydrochoerids, the notch is located at the anterior end of the horizontal crest, the derived state for this character. G. unica allows reinterpretation of the homologies of the mandibular crests in basal cavioids and clarifies the evolutionary origins of crown-group cavioids (Caviidae + Hydrochoeridae).
4524130|The mylodontid ground sloths (Xenarthra, Tardigrada) are among the most intriguing components of the Lujanian (Late Pleistocene-Early Holocene) fauna of the Pampean region in South America. Limb proportions and resistance to bending forces were studied in Scelidotherium, Glossotherium and Lestodon to infer their locomotory abilities. Body masses were estimated using scale and computer-generated geometric models. Allometric equations were calculated from humeri, ulnae, radii, femora, tibiae, and the pes, and were used to predict linear dimensions from body mass. Slopes and intercepts were obtained using Model I and II regressions. An indicator of strength was calculated for humeri and femora. Body masses of approximately 850, 1,500 and 4,100 kg were estimated from scale models for Scelidotherium, Glossotherium and Lestodon, respectively. The proportions and capacity to resist bending forces of the limb bones of Scelidotherium and Glossotherium indicate that they were well adapted for strenuous activities in which force is enhanced over velocity, such as digging. We consider these taxa as possible builders of the large Late Cenozoic burrows present in the Pampean region. Although limb proportions of Lestodon are comparable to those of the others, its low strength indicator suggests that its limbs were not as well designed to perform such strenuous activity.
30126369|A new genus of sciurid, Hesperopetes, contains three species: H. thoringtoni (type species), H. jamesi, and H. blacki. H. thoringtoni is from the early Chadronian (late Eocene) White River Formation of central Wyoming and represents the earliest recognized species of sciurid. The other species are from the latest Whitneyan or earliest Arikareean (late Oligocene) Blue Ash local fauna of South Dakota. Hesperopetes is closest in dental morphology to Oligopetes Heissig, which is known only from the early Oligocene of Europe. Hesperopetes may also represent the earliest occurrence of a lineage leading to pteromyine sciurids ("flying" squirrels). It is impossible at this time to construct a phylogeny of North American "flying" squirrels due to their scarcity in the fossil record and their undetermined relationships with Old World taxa.
4523882|The Salla beds of Bolivia contain a mammalian faunal assemblage assigned to the Deseadan South American Land Mammal "Age" (SALMA), known elsewhere principally in Patagonia. The earliest platyrrhine monkey Branisella comes from a single stratigraphic level in these beds. The age of the Salla beds is debated; new radiometric dates constrain the age of the Deseadan SALMA in Bolivia and clarify the timing of the first record of platyrrhines in South America. The oldest vertebrate fossils from the Salla beds are contained within the magnetic polarity interval ClOr, between 28.8 and 29.4 Ma. The youngest fossils occur above the 275 m ash in Chron C7Ar, between 25.65 to 25.82 Ma. The best known faunas, including those of the Branisella level, come from several localities within Chron C8 (25.82 to 27.02 Ma). If the recent suggestion by Flynn and Swisher (1995) that redating indicates that the Deseadan in Patagonia spans only about 27 to 29 Ma, then the bulk of the Salla fauna is younger than that of Patagonia.
24523215|Here for the first time we use micro-computed tomography (CT) scanning techniques to study dental replacement in the Early Triassic cynodont Thrinaxodon liorhinus. We analyzed five specimens ranging 3787 mm in skull length using CT scanning, which were supplemented by detailed anatomical analysis of 48 specimens with a basal skull length of 3096 mm. Our results indicate that lower postcanines are more numerous and present a more complex morphology than the upper postcanines, even in the same individual; only the lower postcanines have more than three sectorial cusps and a cingular collar on the lingual margin. Complexity of the postcanines increases from the smallest individual to specimens with a skull length of 75 mm, but complexity decreases in larger specimens. Our results confirm the alternate replacement of the postcanines and the posterior migration of the postcanine series (including the loss without replacement of the anterior-most postcanines). Observations point to a posterior-to-anterior replacement wave in lower postcanines, but the evidence is not clear-cut for the upper series. The virtual extraction of functional and replacement teeth permitted us to conclude that in most of the cases the upper canines were replaced anteriorly, whereas lower canines were replaced posteriorly. The presence of two simultaneous replacements of the upper canine tooth was observed in two small juveniles, suggesting a higher rate of canine replacement at a younger age. Incisors also had a sequential replacement pattern, and more replacement teeth were present in medium-sized individuals.
4524541|A new fossil anguimorph from the Green River Formation of Wyoming represents the first fossil relative of the living Chinese crocodile lizard, Shinisaurus crocodilurus. Its discovery significantly shortens the missing lineage interval and greatly expands the geographic range of the group, previously known only from southern China and northern Vietnam. Although separated by great temporal and physical (geographic) expanses, the new taxon and Shinisaurus show extraordinary morphological similarity. These include characteristics that might otherwise be considered autapomorphies for Shinisaurus, such as a prefrontal contribution to the naris and a subpalpebral fossa. Re-analysis of anguimorph interrelationships yields the hypothesis that Shinisaurus and its ancient cousin represent a basal radiation of Platynota.
4524039|The partial skull and skeleton of Avaceratops lammersi, an unusual ceratopsid from the Judith River Formation of central Montana, are described. Avaceratops has several characters that are unique among ceratopsids though not among protoceratopsids. Plesiomorphies include: a primitive squamosal; a solid parietal; lack of a caudosagittal indentation on the parietal; weakly developed olecranon process of the ulna; deltopectoral crest of humerus not as distally expanded as in other ceratopsids; pointed pedal unguals; and relatively small size. A second, recently discovered partial skull that incorporates both centrosaurine and chasmosaurine characters is referred to Avaceratops. Lack of parietal fenestrae and the presence of postorbital horncores are probably basal characters within the Ceratopsidae. The inferred adult length of 4.2 m for Avaceratops is the smallest among known ceratopsids. Avaceratops is the least derived known ceratopsid, and hence is close to the ancestry of Triceratops and the Chasmosaurinae.
4524383|Omphalosaurus is a marine reptile known from the latest Early Triassic to the Middle Triassic. It has a wide distribution in the northern hemisphere, occurring in the eastern Pacific realm, in Spitsbergen, and in the western Tethys, but remains poorly known. A recently discovered partial skeleton from the northern Alps is the only specimen showing cranial and postcranial bones together. It is described here in detail and compared to the other known material, especially the holotype skull from Nevada. Although numerous disarticulated skull bones are present in the Alpine specimen, their identification and interpretation is difficult. The lower jaw and the dentition are sufficiently well preserved to reconstruct morphology, function, and tooth replacement. Remarkably, the snout of Omphalosaurus was rather elongate with the crushing dentition placed anteriorly. The dentition is concentrated along the skull midline and forms a convex upper and concave lower pavement of button-like teeth, set in the premaxillae and the dentaries, respectively. The combination of the forward placement of the dentition and the high tooth replacement rates (as deduced from CT scans) suggests highly abrasive food requring relatively low masticatory forces. Although ichthyosaurian affinities of Omphalosaurus have been controversial, the postcranial skeleton of the Alpine specimen and an improved understanding of cranial and dental anatomy provides further evidence for such affinities. Omphalosaurus possesses four synapomorphies placing it within the ichthyosaurs (preorbital region distinctly longer than postorbital region, pterygoid flange strongly reduced, interpterygoid vacuity absent or strongly reduced, cervical ribs without distinctive anterior process) and five characters suggestive of ichthyosaurian affinities (splenial contributing extensively to jaw symphysis, shortened vertebral centra, dorsal ribs single-headed and articulating largely with centrum, lack of compact bone, microunit enamel).
4524246|The discovery of a new iguanodontian ornithopod in the lower units of the Neuquen Group (Rio Limay Formation, early Upper Cretaceous) increases the South American record of this kind of dinosaurs started few years ago with the report of Gasparinisaura cincosaltensis. Anabisetia saldiviai, gen. et sp. nov. is distinguished from all other ornithopods by several features, as a flattened fifth metacarpal, a scapula with a very strong acromial process, and an ilium with preacetabular process longer than 50% of the total ilium length. Anabisetia is more derived than Tenontosaurus and shares with Euiguanodontia {Gasparinisaura + Dryomorpha) the presence of one primary lateral ridge on each maxillary tooth, a broad brevis-shelf and a reduced first metatarsal. Derived features such as the transversely flattened prepubic process and an anteroventrally oriented ischiadic foot link Anabisetia with Dryomorpha (i.e., Dryosaurus, Camptosaurus and Iguanodon). Anabisetia strengths the hypothesis that basal iguanodontian ornithopods were present in South America before its with North America in the Late Cretaceous.
4523665| We describe a new life restoration of Tyrannosaurus rex, based on a fairly complete skeleton (Museum of the Rockies [MOR] 555). From the volume of this model, we estimate the live mass of the full-sized dinosaur as approximately 6,000 kg. Because MOR 555 is a representative of the gracile morph of T. rex, the mass of the robust morph may have been substantially greater. The "indicator of athletic ability" or "strength indicator" of MOR 555 is 7.5-9.0 meter/giganewton, similar to previously reported results. The implication is that the cursorial potential of Tyrannosaurus was limited, a conclusion consistent with observed declines in sprint speed with increasing body mass in living animals, and also consistent with the tibia/femur length ratio, and the construction of the hip joint, of the dinosaur. Furthermore, mathematical models of the impact forces and decelerations that would affect a Tyrannosaurus, were it to fall while running at a high speed (20 meters/second), suggest that the animal would be killed in such an accident. We speculate that the top speed of adult individuals of this dinosaur species was about 10 meters/second. 
42568652|In 1989, TMP 89.127.3, a basal ichthyopterygian, was collected as a counterpart slab from the Vega-Phroso Siltstone Member (Lower Triassic) of the Sulphur Mountain Formation in east-central British Columbia, Canada. Previous investigations of its postcranial skeleton resulted in ambiguous taxonomic affinities, with it being identified as either Grippia cf. longirostris or Parvinatator wapitiensis. More recently, the part slab of TMP 89.127.3 was collected and prepared, revealing important new cranial data that permits its systematic relationships to be more thoroughly assessed and previously proposed taxonomic affinities to be tested. By integrating both cranial and postcranial data, phylogenetic analysis recovers TMP 89.127.3 and Grippia as members of Grippidia, nested within Eoichthyosauria. TMP 89.127.3 can be distinguished from Grippia by possessing the following autapomorphies: metacarpal I with a notched peripheral shaft; cylindrical anterior teeth with a crown shape index >5.0; and a postfrontal-frontal contact at the rostral limit of the anterior margin of the supratemporal terrace. A new taxon, Gulosaurus helmi, is erected to accommodate this suite of features. The placement of Gulosaurus helmi within Grippidia reaffirms the Early Triassic distribution of this clade to include western and northern Laurasia, which is represented by outcrop in present-day Canada and Norway (Spitzbergen), respectively.
4523741| This paper addresses the principles and practices applicable to developing highly resolved correlations in mammalian chronostratigraphy. A FAD (first appearance datum) is only as sound as the precision and accuracy of the LSDs (lowest stratigraphic datums) of which it is composed. Precision in boundary definition stems from improved analytical procedures in morphological as well as radioisotopic analysis, magnetostratigraphic correlations, and consideration of the completeness of stratigraphic sections. The so-called Hipparion Datum is examined as an example of these topics. More correctly known as the Hippotherium Datum, this event apparently took place at about 10.8 Ma and is resolvable within an interval of about 0.5 my. Discussion of evolutionary rates ends with a proposal for developing a catalog of such rates in geologically young situations in which the factors of the radioisotopic ages are less than the intervals being discriminated. These examples then may be compared with those developed in geologically older contexts, and tested for the duration of intervals in which species originate. 
4524531|Pycnodonts are a well-known group of neopterygian fossil fishes with an age range from the Late Triassic to the Eocene. In the present work a new genus, Potiguara, is described to acommodate the species from the Potiguar Basin (northeast Brazil) originally described as Coelodus rosadoi and provisonally placed in the genus Ocloedus. Potiguara clearly belongs to the family Pycnodontidae and can be distinguished from Ocloedus by the absence of spines on the dorsal scales, the number of hypochordal elements in the caudal skeleton, and the number of radials in the dorsal and anal fins. The cladistic analysis supports the exclusion of this species from the genus Ocloedus and consequently the creation of the new genus Potiguara.
4524605|South America contains a diverse Miocene snake record. Heretofore, the most significant assemblages were from the early and middle Miocene of Patagonia and Colombia. Colubroid vertebrae assignable to the 'Colubridae' and Viperidae are here reported from the upper Miocene Cerro Azul Formation at Caleufu, in La Pampa province, central Argentina. The viperid fossil is the oldest record of the family in South America and, together with molecular evidence, it supports the hypothesis of viperids first entering South America prior to the closure of the Isthmus of Panama. South American viperid specimens also have been recognized from the Pliocene (aff. Bothrops) and Pleistocene of Buenos Aires province, Argentina. The presence of Bothrops during the early-middle Pleistocene near La Plata city suggests that during more humid intervals this genus had a wider distribution than at present. A previous report of a viperid from the late Pleistocene of Bolivia cannot be corroborated.
4524443|A partial rostrum with an attached lower jaw, a posterior neurocranium, and a proximal hyomandibular from the Lincoln Creek Formation (late Oligocene, Washington) are described and identified as Aglyptorhynchus columbianus sp. nov. In addition, ten articulated anterior caudal vertebrae presumably from the Lincoln Creek Formation are described and identified as Aglyptorhynchus sp. This is a second record of an Aglyptorhynchus from a deposit bordering the Pacific Ocean. The specimens are compared with other billfishes (Perciformes: Scombroidei), both extant and extinct. Unusual features include a tripartite celous occipital condyle composed equally of the basioccipital and exoccipitals, a lower jaw that is nearly twice as deep as the corresponding section of the rostrum, a subtemporal fossa, an oval- shaped fossa in the parasphenoid, two sphenotic ridges separated by a fossa, a bifurcated pterotic ridge, and a hyomandibular with a laterally curved posterior margin. With the exception of the deep lower jaw, these features have never been recorded before in extinct or extant scombroid fish. Heretofore, a tripartite occipital condyle was unknown in a non-beryciform percomorph fish. Aglyptorhynchus is placed in the Scombroidei, family incertae sedis, because of the paucity of snared characters with other scombroid taxa.
4523669|Herpetotherium valens (Lambe, 1908) is the only species of Herpetotherium represented in the Calf Creek local fauna (Chadronian), Cypress Hills Formation of Saskatchewan. The species is unusually variable in size and morphology; on M1-2, stylar cusps A and C disappear with wear. On M3 stylar cusp C is present but not cusp D. Stylar cusp E is seen only as a ridge on some M3s. Previous speculations that two species of Herpetotherium might be present in the Calf Creek sample are unfounded: dental measurements are normally distributed, and morphological characters show continuous distribution. Other Calf Creek marsupials are much smaller forms, with a few specimens representing the didelphid Copedelphys titanelix and the peradectid Didelphidectes pumilus.
4524775|Revision of the genus Peltoperleidus leads to recognition of a single persisting deepened scale row as the main diagnostic feature for the newly established genus Altisolepis gen. nov. The counts of deepened scale rows are taken to be very consistent in all species assigned to Peltoperleidus and Altisolepis gen. nov., since they can be perfectly matched with skull bone patterns and counts of lepidotrichia. An initial evaluation shows that presence and array of variably deepened flank scales in fusiform fossil fishes have previously been underestimated in terms of their occurrence and as a putatively phylogenetic signal: the counts of deepened flank scales show some negative correlation with body size in fusiform fishes up to a certain standard length only, and occur predominantly in smallest fishes in the Middle Triassic. No significant correlation exists between scale row counts and standard length with respect to taxonomy; although interrelationships of these actinopterygians are still poorly understood, it appears likely that similar patterns of deepened scale rows may have developed independently during the Early-Middle Triassic.
4523993|The incomplete remains of three monotypic genera of Sauropterygia from the Lower(?) and Middle Triassic of China are re-described in detail, and their phylogenetic interrelationships are assessed on the basis of parsimony. The taxa are Chinchenia sungi Young, 1965, from the upper Middle Triassic, Kwangsisaurus orientalis Young, 1959, from the upper Lower or lower Middle Triassic, and Sanchiaosaurus dengi Young, 1965, from the lower Middle Triassic. Chinchenia and Kwangsisaurus are basal representatives of the pistosauroidean clade, and fall into an unresolved trichotomy with Corosaurus from the western United States. Sanchiaosaurus is the sister-taxon of all other Nothosauroidea, known from China, Europe and the Middle East. Collectively, the Sauropterygia from the western Pacific faunal province show dual paleobiogeographic affinities: representatives of the nothosauroidean clade share western Tethyan affinities, whereas representatives of the pistosauroidean clade share eastern Pacific affinities.
4523577|The earliest Carnivora are known from two families, the Miacidae, which retain M3/ m3 and occur first in latest Paleocene (Clarkforkian) rocks, and the Viverravidae, which have lost M3/ m3, but are known first in the middle Paleocene (Torrejonian). This paper describes two new genera and species of carnivorans, one (Pristinictis connata) a viverravid and the other (Ravenictis krausei) of uncertain familial affinities, from the early Tiffanian of Alberta and early Puercan of Saskatchewan, respectively; both have a molar structure more primitive than previously known for the order. The new carnivorans allow a reassessment of character state polarities in the early evolution of the Carnivora, thereby providing the opportunity for reexamination of the relationships of carnivorans to other eutherian orders. As a consequence of this study, it appears that carnivorans and creodonts share no uniquely derived character states of the dentition that might indicate they are sister-groups, and that carnivorans evolved from Cretaceous eutherians less specialized dentally than the Palaeoryctidae.
20061952|A plesiosaur specimen from the Lower Lias (Lower Jurassic) of England displays lesions of the vertebral end-plate in 24 of the 27 preserved centra. A single Schmorl's node is visible towards the ventral margin of the anterior end-plate in each of eight vertebrae. The herniated intervertebral discs have penetrated the cortex of the adjacent vertebral bodies, forming the typical mushroom-shaped cavities of Schmorl's nodes. BRSUG 26539 represents the first fossil, reptile or marine organism to be diagnosed with Schmorl's nodes, a disease most commonly associated with the human spine and a bipedal stance. Compressive stresses arising from bending loads within the 'archer's bow' system of the plesiosaur trunk region are concentrated towards the ventral margin of the vertebral end-plate and may explain the location of Schmorl's nodes in the posteriormost cervical vertebrae. Degeneration of the vertebral column due to old age, a congenital weakness in the vertebral end-plates, or bending moments and torsional loadings induced by the weight of the head and long neck are possible explanations for the development of Schmorl's nodes in this plesiosaur. Osteoporosis is an unlikely cause of the disease in this specimen due to the pachyostotic nature of plesiosaur vertebrae.
4522972|I present 1) baseline information on ontogeny in Recent elephants, and 2) some preliminary comparisons with fossil specimens. Relationships between size, state of skeletal fusion, and dental stage are similar in the two Recent species, Loxodonta africana and Elephas maximus. Limb bones that complete epiphyseal fusion late in ontogeny also grow more in absolute terms. Growth and dental progression are linearly related and probably gradual with respect to time, whereas skeletal fusion appears to be concentrated within a short period. Females are small and advanced in skeletal fusion for their dental stages. Limb proportions in elephants change with increasing size: the scapula becomes longer relative to other bones, and the femur becomes longer relative to the tibia. Among L. africana, E. maximus, and Mammuthus columbi, animals similar in size have similar limb proportions; the largest individuals, of L. africana and M. columbi, have exaggerated proportions and are therefore peramorphic. One might therefore expect insular dwarf species to be paedomorphic, but they are not. Although the scapula/humerus ratio for one mature specimen of Mammuthus exilis does not differ significantly from those of young modern elephants of a similar size, all ratios involving the tibia of another M. exilis and one Elephas falconeri exceed those for any Recent animals. If neonatal size is small, characteristically adult body proportions can appear in small individuals. Both genetic and nutritional factors may contribute to size reduction and enhance variability in the dwarfs.
4524666|Recent fieldwork in the Tropic Shale of southern Utah has resulted in the recovery of several specimens of short-necked plesiosaurs including both polycotylid plesiosauroids and pliosaurids. This report focuses on the former, whereas the latter are discussed in an accompanying paper. Although the Late Cretaceous Cenomanian/Turonian Stage boundary falls within the lower few meters of the Tropic Shale, all but one of the specimens were found in lower Turonian strata based on molluscan assemblages found in direct association with the skeletal material. The plesiosauroid family Polycotylidae is represented by at least three taxa: (1) the 'typical' late Cenomanian/early Turonian Trinacromerum; (2) Eopolycotylus rankini, gen. et sp. nov., a new genus and species that shares synapomorphies with the late Santonian/early Campanian Polycotylus latipinnus; and (3) Palmula quadratus, gen. et sp. nov., another new taxon that shares synapomorphies with unnamed taxa from the late Cenomanian of South Dakota and Japan. Cladistic analysis supports the division of the Polycotylidae into two new subfamilies, here designated the Polycotylinae and the Palmulainae. The Turonian plesiosaur fauna of the Tropic Shale, and consequently the large vertebrate fauna of the Cretaceous Western Interior Seaway, is considerably more diverse than previously realized, and there is no indication that this fauna suffered any negative consequences as a result of global scale oceanographic events, including marine extinctions, that transpired during late Cenomanian-early Turonian time.
4524168| A partial fish skull with a nearly complete rostrum, a cup-shaped sclerotic bone, and cycloid scales (UCMP 123170) from the Yaquina Formation (late Oligocene, Oregon) is described and identified as Aglyptorhynchus maxillaris, sp. nov. Unusual features of the rostrum include a fused premaxillary segment with a low dorsal keel, and a maxilla with both a flat flange on its postero-ventral margin and a large condyle that presumably allowed dorsoventral movement of the rostrum to increase the gape. The Yaquina Formation was estimated to have been deposited at a water depth of over 100 m and a sea surface temperature of at least 20C, conditions that are similar to the preferred habitats of extant billfish and postulated paleoenvironments of blochiids from the Ashley River Formation, Belgian Basin, London Clay, and Monte Bolca. This is the first record of a blochiid from a deposit bordering the Pacific Ocean. It is hypothesized that A. maxillaris or its ancestor emigrated from the warm Gulf Stream of the Atlantic into the Pacific via the Panama Seaway. 
20491006|A new genus, Vectipithex, is erected in the subfamily Microchoerinae, family Omomyidae, for four species, of which one, the type species is new: V. smithorum sp. nov. 'Protoadapis' ulmensis is referred to Vectipithex and transferred from the family Adapidae. Two species of Nannopithex, 'N.' quaylei and 'N.' raabi are also referred to the new genus. Vectipithex has a geographic distribution in north and west Europe and a stratigraphic distribution from the early Middle Eocene (Lutetian) to latest Eocene (late Priabonian). Cladistic analysis shows that Vectipithex is sister group to a clade composed of Microchoerus, Necrolemur, Nannopithex filholi, and 'N.' zuccolae and that poorly known 'N.' humilidens is sister group to those two. The Microchoerinae are shown to have undergone a phase of rapid diversification in the first few million years of the Eocene.
25835872|For over a century, the baenid turtle Boremys has been recognized as being restricted to the Campanian of North America. Herein we describe new material of Boremys sp. from the Hell Creek Formation (Maastrichtian) and Fort Union Formation (Puercan) of southwestern North Dakota and eastern Montana, increasing the stratigraphic range of this taxon by 11 million years. The material was recovered from the base of the Hell Creek Formation to 14 m above the pollen-calibrated K/T boundary in the basal Fort Union Formation. Most of the specimens consist of isolated shell elements, which are easily misidentified as belonging to a kinosternid or chelydrid turtle, but complete shells are present as well. The presence of Boremys sp. in the Hell Creek formation increases the baenid taxonomic diversity of this particular rock unit to nine and the overall turtle diversity to 20 taxa, and the presence of Boremys sp. in the Fort Union Formation increases the number of baenid lineages that survive the K/T extinction event to eight.
20491038|The Upper Triassic Canjilon Quarry in northern New Mexico preserves a vertebrate assemblage typical of the Norian Stage of North America. Although dominated in relative abundance by the phytosaur Pseudopalatus and the aetosaur Typothorax, a more diverse assemblage of smaller forms was previously reported. Additions to the Canjilon Quarry vertebrate assemblage are critically reviewed and described using an apomorphy-based method for assigning taxa. An apomorphy-based approach for compiling and comparing assemblages allows each taxonomic assignment to be a testable hypothesis. Fragmentary yet diagnostic elements that may not be assignable to a species-level taxon can be assigned to a larger clade and thus provide useful information. Additionally, each taxon listed in the assemblage must be tied to a diagnostic specimen listed with a museum specimen number. Using this method for the Canjilon Quarry, we establish the presence of an assemblage that is more similar to other vertebrate quarries near Ghost Ranch than previously thought. The Canjilon Quarry assemblage is restricted to vertebrates from UCMP locality V2816. Vertebrate material housed at the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard, which was reported from the Canjilon Quarry, was not collected from UCMP V2816 but from a nearby locality.
25835829|The holotype and only known specimen of the pliosauroid plesiosaur Hauffiosaurus zanoni O'Keefe is a substantially complete and almost entirely articulated skeleton from the Toarcian Posidonien-Schiefer (Upper Lias, Lower Jurassic) of Holzmaden (Baden-Wrttemberg), Germany. The original description of this specimen was preliminary, and this paper presents a detailed re-description and revised diagnosis of the specimen, thus adding significant, new anatomical information. Characters such as the presence of a lateral palatal fenestra and the absence of a contact between the internal nares and the palatines are examples of phylogenetically relevant characters. The specimen presents a novel and unique combination of characters and body proportions, including a long ilium, short ischia, and propodials longer than any of their associated girdle bones, that separate it from all other pliosauroid taxa. Its elongate snout and long, slender teeth imply that this species most likely had a prey preference of fish.
30126341|The ichnotaxobases previously used to classify avian-like footprints, at the ichnogeneric, ichnospecific, and ichnofamily level, are varied and contrasting. Consequently, an agreement on the most adequate taxobases to use for classifying these vertebrate trace fossils is necessary. The authors follow an ichnotaxonomy treatment independent to the age, locality provenance, and possible tracemaker of the trace fossils. The ichnotaxobases used to classify tracks with avian affinities at ichnogeneric and ichnospecific levels are evaluated and a proposal is made for useful and appropriate ichnotaxonomic criteria, considering those currently in use. Previous criteria used to distinguish avian footprints from non-avian theropod or ornithischian tracks are discussed. These concepts are applied to the avian footprints from the upper part of the Late Triassic-Early Jurassic Santo Domingo Formation from La Rioja province, northwest Argentina, which has yielded a diverse assemblage of trace fossils. The most conspicuous avian footprint is Gruipeda dominguensis isp. nov. The ichnogenus Gruipeda Panin and Avram, 1962 is revised and an emendation of its diagnosis is suggested. Trisauropodiscus Ellenberger, 1972, from South Africa and Antarctichnus Covacevich and Lamperein, 1970 from Antarctica are considered as junior synonyms of Gruipeda. Three other morphotypes of avian footprints are left under open nomenclature: one is assigned as cf. Alaripeda isp., other as bird-like footprints type C, and the third bird-like footprint with elongated drag marks. These specimens could be related to avian origin, but the possibility of a case of convergence with birds is not discarded. The presence of tracks with a wide total divarication produced in ephemeral fluvial systems with shallow ponds and mudflats suggest that it is likely the attainment of a convergent avian-form feet to improve controlled movements.
42568680|The comparative description of the most complete specimen of Dasypus punctatus (Xenarthra, Cingulata), from southeastern Brazil, reveals that the species differs from other Dasypodini by the numerous foramina it has in both buckler and movable osteoderms, providing the basis for the lectotype designation. This species was historically allocated to Propraopus, but the inclusiveness and monophyly of that genus are uncertain. A new phylogenetic analysis groups D. punctatus with the living species of Dasypus in a monophyletic clade for the genus, also supporting a Propraopus clade composed of P. sulcatus and the type species P. grandis. The palatal anatomy corroborates previously suggested affinities between D. kappleri and D. punctatus. On the contrary, the possible synonymy between P. grandis and P. sulcatus needs further investigation, given that they differed on a single character. As usual in cingulate systematics, characters related to osteoderm ornamentation proved essential to determine the relationships of taxa. However, their use requires careful sampling in order to account for intraspecific variation biases.
4524033|Crossotelos annulatus, an Early Permian nectridean amphibian, has been known previously only from isolated vertebrae. This last and largest end member of a Pennsylvanian urocordylid radiation is described from articulated axial skeleton and partial skull material collected in northern Oklahoma. Diagnostic characters include complex accessory articulations of trunk vertebrae, intravertebral nerve openings, and distinctive tooth form. Previously attributed skull material, "Cricotillus brachydens," and "Trimerorhachis leptorhynchus" are confirmed as junior synonyms of Crossotelos annulatus. Crossotelos is reconstructed as laterally compressed with a stiff trunk and elongate maneuverable tail, and is interpreted as a pelagic piscivore.
4523081| A new species of Megascyliorhinus (M. trelewensis) comes from the Monte Len Formation ("Patagoniano" partim; upper Oligocene-lower Miocene) of eastern Patagonia. It is compared with other species of Megascyliorhinus, in particular M. miocenicus, although there is no implication of relationship to the latter. An Eocene-Pleistocene size increase in the species of Megascyliorhinus appears to be demonstrated. The supposed relationships with Megachasma pelagios are discussed. /// Una nueva especie de Megascyliorhinus (M. trelewensis) proviene de la Formacin Monte Len ("Patagoniano" partim; Oligoceno superior-Mioceno inferior) de Patagonia oriental, Argentina. Se compara con otras especies del gnero. Se asemejara globalmente a M. miocenicus, aunque no implica relacionarlos. Un incremento del tamao de las formas eocenas a las oligoceno-pleistocenas es sealado. Se discuten las supuestas relaciones con Megachasma pelagios. 
4524744|A new taxon of pycnodont fishes, Hensodon, is described on the basis of a well-preserved and articulated skeleton from the Cenomanian limestones of Hakel, Lebanon. A single species, Hensodon spinosus (Hennig, 1907), is assigned to the new genus. Hensodon is placed within Coccodontidae and is sister to Trewavasia. Features of Hensodon are: three massive, paired parietal and postparietal spines; a well-developed dorsal prominence rising to a high and distinct spinose apex, with the leading edge being straight and covered by a series of nuchal plates; two styliform dentalosplenial teeth and knoblike molariform prearticular and vomerine teeth; styliform branchial teeth; peltate squamation with only eight scale rows; and pelvic and anal fins preceded by strong and accentuated spines. The similar pycnodont Trewavasia differs in the presence of a single paired parietal spine, dorsal prominence without apical spines, loricate squamation pattern, scales with horizontal keels ending in a posterior spine, a dermal plate on the anterior ventral body part, no ventral apex, and a considerably higher number of hypurals. The phylogeny of pycnodonts is discussed and the paleobiogeographic patterns of Lebanese pycnodonts are reviewed.
41515278|Paracryptodira is composed of North American Baenidae and an undefined group of North American and European turtles known from the Middle Jurassic to the mid-Paleocene. Traditional members of Pleurosternidae are included in this group. Whereas the North American record extends into the mid-Paleocene, it was proposed that European nonbaenid paracryptodirans disappeared during the Early Cretaceous. However, an analysis of turtle remains from the upper Paleocene of Western Europe revealed the presence of a new paracryptodire, herein named Berruchelus russelli. This taxon is distinguished as the only post-Neocomian European representative of Paracryptodira, and thus increases the European temporal distribution of non-baenid paracryptodirans. Cladistic analyses identify B. russelli as closely related to the Late Cretaceous-middle Paleocene North American Compsemys victa. It is proposed that, after the disappearance of the European Mesozoic paracryptodiran taxa, Europe was recolonized by a paracryptodiran lineage originating from North America, which resulted in B. russelli.
4523664|The discovery of a nearly complete skeleton of Tenontosaurus tilletti and closely associated multiple shed teeth of the dromaeosaur Deinonychus antirrhopus provides evidence that may support the often repeated suggestion that Deinonychus was a pack-hunting predator. The taphonomy of the specimen adds weight to the additional conclusion that Tenontosaurus was the specific food preference of the Deinonychus predator population. Among theropods, the only other specific animals that have been found as unmistakable food objects are Bavarisaurus in Compsognathus and Coelophysis in Coelophysis. These two could have been examples of opportunistic incidental predation or scavenging, but it appears that Deinonychus actively preyed on a deliberate food choice, Tenontosaurus.
4523188|The relationship between size and age is central to many problems of diversity within genera of pelycosaurs and needs to be quantified before the age structure of a population can be interpreted. The degree of ossification of the limb elements provides a basis for interpreting relative age independent of size in pelycosaurs. The pattern of ossification of the humerus of Ophiacodon and of the humerus, femur, and ulna of Dimetrodon are described and stages in the development of these bones are defined. When materials from the Admiral and lower Belle Plains formations are lumped together, size correlates poorly with developmental stage. This is interpreted as a result of the presence of two species of different size within each genus. There is no evidence for a difference in the habitat selection of juveniles and adults of these genera.
4523638|Cranial remains of Mesonychidae are poorly known from the Paleocene of Asia. A well-preserved late Paleocene mesonychid skull from Anhui Province in China is described here as a new genus and species, Sinonyx jiashanensis. The new species has a primitive dental formula of 3.1.4.3/ 3.1.4.3 and distinctive cheek teeth; P3 is three-rooted, P4 lacks a metacone, the buccal cingula are distinct on P4-M3, M3 lacks a metastyle, the talonid of p3-4 is trenchant and square-shaped, and m1 and m3 lack a metaconid. Resemblances of the new genus to Ankalagon, together with the common presence of Dissacus on both continents, suggest that North America and Asia shared a common mesonychid fauna during the late Paleocene. Comparison of the new skull to Hapalodectes supports removal of Hapalodectinae from Mesonychidae, and suggests that mesonychids are closer to archaeocetes than either is to hapalodectids.
4524252|We describe a new fossil crocodyliform archosaur from the Early Jurassic Kayenta Formation of the Navajo Nation that is surprisingly derived for so ancient a specimen. High-resolution X-ray CT analysis reveals that its long snout houses an extensive system of pneumatic paranasal cavities. These are among the most distinctive features of modern crocodylians, yet the evolutionary history of this unique system has been obscured by the inaccessibility of internal structures in most fossil crania. Preliminary phylogenetic analysis indicates that the new species is the oldest known member of a monophyletic Goniopholididae, and within this lineage to be the sister taxon of Eutretauranosuchus, from the Late Jurassic Morrison formation of Colorado. Goniopholididae became extinct at the end of the Cretaceous, but it is more closely related to living crocodylians than are several lineages known only from Cretaceous and younger fossils. The new taxon nearly doubles the known length of goniopholid history and implies a deep, as yet undiscovered, Mesozoic history for several crocodyliform lineages that were once thought to have relatively complete fossil records.
4524547| Early Miocene zapodids from Saudi Arabia are represented by two closely related species: Arabosminthus quadratus and Arabosminthus isabellae sp. nov. The new taxon differs from the other species of Asiatic zapodids in lacking the anteroconid on ml. A cladistic analysis involving species of Arabosminthus, Heterosminthus, Parasminthus, and Shamosminthus provides evidence that Heterosminthus gansus, and perhaps "Gobiosminthus" qiui, and "Parasminthus" huangshuiensis should be reallocated to Arabosminthus. This genus appears to represent an important clade of zapodid rodents basal to Parasminthus spp.+ Heterosminthus spp. 
24523209|New anatomical observations and reinterpretations of previously identified structures have resulted in new taxonomic diagnoses for the fossil hind-limbed marine snakes Pachyrhachis problematicus, Eupodophis descouensi, and Haasiophis terrasanctus. Among the most important conclusions of our study are the following: Haasiophis and Eupodophis show no evidence of possessing a laterosphenoid; Pachyrhachis and Eupodophis do retain a jugal; Haasiophis, like Eupodophis, has chevron bones in the caudal region; Haasiophis has a large number of unfused intercentra along the anterior portion of the precloacal column; the dentary of Pachyrhachis has numerous mental foramina (at least four); Pachyrhachis has at least one sacral vertebra with unfused sacral ribs. To test the effect of our new observations on the phylogenetic relationships of snakes, we ran three phylogenetic analyses using alternative outgroups to polarize the character transformations. The ingroup consisted of all well-preserved fossil snakes from the Cretaceous, the madtsoiids, and taxa that are representative of all major groups of extant snakes. The analyses yielded a series of most parsimonious trees that placed Pachyrhachis, Eupodophis, and Haasiophis either as a series of stem taxa at the base of the radiation of snakes (two analysis), or as members of a clade of fossil snakes that are the sister group of all living alethinopidians (one analysis).
4524046|Hunter-Schreger Bands (HSB) and the outer enamel surface of the teeth of the hunting hyena Chasmaporthetes lunensis lunenesis Del Campana, from Olivola (late Pliocene, Italy) has been analysed. As in the bone crushing hyenas (Crocuta, Hyaena, and Pachycrocuta) C. l. lunensis possesses complex HSB, with both horizontal and vertical components. However the less intense folding of the HSB and the smooth outer enamel surface suggest a more primitive structure than that in the bone crushing hyenas. This is consistent with the hypothesis that Chasmaporthetes was not an extremely specialized bone eater.
20627127|The dicynodont Colobodectes cluveri was described from a single specimen in 2003. Although the holotype possessed a distinctive combination of primitive, derived, and autapomorphic characters, incompleteness left some aspects of its morphology, such as whether it possessed postfrontal bones, uncertain. Similarly, the holotype was collected near the boundary between the Ecca and Beaufort groups of the Karoo Basin, but the presence of one specimen did not allow a stratigraphic range to be delineated, nor could it be determined whether C. cluveri possessed any biostratigraphic utility. During an ongoing investigation of Tapinocephalus Assemblage Zone dicynodont diversity and biostratigraphy, we identified four new specimens of C. cluveri ranging in size from small juveniles to a large adult. These specimens confirm many aspects of the holotype's distinctive morphology, including the absence of postfrontals, paired premaxillae and vomers, and a low foramen magnum. They also offer insights into ontogentic changes in morphology in C. cluveri. Particularly noteworthy is the fact that small individuals lacked erupted tusks, mid-sized individuals such as the holotype possessed small, newly-erupted tusks, and large adults possessed robust tusks. Finally, all C. cluveri specimens occur in a narrow interval just above the Ecca-Beaufort contact in the northwestern and western portions of the Karoo Basin. This suggests that the species may be a useful marker for the lowermost Beaufort in areas where the Eodicynodon zone is not preserved, and it fits well with basin development models that reconstruct the Ecca-Beaufort contact as a northeasterly prograding paleo-shoreline.
4523328|The Wahweap Formation of southern Utah is probably early Campanian in age. Its mammalian fauna is generally similar to that of the Aquilan upper Milk River Formation, Alberta, but differs substantially from that and all other known Late Cretaceous mammalian local faunas. Wahweap taxa referable to the Marsupialia include a new, somewhat derived species of Protalphadon and an unidentified taxon. Two new genera and species of advanced therian mammals are described. The status of these taxa is uncertain, because in some respects (such as the "twinning" of lower molar hypoconulid with entoconid) they share advanced morphology with undoubted Cretaceous marsupials, while in others (such as the variable or complete absence of stylar cusp D on upper molars) they may be more primitive than known marsupials and, in fact, would be excluded from the group using most currently-accepted criteria. Although these two Wahweap species could represent members of advanced lineages in which characteristic marsupial specializations were lost, a simpler explanation is that they are primitive in these regards, and represent either primitive marsupials or marsupial sister-taxa, depending on how the group is defined.
4524649|Simojovelhyus pocitosense, gen. et sp. nov., is based on a mandibular fragment with ml-3 collected from an unnamed Late Oligocene formation, in an amber mine near Simojovel, in northwestern Chiapas. The source strata consist of black, very fossiliferous, shaley phyllarenitic sandstone and mudstone that were deposited in an estuarine to swampy lagoonal environment, dated in Chrons C10-C9 (-29.4-26.8 Ma), or early Late Oligocene. Simojovelhyus pocitosense possesses small, rectangular, bunodont molars that increase in size posteriorly. This combination of characters sets it apart from the Oligocene bunodont artiodactyls (entelodontids, tayassuids and leptochoerids), and bring it within the Helohyidae. It differs from recognized genera in having a tiny paraconid, and a unique combination of cristids and cuspulids as follows. Cristids: paracristid, anteromesocristid (neomorphic), and anterolingualcristid (neomorphic) on the trigonid anterior slope, cristid obliqua (short to remnant), and a robust postcristid in the talonid. Cuspulids (small, accessory): mesoconid, hypoconulid (large and blunt in m3), postmesoconulid (neomorphic), and pseudohypoconulid (neomorphic). This record extends the geochronologic range and geographic distribution of the Helohyidae from the Late Eocene of North America and Asia to the early Late Oligocene (Early Arikareean) of Middle America. Simojovelhyus pocitosense is also the southernmost record of Paleogene mammals, not only of Mexico, but of all North America. This record significantly adds to the meager, but important, record of Paleogene vertebrates in the tropics.
4524705| Four Paleocene petrosal bones from the Itabora fissure fillings of Brazil belong to two metatherian morphotypes. They are compared with ear regions of other fossil and recent marsupials. The results of a parsimony analysis using thirty-eight characters from the petrosal and ear region are partly congruent with recent studies and confirm that characters from the ear region are highly informative for phylogenetic reconstruction. Metatheria are diagnosed by five petrosal synapomorphies: stapedial artery absent in adults; reduced, intramural prootic canal; extrabullar internal carotid artery; inferior petrosal sinus between petrosal, basisphenoid, and basioccipital; and cava supra- cochleare and epiptericum completely separated. The stem group of South American and Australian metatherians is composed of the Paleocene taxa Pucadelphys, one of the oldest known metatherians from South America, and Petrosal Type II from Itabora. Among the South American-Australian metatherians two clades are defined here. The crown clade is composed of Australian taxa plus Dromiciops (here referred to Australidelphia sensu stricto), while they plus Caenolestes form the Australidelphia sensu lato. Petrosal Type I from Itabora is the most basal taxon of Australidelphia sensu lato, the latter diagnosed by three significant synapomorphies: ventral part of the mastoid rounded and bulbous owing to enlargement of the fossa subarcuata; posttemporal foramen absent; and foramen for a branch of the transverse sinus present on the posterior edge of the ventral pars canalicularis. 
41407690|The investigation of the evolution and speciation of Equus in Eurasia is, despite the abundance of available material, often hampered by a lack of stratigraphie information. Here we present the results of our study of material belonging to Equus eisenmannae excavated from sequential 'lower' and 'upper' levels of the loess section at Longdan, China, which has been dated to ca. 2.55-1.85 Ma (early Nihewanian age). The morphological differences between fossils found in the 'upper level' and those from the 'lower level' were quantified using univariate and multivariate analyses. Quantitative variation among modern Equus is discussed in order to address issues of potential speciation events and evolutionary trends seen in the fossil material. We also discuss the evolutionary level of E. eisenmannae by comparing our sample with E. sanmeniensis.Results show that quantitative differences between fossils of E. eisenmannae from the different levels at Longdan approximate and do not exceed intraspecific variation among modern species of Equus, although the variation is smaller than in the extant species E. hemionus. Thus, no sufficient evidence of speciation within the two sequential levels could be found. However, some common evolutionary trends of modern Equus are evident in E. eisenmannae, even though E. eisenmannae is not considered the immediate ancestor of modern Equus.
30126306|The first detailed description of the lambeosaurine Lambeosaurus magnicristatus (Ornithischia: Hadrosauridae) confirms that it is a distinct taxon characterized by its comparatively enormous cranial crest, formed predominantly by the caudodorsal process of the premaxilla, and an acute crest-snout angle. The holotype of L. magnicristatus occurs stratigraphically higher than all other Dinosaur Park Formation lambeosaurines at the Dinosaur Provincial Park locality. The only referred specimen was collected over 170 kilometers southeast of the type locality. Correlation of its host stratum with the well-known Dinosaur Park section reveals that L. magnicristatus has no biostratigraphic overlap with L. lambei and suggests that it replaces L. lambei on a regional scale in southern Alberta at the end of 'Dinosaur Park time.' Species-level phylogenetic analysis of Lambeosaurinae corroborates the monophyly of Lambeosaurus. The genus is characterized by five apomorphies, including a procumbent crest, complete enclosure of the ophthalmic canal of the laterosphenoid, the presence of a flange on the caudodorsal process of the premaxilla that overlaps the nasal in the rostral region of the crest, caudal extension of the premaxilla such that it forms the caudal margin of the crest, and a unique joint between the rostral nasal and the caudodorsal process of the premaxilla. Lambeosaurine phylogeny indicates that the development of a hypertrophied cranial crest evolved independently at least three times within the clade, suggesting that the crest enlargement is a recurring evolutionary trend within Lambeosaurinae.
4523357| "Temnocyon" venator is not related to Temnocyon of the Family Amphicyonidae; as shown by auditory structure, it is a true canid that is dentally convergent with Temnocyon. "T." venator can be placed within the canid genus Mesocyon, as a derived species of presumably hypercarnivorous ?solitary predator, with reduced MM&#00B2, and trenchant M-M. M. venator has generalized, catlike cervical vertebrae and pelvis, short, Gulo-like limbs, and a sub-digitigrade manus with a long pollex. Temnocyon is not related, and M. venator is not closely related, to Speothos (=Icticyon), Cuon, or Lycaon, living convergent, hypercarnivorous canids which have reduced upper molars and a trenchant M. 
20061984|A partial skull and lower jaw with associated postcranial skeleton of Didymoconus barkeyi Matthew and Granger, 1924 was recently collected from the late Oligocene of Lanzhou Basin, Gansu Province, China. Besides being the first discovery of this genus in the Lanzhou Basin, the new material of Didymoconus represents the most complete individual of this species. The new specimen is paleomagnetically bracketed between 27-30 Ma in the Lanzhou section and helps to refine the biostratigraphy of this species elsewhere in eastern Asia. The postcranial skeleton provides valuable insight into its locomotion apparatus and offers possible characters for phylogenetic positioning of this enigmatic form. An enlarged hand and claws, along with a strong forelimb and robust skull, suggest fossorial adaptations.
42568626|This paper describes a new species of the genus Adocus (A. inexpectatus, sp. nov.), based on an almost complete shell from the upper Eocene Youganwo (= Youkanwo) Formation of the Maoming Basin, China. The inclusion of A. inexpectatus in a phylogenetic analysis of Adocusia resulted in a polytomy with Adocus aksary and A. amtgai (both from the Upper Cretaceous of Asia). This clade formed a polytomy with the North American species of Adocus. Like other 'true' Adocus, A. inexpectatus has overlapping of the marginals onto the costals in the middle and posterior parts of the carapace and sculpturing of the shell surface with small grooves and pits. Thus, A. inexpectatus represents the first 'true' Adocus from the Paleogene of Asia. Other specimens from the Paleogene of Asia that have been referred to Adocus, characterized by shell sculpturing with small dots and unknown condition of the marginal/costal overlapping, are distinct from 'true' Adocus and herein referred to as 'Adocus' spp. Here we also report the presence of 'Adocus' from the Paleocene of North America. Our study indicates that the evolutionary and biogeographic history of the Adocidae was more complicated than considered previously, including previously unrecognized dispersal events between Asia and North America.
4524755| A new species of Sayimys (Ctenodactylidae, Mammalia), Sayimys giganteus sp. nov., is described from the Early Miocene localities of Keseky 1, Keseky 2, and Hisarcik (Turkey). Sayimys giganteus sp. nov. differs from other known species of Sayimys by its larger size and several plesiomorphies (e.g., metalophulid II on dp4, strong anterolophid and posterolophid on P4, and a long paraflexus and metaflexus on upper molars), but also in the presence of some derived characters. Two species of Sayimys are currently recognized in Turkey: Sayimys cf. Sayimys intermedins (at Paalar, Middle Miocene) and Sayimys giganteus sp. nov. Based on a cladistic analysis involving all known species of Sayimys, Metasayimys, and Prosayimys, Sayimys giganteus sp. nov. emerges as the sister taxon of Sayimys obliquidens. 
4524592|We examined the feeding strategy of the extinct hypsodont antilocaprid Stockoceros onusrosagris through an analysis of tooth mesowear and microwear and compared it to available data on the extant pronghorn Antilocapra americana. The mesowear pattern of both pronghorns is very similar. Molar teeth display relatively sharp apical cusps with slightly rounded extreme tips characteristic of a relatively low-abrasion diet. While S. onusrosagris displays a slightly more abrasive mesowear pattern than A. americana, the difference is not statistically significant. Microwear analysis, however, firmly places S. onusrosagris with extant mixed feeders, while A. americana has microwear typical of extant browsers. Our observations suggest that S. onusrosagris incorporated more grass in its diet than the modern pronghorn and browsed and grazed on a regional or seasonal basis. The fact that the mesowear pattern in S. onusrosagris shows relatively little abrasion may suggest that grasses taken may have been C3 grasses. Results of this study may shed light on the extreme hypsodonty seen in the modern pronghorn despite the fact that it consumes relatively soft food items.
40666166|Revision of the two extinct Javanese crocodylian species Gavialis bengawanicus Dubois, 1908, and Crocodylus ossifragus Dubois, 1908, indicates that only the former is valid and that the latter is a junior subjective synonym of the extant C. siamensis Schneider, 1801. Gavialis bengawanicus is diagnosed by a relatively small number of maxillary and dentary teeth, a modest maxillary process developed into the lacrimal, a W-shaped maxillo-palatine suture, a planar skull table, occlusal pits present exclusively on the dentaries, and relatively small and subcircular supratemporal fossae at maturity. It is the best-known extinct Gavialis, and it probably represents the only valid extinct Gavialis species known outside the Indian subcontinent. Both crocodylians from Java have been found exclusively along with the Stegodon-Homo erectus fauna, which is considered to be largely the result of an Early Pleistocene dispersal from the Siwaliks Hills via the so-called Siva-Malayan route. It is not clear if the dispersal of Gavialis from the Indian subcontinent to Java necessarily required the crossing of salt water barriers, but the possible occurrence of Gavialis remains in Sulawesi and Woodlark, two islands located east of the Huxley and Wallace lines that were never connected to the mainland, can be explained by inferring a marine dispersal. According to the present knowledge of the past distribution of Gavialis, this genus originated in the Indo-Pakistani area in the early Miocene and during the Quaternary dispersed to the Sunda region, possibly reaching western-most Oceania.
4523561|The aetosaur Longosuchus meadei is known from several specimens from the Upper Triassic (Carnian) of Texas. The structure of the single well preserved skull (TMM 31185-84B) was restudied in light of the appearance of new material of other archosaurs subsequent to Sawin's original (1947) description. In particular, an ossified orbitosphenoid and several structures associated with the nasolacrimal duct system are described and discussed for the first time. Adaptations for herbivory in the Aetosauria include the ventral depression of the jaw joint, the edentulous beak, and the conical, unserrated teeth in later aetosaurs. The increased ossification of the braincase may serve to protect this region during food processing, and the nasolacrimal structures probably are associated with the lateral nasal sinus system widespread in archosaurs and particularly well developed in Longosuchus. The Aetosauria are a robust monophyletic group of Suchia that can be characterized by five synapomorphies. Aetosaurus is the most plesiomorphic aetosaur, and clades are formed by (1) Aetosauroides and Stagonolepis and (2) Longosuchus, Desmatosuchus, Typothorax, and Paratypothorax. Within the second unnamed clade, a smaller subclade consists of Typothorax and Paratypothorax.
25790803|We describe a new coelurosaurian theropod, Zuolong salleei, gen. et sp. nov., from exposures of the upper part of the Shishugou Formation at the Wucaiwan locality, Xinjiang Autonomous Region, People's Republic of China. Zuolong has a large, inclined quadrate foramen that extends onto the medial surface of the quadratojugal, an unusually large fovea capitis on the femoral head, and an apomorphically large distal condyle of metatarsal III with a medially projecting flange on the extensor surface. Radiometric dating of the Shishugou Formation constrains the age of the specimen to the beginning of the Late Jurassic (Oxfordian). A cladistic analysis of Zuolong salleei in a broadly sampled theropod data matrix recovers it as a basal coelurosaur. These data make Zuolong one of the oldest coelurosaur fossils yet known that preserves both cranial and postcranial bones.
4524716| A new genus and species belonging to the Macrosemiidae is described. This is the first record of a macrosemiid in the New World. The material was collected from the Early Cretaceous (Albian) Tlaya Quarries, in Tepexi de Rodrguez, central Mexico. The new taxon is a small, elongated fish that bears a combination of apomorphic and plesiomorphic characters including a divided dorsal fin with an area devoid of scales on either side, prearticular and coronoid bones with small pointed teeth, and strongly ornamented body scales. Phylogenetic analysis using PAUP revealed a close relationship of this new genus to Macrosemius and Legnonotus. The occurrence of macrosemiids in the Tlaya beds indicates a wider distribution of the group within the Tethys Ocean, and represents the westernmost record of this group of neopterygians. 
23251272|The first detailed description of the fossil acanthomorph teleost Heteronectes chaneti is presented based on a single acid-transfer prepared specimen from the lower Eocene (Ypresian, NP 14) of Bolca, Italy. This genus shows striking cranial asymmetry, with the left orbit displaced toward the top of the skull but failing to reach the dorsal midline. Outside of the orbital region, most paired cranial bones show no clear asymmetry. The postcranial skeleton of Heteronectes is comparable to that of many 'generalized' percomorphs, with a vertebral column comprising 10 abdominal and 14 caudal vertebrae, and a caudal fin with a procurrent spur and 17 principal rays in a I-8/7-I pattern, a caudal-fin endoskeleton consisting of a parphyural, five hypurals, three epurals, and two uroneurals, and pelvic fins with one spine followed by five rays. Evidence for the phylogenetic position of Heteronectes is reviewed, and a previous interpretation of this genus as a stem member of the percomorph clade Pleuronectiformes is corroborated. However, Heteronectes retains many primitive percomorph features transformed in other flatfishes, indicating that orbital migration was among the earliest of the distinctive pleuronectiform features to arise. Comparisons between Heteronectes and candidates for the living sister group of flatfishes reveal the greatest number of similarities with latids (Nile perches and allies). These characters, most of which are of ambiguous polarity, should be the target of future analyses to determine whether they represent symplesiomorphies, homoplasies, or derived features uniting flatfishes and latids.
4522861|The holotype of the small sauropod dinosaur Astrodon pusillus Lapparent and Zbyszewski, 1957, from the Kimmeridgian (Upper Jurassic) of Portugal is shown to be the remains of a juvenile individual of the stegosaur Dacentrurus. The records of Astrodon from the Upper Jurassic of North America and the Lower Cretaceous of Africa are based on material of juvenile sauropods. However, teeth from the Lower Cretaceous of Portugal are correctly referred to Astrodon as A. valdensis (Lydekker). A review is presented of the intercontinental genera that the Late Jurassic and Early Cretaceous faunas of Western Europe shared with faunas of corresponding ages in North America and Africa.
4524534|Recent finds of small temnospondyls from the Lower Keuper (Ladinian, Middle Triassic) of southern Germany are referred to a new trematosaurid genus and species, Trematolestes hagdorni. It is the first trematosaurid represented by a nearly complete skeleton. Trematolestes is characterized by an unpaired frontal and a minute lacrimal at the orbital rim wedged in between an extensive prefrontal and a wide maxilla. Further characteristic are keeled, laterally compressed palatal tusks, a strong palatine and ectopterygoid dentition, and minute maxillary and posterior dentary teeth. In the visceral skeleton, ceratobranchial parts of the hyobranchial skeleton and an unpaired basibranchial element are ossified. The ribs bear pronounced spine-like uncinate processes throughout the trunk and anterior tail skeleton. The forelimb is minute, with a strongly abbreviated humerus not exceeding the length of the lower arm, rudimentary radius and ulna, and a small, probably four-fingered hand skeleton. Unlike the situation in capitosauroids, the trunk was deep with an elongated recurved ilium and a highly modified sacral rib. The trunk is composed of 22 vertebrae, while the caudal vertebral count is at least 24, but probably exceeded 30. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that Trematolestes is closely related to the Madagascan genus Tertremoides and together they are nested with the rostrumbearing slender-headed lonchorhynchines.
4522966|Growth in the Permian eosuchian Thadeosaurus is described. Specimens ranging from a poorly ossified juvenile, probably less than a year old, to fully ossified adults are known, showing approximately a three-fold increase in linear dimensions. Changes in the proportions, degree of ossification and configuration of the skeletal elements can be seen. Allometric growth is analyzed by means of the power equation, using vertebral length as a standard.
42568649|The Miocene deposits of the Agnevo Formation cropping out along the western coast of Sakhalin Island, Russia, are widely known for the well-preserved fossil remains of marine organisms, including a diverse assemblage of primarily benthic and demersal teleost fishes. Sakhalinia multispinata, gen et sp. nov., a new cottoid fish from the Miocene (Serravallian-Tortonian) finely laminated sandstone of the Agnevo Formation, is described herein based on a single, nearly complete specimen in part and counterpart. Several morphological features indicate that Sakhalinia multispinata is a basal member of the cottoid family Hexagrammidae. Within hexagrammids, Sakhalinia multispinata exhibits a unique combination of features and is primarily typified by slender and recurved jaw teeth, 44 (22 + 22) vertebrae, 14 (6 + 8) principal caudal fin rays, a moderate consolidation of the caudal skeleton, an entire dorsal fin with 25 thick spines and 13 soft rays, anal fin with four strong spines and 12 soft rays, and ctenoid scales. The elongated, slender, and recurved jaw teeth displayed by Sakhalinia multispinata suggest that this hexagrammid fish was specialized to feed mainly on small crustaceans.
4523901|We report here the discovery of a new taxon of Paleozoic tetrapod from the Late Mississippian of Nevada (330-340 Ma). It has a unique vertebral column with principal centra having vertical anterior and posterior faces, ventrally incomplete accessory centra located antero-dorsally in each centrum, and enlarged presacral/sacral vertebrae. The head and pectoral girdle were not preserved but the large femur, robust pelvic girdle and enlarged sacral vertebrae possibly indicate a terrestrial mode of life. This new form significantly extends the western geographic range of known Mississippian tetrapods. It presents a mosaic of primitive and derived features, indicating that continued revision of traditional accounts of vertebral homology and the early diversifications of Paleozoic tetrapods will be necessary.
4524602|Description of Rhynchodercetis regio, sp. nov., from Upper Cretaceous (Turonian) sediments of Vallecillo, State of Nuevo Leon, northeastern Mexico is based on three specimens. Rhynchodercetis regio differs from the other species of Rhynchodercetis in the exclusive combination of characters that includes the proportions of the head with its standard length, the length of the preorbital area, and the presence of an interopercle and a short mandibule. The occurrence of this fish in Mexico expands the known distribution of Rhynchodercetis in North America during the Late Cretaceous, from the Canadian portion of the Interior Sea to Mexico, in the western Tethys area.
4524305|Stegoceras (sensu lato) has been the recipient of a number of species. Most have been placed into synonymy with S. validum, some have been transferred to other genera (i.e., Gravitholus, Ornatotholus), whereas others have been interpreted as being sexual dimorphs. A parsimonious phylogenetic analysis using 49 characters, which include 9 new cranial characters based on pachycephalosaur frontoparietal domes, now permits a revision of the genus Stegoceras. This analysis concludes that Stegoceras validum (sensu stricto) is a primitive, incipiently-domed pachycephalosaur that is characterized by a well-developed squamosal shelf and open supratemporal fossae. It is the sister taxon to the fully-domed Pachycephalosaurinae. The taxon Ornatotholus browni has a parietal and displays features identical to S. validum and is therefore a subjective junior synonym. Specimens consisting of flat, paired frontals are immature individuals of S. validum. The holotype of "Stegoceras" lambei, and all morphotypes of this species, are unique in the construction of the posterior squamosal region and are placed in a new genus, Colepiocephale. Colepiocephale lambei is known solely from the Foremost Formation and is the oldest diagnostic pachycephalosaur from North America. An incomplete, and indeterminate, skull from the upper part of the Milk River Formation (upper Santonian) has the distinction of being the oldest known North American pachycephalosaur. "5." sternbergi lacks a posterior squamosal shelf and has squamosals directed laterally and is placed in a new genus, Hanssuesia, as H. sternbergi. Although the taxon Gravitholus albertae displays some characters (i.e., retention of the posterior squamosals separated by a distinct median parietal) and is similar to H. sternbergi in some respects, the holotype is too incomplete for any definitive diagnosis and thus it is considered a nomen dubium. Sphaerotholus is a subjective junior of Prenocephale and the species Sphaerotholus buchholtzae is a subjective junior synonym of Prenocephale edmontonensis. The taxa Prenocephale brevis, P. edmontonensis, and P. goodwini, form a monophyletic clade with monotypic Asian taxa Prenocephale prenes and Tylocephale gilmorei as an unresolved sister group. They are united by the possession of a distinct row of nodes on the squamosal and parietals. Tylocephale, if valid, is interpreted as the sister taxon to the Prenocephale clade. Stenotholus kohleri is formally recognized as a junior synonym of Stygimoloch spinifer. Based on the presence of hypertrophied nodes Stygimoloch spinifier and Pachycephalosaurus wyomingensis are united in the clade Pachyce- phalosaurini new taxon. Small- to-medium size Late Cretaceous pachycephalosaurs were rather diverse, especially during the late Campanian (Judithian), and many species coexisted during Campanian and Maastrictian times. Ancestry and directionality of dispersal (in part) of the North American and Asian taxa remains uncertain and certainly antedates Campanian time.
23361077|The fossil snake Najash rionegrina, from the CenomanianTuronian (Upper Cretaceous) of Argentina, is reinterpreted after examination of the type and referred material. The current diagnosis is emended in the light of important considerations that cast doubt on the attribution of type and referred specimens (a braincase, a quadrate, and two dentary/lower jaw fragments) used to systematize this taxon. Alternative interpretations of the anatomy of the sacrum and hind limbs are proposed. Following the reevaluation of the anatomy of the type specimen and the removal from this taxon of the above-mentioned referred material, the phylogenetic position of N. rionegrina was tested in a series of maximum parsimony analyses that included all groups of extant snakes, all best-known fossil snakes (i.e., Pachyrhachis, Haasiophis, Eupodophis, Madtsoiidae, and Dinilysia), and alternative outgroups. Regardless of the outgroup used to polarize the character-state transformations, our phylogenetic analyses found no support for the hypothesis that Najash rionegrina occupies a position as the most basal snake. Depending on the outgroup, Najash is placed (1) in a position basal to all living snakes, but more derived than other fossil forms (most notably Pachyrhachis, Eupodophis, and Haasiophis); or (2) as the most basal representative of a clade of fossil snakes that is the sister group of living snakes; or (3) as the most basal representative of a clade of fossil snakes that is located between the Scolecophidia and the Alethinophidia.
20061953|The osteology of the Eocene lizard Eolacerta robusta from Messel and Geiseltal is redescribed. Contrary to former opinions, Eolacerta does not possess body osteoderms, the pubis is typically lizard-like, the astragalus and calcaneum are fused, and the first cervical rib is distinctly curved posterolaterally. The suggestion that Eolacerta belongs to the modern family Lacertidae cannot be corroborated due to its many plesiomorphies and character incongruences, a view which is also supported by phylogenetic analysis. At present, Eolacerta cannot be assigned to any modern lizard family and is classified as Scleroglossa incertae sedis.
20627090|Although the macronarian sauropod Brachiosaurus is one of the most iconic dinosaurs, its popular image is based almost entirely on the referred African species Brachiosaurus brancai rather than the North American type species Brachiosaurus altithorax. Reconsideration of Janensch's referral of the African species to the American genus shows that it was based on only four synapomorphies and would not be considered a convincing argument today. Detailed study of the bones of both species show that they are distinguished by at least 26 characters of the dorsal and caudal vertebrae, coracoids, humeri, ilia, and femora, with the dorsal vertebrae being particularly different between the two species. These animals must therefore be considered generically separate, and the genus name Giraffatitan Paul 1988 must be used for "Brachiosaurus" brancai, in the combination Giraffatitan brancai. A phylogenetic analysis treating the two species as separate OTUs nevertheless recovers them as sister taxa in all most parsimonious trees, reaffirming a monophyletic Brachiosauridae, although only one additional step is required for Giraffatitan to clade among somphospondylians to the exclusion of Brachiosaurus. The American Brachiosaurus is shown to be somewhat different from Giraffatitan in overall bodily proportions: it had a longer and deeper trunk and probably a longer and taller tail, carried a greater proportion of its mass on the forelimbs, and may have had somewhat sprawled forelimbs. Even though it was overall a larger animal than the Giraffatitan lectotype, the Brachiosaurus holotype was probably immature, as its coracoids were not fused to its scapulae.
4523202|Mammalia is defined by its ancestry as the taxon originating with the most recent common ancestor of extant Monotremata and Theria. To diagnose Mammalia as so defined, 176 character transformations in the skull and postcranial skeleton, distributed among Placentalia, Marsupialia, Multituberculata, Monotremata, Morganucodontidae, Tritylodontidae, and Exaeretodon, were polarized, scored, and subjected to PAUP. Only one most parsimonious tree was identified (BL = 190, CI = 0.926): (Exaeretodon (Tritylodontidae (Morganucodontidae (Monotremata (Multituberculata (Marsupialia, Placentalia)))))). Thirty-seven osteological synapomorphies diagnose Mammalia. Triassic and Early Jurassic taxa commonly referred to as mammals, including Morganucodontidae, Kuehneotheriidae, and Haramiyidae, were found to lie outside of Mammalia. These fossils document that the mammalian lineage had diverged from other known synapsid lineages by the Norian (Late Triassic). However, the earliest evidence that Monotremata and Theria had diverged from their most recent common ancestor, and thus the earliest evidence of Mammalia itself, is of Bathonian (Middle Jurassic) age. Many of the diagnostic attributes of Mammalia are associated with either the sensory organs housed in the skull, the masticatory system, or the craniovertebral and atlas-axis articulations. Modification of each of these regions has long been tied to the origin of mammals. However, other synapomorphies are identified which suggest that additional factors must be sought to fully understand the origin of Mammalia.
4523269|Members of the early Cenozoic family Plagiomenidae possess highly derived cheekteeth that phenetically resemble those of extant colugos (Galeopithecidae, Dermoptera), although the two groups notably differ in details of cusp morphology and in the form of the anterior teeth. Whether these dental resemblances should be considered as evidence of close, shared ancestry or merely as a set of interesting convergences is difficult to evaluate, in part because heretofore no other portions of the plagiomenid skeleton have been available for testing phylogenetic hypotheses. In this report we analyze the basicranial morphology of a skull referable to the nominotypical genus Plagiomene from the early Eocene Willwood Formation of the Bighorn Basin, Wyoming. Plagiomene exhibits one of the most highly derived basicranial regions found in Eutheria. No known mammal shares the combination of derived traits exhibited by Plagiomene, although there are points of resemblance to Talpidae, Macroscelidea, and (to a lesser extent) Primates. Surprisingly, there are no recognizable nonprimitive resemblances to the extant colugo Cynocephalus. Unless the traits in question are counted as synapomorphies of a highly implausible plagiomenid-talpid-macroscelidean-primate clade, some of these special resemblances must be due to convergence. Perhaps all of them are; for except in isolated features that also appear to be convergent resemblances, the teeth of moles, elephant shrews, and primates are quite unlike those of plagiomenids. By contrast, galeopithecids are dentally more similar to Plagiomene but lack all of its basicranial apomorphies. Tendentious selection of dental traits over basicranial ones is in our view indefensible, and we prefer to situate Plagiomenidae incertae sedis within Eutheria.
4524170|The skeleton of the archosauriform Turfanosuchus dabanensis Young, 1973 is redescribed on the basis of further preparation. For the first time a set of derived features is recognised for diagnosing this species. Re-examination of the specimen reveals the presence of palatal teeth in the pterygoid; the ventral entrance of the internal carotid arteries posterior to the basipterygoid processes; the calcaneal tuber shaft taller than broad; the absence of flaring of the distal end of the calcaneal tuber; the calcaneal tuber shaft convex laterally and concave medially; and the tibial facet on the astragalus simply concave. These features are strongly indicative that T. dabanensis is not a suchian and not even a crurotarsan, which sharply contrasts with its recently-proposed basal suchian status.
4523072|The oldest well-known hadrosaurid fauna (from Iren Dabasu, People's Republic of China) includes undescribed cranial material, primarily the prefrontals, which indicates the presence of a true lambeosaurine that bore a hollow supracranial crest. The lambeosaurine taxon Bactrosaurus johnsoni Gilmore (1933) is redefined based on this material, while the hadrosaurine skull elements formerly attributed to this form are now assigned to Gilmoreosaurus mongoliensis.
4523700|Premaxillary shape is a good indicator of the diets of extant artiodactyls, and probably of extinct ones as well. Grazing mammals have squarer premaxillae than browsers, and animals which exhibit dietary strategies between those of grazers and browsers ("intermediate feeders") have premaxillae that are squarer than browsers but more pointed than grazers. A simple geometric model (Premaxillary Shape Index or PSI) is derived here, which describes premaxillary shape in a standardized and repeatable fashion. Premaxillary shapes are shown to correlate with diet in extant herbivores. The average PSI for 12 species of extant browsers is 54.9%; that of extant intermediates (20 species) 66.6%; and of grazers (10 species) 79%. The PSIs for each group are significantly different (P < 0.01). Our study indicates that, like modern camelids, Tertiary/Quaternary camels were not grazers, but rather browsers (Hemiauchenia macrocephala; Megatylopus gigas; Palaeolama weddelli; Procamelus occidentalis; Alforjas sp. and Hemiauchenia ?vera) with PSI values between 46% and 54%, or intermediate feeders (Camelops hesternus) with a PSI of 67.2%. If these widespread and common extinct camelids were not grazers, then their central North American environment might have included a larger component of trees and shrubs than is currently thought.
4523907|Shanxia tianzhenensis gen. et sp. nov. is described from the Huiquanpu Formation (Upper Cretaceous) of Shanxi Province, People's Republic of China, and is characterised by the distinctive shape of the squamosal horns. Many characteristics indicate that Shanxia is an ankylosaurid ankylosaur. The discovery of Shanxia is significant for several reasons: ankylosaur specimens from China are rare; Shanxia is the most complete dinosaur yet recovered from Shanxi Province; and Shanxia is the first dinosaur to be recovered from the Huiquanpu Formation and supports the proposed Upper Cretaceous age of this unit.
20627088|Considerable controversy surrounds the taxonomy and phylogenetic relationships of Maastrichtian basal neornithischian taxa from North America. Discovery of previously unrecognized cranial material from the paratype specimen of Thescelosaurus neglectus (USNM 7758), along with the examination of two new specimens that preserve nearly complete skulls and mandibles, allows for reevaluation of specimens previously referred to Thescelosaurus that preserve cranial material, including the holotypes of Bugenasaura infernalis (SDSM 7210) and Parksosaurus warreni (ROM 804). A phylogenetic analysis was conducted that included as terminals the holotypes of B. infernalis and P. warreni, the type series of T. neglectus, and six specimens previously referred to Thescelosaurus. This analysis is the first to recover a clade containing all basal neornithischian taxa from the Cretaceous of North America, within which P. warreni is recovered as the sister taxon to a Thescelosaurus clade whose monophyly is supported by five cranial autapomorphies. The results of this analysis support: (1) the synonymization of Bugenasaura with Thescelosaurus; (2) the removal of ROM 804 from Thescelosaurus; and (3) the validity of Thescelosaurus garbanii and its referral to Thescelosaurus despite its fragmentary nature. Currently, Parksosaurus and Thescelosaurus are the only basal neornithischian taxa definitively known from Maastrichtian age sediments of North America, while other basal neornithischian taxa proposed to demonstrate fossorial behavior (i.e., Orodromeus, Oryctodromeus, and Zephyrosaurus) are known from Campanian and older sediments. This temporal segregation may support previous hypotheses of an environmental or ecological shift during the latest Cretaceous in North America.
4524197|A survey of mosasaur material from the Eutaw Formation (Santonian) and Selma Group (Late Santonian-Late Maastrichtian) of western and central Alabama has revealed significant stratigraphic segregation among taxa. Three distinct biozones are recognized based on this survey: the Tylosaurus Acme-zone (from the base of the Tombigbee Sand Member of the Eutaw Formation to approximately 12 m above the base of the Mooreville Chalk), the Clidastes Acme-zone (from approximately 12 m above the base of the Moore ville Chalk to the base of the Demopolis Chalk), and the Mosasaurus Acme-zone (from the base of the Demopolis Chalk to the K-T boundary at the top of the Prairie Bluff Chalk). In each case, the biozone is named for the genus comprising the majority of the specimens examined from that horizon. The previously-recognized Globidens alabamaensis Acme- zone, including the Areola Limestone Member of the Mooreville Chalk, has been abandoned. The transition from the Tylosaurus biozone to the Clidastes biozone has been interpreted primarily as an artifact of paleoecology, reflecting habitat preference; additional support for this interpretation has come from the mosasaur fauna of the Blufftown Formation (?Late Santonian-Early Campanian) of eastern Alabama and western Georgia. The transition from the Clidastes biozone to the Mosasaurus biozone appears to represent the local expression of a reorganization within North American mosasaur communities. The uppermost portion of the Selma Group, comprised of the Ripley Formation and Prairie Bluff Chalk, has been tentatively included in the Mosasaurus Acme-zone on the basis of poorly- known faunas.
4523148|A new species of Ptolemaia and two new species of a new genus, Cleopatrodon, are added to the scanty record of the exotic African Oligocene mammalian family, the Ptolemaiidae. Current evidence suggests the presence of at least two lineages (Ptolemaia and Cleopatrodon-Qarunavus) within the family during the Oligocene in Egypt. To the extent that this is correct, these lineages were at first divergent, then convergent, in certain aspects of their lower molar anatomy. The origin of the Ptolemaiidae, although almost certainly African, is obscure; they were considered to be in some way related to the Pantolestidae by many earlier workers and are retained provisionally in the suborder Pantolesta on dental characters shared with generalized members of that group. Although most of these might well be symplesiomorphous, they might betray as well a common though unknown origin with pantolestan mammals.
25835840|The Tapiridae of the Swiss Molasse Basin from the late Oligocene to the early Miocene are reviewed. Fossil remains that have not previously been described are identified, old descriptions and identifications from previous works are reassessed, and specimens from Switzerland and France are compared, specifically Protapirus bavaricus from Ebnat-Kappel (MP28) and Rfi bei Schnis (MP29), Protapirus aginensis from La Milloque (France, MP29), Protapirus douvillei from Buchberg 6 (MN4), Paratapirus helvetius from Haslen (Switzerland, MP2830), Paratapirus intermedius from Saulcet (France, MN1), Hhronen (MN1), and Brttelen 1 (MN3a), and Eotapirus broennimanni from Wischberg (MN1) and Benken (MN34?). These new data enable emended specific diagnoses for Protapirus bavaricus, P. aginensis, and P. douvillei. A late Oligocene (MP2830) age for the locality of Haslenthe neotype locality of Paratapirus helvetiusis also attributed, based upon the literature and personal observations. Furthermore, a new and precise biostratigraphic range of the European Tapiridae at the species level is proposed for the Oligocene and early Miocene of Western Europe. The paleoecology of tapirs and their diversity and evolution through the OligoceneMiocene transition are discussed and compared with contemporaneous large mammals such as Rhinocerotoidea, Anthracotheriidae, and Suoidea.
25790804|The cheek teeth of Ectoganus and Stylinodon, the most derived genera of Taeniodonta following recent phylogenies, show various morphological and microstructural characteristics that are unusual for herbivores of their size. Their continuously growing premolars and molars have blunt occlusal surfaces without shearing facets and enamel is restricted to the lingual and buccal sides of the teeth. The anterior and posterior walls of the teeth are covered with a thick layer of cementum to which the periodontal ligament is attached. The enamel band is relatively thin. The schmelzmuster is one-layered and features weakly developed Hunter-Schreger bands that are only recognizable in longitudinal section. In cross-section, the enamel prisms show a 'keyhole pattern' with an incomplete prism sheath. There is no interprismatic matrix. The microstructure of the dentine has the regular mammalian pattern and shows no special similarity to that of xenarthrans. Taeniodonts seem to have used their hypsodont cheek teeth almost exclusively for squeezing and some crushing of food and only to a minor degree for grinding. Weakly developed Hunter-Schreger bands indicate only light loading during mastication.
4523711| A new fossil genus of Osteoglossidae, named Joffrichthys gen. nov., is described based mainly on three articulated specimens from the Paskapoo Formation of central Alberta, Canada. This discovery suggests the occurrence of Heterotidinae in the Paleocene of western North America. The inclusion of Joffrichthys gen. nov. in the Heterotidinae is supported by at least four synapomorphies: maxilla posteriorly lying on dentary part of lower jaw, horizontal arm of preopercle about as long as vertical arm, a large, irregularly wide, and trapezoidal io2, and approximately equal-sized dorsal and anal fins. The presumed Sinoglossus-Scleropages-Osteoglossum relationship is not supported. This paper recognizes a Heterotidinae relationship of Sinoglossus based on shared derived character states. Three features (io1 fused with antorbital, a typical "cheek wall" formed by io1 to io3 and covering all the area below the orbit from the antorbital to the anterior edge of the preopercle, and reticulate scales) even suggest that the eastern Asian Eocene-Oligocene Sinoglossus is probably sister to the clade consisting of Heterotis and Arapaima. Two Late Jurassic and/or Early Cretaceous eastern Asian teleosts (Huashia and Kuntulunia) and one mid-Cretaceous South American primitive osteoglossomorph (Laeliichthys) might have some relationship with the ancestral lineages of Heterotidinae. However, evidence remains inconclusive about the early evolution of Heterotidinae. 
4523633|A new late Pliocene (upper Pinecrest beds, 2.4-2.0 Ma) fossil locality in Florida has produced thousands of bones and 137 whole and partial skeletons of a new species of cormorant, Phalacrocorax flyawi, that is related phylogenetically to Recent taxa currently restricted to the eastern north Pacific. Evidence from the bones and the stratigraphy of the site indicate that the cormorants died in a single catastrophic event, perhaps a red tide. At least eight other taxa of seabirds and shorebirds also were recovered from the site and include two new species of gull, Larus perpetuus and L. lacus, described herein. The depositional environment reflected by this fauna is a coastal lagoon and beach or shoreline habitat that rarely is preserved in the fossil record of Florida. The fossil cormorant and other seabirds from the Pliocene support molluscan evidence that the Florida Gulf Coast was characterized then by cold-water upwelling and a highly productive marine system. Marine cormorants in the eastern Pacific may have extended into the Gulf of Mexico in the early Pliocene during submergence of the Panamanian Isthmus, but became extinct in this region by the end of the Pliocene.
4524638|A new genus and species of protorosaur is described on the basis of material originally referred to Tanystropheus antiquus from the Upper Buntsandstein of the Black Forest, Germany. The new taxon is characterized by eight cervical vertebrae that bear markedly elongate cervical ribs, a shagreen of denticles covering the vomers, palatines and pterygoids, a bifurcate second sacral rib, a well-ossified tarsus with three distal tarsals, and an elongate proximal phalanx on digit five. The status of Tanystropheus antiquus is discussed and, while it is retained, its validity is questioned.
20061979|The original description of Caypullisaurus (Ichthyosauria: Ophthalmosauria) depended on the orientation of the fins of the holotype. Later, the forefins of this taxon were reoriented contrary to the original description. The arrival of the holotype carcass at the sea floor is analyzed taphonomically such that the original interpretation is confirmed. The analysis of the homologies of the forefin elements also confirms that the topological criteria developed for the identification of the primary axis of all Ichthyosauria are also applicable for Caypullisaurus. A comparison with the forefins of other Callovian and Late Jurassic ichthyosaurs shows that Caypullisaurus belongs to the Ophthalmosauria and that the forefins of this clade are more diverse than previously supposed.
4523063|Evidence of communal nesting and site fidelity in hadrosaurian dinosaurs from the Late Cretaceous Two Medicine Formation of Montana indicates a close parallel with herbivorous iguanine lizards. Raised nests prevented egg drowning, while communal habits and site fidelity facilitated fecal ingestion by young, which infected them with a microflora appropriate for herbivory.
25835802|Eocene caldera-lake deposits from Ro Pichileuf have yielded anuran remains in association with a taxonomically diverse flora. The floral evidence suggests that these anurans lived under climatic conditions similar to those of extant subtropical rainforests. One of the anurans is a helmeted neobatrachian, which is represented by articulated remains and represents a new species that can be assigned to the extant genus Calyptocephalella on the basis of both cranial and postcranial traits. Calyptocephalella pichileufensis, gen. et sp. nov., indicates that, despite the relatively conservative skeletal anatomy of the genus, Calyptocephalella has not always been associated with the temperate austral forests that it inhabits today. The new species also provides evidence of a biotic link with Australia, which has been proposed on the basis of other faunal and floral records, as well as on the paleogeographic history of Patagonia during the mid-CretaceousEocene interval. We also discuss the significance of neobatrachian cranial features that might reflect hyperossification.
30117463|A long-standing taxonomic error is corrected by recognizing that the previously enigmatic early Paleocene (Torrejonian) mammal Microclaenodon assurgens (Cope, 1884) from western North America is a subjective junior synonym of Oxyclaenus cuspidatus (Cope, 1884). Carcinodon simplex (Cope, 1884) (= C. filholianus) is suggested as a new combination. Specimens previously incorrectly referred to O. cuspidatus are tentatively referred to the genus Carcinodon as a new species, "C." olearyi. A phylogenetic analysis that reconstructed the relationships of Oxyclaenus, "Carcinodon" selected "triisodontids," selected basal ungulates, and basal mesonychians incorporates 30 taxa and 66 dental characters and results in up to 210 MPTs, each 180 steps long, with a C.I. of 0.51 and a H.I. of 0.49. O. cuspidatus is resolved as the sister species of Andrewsarchus mongoliensis. The Andrewsarchus + Oxyclaenus clade is the sister lineage of Mesonychia. Outside of this grouping, "triisodontids" form a polytomy, which is followed by a clade composed of "C." olearyi n. sp. and "C." antiquus.
4522969| Two mandibular fragments with teeth of Proargyrolagus blivianus, new genus and species, collected from the Branisella Zone of the early Oligocene (Deseadan) deposits at Salla, Bolivia, represent the earliest record and confirm the early specialization of the Argyrolagidae in South America. Unlike previously known Argyrolagidae (i.e., Plio-Pleistocene Argyrolagus and Microtragulus species), Proargyrolagus bolivianus has closed-rooted molars that are hypsodont, but were not evergrowing. Medial incisors and crown morphology of the molars are otherwise similar to those of the Plio-Pleistocene species. /// Dos fragmentos mandibulares con dientes de Proargyrolagus bolivianus, gnero y especie nuevos colectados de la Zona de Branisella de los depsitos del Oligoceno temprano (Deseadense) en Salla, Bolivia, representan los ms primitivos testimonios y confirman la ms temprana especializacin de la Argyrolagidae en Sudamrica. A diferencia de los Argyrolagidae previamente conocidos (i.e., especies Plio-Pleistocenas de Argyrolagus y Microtragulus), Proargyrolagus bolivianus tiene molares con races cerradas que son hypsodontes, aunque no son de crecimiento continuo. Los incisivos centrales y la morfologa de la corona de los molares son similares a las especies del Plio-Pleistoceno. 
23361076|The direct relationship between eggshell structure and eggshell formation is well established for avian eggs, but has never been studied in depth in non-avian dinosaurs. Both biological and crystallographic mechanisms take part in eggshell formation, due to its dual mineralogical and proteinaceous nature, but the exact relative contributions of these processes are still poorly known. Competitive growth has been postulated to be the general mechanism leading to the characteristic columnar construction seen in dinosaur eggshell. Here we analyze the eggshell structure of both ornithopod and non-avian theropod ootaxa with orientation contrast imaging and electron backscatter diffraction and present the first misorientation angle boundary maps of fossil eggshell, in order to ascertain whether competitive growth can explain the development of the columnar structure in non-avian dinosaur eggshell. Our results show that both eggshell types can be constructed via competitive growth, and that small changes in organic core spacing and crystal grain size, which are organically controlled, may develop into major changes in general eggshell structure, which will determine the physical properties of the egg. However, interseed distance cannot be directly correlated with organic core spacing as the competitive growth model predicted.
41407717|A new genus and species of extinct inioid odontocete (Meherrinia isoni) is based on nine partial crania that probably originated from the late Miocene marine Eastover Formation in North Carolina, U. S. A. They were collected from the riverbed of the Meherrin River, a tributary of the Chowan River. Ossification of the mesethmoid and the tight interdigitation of many sutures indicate that these specimens represent mature individuals. Key characteristics of the new inioid include maxillae that ' squeeze' the nasals into a slight hourglass shape and supraoccipital that is deeply wedged between the frontals and maxillae on the vertex. As compared to the extant iniid Inia geoffrensis (Amazon River dolphin) and the extant pontoporiid Pontoporia blainvillei (La Plata dolphin), Meherrinia is more plesiomorphic in having less elevated premaxillary eminences and supraorbital processes. In other respects Meherrinia is intermediate in morphology between the two extant genera of inioids. For example, the essentially symmetrical vertex is intermediate in height between the low and high vertices in Pontoporia blainvillei and Inia geoffrensis, respectively. A cladistic analysis of morphological and molecular data supports a sister-group relationship between Meherrinia and Inia; thus our new taxon is tentatively assigned to the Iniidae. If correct, this is the first iniid represented by diagnostic remains from marine deposits and just the second from North America.
4524315|We review the widespread notion that the inclusion of taxa scored for relatively few characters is problematic in phylogenetic analyses. Taxa scored for few characters may lead to lack of resolution, but need not. Lack of resolution may be unrelated to missing data when characters conflict. Missing data cannot produce groupings for which there is no evidence. A common approach to avoid the "missing data problem" is to exclude incomplete taxa, but excluding such taxa is inadvisable because the information content of taxa is not necessarily correlated with degree of completeness. Another prevalent strategy-excluding characters with a high proportion of missing data-may actually contribute to the low resolution problem rather than ameliorate it because removing any character data removes potentially informative synapomorphies. Other approaches, including the use of less- than-strict consensus techniques, have the potential to obscure evidence for alternative relationships or, at best, provide incomplete summaries of the primary trees. Missing data simply represent the unknown and should not be viewed as an impediment to considering all available evidence in phylogenetic analyses, nor used as justification for excluding specific taxa or characters.
4524412|Antarctic Eocene selachians were reported from the La Meseta Formation of Seymour Island and from glacial erratics of Mount Discovery, Antarctica. Seymour Island has produced the most diverse Palaeogene selachian fauna of the Southern Hemisphere so far. Up to now, 23 selachian taxa (20 sharks, 2 rays) have been described from the Eocene of Antarctica. Recent geological and palaeontological investigations on Seymour Island yielded new selachian remains from Lutetian (middle Eocene) deposits. An upper tooth is referred to the requiem shark Carcharhinus and a rostral spine to the sawfish Pristis. These occurrences represent the first Eocene records of both groups in the Southern Hemisphere and extend their geographic distribution. In addition, a fragmentary stinging ray attributed to Myliobatoidea is presented for the first time from Antarctica. The diversity of Eocene La Meseta fishes is reflected.
24523211|We describe Katepensaurus goicoecheai, gen. et sp. nov., a diplodocoid sauropod dinosaur from the Bajo Barreal Formation (Upper Cretaceous: CenomanianTuronian) of south-central Chubut Province, central Patagonia, Argentina. The holotypic specimen is a closely associated partial axial skeleton that includes cervical, dorsal, and caudal vertebrae. The dorsal vertebrae of Katepensaurus exhibit the following distinctive characters that we interpret as autapomorphies: (1) internal lamina divides lateral pneumatic fossa of centrum; (2) vertical ridges or crests present on lateral surface of vertebra, overlying neurocentral junction; (3) pair of laminae in parapophyseal centrodiapophyseal fossa; (4) transverse processes perforated by elliptical fenestrae; and (5) well-defined, rounded fossae on lateral aspect of postzygapophyses. Based on the results of previous phylogenetic analyses, we regard the new taxon as a member of Rebbachisauridae; more specifically, it may pertain to Limaysaurinae, a rebbachisaurid subclade that, to date, is definitively known only from southern South America. As currently understood, the rebbachisaurid fossil record suggests that the clade achieved its greatest taxonomic diversity within a few million years of its extinction during the early Late Cretaceous.
4524156|A categorical distinction is made between two types of biostratigraphic units. In a given superposed section, a eubiostratigraphic unit is a thickness of strata whose boundaries are defined by the lowest and/or highest occurrences of fossils of one or more specified taxa. In contrast, a quasibiostratigraphic unit is a thickness of strata characterized by its fossil content, but whose boundaries are defined by other means. Eubiostratigraphic units include range, single-taxon interval, assemblage, and multiple-taxon interval fossilzones. Quasibiostratigraphic units include paleontologically distinct lithozones, metrizones, and "fuzzy" zones. Quasibiostratigraphic units serve to summarize the most distinctive changes in overall fossil content observed in individual sections, without necessary regard for the exact vertical ranges of particular taxa. Most quasibiostratigraphic units need not be given formal binomial names, but are best assigned alpha-numeric or informal descriptive designations. Assemblage fossilzones are multiple-taxon analogs of range fossilzones, in that they are defined by a single set of two or more taxa. Multiple-taxon interval fossilzones are multiple-taxon analogs of single-taxon interval fossilzones, in that their boundaries are defined by two different sets of two or more taxa. As such, multiple-taxon interval fossil-zones are stratigraphically and temporally contiguous with one another by definition.
4523614|A large new species of the antilocaprid genus Capromeryx has been recovered from Blancan sediments of the Taunton locality, southwestern Adams County, Washington. The complex history of the genus is briefly reviewed and Capromeryx tauntonensis, sp. nov., is described from cranial and dental elements. Intermediate in size between Capromeryx arizonensis Skinner and Antilocapra americana Ord, C. tauntonensis is the oldest and largest representative of the genus, and adds to a species series reaching from the mid-Blancan to the Rancholabrean. Based on expanded faunal evidence, the age of the Taunton l.f. is revised upward from equivalency with the lower Hagerman to a mid-Gauss correlation, intermediate between the Hagerman l.f. and Grand View l.f. of Idaho.
4523699|A new odontocete genus and species, Macrokentriodon morani, is described from the middle Miocene Choptank Formation of Maryland. This specimen consists of the skull, periotic, and teeth of a single individual. It is placed in the Family Kentriodontidae and the Subfamily Kentriodontinae based on the morphology of the cranial vertex, which is unique to kentriodontines, and features of the periotic. The cranial vertex is flat, roughly pentagonal, formed by nasals and frontals, and is not elevated. The nasals are enlarged and each possesses an oblique groove on the rostral border. Macrokentriodon morani is two to three times larger than other described kentriodontine species, and it possesses relatively larger and fewer teeth. It is similar in size to Hadrodelphis calvertense, but has a cranial vertex distinctly different from that lophocetine kentriodontid. The Kentriodontinae are basal delphinoids of late Oligocene to late Miocene age, and are known from the Atlantic and Pacific ocean basins. This new species does not extend the temporal or geographic range of the subfamily, but suggests increased morphological and ecological diversity within that group.
42568676|The docodont Haldanodon exspectatus, a mammaliaform from the Late Jurassic of Portugal, is a crucial taxon for studying higher-level relationships of mammaliaforms and their morphological evolution. Based on high-resolution computed tomography scanning of three specimens of Haldanodon, we developed a new reconstruction of the basicranium including the petrosal and the inner ear. Our study confirms that Haldanodon and other basal mammaliaforms, such as Morganucodon and Sinoconodon, are similar in the main characteristics of their external anatomy of the petrosal. However, Haldanodon shows several derived features that support a phylogenetic position of docodonts more derived than Morganucodon and Sinoconodon: (1) elongated and curved cochlear canal (nearly 180), (2) single lateral flange foramen of petrosal, (3) absence of anterior paroccipital process, and (4) squamosal constriction. The bony labyrinth reveals a secondary crus commune, which is regarded to be a plesiomorphic feature of the mammaliaform groundplan. The cochlear canal shows an apical inflation connected to a distinct sulcus and a separate notch in the internal acoustic meatus, supporting the existence of a lagenar nerve and macula as in monotremes. Haldanodon is unique among Mesozoic mammaliaforms in having a hypertrophied paroccipital region that is excavated into large tympanic pneumatic recesses, which are connected with the extensive porous and probably also pneumatic internal structures of the surrounding bones. The curved cochlear canal and the pneumatized middle ear region support the hypothesis that Haldanodon had more effective low-frequency hearing as an adaptation to a fossorial mode of life.
4523046|This paper summarizes the currently available fossil record of small felines in North America. Felis amnicola Gillette is shown by statistical methods to be conspecific with F. wiedii and is proposed as a subspecies F. wiedii amnicola. Pre-Wisconsinan specimens of Lynx rufus are brought together as L. rufus calcaratus. The occurrence of F. yagouaroundi in post-Hemphillian deposits of North America is doubtful and most of the currently accepted records are reassigned to F. amnicola. F. lacustris and F. rexroadensis are shown to be distinct species, but it is difficult to assign individual specimens to species. L. issiodorensis kurteni is considered a junior synonym of F. rexroadensis. F. lacustris and F. rexroadensis have limb proportions that approach those of L. issiodorensis.
4523499|In previous phylogenetic analyses the hypothesis of homology of the furcula of birds and some other maniraptorans with the clavicles of ancestral archosaurs has been protected from the test of congruence through ad hoc hypotheses of non-preservation. Cladistic evaluation of the distribution of the evidence for clavicles and furculae within the Dinosauria casts some doubt on the homology of the furculae and clavicle-like structures that characterize various clades within the Maniraptora with the plesiomorphic archosaurian clavicle. Depending on the degree to which the absence of clavicles in particular clades is accepted as real, the test of congruence using the currently accepted phylogenetic relationships within the Ornithodira suggests that the loss of clavicles may be plesiomorphic within Dinosauria. This raises the possibility that the furcula of birds may be a neomorph, or may represent the reappearance of a "lost" structure. The test of congruence depends on acceptance of negative evidence for clavicles in particular clades. Preference for the alternative explanation of non-preservation seems to be based, at least in part, on a priori acceptance of the very homology statement that one wishes to test. Provisional acceptance of the absence of structures in fossils forms the basis for hypotheses that are subject to falsification and provides the only means whereby certain homologies can be tested via congruence.
4523083|This paper presents a reinterpretation of Tasmaniosaurus triassicus, a thecodontian reptile from the Knocklofty Formation (Early Triassic) of Tasmania. Tasmaniosaurus resembles the well-known thecodontian Chasmatosaurus and is included in the family Proterosuchidae (suborder Proterosuchia). Its skull is constructed on fairly standard proterosuchian lines, and there is no evidence to support the earlier suggestion that Tasmaniosaurus was an unusually long-snouted reptile showing resemblances to phytosaurs. A second Australian thecodontian, Kalisuchus rewanensis from the Arcadia Formation (Early Triassic) of Queensland, is also included in the family Proterosuchidae, but differs from Tasmaniosaurus in the structure of the snout and should be retained as a separate genus. The relationships of the Australian thecodontians are discussed, and new reconstructions of the skull are presented for Tasmaniosaurus and Kalisuchus.
4523651|Middle Jurassic nonmarine tetrapods are uncommon worldwide and were previously known from one questionable occurrence in North America. The holotype of Entradasuchus spinosus is a crocodyliform skeleton from the Middle Jurassic (late middle Callovian) Entrada Sandstone of Utah. Entradasuchus is distinguished by fused parietals, which are not emarginated by the supratemporal fenestrae, and laterally spinose dorsal osteoderms.
30117450|Tooth development is traced in dentitions from 169 embryonic Lamna nasus (96-670 mm fork length [FL]), and 8 juvenile to adult L. nasus (67-300 cm FL). The teeth of these dentitions vary significantly in the attitudes and shapes of their crowns, and the forms of their roots. At some stages of their ontogeny they bear characters of carcharhiniform and alopiid shark teeth, and they may also bear ornamentation on their crowns. In early embryos, the teeth are conical with funnel-shaped roots and resemble skate dermal thorns, Raja spp. Tooth shape changes abruptly at about 350 mm FL to a late embryonic dentition, with very elongate lower anterior teeth, as in Pseudocarcharias. Adult teeth also exhibit significant morphological variation, and exhibit some characters that occur also in primitive neoselachians, such as Synechodus and Paraorthacodus. The importance of these tooth ontogenetic and morphological variations for the study of fossil shark teeth is presented, and a generic diagnosis is offered for juvenile and adult Lamna teeth.
20627167|The carnivores preserved in the late Pleistocene Rancho La Brea tar seep deposits display a remarkably high incidence of teeth broken in life as compared with modern species. In a previous study examining tooth breakage, tooth wear and individual age of Canis dirus over different periods in time, we found that Pit 13 C. dirus (about 15,000 years before present [ybp]) exhibited heavier tooth wear and fractured their teeth about three times more often than those of the younger Pit 61/67 (about 12,000 ybp). No significant difference was found in the age structure of the population, suggesting this came from differences in feeding behavior, likely bone consumption, at these two times. In this study, we extend this work to the Rancho La Brea sabertooth cat, Smilodon fatalis, a hypercarnivore with more specialized teeth and feeding behavior. We looked at tooth breakage, tooth wear, and individual age of S. fatalis compared with C. dirus from similar time intervals. As in the previous study, the age structure of the Smilodon samples did not differ between different time intervals. Interestingly, S. fatalis had consistent and higher levels of tooth breakage and apparent average age than C. dirus in either location, and tooth wear was similar to that observed in the more worn Pit 13 sample of C. dirus. This may demonstrate that S. fatalis was consuming more bone, and/or that S. fatalis individuals were older, had different relative dentine deposition rates, or might reflect the greater vulnerability of the sabercats' narrow teeth to wear and fracture.
